by the latter, the natives of the tahitians.
the principal, and almost only edible  vegetable they produce, is the fruit of the cocoa-nut: on these, with the  numerous kinds of fishes resorting to their shores, or found among the coral  reefs, the inhabitants entirely subsist.
mr. bicknell went over in a vessel bound to the pearl islands, and in a few days returned, with the pleasing report that a spirit of inquiry had been awakened among some of the inhabitants of that island, and that two of those they had formerly instructed, had occasionally met to pray to god.
thus was idolatry abolished in tahiti and eimeo; the idols hurled from the thrones they had for ages occupied; and the remnant of the people liberated from the slavery and delusion in which, by the cunningly devised fables of the priests, and the doctrines of devils, they had been for ages 157 held as in fetters of iron.
in the afternoon of the 4th of february we sailed from tubuai; but, in consequence of unfavourable winds, did not reach tahiti till the 10th.
it is, however, probable, that such was their estimate of the advantages that would result from the residence of the mission families among them, that, in order to afford every facility for the accomplishment of an object so desirable, and impart confidence to the missionaries, as to their support, they were sincere in thus ceding the district.
i have known some of these devoted men, who, though not insensible to the endearments of kindred and home, and the comforts of civilized life, have for years been deprived of what most would deem the necessaries of life.
the missionaries, who, in  1812, had returned from port jackson, were joined in 1816 by mr. crook, who had  been formerly stationed by captain wilson in the marquesas.
more than once we had to take our little boy, even before he was three months old, from afareaitu, where he was born, to papetoai, for medical advice.
sometimes we walked along the beach to papeare, several miles to the north of our abodeascended a low ridge of mountains, extending nearly to the seacrossed the elevated eastern rangeand continuing our way through the defiles and ravines of the interior mountains, 244 descended on the opposite side of the island, and approached the shore near the inland boundary of opunohu bay.
but i now declare, their accounts were beyond measure modest, and, far from colouring their success, they had not described it equal to what i found it.
their first effort now is  generally to purchase, and to learn to make light clothing for their children;  and there are perhaps few parents in the islands who would think of purchasing  a garment for themselves, while their little one was destitute.
it has been asked, at meetings where i have been present, would satan have  tempted eve, or would man have fallen, if god had not forbidden our first  parents to eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge?
grant us thy good spirit to be our sanctifier.
the occupation furnished by the new order of  things that has followed the introduction of christianity, is one of the  important sources of their present enjoyment.
in this respect, although the attempt of the directors to introduce extensively its cultivation, has failed in the first instance; the natives have, nevertheless, acquired, from mr. gyles's residence among them, an acquaintance with the process of manufacturing this valuable article of commerce, which, it is presumed, will prove to the nation an important and a permanent advantage.
but considering  the danger to arise from substituting external adornment for internal worth,  and imaging that distinction in dress confers an advantage on its wearer, or  entitles him to that which he would not otherwise assume—the missionaries  were led to conclude, that a tahitian, arrayed in a scarlet and yellowtiputa , or invested in the rich fold of his ahu puu, was perhaps as humble  in mind as those who appeared desirous to divest themselves of every exterior  ornament.
the next morning we examined the district, and were delighted with its fertility, extent, and resource.
the natives abandoned themselves to despair, and either threw themselves along in the bottom of the boat, or sat crouching on the keel, with their faces downwards, and their eyes covered with their hands.
the necessary labour required from the natives was paid for at a remarkably high price, and often difficult to obtain on any terms.
the inhabitants of the leeward islands, whose encampment  he passed when on his way to papetoai, strongly persuaded him to join their  party, and carry the flag of the gods to raiatea, entreating him to adhere to  the religion of his fathers, and to beware of matapuupuu, a man of influence,  an areoi, and a high-priest, from huabine, who had recently joined the  christian converts, and utami, a well-informed and enterprising man, chief in  the island of tahaa, who, with his wife, had also attached himself to their  number.
the bundle of masts, oars, &c., acted as a kind of buoy, or floating anchor; and 306 not only broke the force of the billows that were rolling towards the boat, but kept it tolerable steady, while we were dashed on the broken wave, or wafted we knew not whither by the raging tempest.
this admonished us to  prepare our sleeping-place, as the twilight is short, and we were not sure of  procuring lights for the evening.
having landed ten missionaries at tongatabu, in the friendly islands, captain wilson visited and 10 surveyed several of the marquesan islands, and left mr. crook a missionary there; he then returned to tahiti, and on the 6th of july the duff again anchored in matavai bay.
when the vessel arrived at tahiti, pomare succeeded in securing to mr. shelly its restoration, though most of the property had been plundered.
was the cry which re-echoed through the place; as the approaching army were seen from different parts of the building.
this event gave a new aspect to political affairs in the island, and  appeared to unite in one interest otu and pomare his father.
i also accompanied one of the missionaries on 210 voyage to the opposite side of the island, about twenty miles distant from the settlement at papetoai.
in connexion with this, the custom of cutting themselves with sharks' teeth, and indulging in loud wailing, was a singular method of receiving a friend, or testifying gladness at his arrival; it was, however, very general when europeans first arrived.
oli mani, a corruption of the english words old man, is the common term for any thing old; hence, a blunt, broken knife, and a threadbare or ragged dress, is called oli mani.
about the same time, the publication of letters on missions, by the rev.  melville horne, directed the attention of british christians to this subject;  and, in 1795, a society, including among its founders and supporters liberal  and enlightened ministers of the established church and dissenters, was formed,  under the designation of the missionary society: its object was to send the  gospel to heathen and other unenlightened nations.
those who heard the young man's dying words, and witnessed his calm unshaken firmness in the moment of trial, with many, among whom the report circulated, were probably led to think differently of the religion he professed, than they had done before.
accustomed only  to perform those services that were for the advantage of foreigners, the  natives had been usually paid for the same.
as soon, therefore, as  they had made the habitation furnished by the people for their accommodation in  any degree comfortable, they commenced with energy their important work.
and when they walked through the district, a  father or mother, or both, have been seen coming from the door of their  cottages, gazing with pleasure on them as they passed by, walking beside them,  or following them with their eye until some clump of trees, or winding in the  road, hid them from their view.
our voyage was pleasant; and  soon after two in the afternoon of the same day, we entered an opening in the  reef, a few miles to the northward of that leading to opoa.
these comforts they prize  exceedingly; and such is the desire for them, that a great many cottages, after  the same plan, are rising up every where in the village.
following the example of those in raiatea, their teachers made bonnets for themselves with the bark of thepurau; and though the chief women acknowledged that they looked very well on them, they said they had not yet procured the articles necessary to form a complete european dress, that 401 many were still without shoes and stockings, and that it would be quite ridiculous for the head to be covered with a bonnet after the fashion of the foreigners, while the feet, like those of the islanders in general, were without shoes.
in most of the places they were hospitably entertained, though, on one occasion, the chief refused them lodging, because a former missionary had not rewarded him for his accommodations.
a priest was sent for, who implored the assistance of his god; but, continuing his intercession for a long time, without any apparent relief to the sufferer, he desisted, and left the family in hopeless disappointment.
the pile is then kindled, the fuel consumed, and the  lime, thus burnt, sinks into the pit.
their increased acquaintance with the people had awakened their deepest commiseration, when they beheld them, not only wholly given to idolatry, and mad after their idols, but sunk to the lowest state of moral degradation and consequent wretchedness.
the tahitians believe them to be  cannibals; but as to the evidence or extent of this charge, we cannot speak  confidently.
we therefore recommended  them to direct their attention to the culture of cotton, one variety of which  appeared to be an indigenous plant in most of the islands.
many vessels had sailed from port jackson, where the supplies were lying, and had afterwards touched at the island; but the captains, having no intention of doing so when they sailed, had refused to take the goods on board.
although a  work on geography has not yet been printed, many of the natives have a  tolerably correct idea of the extent, population, and relative positions of the  most important countries of the world.
the king cut up the turtle, and began to eat it, inviting some that  sat at meat with him to do the same; but no one could be induced to touch it,  as they expected every moment to see him either expire, or writhe in strong  convulsions.
in addition to these public instructions, they held a  meeting every sabbath evening with those whose names had been written down as  the disciples of christ, and spent much time in more private endeavours to  direct– 120 – the views, and confirm the belief, of those who were  desirous to be added to their number.
the stone in the northern parts of the  island is a kind of compact ancient lava, and, though rather hard, is, we  think, adapted for buildings.
the varied emotions  of hope and fear, of dread and expectation, with a– 111 – strange air  of mysterious foreboding, agitating the bosoms of the multitude, were strongly  marked in the countenances of the spectators; resembling, perhaps in no small  degree, the feeling depicted in the visages of the assembled israelites, when  the prophet elijah summoned them to prove the power of baal, or to acknowledge  the omnipotence of the lord god of israel.
its interesting contents will justify its insertion.
the native teachers had fallen into this practice, from the influence of former habits.
patii tore off the sacred cloth in which they were enveloped, to be safe from the gaze of vulgar eyes; stripped them of their ornaments, which he cast into the fire; and then one by one threw the idols themselves into the crackling flamessometimes pronouncing the name and pedigree of the idol, and expressing his own regret at having worshipped itat others, calling upon the spectators to behold their inability even to help themselves.
towards the close of the last year, otu's brother teariinavahoroa, the young prince of tairabu, removed from the smaller peninsula in consequence of the increase of his disorder, which appeared to be consumption.
after the departure of mr. davies in 1820, the  superintendence of the school had devolved entirely on mr. barff.
it  consisted of sofas with backs and arms, with (cinet) bottoms, really very well  constructed; tables and bedsteads by the same artificers.
notwithstanding the warmth of the climate, they are fond of wearing the coat buttoned; and although when thus fastened it appeared less repulsive to our opinions of propriety, than when, standing open, it exposed the naked breast of the wearer, it was often quite distressing to see the imprisoned and pinioned arms occasionally struggling for liberty, and the perspiration oozing from the pores of the skin, indicating the laborious confinement of the body it enclosed.
new south wales;) and, those who shall return to england, without first resorting to this place, will be reported to his majesty's secretary of state for the colonies, and such documents transmitted, as will warrant their being equally proceeded against and punished.
with conflict of contending  hopes and fears; but comes at last the dull and dusky eve, and sends  thee to thy cabin, well prepared to dream all night of what the day denied.
shortly after this was completed, mr. blossom removed  to the– 298 – opposite side of the island, to take charge of the  secular concerns of the south sea academy, and the work has since been carried  on by mr. armitage alone.
bicknell, was on board at the time, but his life was spared, amidst the general  carnage that attended the assault.
early in the following year, the district of matavai was surrendered to pomare, but he was justly doubtful of the sincerity of the surrender.
mr. nott was also revising, for the press, the gospel by john, and mr.  davies had the gospel of matthew ready.
four of the unmarried missionaries offered to remain with the king, that they might be upon the spot, should any favourable change take place; the others, with most of the europeans on the island, sailed from tahiti on the 10th of november, 1808, and arrived the following day at the island of huahine.
the sorrow of the people—  the dearest objects of earthly attachment, left but a few hours before in  health and comfort on the receding shore—those unconscious infants that  would soon, perhaps, be left fatherless, and dependent on their widowed mother,  who, in cheerless loneliness, far from friends, and home, and country, might  remain an exile among a race emerging from the rudest barbarism;—these  reflections awakened a train of feelings not to be described.
the cities, towns, houses, carriages, dress, and– 433  – manners of the english, the royal state of king george, the numbers in  his army, the evolutions of his troops, the laws of the kingdom, the punishment  of crimes, the principles of commerce, and the extent and variety of  manufactures, were at different times brought forward.
they were often without tea and sugar, had no other animal food than that  which they procured in common with the natives, and but seldom obtained flour.
early in the afternoon we left our  kind friends, and enjoyed a pleasant sail within the reef, along the eastern  shore of the island; which was remarkably broken, and beautiful in mountain  scenery, as well as rich and verdant in the foliage with which the woody parts  of the country were clothed.
running at the same time to the spot where they were  fixed, he seized the bunches of feathers, and cast them into a large fire close  by, where they were instantly consumed.
to increase their wants, or to  make some of the comforts and decencies of society as desirable as the bare  necessaries of life, appeared to us the most probable method of furnishing  incitements to permanent industry.
such were the views with which the vessel was commenced; but circumstances had arisen since that time, which left but little hope that these ends would ever be answered.
we had nearly finished, when he took his seat at the table; yet, before tasting his food, he modestly bent his head, and, shading his brow with his hand, implored the divine blessing on the provision before him.
the roughness of the sea forbade our attempting to hoist a sail in order to avoid it; and as we had no other means of safety at command, we endeavoured calmly to wait its approach.
pomare on this occasion seemed anxious to impress the minds of the people with his desire that they should act according to the dictates of their own judgment, and not form themselves into a society, simply because he had recommended it.
it is difficult to suppose that, when this latter assertion was  made, it simply meant, that, in connexion with other great doctrines of  revelation, the missionaries taught that, in opposition to the “lords  many, and the gods many,” the gods of wood, and stone, and feathers, the  works of their own hands which the heathen worshipped, there was one living and  true god.
an equal degree of this  kind of influence, the means of the missionary will never enable him to gain  among the people, nor ought he for a moment to desire it.
in  addition to these means, i found the composing, or setting, of the types for  the tahitian books, the best method of acquiring all that was printed in the  language.
i felt, also, in  connexion with the change that has since taken place, that he had indeed  desired to see the things that i beheld, but he had died, without witnessing,  on earth, the gladdening sight; and that, in reference to his unremitted  exertions, i and my junior companions had entered into his labours, and were  reaping the harvest for which he had toiled.
from this  island the captain brought away a number of young coffee plants, which, on his  arrival in the islands, were distributed among the different stations.
happily, we had a bucket on board, by means of which we were able to bale out the water.
the  king and chiefs met at papetoai, and it was a delightful and interesting day to  all who were present.
it  is now, however, very seldom heard.
we laboured eight, and sometimes ten, hours daily, yet found that the work advanced but slowly.
during the first years of our  establishment in huahine, frequent voyages to the adjacent islands were  necessary; and, early in 1819, circumstances rendered it expedient that we  should revisit raiatea.
this was an article in great and  constant demand throughout the islands.
to them the first-fruits of the field, the choicest fish from the sea, with the most valuable productions of their labour and ingenuity, were offered; and to propitiate their favour, avert their displeasure, and death, its dreaded consequence, human victims were so often slain.
many have died, and are  gone to destruction, kings and common people; they died without knowing any  thing of the true god; and now, when it came to the small remainder of the  people, jehovah hath been pleased to make known his word, and we are made–  174 – acquainted with his good word, made acquainted with the deception of  the false gods, with all that is evil and false.
of another world, and the existence of the soul in that world after  the dissolution of the body, they appear at all times to have entertained some  indistinct ideas; but the reanimation of the mouldering bodies of the dead,  never seems, even in their wildest flights of imagination, to have occurred to  them.
the majority of those whom i have heard speak of him, generally  mentioned his name with execration rather than respect; and though some of the – 370 – chiefs consider him as a man who had seen much of the world,  and who possessed, according to their ideas, an amazing mass of information,  his memory is certainly very lightly esteemed by his countrymen.
the erection of their dwelling, culture of their garden, building the house for hidden prayer, &c. (the labours of the present proprietors of beritani,) are very different from the erection of a boarded house merely as a fortress, in which are deposited, as the most valued treasures of its inhabitant, arms and ammunition.
the atehuruans ratified the treaty, returned to their  own land, and thus afforded the foreigners at matavai, and those under their  protection, a short respite from the dread of immediate attack.
o te obu, or i roto i te obu;
it is worthy of remark, that this event, so  destructive to the strength of the mission, crippling the efforts of its  members, and spreading a cloud over their future prospects, resulted not from  opposition to the efforts of the missionaries, nor from any dispute between  them and the priests or people, on subjects connected with the idolatry of the  latter, but from their benevolent endeavours to serve those, whom purposes of  commerce had brought to their shores, and whom adverse weather had reduced to  circumstances of distress—a class of individuals whom the missionaries, in  those seas, have ever been ready to succour, but who, with some gratifying  exceptions, have not always honourably requited that kindness, to which, in  some instances, they have owed their own preservation.
having refreshed  ourselves, and united in grateful thanksgiving to the preserver of our lives,  we lay down upon our mats, and enjoyed several hours of refreshing repose.
they were calledtaupoo or taumata, and, as  the latter name signifies, were designed to skreen the face or eyes; it being  composed oftau, to hang upon or cover, and mata, face or eyes.
the inhabitants of atehuru and papara, who had been invited by the porionu to join them in destroying the bure atua, attacked the porionu; and, in the battle that followed, obtained a complete victory over them, killing one of their principal chiefs, and obliging the vanquished to seek their safety in flight.
the venus schooner, however,  arrived, and was seized by the people, before the native could deliver his  letter: the master and seamen were not murdered, but kept prisoners, to be  offered in sacrifice to oro.
to me it was  the most pleasing sight i had yet beheld, and imparted a higher zest to the  enjoyment– 195 – i experienced in gazing on the island, as we sailed  along its shores.
the two stations at eimeo being on opposite sides of the island, occasioned us frequent journeys from afareaitu to papetoai.
the wind was contrary when we  started; and, after proceeding only five miles, we landed at tiataepuaa, the  usual residence of the chiefs of eimeo.
the sandwich  islanders were among his attendants, and they had reason to suspect that he had  favoured the concealment of the seamen.
on the tenets of unitarians, their adaptation to the circumstances of ignorance, depravity, guilt, and wretchedness, inseparable from paganism, even in its most favourable circumstances, i make no remarks.
their teachers were not much more favourably  circumstanced.
the missionaries  also appear to have been so strongly influenced by the king's communication,  that, instead of endeavouring to remove his objections, by persuading him to  allow the trial to be fairly made, and then to act accordingly, they deemed it  expedient, that so far as they, or the society by which the machinery had, at  great expense, been sent out, were concerned, it should be at once  discontinued.
few among modern  missionaries have been called to endure such afflictions; and it is matter of  devout acknowledgment, that, notwithstanding the darkness of their prospects  and the destitution of their circumstances, they were still enabled to  persevere, and leave – 76 – the event with him, at whose command they  had entered on their work.
it appeared metallic to a great degree, as the sound produced by striking it was considerable; but not, i should think, such as could 387 be heard at a distance.
public assemblies during the weekquestional and conversational meetingstopics discussedthe seat of the thoughts and affectionsduty of prayerscripture biography and historythe first parents of mankindparadiseorigin of moral evilsatanic influencea future statecondition of those who had died idolatersthe sabbathinquiries respecting englandthe doctrine of the resurrection.
this strict  observance of the sabbath, especially in regard to the latter points, whereby  the tahitian– 408 – resembled the jewish more perhaps than the  christian sabbath, was not directly inculcated by the missionaries, but  resulted from the desire of the natives themselves to suspend, during this day,  their ordinary avocations, and also from their imitation of the conduct of the  missionaries in this respect.
each  wrapped his book up in a piece of white native cloth, put it in his bosom,  wished me good morning, and without, i believe, eating or drinking, or calling  on any person in the settlement, hastened to the beach, launched their canoe,  hoisted their matting sail, and steered rejoicing to their native island.
from the enumeration already given of the articles of  diet procurable among the islands, it will be evident, that though neither  wheat, oats,– 217 – barley, peas, and beans, nor other pulse and  grain, are grown, yet the aborigines with a moderate degree of labour may  obtain the necessaries, and many of what are by them esteemed the luxuries, of  life.
no part in the system of drs.
frequently one of these teachers, in order to greater quietude, and more  unreserved converse with the children, would take her little class to some  retired spot in one of the valleys behind the settlement, for the purpose of  talking in the most affectionate manner to each individually, and then uniting  with them in prayer to the most high.
we had all left our native land about the same period, and had spent the greater part of our time, since arriving in the islands, either at the same station or under one roof, and felt deeply the first breach now made by death, in the little circle with which we were more immediately connected.
before the ships departed, the spanish commander called a meeting of the chiefs, who had taken the missionaries under their protection, described the grandeur of his sovereign, and in formed them of his right to all the islands.
most of the valuable plants had been removed by the people to their own gardens, as the spot selected by me was not one which they would have preferred.
when they approached a village or district, the  inhabitants came out of their doors, and, greeting them, shouted manava,  manava, long before they reached the place.
an excellent discourse was afterwards delivered by mr. scott, to which they listened with mingled feelings of wonder and delight.
he presented to tapioi, the marquesan youth who accompanied mr. bicknell to england, the articles with which the natives were hired to build this first school and chapel in eimeo.
in addition to these sources of disturbance, they were sometimes charged with being the authors of all the disasters and suffering of the people, in consequence of praying to their god, whom the natives called a bad god when compared with oro.
having accomplished the object of our visit, we left afareaitu, and returned to papetoai the same evening.
the priest, or friends, may wish to see me, but it is under very different circumstances from what your message would imply: i know a ceremony approaches, that a human victim is then to be offeredsomething within tells me i am to be that victim, and your appearance and your message confirms my conviction.
they had gone to tahiti many years before, for the purpose of  assisting pomare in the resumption of his authority, had witnessed and  participated the change that had taken place, and had afterwards prolonged  their residence, in order to enjoy the advantages of instruction, until a  mission should be established in their native islands.
the young plants brought from the mountains were generally two or three inches in diameter at the lower end.
the prince of darkness, the author of paganism, whose sway had been unrivalled, and whose seat 168 and stronghold had long been here, as well as in the other islands, did not tamely surrender his dominions.
they had visited  tahiti, for the purpose of preaching to the inhabitants, but they had not been  able to re-establish the mission in their original station, and were,  consequently, all residing at eimeo when we arrived.
she tells me too, that duly ev'ry morn thou  climb'st the mountain-top, with eager eye – 375 –
when the heated iron was hammered on the anvil, and the sparks flew among them, they fancied it was spitting at them, and were frightened, as they also were with the hissing occasioned by immersing it in water; yet they were delighted to see the facility with which a bar of iron was thus converted into hatchets, adzes, fish-spears, and fish-hooks, &c. pomare, entering one day when the blacksmith was employed, after gazing a few minutes at the work, was so transported at what he saw, that he caught up the smith in his arms, and, unmindful of the dirt and perspiration inseparable from his occupation, most cordially embraced him, and saluted him, according to the custom of his country, by touching noses.
he  immediately called his companions, who joined not only in watching its receding  progress, but in acknowledging the protection of the almighty in their  preservation.
although reports of war were heard during the year, there was no actual hostility; and, under discouragements every day increasing, the missionaries were enabled to prosecute their labours, having found it difficult to engage the attention of the children, while attempting to teach them in the presence of the adults, who ridiculed the idea of their learning letters, they opened a school in a part of their own dwelling.
the impression produced by our first interview was, notwithstanding, far from being unfavourable; we were at once gratified with their vivacity, and soon after with the simple indications of the piety which several exhibited.
improved circumstances of the femalesinstruction in needle-workintroduction of european clothingits influence upon the peoplefrequent singularity of their appearancedevelopment of parental affectionincreased demand for british manufacturesnative hats and bonnetsreasons for encouraging a desire for european dress, &c.sabbath in the south sea islandsoccupations of the preceding dayearly morning prayermeetingssabbath schoolsorder of divine serviceschool exercisescontrast with idolatrous worship.
we have always been accustomed to have  our usual beverage prepared in the morning and afternoon; but this is the only  purpose for which, in ordinary seasons, a fire has ever been lighted for any of  the missionary families; and when destitute of these articles, which in the  earlier periods of the mission was often the case, no fire was lighted on the  sabbath; their food was invariably dressed on the preceding day, and the warmth  of the climate prevented their requiring fire for any other purpose.
these vessels were the cornwall and the sally of  london, south sea whalers.
in some places it might be rendered  heart according to our idiom, as in the thoughts of the heart or mind—the  desire of the mind, or soul—or, the anger of the soul.
the religious services of a general kind, among the natives, during the week, are not numerous.
it was, however, a long time before  any, among the native inhabitants of tahiti could be induced to learn the  letters of the alphabet; yet the missionaries continued their labours in  preaching to the people, and teaching the catechism to the children.
comparing the past with the present state of the people, he said, “i was a  mighty chief; the spot on which we are now assembled was by me made sacred for  myself and family; large was my family, but i alone remain; all have died in  the service of satan—they knew not this good word– 329 – which i  am spared to see; my heart is longing for them, and often says within me, oh !
and desiring, with regard to other parts of the world, the arrival of that promised and auspicious era, when the gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and from under these heavens,35 and the idols he shall utterly abolish.36
as they walked, patii fully disclosed the fellings of his mind to mr. nott, and assured him that on the morrow, at a certain hour, he would bring out the idols under his care, and publicly burn them.
not fewer than three thousand persons at this– 166 – time possessed  a knowledge of the books in their native language, which were in daily use.
their teaching would, in that case, have been more  defective than i am willing to suppose it was.
every man had, in the first place, to go to the woods or the mountains, and cut down trees for timber, shape them into posts, &c. and remove them to the spot where his house was to be built, then to erect the frame, with the doorway and windows.
all their knowledge,  traditions, songs, &c. were preserved by memory; and the preceptor recited  them to his pupil, till the latter could repeat them correctly.
the church was well  attended, though not so full as on sundays, when it is crowded.
when the captains came on shore in  the evening, they were welcomed by the missionaries, and introduced to the  chiefs, whose familiarity and cheerfulness soon evinced that every feeling of  suspicion had subsided.
unless thou save us, unless we are prepared and made meet for thy habitation in heaven, we are banished to the fire, we die; but let us not be banished to that unknown world of fire.
a native who had assisted in the smith's shop was  enabled, after– 31 – the departure of the missionaries, who had used  the forge, to make fish-hooks, adzes, and a number of useful iron articles; but  the skill he had acquired, instead of being employed to promote the industry,  civilization, and comfort of his countrymen, was soon applied to purposes of  barbarity and murder; and the missionaries beheld with regret that he was often  employed, not in manufacturing useful tools, but weapons for battle.
by some, after the first emotion of curiosity had subsided, the books were neglected; but by most they were carefully and regularly read, becoming 235 at once the constant companion of their possessors, and the source of their highest enjoyment.
so true it is, that the mind itself, untaught by  the divine spirit, knows nothing of the awful and overwhelming importance of  the eternal interests of the soul over the things of this short-lived  scene.”
these sacred exercises were enlivened by the natives, who united with their teachers in celebrating the praises of jehovah, a number of the natives having been taught to sing hymns that had been composed in the native language.
the next morning, the fleet  sailed with the idol for tautira, and the missionaries returned to their  companions, with the tidings of the threatening events, of which they had been  the melancholy spectators.
such we found society in huahine, and such our friends in raiatea found it there.
the first night he passed on shore, he slept on the earthen floor, by the side of a warrior, the murder of the crew of the boyd, and a cannibal; and the spot on which he lay was encircled by native spears fixed in the ground.
the mountains are more stupendous and lofty than those of huahine,  and in some parts equally broken and picturesque.
before this  time, a musket, ball, aimed at a native who had taken shelter in his house, was  fired through the window of the room in which he was sitting; and during  another war, the spear of one of the king's enemies was already poised, and  would in all probability have inflicted a fatal wound in his body, had not the  interference of one of mr. nott's friends, at the moment, saved him from the  deadly thrust.
at the close of the evening service mr. davies gave notice, according to previous arrangements, that on the following morning a public meeting would be held; when all who had sincerely renounced their false gods, who had desired also to relinquish their evil customs, to receive jehovah for their god, and to be instructed in his word, were invited to 106 attend.
the knowledge of the spiritual nature of  christianity, possessed by many of the new converts, was doubtless but  imperfect, their acquaintance with the will of god but partial, and probably on  many points of first erroneous, but still there was a warmth of feeling, and  undisguised sincerity, and an ardour of desire, (in scripture called “the  first-love,”) that has never been exceeded.
the coral rock is also more durable than the plaster; and although soft, and easily hewn when first taken out of the sea, it afterwards assumes a degree of hardness which resists the weather for a long series of years.
the principal island  bougainville called taiti, and his designations of other islands greatly  resemble those given them by the people.
to avoid this, they determined on the destruction, the total annihilation, of every one in tahiti who was known to pray to jehovah.
when the missionaries who returned from port jackson landed in eimeo, the king received them with the warmest demonstrations of joy.
we had already persuaded them to extend the culture of the soil  beyond the growth of the articles necessary for their support during the season  when the bread-fruit yielded no supply, and to raise cotton and productions,  which they might exchange for clothing, tools, &c.
pomare, in  infancy, had been rocked in the cradle of paganism, and trained under its  influence through subsequent life.
the different joints in these, and the narrow horizontal boards supporting the bottoms of the rafters, presented a kind of chronological index to the history of the place.
according to the  directions of the king, and the arrangements among themselves, the work was  divided between several parties.
patii, however, was faithful to his word.
they aimed at precision, and having adopted the  english character, affixed to each letter a distinct and invariable sound.
they also indulged a hope of establishing a mission in raiatea, one of the  leeward or society islands, when a series of domestic trials frustrated their  plans of extended usefulness, and confined them for several years to this  island.
and the imprint was,neneihia i te nenei raa parau a te mau misionari , 1818.
while the hands of the parties spinning or weaving are employed, the improvement of their minds is not neglected.
after boiling it some time, we added the temper, or mixture of lime and water;  and when we supposed the quantity had been sufficiently reduced, directed the  natives to remove it to a suitable vessel for cooling, the progress of which we  watched very anxiously, and, ultimately, had the satisfaction of beholding  fine-grained crystals of sugar formed from the liquid.
in reference to huahine, and the station now described, though not more forward than others in the same group, captain gambier observes: at about ten o'clock on the morning of the 20th of january, 1822, the ship being hove-to outside the reef, a party of us proceeded towards the village of fare.
may jehovah also pardon my foolishness, unbelief, and rejection of the truth!
they are in general firm and muscular, but of a more spare habit  of body than the tahitians.
the aggregate of  those whose names were written down as such, amounted at this period to nearly  four hundred, and the pupils in the school were between six and seven hundred.
a day or two after our  return to huahine, we were delighted to see one in the district of fare  actually finished.
a few miles beyond the harbour of hamaniino, vaóaara  is situated, which was the former missionary station, the residence of the  chiefs, and principal part of the population.
the  natives, therefore, assembled soon after sunrise: mr. barff usually repaired to  the school for the men and boys about half past six o'clock in the morning,  and, during the latter part of our residence in huahine, mrs. barff and mrs.  ellis, either unitedly or alternately, visited the female school at the same  hour.
i could not but think how awful  would my state have been, had i in that hour been ignorant of christ, or had i  neglected and despised the offers of his mercy; and while this reflection  induced thankfulness to him through whom alone we had been made to share a hope  of immortality, it awakened a tender sympathy for our fellow-voyagers, who sat  in mournful silence at the helm or in the bottom of the boat, and seemed averse  to conversation.
during this transition, while the horse was suspended midway  between the gangway and the yard-arm, some of the bandages gave way; when the  animal, after hanging some time by the neck and fore-legs, to the great terror  both of pomare and the captain, slipped through the slings, and, clearing the  ship's side, fell into the sea.
quantities of fine large bread-fruit,  roasted on hot stones, were now peeled and brought in, and a number of fish  that had been wrapped in plantain leaves, and broiled on the embers, were  placed beside them.
instead of returning the fire, the king sent a  flag of truce and a proposal of peace.
the person seated on the right hand is paitia, the chief of the district; behind him stand mr. and mrs. henry, mr. jefferson, and others.
their first attempts, as might be expected, were exceedingly awkward, and the warp they furnished was difficult to weave.
these, whether they had been conveyed to the islands by the visits of ships, or the desertion of seamen afflicted with them, produced the most distressing sickness and mortality among the people; and, although nothing could be more absurdly imagined, yet, according to their ideas of the causes of disease and death, that they originated in the displeasure of some offended deity, or were inflicted in answer to the prayers of some malignant enemy, they were, from the representations of some, and the conjectures of others, led to suppose that these diseases were sent by the god of the missionaries, in answer to their prayers, and because they would not reject oro, and join in their worship.
reading-lessons and passages  of scripture are affixed to the walls and different parts of the factory.
influenced by these considerations, the directors sent to the south sea islands mr. gyles, a gentleman who had been many years manager of a plantation in jamaica, and who, being well acquainted with the culture of the cane, and the manufacture of sugar, was furnished by the missionary society with the necessary machinery and apparatus for introducing this branch of industry.
in another letter, written about a fortnight afterwards, he observes, i continue to pray to god without ceasing.
they were not perhaps distinguished by brilliancy of genius, or loftiness of intellect; but in uncompromising sternness of principle, unaffected piety, ardour of devotedness, uncomplaining endurance of privations, (not easily comprehended by those who have always remained at home, or visited only civilized portions of foreign climes,) in undeviating perseverance, in exertion under discouragements the most protracted and depressing, and in plain and honest detail of their endeavours and success, they have been inferior to few who have been honoured to labour in the missionary field.
at mahapoto, about  half way between opoa, the site of their principal temple, the ancient  residence of the reigning family, and utumaoro at the north-east angle of the  island, there is a deep indentation in the coast.
several  warriors, with clubs and spears, surrounded the missionary house, but its  inmates remained unmolested; and in the course of the day, haamanemane arrived,  and assured the mission family no evil was designed against them.
whatever articles of export they could ever expect to furnish, must be the product of their own industry; this we were desirous to direct in channels the most profitable, such as were best suited to their means, and congenial to their previous habits.
her disconsolate partner had scarcely received the  sympathies of his companions in exile and labour, when the newly closed grave  of the mother was opened again, to receive the remains of an infant daughter,  who survived its parent but three short weeks.
when the fleet reached papara, pomare sent them word that it was probable the atehuruans would attack them, and advised them to be upon their guard.
it was supposed by the people, that his illness and death– 65  – were occasioned by the incantations of metia, a priest of oro, a famous  wrestler and sorcerer, whose influence, ceremonies, and prayers, had induced  the evil spirits to enter into the young prince, and destroy him.
pomare had, ever  since our arrival, been engaged in preparing materials, and erecting a chapel,  at papaoa, by far the largest ever built in the islands; it had been opened  twelve months before those in the leeward islands were finished.
the districts on the west  and south side declared for otu, and those on the western were threatened with  invasion in the event of refusal.
this constant  variety deprived him of all useful knowledge, and diverted his attention from  the important subjects that demanded his notice while residing in the  metropolis of britain.
great numbers passing the  night under the same roof, removed this fear, and inspired a confidence of  security from the attacks their idolatrous absurdities led them to expect.
no attempt of this kind, however, was made.
with one solitary exception,  the humanizing and elevating principles of the bible do not appear to have been  presented to his notice, and he seemed to have derived no benefit from his  voyage.
the vine, the peach, and  the fig, appeared to thrive well; but in the war which broke out shortly after,  the fences were broken down, the plants torn up or trodden under foot, and the  garden was entirely destroyed.
the  communications from england conveyed to the missionaries the welcome and the  needed assurance that they were not forgotten by their friends at home; but  most of the articles, especially those of clothing, from the length of time  they had been lying at port jackson, and the wretched state of the vessel in  which they were sent, were so injured as to be almost useless; the packages  were wet with the sea-water, and their contents consequently spoiled.
they embarked on the 7th amid much confusion, but with the  sincerest gratitude to god for the refuge so seasonably provided.
we had not been many weeks at fare before  tamatoa, the king of raiatea, with his brother, and a number of chiefs from  raiatea, tahaa, and borabora arrived.
the danger now appeared more imminent, and a watery grave  every moment more probable; yet there was leisure afforded for reflection, and  the sensibilities and powers of the mind were roused to an unusual state of  excitement by the conflicting elements on every side.
it was  entitled, “te evanelia na luka, iritihia ei parau tahiti,”  literally, the gospel of luke, taken out to be, or transferred to, the language  of tahiti;e-parau hae-rehia te parau maitai
houses in frame met the eye in all parts, in different stages of forwardness.
in the interesting state described in the preceding  chapter, we found the inhabitants on our arrival in the early part of 1817.
for public worship it is repeated a second time—once at a  quarter before the commencement, and again immediately preceding the service;  and indifferent as the means of giving public notice are there is no cause to  complain of delay or interruption, from the late attendance of the people.
a few, whose dwellings were completely finished, inhabited them with all  the conscious satisfaction attending the enjoyment of what had cost them great  and persevering labour.
the affairs of tahiti continued in the same state until the 22d of december; when the king, influenced by metia, the prophet of oro, attacked the rebels; who were not only superior in numbers, but favoured in the conflict by the occupation of an advantageous position.
i stood beside the rustic hillock on which the tall grass waved in the breeze, and gazed upon the plain stone that marks the spot where his head reposes, with feelings of veneration for his character.
they had no idea even of the  existence of nerves, and it was necessary to introduce into their language a  word by which they might be designated.
the declaration and the pronunciation of the natives formed their only rule in fixing the spelling of proper names, as well as other parts of the language.
the building, in  which they were taught, stood near the sea-beach, under the shade of a clump of  cocoa-nut trees.
his party reached atehuru, without molestation, late at night; and, after a short concealment, falling upon the unconscious and defenceless victims, under the cover of the darkness of midnight, in two hours destroyed nearly two hundred men, women, and children.
the districts on the west and south side declared for otu, and those on the western were threatened with invasion in the event of refusal.
his triumph,  however, was but short.
a number of  small round stones lay underneath, with which, when it was necessary to call  the people together, the large one was struck.
his father is the venerable king of huahine; and has, ever since his return, proved not only a father to the people, but a uniform and bright ornament to the religion of the cross.
they did not relax in their attendance at the school, or 406 any of the meetings for public instruction; and we observed with satisfaction, their altered appearance in all public assemblies, as indicating an improvement in civilization, and an increase of industry.
conduct of the leeward island chiefs—hostilities in the island of  raiatea—subversion of idolatry in huahine, raiatea, tahaa, and
at the earnest  recommendation of the late rev. dr. haweis and others, the then  newly-discovered islands of the south sea were selected as the first scene of  its exertions; and thirty individuals, who had volunteered their services,  engaged to attempt the establishment of missionary settlements in the  marquesian, society, and friendly islands.
it generally consisted  of a large fragment of rock, hollowed in a rough manner, and fixed firmly upon  a solid pile of stones, leaving a space underneath for a fire-place.
their  answer surprised and delighted me: they said, “we were afraid that, had we  gone away, some one might have come before us this morning, and have taken what – 234 – books you had to spare, and then we should have been obliged  to return without any; therefore, after you left us last night, we determined  not to go away till we had procured the books.”
the chiefs, priests, and people, publicly committed their idols to the flames, and attended public worship.
their countenance beamed with peace and delight; and,ia ora oe ia iesu, ia ora oe i te
the furniture of her house was all made on the island, and by the natives with a little instruction originally from the missionaries.
the principal chiefs, however, fixed their seats near the pulpit.
their acquaintance with the most useful of the mechanic arts, not only  delighted the natives, but raised the missionaries in their estimation, and led  them to desire their friendship.
no circumstances connected with the station at raiatea  afforded us more satisfaction, than the favourable appearance under which the  education of the inhabitants had been commenced.
xi from page 238 to page 260.
at length they brought out the idol, stripped him of his sacred coverings and highly-valued ornaments and threw his body contemptuously on the ground.
i remember distinctly my feelings as i stood, wearied with my walk, leaning on a light staff by the side of the rock on which mrs. ellis with our infant was sitting, and behind which our female attendants stood.
the people readily  erected the frame of our house and the printing-office, which was put up much  in the same manner as that had been which we occupied in eimeo; but, as it was  intended for a more permanent abode, it was finished with greater care.
it was not in pare and matavai alone  that the professed worshippers of god were to be found.
his name was then oito, though it is now petero; he had formerly been an inmate of the mission family at matavai, and had received instructions there.
the identity of the body was stated as being consistent with the character and moral government of god, which appeared to require that the same body which had suffered for or in his cause on earth, should be glorified in heaven; and that the same body which in union with the soul had been employed in rebellion and vice, should suffer the just consequences in a 437 future state.
the mutinous natives returned to their own island, but were met as they were about to enter the harbour by capt.
in these thinly peopled, damp, and woody districts, they are exceedingly numerous and annoying, especially to those who have recently arrived; and although during my subsequent residence in the island, i was less incommoded by them, i was on this occasion glad to escape their noise, &c. by leaving the house soon after midnight, and walking along the shore, or sitting on the beach until day-break.
subsequently, when they entered into its design, and  began to consider that it would become a source of pecuniary advantage,  although it was thought that eimeo would be most eligible for its  establishment, the chiefs of pare and the adjoining districts refused to allow  the machinery to be removed.
at sunrise we held a prayer-meeting in the english language.
they erected, within the precincts of their garden, a beautiful but rustic little summer-house or cottage, which they call afare bure huna, or house for hidden 372 prayer.
– 48 – soon after the above interview, mr. broomhall embarked on another voyage to  some port in india, purposing, on his return, to dispose of his vessel, and  devote the remainder of his days to the advancement of that cause which he had  abandoned, but from that voyage he never returned: neither mr. broomhall nor  his vessel was ever afterwards heard of,—it is supposed that the vessel  foundered, and all on board perished.
the recollection of the abominations and iniquity of which he had been guilty  while a member of the areoi institution, though not greater– 172 –  than those of his companions in crime, often filled his mind with horror and  dismay.
in this opinion they were correct; for whatever qualification a man may possess, unless he manifests application and ability sufficient to acquire the language of those among whom he labours, he will make but a very inefficient teacher.
two or three athletic men instantly set  off for that purpose.
“the furniture of her house was all made on the island, and by the  natives with a little instruction originally from the missionaries.
the inhabitants of  atehuru and papara, who had been invited by the porionu to join them in  destroying the bure atua, attacked the porionu; and, in the battle that  followed, obtained a complete victory over them, killing one of their principal  chiefs, and obliging the vanquished to seek their safety in flight.
iii first preaching in the native languagenational council in atehuruseizure of the idol ororebellion of the oropaintroduction of useful foreign fruits and vegetablesprovidential arrival of two vesselsbattle of pareking's camp attacked, oro retakenmission house garrisoned with seamen, &c.desolation of the wardeath of the king's brotherravages of foreign diseasesdeath of pomaresketch of his character otu assumes the name of his late fatherorigin of the regal nameefforts to instruct the childrendeath of the queencompilation of the first spelling-bookfirst school for teaching reading and writingarrival of the hawkesburydeath of mr. jeffersonmr.
by this means they gained  the confidence and love of many of their pupils, and were resorted to for  guidance and counsel in every engagement of importance or difficulty.
there was a door at each end;  windows were altogether unnecessary in such a building, as the space between  the poles, forming the outside, admitted light and air in abundance; and wind,
the singular fact of most of their syllables consisting of a consonant and a vowel, and a vowel always terminating both their syllables and their words, increased their embarrassment in this respect.
the names of these thirty-one were written down; and among the first of them, oito and tuahine's were to be seen.
the king and principal chiefs appeared at the east, which,  contrary to the order observed in their antipodes, is considered the court end.
from  these it was his mercy to find relief, through faith in the atonement of  christ.
shortly before his death, he recommended them to the protection of his son; though the more he understood the chief object of their pursuit, the greater aversion he seemed to manifest to it.
thus he might have become a father  to his nation; and his visit to england might have been rendered a blessing to  its latest generations.
although  the religious exercises are now rather longer than they were when the people  first began to attend, they seldom exceed an hour and a half on the sabbath,  and little more than an hour at other times.
while the enclosure of plantations and gardens, the erection of neat and commodious dwellings, schools, and the spacious place of worship, after the european plan, were rapidly altering the aspect of the settlement, the natives themselves were undergoing a change of appearance in perfect harmony with this transformation.
highly approving of whatever had a tendency to civilize the natives, or to furnish them with useful employment, we rejoiced at their introduction, and endeavoured to persuade the natives of huahine to follow the example of their raiatean neighbours.
– 63 – he was remarkably venerable in his appearance, being tall and well made,  his countenance open and mild, his forehead high, his hair blanched with age,  and his beard as white as silver, hanging down upon his breast.32 he had led a  quiet and peaceful life ever since the commencement of the mission, was  probably the oldest man in the island, and, what is rather unusual, died  apparently from the exhaustion of nature, or old age.
a suitable reply was of course returned.
– 175 – it is reported here, that there is a ship at morea, and i was thinking it  might be the ship with the missionaries; but it may be that it is only an idle  report.
one end of the building was used by the inhabitants  for divine service every sabbath; the other parts are only occupied at the  annual meetings of the tahitian missionary society, or on similar occasions,  when large national assemblies are convened.
since the abolition of  idolatry, no part of the conduct of the south sea islanders has impressed the  minds of foreign visitants more forcibly than their attention to the observance  of the sabbath.
in the same manner they fastened most of their floors to the sleepers underneath, using, however, large pegs resembling the treenails in a ship's plank, more than the nails in a house-floor.
the missionaries were far from approving of the scale on which pomare was proceeding; and, on more than one occasion, some of them expressed their regret that so much time and property should be 381 appropriated to the erection of a building which would be of far less general utility than one of smaller dimensions.
kindness is the key to the human heart; when the spirit is softened or subdued under the influence of sufferings, it is often most susceptible of salutary impression; and the exercise of christian sympathy and kindness, in such a season, will seldom fail to produce, even among the most barbarous tribes, highly favourable results.
with him, mr. broomhall left tahiti for china or india.
the inhabitants of matavai left their places of retreat, and, having presented their peace-offering, re-occupied their lands.
their wives also surpass their inferiors in making cloth.
after passing the reef of coral which forms the harbour,  astonishment and delight kept us silent for some moments, and was succeeded by  a burst of unqualified approbation at the scene before us.
at other times it would point to  one, upon which the merchant has been directed to cut off so much as would make  a frock or gown: it has been folded up, and given to the child; and while the  parents' eyes have– 397 – marked the pleasure of the child as it has  held the new frock on its arm, the smile on their own countenances has declared  the pleasure they experienced.
the heat of the sun was intense, and its scorching effect on  our faces was increased by the reflection of the sea.
some of the leading chiefs, in order to enjoy a more  extensive prospect, and to breathe a purer atmosphere, left the humility and  shade of the lowland and the valley, and built their houses on the sides of the  verdant hills– 357 – that rise immediately behind the bay, and form  the connecting link between the rocks around the beach and the high mountains  of the interior.
frequently, when we have been burdened with the  lightest crape or nankeen dress, a native, by no means deficient in corpulency,  would walk several miles with an ordinary great coat,– 399 – without  seeming to experience more than usual inconvenience.
he welcomed me to tahiti; but, at the same time, appeared disappointed when he learned that only one missionary had arrived, having been led to expect several.
at first we perceived a great  inclination to drowsiness, especially during the afternoon: at this we were not  surprised, when we recollected that this was the manner in which they were  accustomed to spend several hours every day, and that they were also  unaccustomed to fixedness of attention, or exercise of thought on a particular  subject, for any length of time.
when the gospel of luke was finished, an edition of hymns in the native language was printed, partly original and partly translations from our most approved english compositions; and although the book was but small, it was acceptable to the people, who are exceedingly fond of metrical compositions, their history and traditions having been preserved in a metrical kind of ballad.
the children are then conducted to the chapel, each class led by its respective teacher, the girls walking first, two abreast and hand-in-hand, clothed very generally in european dresses; wearing bonnets made with a fine species of grass, or the bark of a tree; each carrying in her hand a neat little basket, made with 410 similar materials, and containing a catechism, hymn-book, and testament: the little boys following in the same order; more frequently, however, arrayed in the native costume, having a little finely-platted white mat, fringed at the edges, wound round their loins; another of the same kind, or a light scarf, dyed with glowing native colours, passed across their breasts, and thrown loosely over their shoulders; their feet naked, and their hair often cut short, but sometimes hanging in ringlets over their open countenances; and their heads covered with a neat little grass or straw hat, made by their mothers or their sisters.
the duration of sufferings inflicted on the wicked in the future state, was occasionally introduced; and more than once i have heard them ask, if none of their ancestors, nor any of the former inhabitants of the islands, had gone to heaven?
he went through every room in their house, and every birth on board, and addressed each individual by name, with earnest entreaties to remain, and assurances of protection.
for a considerable extent around the– 360 –  pulpit, the seats were in the form of low boarded pews neatly finished.
– 352 – “upon walking through the village, we were very much pleased to see  that a nice, dry, elevated foot-path or causeway ran through it, which must add  to their comfort in wet weather, when going to prayers in their european  dresses.
a new order of architecture was thus introduced to the nation, and the names of tamatoa, king of raiatea, and of navenavehia, the more humble chief in huahine, ought not to be forgotten, in connexion with the introduction of a style of building which has since prevailed extensively among the people, augmenting their social and domestic comforts, changing the appearance of their villages, and improving the beautiful scenery of their islands.
the altars were then broken down, the temples demolished, and the sacred houses of the gods, together with their covering, ornaments, and all the appendages of their worship, committed to the flames.
in addition to the printed specimens, they had a small vocabulary, compiled by one of the officers of the mutineers in the bounty, who had resided some months in tahiti, prior to the arrival of the pandora; when he was arrested, and brought a prisoner to england, where he was executed at portsmouth.
pomare was left a widower and childless, all the children of the late queen having been destroyed.
tears of joy started from his gladdened eye, and rolled in swift succession down his cheeks, while he could scarcely forbear rushing to the spot, and clasping in his arms the unconscious author of his ecstacy.
i have sometimes entered the large houses in huahine, soon after our arrival there, and have seen, i think, forty, fifty, or sixty sleeping places of this kind, in one house, consisting of a mat spread on the ground, a wooden pillow or bolster in the shape of a low stool, next the side or wall, and a large thick piece of cloth, like a counterpane or shawl, which they callahu taoto , sleeping-cloth, and which is their only covering, lying in the middle of each mat.
this, however, at the time to which i now refer, 1819, was a rare occurrence; although, in the earlier periods of the mission, it had been frequently manifested, not only in regard to needlework, but every department of instruction.
during a residence of nearly eight years in  the society and sandwich islands by a new edition, enlarged and improved in four volumes henry g. bohn, york street, covent garden 1859 vol.
a wooden cross, inscribed with christus vincit,
he, with  his friends, had collected a quantity of fuel near the sea-beach; and, in the  afternoon, the wood was split, and piled on a point of land in the western part  of papetoai, near the large nationalmarae, or temple, in which he had  officiated.
their dress was generally a pareu round the waist; and a native tiputa over their shoulders,  which covered the upper part of the body, excepting the arms.
the spaniards  left hogs, goats, and dogs, on the island; and, so far as these have proved  serviceable to the people, their mission was beneficial.
the  principal families in most of the islands have removed to the settlement, for  the benefit of regular instruction.
while the inhabitants of  huahine were thus laudably engaged in providing the means of increasing their  domestic enjoyments, and accommodating the assemblies for public worship, their  neighbours in the adjacent island of raiatea were not behind them in the  rapidity of their improvement.
it was not only furnished with a pulpit, 362 a desk, a boarded floor throughout, constructed of the tough planks of the reva, and filled with pews and seats, but, by the invention and ingenuity of the missionaries, it was subsequently furnished with a rustic set of chandeliers.
on the day following, however, the trade was as brisk as it had been on that of their arrival.
it for the moment took away the anguish occasioned by a note that  instant received from serampore, saying, that brother carey was at the point of  death!
the end of the matting usually hung down from the upper  part of the rafter three, six, or nine feet, and terminated in a fine broad  fringe or border.
and  now, having been made acquainted with the true god, with jehovah, he is my god,  and when this body of mine shall be dissolved in death, may the three-one save  me!
jesus christ is my keeper, without his permission you cannot harm me; you may be permitted to kill my body, but i am not afraid to die!
most of the natives sat down in the bottom of the boat; and, under the influence of fear, either shut their eyes, or covered them with their hands, expecting every moment that the waves would close over us.
this they plastered with the mortar, forming a plain surface, and covering also the posts on the outside, but leaving them projecting within.
the house was finished early in 1819, became our residence shortly afterwards, and continued so until we embarked for the sandwich islands.
the communications between tahiti and eimeo were now frequent, and the repeated accounts of pomare's persevering and laudable endeavours to enlighten the minds of his subjects, were not the only cheering tidings they received.
on the northern side of the valley, and near the foot of matoereere, we proposed to erect our dwelling and the printing-house.
a copy was brought to the  society islands, and is here inserted.
the profession of christianity was general, many had learned to read, and were  teaching others; all were regular in their exercises of devotion; and, in many  of the small gardens attached to the native houses, it was pleasing to see the  littlefare bure huna, house for hidden prayer.
when he received the ball, he fell, and, unable to  save himself by flight, crawled among the bushes, and hid himself so  completely, as to elude the vigilant search of his enemies, although it was  continued for some time, and they often passed near his retreat.
captain wilson  coasted along the south and western shores of huahine, and then sailed to  tongatabu; where, after spending twenty days with the missionaries, who  appeared comfortably settled, he sailed for canton, where he received a cargo,  with which he returned to england, and arrived safely in the thames; having  completed his perilous voyage, under circumstances adapted to afford the  highest satisfaction, and to excite the sincerest gratitude from all– 11  – who were interested in the success of the important enterprise.
the late pomare and his queen,  with otoo his father, and idia his mother, and his most influential persons in  the nation, were present, and haamanemane, an aged chief of raiatea, and high  priest of tahiti, was the principal agent for the natives on the occasion.
there is one lecture, which is on wednesday  evening.
no sabbath had then dawned no happy multitudes  met for praise and prayer, no lovely throngs of children gathered in the–  417 – sabbath-schools, no inspired page or christian preacher directed  their attention to the lord of the sabbath; but when the devotees met for  public worship, it was under the gloom of overshadowing trees, amid the  recesses of some rude temple, before some rustic altar, or in the presence of  some deity of frightful form and fearful attributes, the offspring of their own  imagination.
thus was idolatry abolished in tahiti and eimeo; the idols  hurled from the thrones they had for ages occupied; and the remnant of the  people liberated from the slavery and delusion in which, by the cunningly  devised fables of the priests, and the “doctrines of devils,” they  had been for ages – 157 – held as in fetters of iron.
and now, having been made acquainted with the true god, with jehovah, he is my god, and when this body of mine shall be dissolved in death, may the three-one save me!
the wind was contrary when we started; and, after proceeding only five miles, we landed at tiataepuaa, the usual residence of the chiefs of eimeo.
no attempt of this kind,  however, was made.
“before the ships departed, the spanish commander called  a meeting of the chiefs, who had taken the missionaries under their protection,  described the grandeur of his sovereign, and in formed them of his right to all  the islands.
the gardens were large, and, at this time, well stocked with  indigenous roots and vegetables.
eiaha oe e riri, faaora, faaora, teie te hapa, ua faarue ia  oe, ua haavarehia e te papaa, teie te buaa, eiaha e riri; “o satan !
they seemed interested in the account of the  creation, and deeply affected with the exhibition of jesus christ, as the true  atonement for sin; instead of pearls, or pigs, or other offerings, which they  had been accustomed to consider as the best means of propitiating their  deities.
on the contrary, they endeavoured to  correct them in the most friendly manner, and were evidently desirous that the  foreigners should be able to understand their language, and convey their own  ideas to them with distinctness and perspicuity.
the missionaries could not view these things with in sensibility, as they saw what they had to except, should they fall into the hands of those who had been guilty of such wanton cruelty; their support was, however, derived from the conviction, that their god was governor among the nations, and that the lord omnipotent reigned.
the necessities of the people were so obvious, the prospects of usefulness so extensive, and the request 263 of the chiefs so urgent, that, although unwilling to be deprived of the assistance of their seniors, in the acquisition of the language, mr. williams and mr. threlkeld felt it to be their duty to accompany tamatoa, and the chiefs who were with him, to raiatea.
cooking-houses were usually detached from the dwellings of the chiefs and foreigners, but we attached it to our house, that mrs. ellis might avoid exposure to the sun, and heat of the middle of the day, whenever it might be necessary to superintend the dressing of our food.
most of the ships formerly visiting raiatea anchored  in this convenient and sequestered harbour.
his body was stout, but not disproportioned to his height; and his limbs, though well formed, were not firm and muscular.
it was cheering  to behold the people so prepared to receive the sacred volume, and anxious to  possess it.
about a week after the arrival  of the norfolk, the venus, another colonial vessel, came into the bay, and left  on shore captain bishop and six seamen, to purchase pigs and salt pork for port  jackson, while captain bass pursued his voyage to the sandwich islands, on the  same errand.
they slept on mats manufactured with  palm-leaves, spread on the ground.
this was the more necessary, as the  natives who reside in those parts visited by shipping, soon pick up a few of  the most common english phrases, which they assimilate as much as possible to  the native idiom, and apply almost indiscriminately, supposing they are thereby  better understood, than they would be if they used only native words; yet these  words are so changed in a native's mouth, who cannot sound any sibilant, or  many of our consonants, and who must also introduce a vowel between every  double consonant, that no englishman would– 16 – recognize them as  his own, but would write them down as native words.
there was a door at each end; windows were altogether unnecessary in such a building, as the space between the poles, forming the outside, admitted light and air in abundance; and wind, with rain, sometimes in larger quantities than was quite agreeable.
among this class, also, as might naturally be expected, have been experienced the most distressing apprehensions of the consequences of sin, and the greatest compunction of mind on account of it.
– 424 – in reply, we usually informed them, that we were accustomed to speak of the  heart as the seat of the affections and moral principles, though by the heart  we often meant nearly the same as they intended by the wordaau or obu , but that we considered our sensations and mental perceptions to be  connected with the brain.
sometimes they endeavoured to  find out words, by presenting to the natives different combinations of the  letters of their alphabet: thus they would pronounce the letters a a, and say,  “what is that?”
is it possible you can behold me without despising  me?’—the effect which this discovery of divine mercy, displayed to a  backslider, had on brother marshman's mind, can better be conceived than  described.
the labour of keeping so large a place in repair would be very great; and the occasions for its use so seldom occur, that no repairs have been made since the king's death; and the exposure being constant, it will not probably last many years longer.
god love the world, when the world not love him!
the corallines were spread out with all  the endless variety and wild independence exhibited in the verdant landscape of  the adjacent shore.
so  strong was her desire on this subject, that she is said to have left it with  the late dr. haweis as her dying charge, that he would attempt to accomplish  it.
his directions were attended to; no individual was injured, no fence broken down, no house burned, no article of property taken.
he awoke in a state of great agitation of mind, with profuse perspiration covering his body, and was so affected, that he could not sleep again that night.
they had observed that the wives and daughters of the missionaries, however plain their dress, wore a riband and strings to their bonnets, and they had often observed a greater profusion of trimmings attached to those worn by the wives of the captains, or the female passengers, in any of the vessels that touched at the islands; they therefore imagined that in point of improvement they might almost as well appear without a bonnet, as with one destitute of these appendages.
his influence must be of a higher  order, if he desires to succeed.
about the time that her indisposition commenced, she had become the mother of a still-born child; the sickness that followed, and the fatal termination to which it led, 73 were supposed to be the results of a cruel and unnatural practice, that cannot be describeda species of infanticide, often resorted to by females of high rank in the island, although not unfrequently issuing, as was imagined on the present occasion, in the death of the perpetrator.
a carpenter's shop had been erected, the forge was daily  worked by the natives, neat cottages were rising in several directions, and a  large place of worship was building.
this was the demise of pomare, the father of otu the king.
the knowledge of the spiritual nature of christianity, possessed by many of the new converts, was doubtless but imperfect, their acquaintance with the will of god but partial, and probably on many points of first erroneous, but still there was a warmth of feeling, and undisguised sincerity, and an ardour of desire, (in scripture called the first-love,) that has never been exceeded.
the chief added, that although he had no desire after these things himself, he did not wish to oppose his son, or prevent his hearing whatever mr. nott might have to communicate.
the king and his mother appeared affected with their loss; and the grief of his relatives was severe, as the death of so many members of pomare's family threatened, at no very remote period, its total extinction.
let me know also, what news there may be from europe and from  port jackson.
to the favour of the gods he considered  himself indebted for the aggrandisement of his person and family; and if the  missionaries would have allowed the claims of oro or tane to have received an  equal degree of attention to that which they required for jehovah, or jesus  christ, pomare would readily have admitted them; but when required to renounce  his dependence upon the idols of his ancestors, and to acknowledge jehovah  alone as the true god, he at once rejected their message.
it may be thought that it has a tendency to engender pride, occupy the head and the hands about trifles, to the neglect of more important matters, inducing them to devote to the adorning of the person that time which might with greater advantage be appropriated to the cultivation of morals, and the improvement of their minds.
the next object was to make the doors and window-shutters: thus far they had been able to proceed in the erection of their dwellings without nails; but to make doors and shutters without these, brought them at first to a stand.
james wilson, who had retired, after a perilous and honourable career in the service of the hon.
about a quarter before nine in the morning, i accompanied mr. crook to the public worship of the natives, held in the same house in which i had visited the school a day or two before.
it is however, frequently brought from new south wales,  and from south or north america, and a tolerably good supply may, in general,  be obtained.
they were the rude untutored tenants of the place; their  appearance and their actions were in perfect keeping with the scenes of  wildness by which they were surrounded.
yet it would undoubtedly have been highly advantageous to the mission, had some such gifted individuals been included among its members.
present  circumstances and connexions claimed a thought.
at length their fears were removed by one of the party, who had been there before, observing, that it was the sabbath, and that on that day the natives did not launch their canoes, or light their fires, &c.
the usages and customs prevailing among the ancient jews were often topics of conversation, and more than once they have, with evident sincerity, inquired if their repentance would not be more acceptable to god, were they to rend their garments, and cover their heads with ashes, or gird themselves with sackcloth, than simply expressing their penitence.
sometimes they wanted to know what was the colour  of adam and eve's skin, or what language they spoke: with regard to the former,  their opinions were in accordance with those of the late bishop heber; they  said it was very likely they were brown or olive-coloured, and, as their  descendants, or the descendants of noah, travelled to hotter climates, they  became darker; while those, whose information had removed the belief that our  colour was the effect of disease, acknowledged the plausibility of our  ancestors having become white from the influence of cold, and a clouded  atmosphere, whereby they were shaded from the sun.
every place of public amusement,  and every exhibition adapted to administer pleasure, was repeatedly visited;  and the multiplicity of spectacles– 367 – thus presented in rapid  succession, kept his mind in a state of perpetual excitement and surprise.
we all marked its approach with great anxiety.
the reflections also associated with the  purpose for which it had been erected, and the recent events in the history of  the people, whose first national christian temple we were visiting, awakened a  train of solemn and grateful emotions.
arrival in the south sea islandsanchorage in matavaivisit from pomarelanding his horseinterview with the queen and princessastonishment of the natives on viewing the horse and his ridervoyage to eimeoopunohu.
this  was a kind of instruction which our wives were competent to impart, even before  they had acquired a sufficient knowledge of the language to enable them to  teach in the schools.
notwithstanding the total absence of every thing resembling accommodation  in our lodging, where we spread our bed upon the ground, we should probably  have enjoyed a night of refreshing sleep, but for the mosquitoes.
the pile is then kindled, the fuel consumed, and the lime, thus burnt, sinks into the pit.
he was remarkably active and vigorous, and, though far advanced in years and nearly blind, indulged, without restraint, in all the degrading vices of his country.
he that desires the word of god to grow where it has been planted, and to be conveyed to countries wretched as ours was before it was brought to us, will contribute freely and liberally to promote its extension: he who is unacquainted with its influence, and insensible to its claims, will not, perhaps, exert himself in this work.
in the afternoon of the 10th of july, 1801, the royal admiral, commanded by captain w. wilson, anchored in the bay, having a number of missionaries on board, together with supplies and letters from their friends and the directors, from whom they had heard only once, during the four years they had dwelt on the island.
occasionally we passed through the inland village of tamae; and although, whenever we took this route, we had to walk three-quarters of a mile along the margin of the lake, up to our knees in water, yet we have always been amply repaid, by beholding the neatness of the gardens, and the sequestered peace of the village, by experiencing the generous hospitality, and receiving unequivocal proofs of the simple piety, of its inhabitants.
in striking contrast with them, he placed the mild and benevolent motives and tendency of the gospel of jesus christ, and the benefits its introduction had conferred: alluding to the very fact of their being assembled for the purpose which had convened them, as a powerful illustration of his remarks.
at length, after writing a long letter, in  which he described the anguish of his mind with dreadful minuteness, he  obtained a private interview with dr. marshman and mr. ward, of which the  following is the result.
i do not, however, suppose we are to infer from the account that is given of this amazing work in greenland, that, during the first five or seven years of their labours there, the being and character of god, &c. were inculcated, to the exclusion or neglect of the way of salvation through jesus christ.
we therefore waited on the principal chiefs, one of whom had accompanied us from papetoai, and inquired if it would be agreeable to them for us to come and reside there.
the one at huahine was of blue cloth, with a white dove and olive branch in the centre, beneath which was inscribed the angels' song, as the motto of the school.47 sometimes the children, as they passed along, would sing, 328 long be this peaceful reign, or any other motto that might be inscribed upon the banner.
here they drove out the  inhabitants, burnt their habitations, and then returned to their own territory;  not, however,– 53 – without threatening to enter the district of  matavai, and assault and plunder the missionaries.
the universal, and in many  instances decisive moral and religious change, that has been effected in the  south sea islands, (of the commencement, and more important parts of which, a  regular, though necessarily brief account, has now been– 185 –  given,) appears, in whatever view we can possibly contemplate either its nature  or its results, nothing less than a moral miracle.
many have died, and are gone to destruction, kings and common people; they died without knowing any thing of the true god; and now, when it came to the small remainder of the people, jehovah hath been pleased to make known his word, and we are made 174 acquainted with his good word, made acquainted with the deception of the false gods, with all that is evil and false.
it was not in pare and matavai alone that the professed worshippers of god were to be found.
the queen and chiefs were next supplied, and preparations made for meeting the demands of the people.
the directors of the  missionary society were not influenced by their own choice, but by the  necessities of the people, in making these and other secular arrangements,  which were not contemplated in the original constitution and object of their  association, but have resulted from the changes effected by their agents in the  circumstances of those communities among which they have resided; and have  sometimes involved an expense which could not always be met without difficulty.
though the shore is generally a gradual and waving ascent from the water's  edge to the mountain, it is frequently rocky and broken.
in one  hour, however, the whole of the fence was– 72 – burnt to the ground,  and the plantation destroyed, or the few plants that remained were so much  injured as to be nearly useless.
over the shoulders,  when not at work, they wore a loose ahu buu, a kind of scarf or mantle,  in some degree resembling the roman toga; or they appeared in thetiputa,  an article of dress, having an aperture in the centre through which the head is  passed, the other parts extending over the shoulders, breast, and back.
each audience, consisting of  upwards of two thousand hearers, assembled round the respective pulpits within  the same building.
many purchased with avidity a thick  blanket, which they would wear as anahubuu over the shoulders, or a pareu round the waist.
cook, and has since been grown by the natives merely for  their own use.
they had established public worship; mr. davies had opened a school; an increased and pleasing attention had been manifested, by several, to the 93 instructions communicated; and only ten days before the death of mrs. henry, pomare, the king of tahiti, publicly professed his belief in jehovah the true god, and his determination to serve him.
on his assurances of protection, those who remained reposed the most entire confidence; which, during his subsequent life, his conduct uniformly warranted.
ati paa toai te ao nei ia ite te mau fenua atoa, was the motto.
the heads of the men were uncovered, their hair cut and combed, and their beards shaven.
hence, we are taught to infer, that, while the identity of personality is preserved, the fluctuations which take place in the numerical particles, and in the modification of them, in our present bodies, can offer no impediment to the credibility of this momentous doctrine.
the house in which we lodged was near  the shore; and the long heavy billows of the sea rolling in successive surges  over the coral reefs that surround the island, kept up, through the night, a  hollow and heavy sound, resembling that produced by the rumbling of carriages  in a vast city, heard at a distance in the stillness of evening.
at huahine, during the greater part of my residence there, we had a  square bar of iron, hanging by a cord ofparau bark, from a high  cocoa-nut tree that grew near the chapel; and our only means of calling the  inhabitants of the settlement together was, by appointing a person, at the  proper hour, to strike it several minutes with a hard stone.
i have often asked mr. nott, and  others who were on the spot, if there was any alteration in the mode of  instruction, or the nature of their addresses, as to the prominency of any of  the doctrines of the gospel, which had not been so fully exhibited before; but  i have invariably learned, that they were not aware of the least difference in  the kind of instruction, or the manner of representing the truths taught at  this period, and those inculcated during their former residence in tahiti.
when the  canoes of the visitor approached the shore, the chiefs assembled on the beach.
this also in one thing that i want to inquire of you: when i go round  tahiti: it may be that the raatiras and others will ask me to put down their  names; what shall i do then?
seventeen of the rebel warriors, including rua, one of their leaders, were taken, and killed on the 59 spot by pomare; whose followers, according to their savage rules of war, treated their bodies with the most wanton brutality.
they were therefore taught to work at their needle, and soon made a pleasing proficiency.
there is reason to believe that many, even of the areois, have been purified from their moral defilement, in that blood which cleanseth from all sin, and that the language addressed by the apostle to the corinthians41 may with propriety be applied to them.
notwithstanding these and various other discouragements, mr. armitage was able to persevere; and as there was little prospect of the females he had taught to spin making up their minds to return, another party was selected.
a new edition, enlarged and improved in four volumes london: henry g. bohn, york street, covent garden 1859 vol.
this was the first native meal i had sat down to, and it was served up in true tahitian style.
next to this, ribands of native cloth, dyed with showy colours, were employed; while others used a string of the bark from a branch of thepurau, with the outer rind scraped off, the inner bark washed and bleached, passed round the bonnet, and tied under the chin.
such were not, however, at that time so ready, as they have subsequently been, to engage in the enterprise; individuals of this class do not appear to have understood that the highest attainments, and noblest powers, are best employed, and their author most honoured, when they are exerted in a cause which, of all others, presents the strongest claims, and affords the most suitable sphere, for their successful operation.
doing good, disinterested good, is not our trade.
the desire now became general, and was not  confined to those who possessed other articles of foreign dress, it being  extended even to such as had none.
they  were well aware of many; but there were others, actually existing, of which  they were then unconscious.
and when they walked through the district, a father or mother, or both, have been seen coming from the door of their cottages, gazing with pleasure on them as they passed by, walking beside them, or following them with their eye until some clump of trees, or winding in the road, hid them from their view.
soon after the return of messrs scott and hayward from tahiti, indications of the same convictions and inquiry were occasionally manifested in eimeo; and on the 25th of july, 1813, which was the sabbath, the first place for public worship erected in the island of eimeo was opened.
about the time  that her indisposition commenced, she had become the mother of a still-born  child; the sickness that followed, and the fatal termination to which it led, – 73 – were supposed to be the results of a cruel and unnatural  practice, that cannot be described—a species of infanticide, often  resorted to by females of high rank in the island, although not unfrequently  issuing, as was imagined on the present occasion, in the death of the  perpetrator.
404 it may perhaps be supposed, by those who are unacquainted with the circumstances, that the wives of the missionaries have not acted judiciously in introducing and cherishing a desire for dress.
the following  account of one of these meetings is given by captain gambier, in the extracts  of his journal.
the king  was sullen and taciturn; and, after remaining nearly half an hour expecting  pomare, the missionaries departed, to wait on him personally, at his own  dwelling.
the chiefs procured most of the materials, and when it was nearly finished, pomare sent a fish as an offering to jesus christ, requesting that it might be hung up in their new chapel.
in this employment they were sometimes engaged for  several days together, drinking the spirit as it issued from the still, sinking  into a state of indescribable wretchedness, and often practising the most  ferocious barbarities.
or whether, when they had retired  to their gardens, or the bushes adjacent to their dwellings, and were there  engaged in prayer, their attention should be diverted by an intruder, they  should leave off or continue?
the dimensions and number of our cathedrals, churches, and chapels, the size of the congregations, the proportion of the population that attended public worship, and the order of the services, were often topics of inquiry.
her natural disposition was amiable, her piety unaffected, and her  love for the poor heathens unfeigned.
the carding machine, looms, &c. were landed, and placed  under the care of paiti, a chief residing near the harbour of taone; and in the  adjacent village of pirae, messrs. armitage and blossom took up their abode.
almost all the women, young and old, were habited in the european manner.
“where,” said  they, “can the king and the bure atua have imbibed these new principles of  humanity and forbearance?
in this letter, he stated his delight in beholding the chiefs inclined to obey the word of god; which, he said, jehovah himself was causing to grow, so that it prospered exceedingly.
our advice was not unheeded; several of the chiefs were induced to cultivate the cane; the mill we had erected became a kind of public machine, to which they brought their produce; and although, in some instances, we failed in procuring good sugar, in time the people were so well acquainted with the process, as to be able to boil it themselves.
these annual examinations and festivals are  not peculiar to bunaauïa, but are instituted in several other stations of  the georgian group.
the fabled legends by which, as by enchantment, they had been deceived, were banished from their recollections; the abominations and the bloodshed to which they had been addicted, ceased; and they became moral, virtuous, affectionate, devout, and upright members of a christian community.
a capacious hole is then dug, wherein fuel in immense logs is piled up till it assumes the appearance of a mound four or five feet high.
the profession of christianity was general, many had learned to read, and were teaching others; all were regular in their exercises of devotion; and, in many of the small gardens attached to the native houses, it was pleasing to see the littlefare bure huna, house for hidden prayer.
a number of streams originating in these water-falls pursued their course through the valley, and one, receiving in its way the tributary waters of a number of sequestered streamlets, swelled at times into what in these islands might be called a river, and flowed along the most fertile portions of the district to the sea.
excepting its lengthened vista,  and the singular appearance of the ornamented roof, there is nothing very  prepossessing in the interior of the– 382 – royal mission chapel; and  its length is so very disproportioned to its width and elevation, that the  exterior is neither elegant nor imposing; and although it breaks the uniformity  and loneliness of the landscape, it can hardly be said that its introduction  has been an improvement.
mr. gyles was engaged for four years, during which time it was supposed he would be able, not only to commence 283 his operations, but to proceed so as to convince the kind and chiefs what might be done, and also to improve the natives in the art of cultivating cane, instruct them in the process of boiling, &c. and leave them capable of carrying it on by themselves.
the circumstances of the nation, and of the mission, were by no means favourable to such a change.
while referring to these dark and distressing features of their  idolatry, the general seriousness of the assembly, and the indications of  remorse or horror in the recollection of these cruelties, appeared to accompany  and respond confirmation to his statements.
the panels were of rich yellow bread-fruit, and the frame ofmero, a fine-grained, dark, chestnut-coloured wood.
part of each day was by several devoted to the study of the language, while once a week, the whole met together for conversation and mutual aid.
the greater part of the people, however,  spend the middle of the day in their own dwellings.
it is not necessary that i should offer  any vindication of what mr. ward and his companions taught the hindoos.
a number of the principal chiefs of the leeward islands, as well as the adherents to his cause, and the friends of his family in tahiti, constantly resided with the king, after his expulsion from the island of his ancestors, and accompanied him on his return to resume his former government.
to instruct them in useful arts, teach them  reading and writing, and make known to them the only true god, and the way to  happiness in a future state; urging the discontinuance of human sacrifices, and  the abolition of infanticide.
the plate which forms the frontispiece to the third volume of this work, exhibits an accurate representation of the outline and character of the scenery in the north-eastern parts of the district and harbour, though taken at a period subsequent to our arrival, when the landscape had been improved by partially clearing the ground near the shore, and erecting a number of houses.
their grateful praise; for, “though gilded domes, and splendid fanes, and costly robes, and  choral strains, and altars richly dress'd; and sculptur'd saints,  and sparkling gems, and mitred priests, and diadems, inspire with  awe the breast: “'tis not the pageantry of show that can impart devotion's glow, nor sanctify a prayer.
he was yoked to a lever on one side of the central roller; a number of natives, pushing at another on the opposite side, turned the mill, and pressed the juice from the cane.
these  attributed all his reverses to the respect he had shewn the missionaries, and  the inclination he had indulged towards their god; and declared that he need  not expect his affairs to be retrieved, since he had forsaken the gods of his  ancestors, and insulted those to whom his family was indebted for the elevated  distinction to which it had been raised in tahiti, and the neighbouring  islands.
teu, his father, was a tahitian prince; his mother was a native of raiatea; he was born in the district of pare; and at the time of his death, which took place on the 3d of september, 1803, was between fifty and sixty years of age.
even those who, though they had not condemned the scheme as utopian and visionary, had withheld their sanction and their aid, now pointed to the deserted field as a demonstration of the soundness of their judgment, and an explanation of their conduct.
let me hear those words again.
i have sometimes entered the large houses in huahine, soon after our arrival  there, and have seen, i think, forty, fifty, or sixty sleeping places of this  kind, in one house, consisting of a mat spread on the ground, a wooden pillow  or bolster in the shape of a low stool, next the side or wall, and a large  thick piece of cloth, like a counterpane or shawl, which they callahu taoto , sleeping-cloth, and which is their only covering, lying in the middle of  each mat.
pomare and his english allies marched the next morning to the strong-hold of the natives, and were much disappointed at finding it filled with men determined to defend it to the last.
the converts were punctual and regular in their observance of the outward ordinances of religion, in frequent social meetings for prayer, and seasons of retirement for private devotion.
a prayer was then offered, during which the congregation remained standing; another hymn was sung; the people then sat down, and listened attentively to a discourse, delivered by the missionary standing on the ground behind the desk.
the chief was pleased with the sound of the words thus associated, adopted them as his name, and was ever afterwards called po-ma-re.
in the drier parts of the house, along each side, the inmates slept at night.
he was a man of intelligence and ability, possessing extraordinary devotedness and parient zeal.
a bread-fruit and a fish was handed to each individual,  and, having implored a blessing, we began to eat, dipping every mouthful of  bread-fruit or fish into the small vessel of salt water,—without which, to  the natives, it would have been unsavoury and tasteless.
the establishment of schools, the reducing to writing, and a regular grammatical system, uncultivated and oral languages, and the translation of the sacred scriptures, have ever been acknowledged as important, if not essential parts of a missionary's duty; but the promulgation of the gospel by the living voice has always been considered by us as the primary, and, wherever 277 practicable, the best means of converting the heathen; and though the other departments of labour have not been neglected, this has been regarded as the first great duty of a missionaryaccording with his very designation, the principal design of the institution under whose patronage he is engaged, the practice of the apostles and first missionaries, and the spirit as well as the letter of the divine commission, whence he derives his highest sanction, and anticipates greatest success.
when the political questions referred to their foreign relations, or their intercourse with other islands, we sometimes allowed them to be entertained; but whenever they were connected with any civil proceedings, or the internal government on the island, although the person who introduced it was not interrupted during his speech, the 422 matter was always referred to the king and chiefs, for whose consideration he was directed to present it at a convenient season, unless the chiefs, who were generally present, wished it to be then discussed.
since the year 1804, the society in  england had authorized mr. marsden to expend annually, for the support of the  missionaries, two hundred pounds, and had also sent out supplies.
xii arrivals in huahine—support of the mission—formation of the  tahitian missionary society—place of meeting—speech of the  king—formation of a society in huahine—establishment of the mission  in raiatea—description of the district of fare—erection of  dwellings—preaching in the native language—indolence of the south sea  islanders—means adopted for the encouragement of industry—cotton  plantation—disappointment in returns—arrival of mr.  gyles—introduction of the art of making sugar, &c.—visit to  tahiti—sugar plantations and mills in the leeward  islands—introduction of coffee from norfolk island—culture and  preparation of tobacco for exportation.
the missionaries from the several stations assembled at the same period, for the purpose of commemorating the anniversary of the tahitian auxiliary missionary society.
i was then called out, and a native repeated– 204 – the  names of the chiefs who had sent us the food; and, pointing to the heaps of  fruit and the pigs, said one was for me, and another for mrs. ellis, and the  third for our infant daughter.
thus, wearing a hat and bonnet was the first advance they made towards a more civilized appearance and dress.
but the king was not thus to be  diverted from his original design; and however injudicious the plan he pursued  might be, the motives by which he was influenced were certainly commendable.
a settlement thus formed could never possess any approximation to uniformity; yet it frequently seemed to us as if the variety in size and shape among the buildings, and the irregularity of their situation, were in perfect keeping with the wild, untrained luxuriant loveliness, and romantic appearance, of the rocks, the hills, the mountains, the valleys, and every other natural object by which the rising settlement was surrounded.
on their arrival in new south  wales, they were received with kindness by their friends, and a feeling of  compassion at their disasters, and sympathy in their distress, was manifested  by the governor, the rev. s. marsden, the principal chaplain, and other friends  of the mission.
some were well defined, extending in an unbroken line from the sea to the sky, like pillars resting on the ocean as their basis, and supporting the clouds; others assuming the shape of a funnel or inverted cone, attached to the clouds, and extending towards the waters beneath.
the natives would answer by pointing to the fibrous  roots of a tree, or the matted fibres round the cocoa-nut stalk, which are  calledaa.
in the front of the line, auna,  upaparu, hitote, and others equally distinguished for their steady adherence to  the system they had adopted, took their station on this occasion, and shewed  their readiness to lay down their lives rather than relinquish the christian  faith, and the privileges it conferred.
otu the king was at atehuru at the time of his father's death.
but the priests resisted his proposal, and assured the chiefs, that oro would deliver the bure atua into their hands, and thehau and mana, government and power, would be with the gods of tahiti.
matters continued in this state until the month of may, 1819, when a national assembly of the chiefs 285 and people from tahiti and eimeo met a papaoa, in the district of pare.
whole districts frequently united, to erect what might be termed a public still.
pickaninny is a specimen of  this kind.
frequently, however, they answered their  entreaties only with ridicule and scorn, tauntingly inquiring, where is the  good of which you speak so much—the salvation of which you tell us?
of one or two other natives they had  every reason to hope most favourably, while one, who died about this time, left  a pleasing testimony behind, of repentance, and reliance on the pardoning mercy  of god.
in the haweis, which left huahine early in december, 1818, mr. hayward,  from eimeo, proceeded on a voyage to port jackson, and mr. and mrs. orsmond to  raiatea, while messrs. nott, davies, barff, and myself, remained at huahine.
their dress thus indicated, equally with their half-native and half-foreign dwellings, the peculiar plastic, forming state of the nation, and the advancement of that process which was then constantly imparting to it some fresh impression, and developing new traits of character with rapid and delightful progression.
no alteration, even of  this kind, however,– 181 – appears to have taken place in the kind of  doctrines inculcated by the missionaries among the tahitians.
more than once, individuals were selected to be offered in sacrifice to the gods, only because they were christians.
at four in the  afternoon the natives again assembled, and i attended at their worship.
in a letter to the directors of the london missionary society, under the date of june 24, 1813, the rev. s. marsden thus wrote of mrs. henryno woman, in my opinion, could be more sincere, and more devoted to the work, than she was.
in one hour, however, the whole of the fence was 72 burnt to the ground, and the plantation destroyed, or the few plants that remained were so much injured as to be nearly useless.
to produce and sustain this conviction in the minds of the people around him, should be among the first and the constant endeavours of a missionary.
by the sandwich islanders, who had  arrived some years before, the natives had been taught to distil ardent spirits  from the saccharineti root, which they now practised to a great extent;  and exhibited, in a proportionate degree, all the demoralizing and debasing  influence of drunkenness.
in the interesting state described in the preceding chapter, we found the inhabitants on our arrival in the early part of 1817.
the paper sent by the missionary society was only sufficient, after the elementary books had been finished, to enable us to print 1500 copies of the gospel; but the arrival of the liberal grant from the bible society enabled us at once to double the number of copies.
nearly twenty girls, and eight or ten boys, engaged  to learn to spin and weave.
in reference to tahiti, and the change generally, captain  gambier observes, “the testimony is a strong one: as i had never felt any  interest in the labours of missionaries, i was not only not prepossessed in  favour of them, but i was in a measure suspicious of their reports.
to the latter it was said he appeared, above the waters of the sea, having the upper part of his person bound with many folds of finely braided cinet.
it was not a time of peace and leisure, but of protracted, obstinate, and barbarous warthe king and his adherents were in exile, alternately agitated by the entreaties of their auxiliaries to attempt to retrieve their affairs by a descent upon tahiti, or expecting their retreat to be invaded by their audacious and rebellious 179 conquerors.
had any popular tumult followed this heroic act, the  idolaters were so numerous and powerful, and the christians so weak, that their  destruction would have been inevitable; and even the lives of the missionaries,  who would have been considered as the cause of all the disturbances, might not  have been secure.
governor macquarie, his  successor, manifested the same kindness towards the missionaries, and an equal  regard for the welfare and security of the natives.
they hastened to the idol temple  of the district, which they demolished, breaking down the altars, and bringing  forth their gods, which they execrated as false, and publicly committed to the  flames.
this, however, was not the only source of discouragement.
towards the evening of the day, the children walked two and two, hand in hand,  from one end of the settlement to the other, preceded by the flag belonging to  the schools.
he assured us of his intention to board the floor, and partition off their bed-room; but said, he thought they might as well live in it while he was doing this, and therefore had occupied it as soon as the walls were dry.
the  one at huahine was of blue cloth, with a white dove and olive branch in the  centre, beneath which was inscribed the angels' song, as the motto of the  school.47 sometimes the children, as they passed along, would sing, – 328  – “long be this peaceful reign,” or any other motto that might  be inscribed upon the banner.
though the settlements were about thirty miles apart, yet, as the width of the channel was not much more than twenty miles, the mountains, and coast of the opposite island, were distinctly seen.
in order to protect the  inhabitants of new zealand and the south sea islands from the oppression,  violence, and murder, of unprincipled and lawless europeans, he issued, in  december, 1813, an order, alike creditable to the enlightened policy of his  administration, and the benevolence of his heart.
it was shortly after these events had transpired, that we reached the  islands.
the place where it stands is rather damp, and this may, perhaps, have  caused it to appear so sickly.
the rain soon abated, and the northern horizon became  somewhat clear, but the joyful anticipation with which we viewed this change  was soon superseded by a new train of feelings.
345 these two houses were not only the first in the leeward group, but they were the first of the kind ever erected, for their own abode,
anxious to increase the resources of the islands, those who had arrived in the royal admiral had brought with them a variety of useful seeds from port jackson, with plants of the vine, the fig, and the peach-tree, which were planted in the mission garden.
when he received the ball, he fell, and, unable to save himself by flight, crawled among the bushes, and hid himself so completely, as to elude the vigilant search of his enemies, although it was continued for some time, and they often passed near his retreat.
had they exercised a little more patience, the vine also might perhaps have been spared; for it is stated, that as soon as the young grapes appeared, they eagerly plucked and tasted them, but, finding them exceedingly sour, they became indignant, and, regarding the plant as useless, destroyed it.
on this subject, they noticed with distress not only the unwillingness of his friends that any thing should be said, but also the insensibility of the young chieftain himself.
after our arrival at huahine, in addition to the preparation of their dwellings, messrs. nott and davies had been employed in preaching to the people, and preparing the gospels of matthew and john for the press.
– 404 – it may perhaps be supposed, by those who are unacquainted with the  circumstances, that the wives of the missionaries have not acted judiciously in  introducing and cherishing a desire for dress.
on this subject,  they noticed with distress not only the unwillingness of his friends that any  thing should be said, but also the insensibility of the young chieftain  himself.
thirty-six massy cylindrical pillars of the  bread-fruit tree sustain the centre of the roof, and two hundred and eighty  smaller ones, of the same material, support the wall-plate along the sides, and  around the circular ends, of the building.
as he does  not, however, seem to have evinced, either on board the vessels in which he  sailed, or among the company with which he mingled while in england, any latent  malignity of character, or cruelty of disposition, he might perhaps have  returned with very different sentiments and principles, had he fallen into  other hands during his visit here.
in adjusting the spelling they have  adopted, they did not follow any former visitors, but, having fixed their  alphabet, they have invariably endeavoured, as accurately as possible, to  express the names the natives use.
i have often asked mr. nott, and others who were on the spot, if there was any alteration in the mode of instruction, or the nature of their addresses, as to the prominency of any of the doctrines of the gospel, which had not been so fully exhibited before; but i have invariably learned, that they were not aware of the least difference in the kind of instruction, or the manner of representing the truths taught at this period, and those inculcated during their former residence in tahiti.
nor do i think we are to  conclude, that, after the change in their instruction, the doctrine of the  saviour's advent, sufferings, and death, were insisted on, to the exclusion of  the former; this mode of exhibiting scripture truth would have been almost as  defective as the other: but i suppose that, during the earliest years of their  labours, the first principles of religion were more frequent and prominent in  their instructions, than the doctrines peculiar to the gospel, and that,  subsequently, these points received that more frequent attention, which the  character, being, and law of god, had formerly obtained.
about sunset we found ourselves a short distance to the northward of point venus, having sailed along the east and northern shores of tahiti, charmed with the rich and varied scenery of the island, justly denominated the queen of the 194 pacific, whose landscapes, though circumscribed in extent, are so lovely, so adorned with hill, and dale, and lawn, and winding vale, woodland, and stream, and lake, and rolling seas, that they are seldom surpassed, even in the fairest portions of the world.
one  of these sentences, mity po tuaana, often afterwards amused the king,  when he came to know what they intended by it.
this vocabulary he left with the worthy clergyman  who attended him in his confinement, and by him it was kindly given to the  missionaries; who found it more useful than every aid besides.
this was certainly a great addition of labour; and hence many  occupy their cottages as soon as they have finished the roof, the walls, and  the door—levelling the ground for the floor, and spreading– 346 –  grass over it—occupying one part, while they board or plaster the other.
houses in frame met the eye in all parts, in different stages  of forwardness.
they also offered pomare their private  property, but he refused to take it; informing them, that so long as they  remained, every thing in the store-room should be at their command; but that,  in the event of their leaving the island, he should consider whatever remained  as his own.
their persons were cleanly, their apparel neat, their countenances either thoughtful, or beaming with serenity and gladness.
in  patronizing the idols, and adhering to all the requirements of the priests,  &c. he appears to have been influenced by the constant apprehension of the  anger of his gods.
although many of the spectators undoubtedly viewed patii with feelings analogous to those with which the melitians viewed the apostle paul when the viper fastened on his hand, and were, many of them, evidently disappointed when they saw no evil befal him, they did not attempt to rescue the gods, when insulted, and perhaps riven by the axe, or stripped to be cast into the flames.
several from each class were  examined, and manifested that they had been neither indolent nor careless.
though of no very durable kind, it appeared well adapted for the purpose to which it was appropriated.
in the month of july, following, the queen of tahiti died, in  the district of pare, after an illness of nearly eight weeks.
on  this account, much as they suffered by its destruction, they deemed it  inexpedient to complain to the king.
a variety of feelings led him to approach the spot whence these sounds proceeded, in order to hear more distinctly.
on the sabbath-day, the 6th of  november, the district of matavai was thrown into great confusion, and numbers  of men appeared in arms.
in a short time after our arrival at afareaitu, the people began to  erect the printing-office, and the frame of our dwelling.
papists have often adduced the indifference of protestants 3 to the propagation of their faith, as a proof of their heresy: yet supposing that many of the portuguese and spanish discoverers, who were catholics, to have believed that their own was the true faith; while we commend their zeal, we cannot but condemn the violence and absurdity of their proceedings, in forcing what they called christianity upon the tribes they discovered.27 the published accounts of the voyages from britain to the south seas, in the latter part of the eighteenth century, produced a strong feeling of wonder and delight, and excited considerable interest in behalf of the inhabitants of the remote and isolated regions.
the scene described by captain gambier is represented in the accompanying  engraving, which exhibits the progress of the buildings along the shore at the  time.
seats, usually native-made sofas or chairs, were arranged along the sides of the tables, and all the children in the school, about two hundred and forty, dined together.
want of books alone prevented its being considerably enlarged.
towards the close of the  last year, otu's brother teariinavahoroa, the young prince of tairabu, removed  from the smaller peninsula in consequence of the increase of his disorder,  which appeared to be consumption.
on the 17th of november, in  the same year, messrs. bourne, darling, platt, and williams, with their wives,  who had sailed from england 17th of november, 1816, reached the islands.
still their progress was but slow,  and one of them, who has perhaps made himself most familiar with the native  tongue, has frequently assured me, he was ten years on the island, before he  knew the meaning of the wordahiri, corresponding to the english word if,  used only in connexion with the past tense of the verb to have, as, “if i  had seen,” &c.
the desire to obtain foreign clothing was now very  great, equal to that with which they sought iron tools; and whenever they  procured one article of it, it was worn forthwith, without waiting till the  suit was completed.
another stream, more broad and rapid, rises at the head of the principal valley, and flows in a circuitous course to the southern part of the bay.
in the evening they were also visited in an amicable manner by otu and his queen.
we accompanied them to the shore,  and landed on the western side of the bay, in the afternoon of the 13th of  february, 1817, happy, under circumstances of health and comfort, to enter upon  our field of future labour, and grateful for the merciful providence by which  we had been conducted in safety to the end of our long and eventful voyage.
they also prefer that which is attached to the main reef, and  growing, or as they sometimes call it, live coral, to that which is broken off  and hardened or dead.
i have seen many who had written out the whole of the  spelling-book on sheets of writing paper; and others who, unable to procure  paper, had prepared pieces of native cloth with great care, and then, with a  reed immersed in red or purple native dye, had written out the alphabet,  spelling, and reading lessons, on these pieces of cloth, made with the bark of  a tree.
the  floor was of earth; upon this we spread some clean white sand, which was  covered over with plaited leaves of the cocoa-nut tree.
the religious character and observances of the  english were usually matters of great interest.
when the king had printed  three or four sheets, he examined the press in all its parts with great  attention.
the first garment in general use  among the females, was a kind of roman tunic, usually of white or blue calico,  these being their favourite colours.
“why,” said he,  “do you thus seek to deceive me?
pomare, who had ever been most friendly,  manifested unusual sorrow, and used extraordinary efforts to persuade them to  stay.
their teachers were not much more favourably circumstanced.
52 otu then demanded him, but the chiefs still refused compliance.
the declaration was astounding; it was too decisive and important in its nature, and promised results almost too momentous to be true.
matavai is rather an open  bay, and although screened from the prevailing trade winds, is exposed to the  southern and westerly gales, and also to a considerable swell from the sea.
in the inland part of the district there is a celebrated pare, or natural  fortress, frequently resorted to by the inhabitants in seasons of war; and with  a little attention it might easily be made impregnable, at least to such forces  or machines as the natives could bring against it.
idol-worship, with all its attendant cruelty and moral degradation, was discontinued.
on one side the mountains of the interior, having their outline edged, as it were with silver, from the rays of the moon, rose in lofty magnificence, while the indistinct form, rich and diversified verdure, of the shrubs and trees, increased the effect of the scene.
by the porpoise, the missionaries received the agreeable intelligence that a ship, with a reinforcement of their number, and necessary supplies from england, was on her way to the islands.
we were happy to perceive on their part a willingness to follow our advice.
i from page 1 to page 22.
about the same time, mr. caw, a shipwright  from england, joined the mission.
his conduct, from this period, has  been uniformly moral and upright, his mind humble, his disposition affectionate  and mild, and his habits of life reformed and industrious.
sicilian mariners, and others of a more moderate data, are among their greatest favourites.
the return, however, is distant, and the crops are less productive than many other articles that might be cultivated in the islands, especially unconnected with the distillation of rum from the refuse of the juice, or the molasses of the sugar.
this  influence is not to be obtained by presents; these, the most rude and untutored  heathen know, are seldom given unless an equivalent is expected in return; but  it is to be gained by a full, plain, and explicit statement of his objects in  the commencement of his work, and a uniform reference, in all his subsequent  conduct, to the advancement of these objects.
a plantain-tree and a dog  were then brought for thetaura, the cord or bond of union, and then a  plantain and a pig for the friend.48
the idolatrous chiefs and inhabitants took up arms, to defend the cause of the gods, and revenge the insult offered by the king their efforts, however, were but as the ragings of an expiring monster, whose fangs were broken, and whose heart had been pierced.
this is only one instance among many that occurred at the time, both at afareaitu and papetoai, exhibiting the ardent desire of the people in general to possess the scriptures as soon as they could be prepared for them.
great as was the loss experienced on this occasion, they had reason to fear it was caused by some of their neighbours, who had designedly set fire to the long dry grass immediately to windward of the plantation.
during  – 178 – no period in the history of the mission, could “the time  to favour” the nation have appeared more unlikely than the present.
a variety of events occurred at this time, to confirm the attachment of those who had professed themselves favourable to christianity, and to induce those who were undecided to join 121 them.
he also delivered from mr. harris, who was settled in norfolk island, a letter acquainting them with the murder of three of the missionaries in the friendly islands, the departure of one, the flight of the rest to port jackson, and the total destruction of the tonga mission.
the struggle between– 125 – light and darkness, truth  and error, order and anarchy, benevolence and barbarism, had never appeared  more intense and conspicuous than at this time.
the blessings  of christianity were diffused amongst the fine people who inhabited it; a taste  for industrious employment had taken deep root; a praiseworthy emulation to  excel in the arts which contribute to their welfare and comfort, had seized  upon all, and, in consequence, civilization was advancing with rapid  strides.”
in connexion with this, the custom of cutting themselves with  sharks' teeth, and indulging in loud wailing, was a singular method of  receiving a friend, or testifying gladness at his arrival; it was, however,  very general when europeans first arrived.
if so, i will soon convince you of their inability even to preserve themselves.
he had a small english bible, and, at his request, i read to him one or two chapters.
perhaps i  have: let me, my friends, know the whole of your mind in respect of this matter.
in addition to these  privations, the gloom and discouragement that depressed their spirits, on  account of the total want of success attending their labours, must have been  increased, in a– 75 – great degree, by the uncertainty and anxiety of  remaining, at that remote distance from home, five years, without even once  hearing by letter from their native country, or their friends.
several of the officers were much  affected at his seriousness; and though one attempted to raise a smile at his  expense, it only elicited from him an expression of compassion.
the estimate  captain cook formed of his cha-– 369 – racter was correct: he  appeared to have derived no permanent advantage from the voyage he had made,  the attention he had received, or the civilized society with which he had been  associated.
moisture induced decay, and although over these parts of the floor they often spread a little fresh grass, yet many places in the native houses frequently resembled a stable, or a stable-yard, more than a suitable dwelling-place for human beings.
the earthen floor was usually covered with long grass.
the females were able to spin strong and regular thread, or yarn; one or two of the boys had been taught to make, all things considered, very good cloth.
on our arrival in port jackson,  this intelligence was confirmed, and we were also encouraged by the accounts we  received of the abolition of idolatry by the whole of the inhabitants of the  georgian or windward islands.
the mutinous natives returned to their own  island, but were met as they were about to enter the harbour by capt.
he visited us almost  daily until the 30th, when, having received intimation that it was ready for  the press, he came, attended by only two of his favourite chiefs.
this, taaroarii strictly prohibited; declaring that he intended no longer to acknowledge the gods of tahiti, which were no gods; that no more ceremonies should be performed on his account, as he purposed to worship jehovah, he was anxious to know more respecting god, and wished them also to hear about him; and, therefore, sent a message to mr. nott, requesting him to come down, and preach to the people at his place of abode.
it was fastened round the neck with a  short collar, which, if possible, was united by a bright gilt or plated button.
264 the greater portion of the inhabitants having now embraced christianity, they availed themselves of what appeared to them the most suitable means for impressing the minds of the converts with the principle laid down in the scriptures, that it is the duty of those who enjoy the gospel, not only to maintain, but also to extend it.
for many years, the first missionaries were variously annoyed in  almost all their attempts to preach the gospel.
the people frequently said, “we should like some of  these things very well, but we cannot have them without working; that we do not  like, and therefore would rather do without them.
since the profession of christianity has become  general, it has been much less used than formerly.
the labour required for effecting this, prevented any but chiefs from building in such situations.
instead of listening with attention, the natives seemed only irritated by being, as they said, mocked with promises of advantage from a god, by whom, as they imagined, so much suffering had been inflicted.
the influence of the bure atua in the nation, from the rank  many of them held, and the confidence with which they maintained the  superiority of their religion, together with the accessions that were daily  made to their numbers from various parts of the island, not only increased the  latent enmity against christianity which the idolaters had always cherished,  but awakened the first emotion of apprehension lest this new word should  ultimately prevail, and the gods, their temples, and their worship, be  altogether disregarded.
attached to  pomare's camp, was a number of refugees, who had, during the late commotions in  tahiti, taken shelter under his protection, but had not embraced christianity;  on these the king and his adherents placed no reliance, but stationed them in  the centre, or the rear.
mahine, the king of huahine, was, we believe, the first  native of the south sea islands, who finished a house with upper rooms.
matapuupuu, or, as he is now called, taua, was the bearer of the gladdening intelligence, and was a very suitable person to be sent on such an errand.
the same year, in the month of november, teu, an aged and respected chief, the father of pomare, and the grandfather of the king, died at his habitation not far from the mission-house.
as a beverage, we always preferred the  latter, although the former is exceedingly pleasant.
on a subsequent occasion, when he feared, that on account of a  destructive war then prevailing, they might leave, he directed them to take  their property with them; hereby evincing the most disinterested friendship,  and a desire to alleviate, rather than profit by, their distresses.
pomare said he was pleased with their arrival, and expressed his willingness that others should join them.
in this statement of his motives, we have every reason to believe the king was sincere, and we consequently felt less inclined to object.
the hours that followed were some of the most solemn i have ever passed in my life.
in this also we soon  perceived the chiefs promptly following our example.
this obliged the europeans to watch very narrowly their property.
when the benefits which the tahitians have already derived from education, and the circulation of books, are considered, with the increasing advantages which it is presumed future generations will derive from the establishment of the press, we can not but view the introduction of printing as an auspicious event.
i have received the first number, and most  earnestly hope they will be able to carry it on.
the attendance of the people is regular, and the attention seldom diverted.
in those parts of the world where the scholars could not be supported while at the schools, it would be better for them to devote a portion of their time to such employment as would enable them to procure the means of subsistence themselves, than that they should receive their maintenance from the mission.
it was not only among themselves that their unbridled  passions led to such enormities.
this resulted from the king's sister being taken ill at afareaitu, while we were residing there; and the natives wishing to send word to her relations, but hesitating because it was the sabbath.
good-night, brother, was the sentiment intended; but if the natives understood the english word mighty, it would mean, mighty night, brother; or, if they understoodmity as their word maitai , the phrase would be an assertion to this effect, good (is the) night, brother.
the chief appeared in a most affecting state, dreadfully scorched with the powder; mr. broomhall employed such applications as he supposed likely to alleviate his sufferings; these, however, increased, and both the chief and his wife attributed his pains, not to the effects of the explosion, but to the remedies applied, or rather to the poison imagined to be infused into the application by the 33 god of the foreigners.
his father is  the venerable king of huahine; and has, ever since his return, proved not only  a father to the people, but a uniform and bright ornament to the religion of  the cross.
no connected and regular account has, however, yet been furnished; but in reviewing all that has been recorded, it may be confidently affirmed, in the language of the deputation sent by the society to the south seas, that god has indeed done great things here.
missionary effort, on the extended scale and in the distant and comparatively unexplored field in which they attempted it, was an event as new among the british churches, as the broad, catholic principles, upon which it was undertaken, were unparalleled.
afterwards i walked out to the point forming the division between the two bays.
preparation for this service has therefore been regarded as demanding particular attention.
but the priests resisted his proposal,  and assured the chiefs, that oro would deliver the bure atua into their hands,  and thehau and mana, government and power, would be with the gods  of tahiti.
i hastily followed, and my attention was instantly directed to  the waterspout.
but to return to our voyage to raiatea: the storm, which had raged with  violence ever since an hour after our departure from huahine, began to abate  towards the close of the day: we did not, however, see the land, and knew not  whither we had drifted; but soon after the setting of the sun, the clouds  dispersed, and a streak of light lingering in the western sky, indicated the  direction in which we ought to proceed.
she was supported on one side by farefau, her steady and courageous  friend, who acted as her squire or champion; while mahine was supported on the  other by patini, a fine, tall, manly chief, a relative of mahine's family; and  one who, with his wife and two children, has long enjoyed the parental and  domestic happiness resulting from christianity,—but whose wife, prior to  their renunciation of idolatry, had murdered twelve or fourteen children.
the little band of scholars in the mission school, and worshippers in the chapel, unwilling to enjoy their privileges alone, employed every proper and persuasive means to induce their friends and relatives to attend to these things; at least to make a trial of the school, and to hear what was said about the true god.
erection of a printing-office—increased demand for  books—establishment of the printing press—eager anticipations of the  people—first printing in the island done by the king—materials  employed in binding native books—printing the gospel of st.  luke—liberal aid from the british and foreign bible society—influence  of the process of printing, &c. on the minds of the people—visit of a  party of natives from the eastern archipelago—distribution of elementary  books—desire of the inhabitants for the scriptures—applicants from  different islands—estimation in which the scriptures are  held—influence of the press—number of works printed.
these instances are, i believe, very rare, and absolute necessity alone can warrant recourse to such a plan.
the sorrow of the people the dearest objects of earthly attachment, left but a few hours before in health and comfort on the receding shorethose unconscious infants that would soon, perhaps, be left fatherless, and dependent on their widowed mother, who, in cheerless loneliness, far from friends, and home, and country, might remain an exile among a race emerging from the rudest barbarism;these reflections awakened a train of feelings not to be described.
in adapting letters to its sounds, forming its orthography, and exhibiting the vernacular tongue in writing to the people, presenting to the eye that which had before been applied only to the ear, and thus furnishing a vehicle by which light and knowledge might be conveyed through a new avenue to the mind, they were unaided by the labours of any who had preceded them, and were therefore the pioneers of those who might follow.
activity was now  the order of the day.
under cover of the darkness of night, he crept down to the dwelling of his friends, who dressed his wound, and conveyed him to a place of safety.
it does not appear that mai's house was  designed as a model by which the natives were to be encouraged to build their  own, but a place of security for the property, which he was recommended to  enclose with a spacious native building: and the pursuits of its present  occupants are in delightful contrast with the childish exhibition of fireworks,  or the display of those trinkets, by which it was endeavoured to impress the  minds of the natives with ideas of english superiority.
o, what hallowed music must have broken on his listening ear, and what rapture must have thrilled his soul, when he distinctly recognized the voice of prayer, and heard a native, in the accents of his mother-tongue, with an ardour that proved his sincerity, addressing petitions and thanksgivings to the throne of mercy.
long before we anchored, messrs. bicknell, 201 wilson, henry, and davies, came on board, followed by the other members of the mission, who greeted our arrival with satisfaction.
let us  see—if you go this week, and bring home a good bundle of cloth, or  scissors, or knives, or any thing else worth having, then we will go too; if  not, we will have nothing to do with such profitless work.
the estimate captain cook formed of his cha- 369 racter was correct: he appeared to have derived no permanent advantage from the voyage he had made, the attention he had received, or the civilized society with which he had been associated.
such were the views of the missionaries, and the circumstances of the  people, when an event transpired which altogether altered the aspect of affairs  in reference to the mission.
here a garden was enclosed, and many valuable seeds and roots, which  had been brought from england or the cape of good hope, were planted.
about the 30th of march the norfolk was wrecked in matavai bay, having been driven on shore by a heavy gale of wind.
it is not my intention to eulogize their labours, or to lavish panegyric  upon their achievements.
mahine, and the leeward or society island chiefs, who had  been present at the formation of the tahitian missionary society, were desirous  that huahine, although it had not been equally favoured with facilities for  receiving the gospel, should not be behind any of the windward group in the  efforts of its inhabitants to sustain and to propagate it.
the rustic palm-leaf thatch, and beautifully white plastered walls, of all the  buildings, whether standing on the sea-beach, on the mountain's side, embowered  under the bread-fruit and cocoa-nut grove, or situated in the midst of their  plantations, with a walk strewed with fragments of coral and shells leading  from the road to the door, appeared in delightful contrast with the thick dark  foliage of the trees, the perpetual luxuriance of vegetation, and the  variegated blossoms of the native flowers.
before the king's friends had properly formed themselves for regular defence, the idolatrous army arrived, and the battle commenced.
haamanemane, the old priest, having been captain wilson's taio , or friend, was frequently with the missionaries, and uniformly kind to them.
sometimes, however, 35 he spoke as if he officiated, in these horrid rites, more from necessity than choice.
in reference to huahine, and the station now described,  though not more forward than others in the same group, captain gambier  observes: “at about ten o'clock on the morning of the 20th of january,  1822, the ship being hove-to outside the reef, a party of us proceeded towards  the village of fare.
when, however, he beheld the manner in which the english had prepared to defend themselves, if attacked; and was assured by captain bishop and his companions, that if he was conquered, they were not; and that they would support him in the present critical state of the nation, and assist in the restoration of his government, his prospects brightened, and he again 56 indulged a hope that his affairs might be retrieved.
resounded in every direction, and the king seemed
early in the afternoon we left our kind friends, and enjoyed a pleasant sail within the reef, along the eastern shore of the island; which was remarkably broken, and beautiful in mountain scenery, as well as rich and verdant in the foliage with which the woody parts of the country were clothed.
these visits were, however, in the arrangements of him  who ordereth all things after the counsel of his own will, preparing the way  for this, in a manner which those by whom they were made neither designed nor  anticipated.
a number of the servants of the priests and chiefs approached the young man, and told him that the king had arrived, and, wishing to see him, had sent them to invite him down.
we always endeavoured to divest these meetings of all formality and reserve, and to render them engaging, by accompanying our replies with suitable facts, &c. as illustrations, and encouraging in the people the most unembarrassed confidence; requesting them to present all their difficulties, and solicit explanations or directions.
besides the deep commiseration, which their spiritual  wretchedness will excite, he will often find their temporal afflictions and  sorrows such as to claim his tenderest sympathy.
this appears to be the common mode of welcoming a friend, practised by all the inhabitants of the pacific.
backhome contact next this page last updated: 02/07/2009
in the division of the territory thus seized, the chief priest received the eastern part of matavai; but he did not long enjoy it; he was murdered, at the instance of pomare, very shortly afterwards.
moral character, and virtuous conduct, were never considered requisite, even in those whose office was most sacred.
they sent us a present of food; or, as they call it, faaamua, a feeding; consisting of two or three large pigs, which were dragged along by force, squalling all the way, and tied to a stick near the door; a number of bunches of plantains, bananas, cocoa-nuts, and bread-fruit, were also brought, and piled up in three heaps on the sand, near the pigs.
we therefore recommended them to direct their attention to the culture of cotton, one variety of which appeared to be an indigenous plant in most of the islands.
having repaired the vessel and recruited  his stores, the captain sailed from tahiti on the 14th of january, leaving on  the island three of his seamen, whose influence among the inhabitants in  general was soon found to be most unfavourable.
sometimes they heard that the rebels were entering matavai from the east, at other times from the west, and sometimes they received intelligence that they had divided their forces, and intended to commence the attack from two opposite points at the same time.
the ground on which they now fought, excepting that near the sea-beach, was  partially covered with trees and bushes; which at times separated the  contending parties, and intercepted their view of each other.
the colour of these articles was generally in perfect contrast.
the native teachers had fallen into  this practice, from the influence of former habits.
the remarks of former voyagers, and the specimens of the language they  had given, were of little service, as they could only be the names of– 14  – the principal persons and things that had come under the notice of such  individuals, and even in the representation of these, the orthography was as  various as the writers had been numerous.
when he offered himself for  baptism, he stated that he had endeavoured to persuade tamatoa, his  father-in-law, and tapoa, the king and– 95 – principal chief of  raiatea, to renounce idolatry, and become the disciples of jesus christ; but  they had assured him, whatever he might do, they would adhere to oro.
there was a degree of propriety usually manifested by  all classes of the females in their dress: they either paid more attention to  their appearance than the other sex, or were better informed; and the only  inconsistency we ever observed was that of a woman's sometimes wearing a coat  or jacket belonging to her husband or brother.
pomare subsequently made war upon the inhabitants of pare, where the europeans  had been plundered: the people were defeated, fourteen of them killed, and  forty or fifty of their houses burnt.
“oli mani,”  a corruption of the english words “old man,” is the common term for  any thing old; hence, a blunt, broken knife, and a threadbare or ragged dress,  is called “oli mani.”
xi arrival of missionaries from englandbuilding and launching of the haweisre-occupation of matavainew stations in tahitijourneys across the interior of eimeovillage of tamairetrospect of labour at afareaituhonesty of the peopledeparture from eimeovoyage to the society islandsappearance of huahinefa-re harbour and surrounding countryaccommodations on shorestate of the inhabitants of huahinecommencement of missionary laboursinfluence of presents on the people.
running at the same time to the spot where they were fixed, he seized the bunches of feathers, and cast them into a large fire close by, where they were instantly consumed.
a number of beautiful trees grow around, especially thetamanu, callophyllum inophyllum, and the aoa, ficus prolixa, resembling, in its growth and appearance, one of the varieties of thebanian in india.
the  tobacco plant is another exotic, common now in all the islands: it was  introduced by capt.
the heat of the sun was intense, and its scorching effect on our faces was increased by the reflection of the sea.
i was much affected on giving up myself to  missionary pursuits, on leaving england, and on reaching the islands, but i had  never so deeply felt the responsibility of my situation, and my insufficiency  for the work, as i did on the day when i delivered my first native discourse.
by this contrivance it could be lighted up for an  evening congregation, while we were under the necessity of concluding all our  public services before the sun departed.
this was the state of the settlement in huahine when visited by captain gambier, of h. m. ship dauntless, captain elliot, and other naval officers, whom i had the pleasure of meeting there.
in this sacred act they were joined by numbers, who heretofore had worshipped only the idols of their country, but who now desired to acknowledge jehovah as god alone.
the strength, however, which  his arrival added to their establishment, was partially counterbalanced by the  removal of mr. youl, one of those who had arrived in the royal admiral, and who  departed in the vessel that conveyed mr. warner to tahiti.
the suddenness and circumstances of his death, taken in connexion with the troubles in which he had recently been engaged with the greater part of the people of the island, on account of his violent seizure of the idol of atehuru, strengthened in no small degree the idolatrous veneration with which the natives regarded their god; and the anger of 67 oro was by them supposed to be the direct cause of pomare's death.
we always stated plainly, that it 429 was the contents of that volume which we came to teach them; that the existence of this baneful and often fatal influence was too extensively felt to allow of its being questioned; that the antidote to the evil it might have already inflicted, and the preservative against its future effects, were pointed out; and that it was wiser, and far more important, to apply to those remedies, than to indulge in unprofitable speculations relative to its origin.
governor macquarie, his successor, manifested the same kindness towards the missionaries, and an equal regard for the welfare and security of the natives.
at this time an event transpired, which threatened at first a revival of  all the confusion and desolation of war.
the names of these thirty-one were written down; and among the first of  them, oito and tuahine's were to be seen.
each wrapped his book up in a piece of white native cloth, put it in his bosom, wished me good morning, and without, i believe, eating or drinking, or calling on any person in the settlement, hastened to the beach, launched their canoe, hoisted their matting sail, and steered rejoicing to their native island.
such  are the men who have long laboured in these islands; and though others may have  been associated with them, who have turned back, or proved themselves unequal  to the station, where many, who stand firm at their post at home, would perhaps  have fainted, or have fallen under the discouragements inseparable from  it—they have been faithful.
they chose rather to feed a number of pigs, or  cultivate the vegetables in demand by the shipping, dispose of them when  vessels might put in for refreshments, and receive at once in exchange,  articles of cloth, &c. than wait till the crops should be gathered, and  experience so much uncertainty, or meet with such annoying disappointments in  the amount of their returns.
the situations selected were either  parts of their own ground, or such places as accorded with their taste and  habits.
they seemed interested in the account of the creation, and deeply affected with the exhibition of jesus christ, as the true atonement for sin; instead of pearls, or pigs, or other offerings, which they had been accustomed to consider as the best means of propitiating their deities.
here the first missionaries frequently heard the song accompanying the licentious areois dance, the deafening noise of idol worship, and saw the human victim carried by for sacrifice: here, too, they often heard the startling cry of war, and saw their frighted neighbours fly before the murderous spear and plundering hand of lawless power.
as their language is strikingly analogous to that spoken in the society islands, i entered into conversation with them.
on their arrival in new south wales, they were received with kindness by their friends, and a feeling of compassion at their disasters, and sympathy in their distress, was manifested by the governor, the rev. s. marsden, the principal chaplain, and other friends of the mission.
the composition and press-work of the elementary books, and of the greater  portion of the edition of nearly 3000 copies of st. luke's gospel, was  performed almost entirely by mr. crook and myself.
soon after his arrival, i took the composing-stick in my hand, and, observing pomare looking with curious delight at the new and shining types, i asked him if he would like to put together the first a b, or alphabet.
the heads of the men were uncovered, their  hair cut and combed, and their beards shaven.
the bottom was covered, in the native fashion, with long  grass, and, with the exception of a small space around each pulpit, was filled  with plain, but substantial forms or benches.
considerable ceremony attended the reception  of a company of areois.
the advancement of knowledge, the benefit of those interested in scientific research 2 in britain and europe, not the communication of the light of science to the uninformed inhabitants, prompted the successive visits which captain cook paid to their shores.
the missionaries, by furnishing supplies to the vessel, had prevented his obtaining the former; and in order to be revenged on them for this act of friendship to those on board, he had allowed some of his men to follow and to plunder them.
many of the natives listened with attention and apparent interest.
while the missionaries were thus employed,  the chiefs continued friendly and attentive; the people, however, began to  manifest that propensity to theft, which they evinced even on the first visits  they received.
notwithstanding the warmth of the climate, they are fond of wearing the coat  buttoned; and although when thus fastened it appeared less repulsive to our  opinions of propriety, than when, standing open, it exposed the naked breast of  the wearer, it was often quite distressing to see the imprisoned and pinioned  arms occasionally struggling for liberty, and the perspiration oozing from the  pores of the skin, indicating the laborious confinement of the body it enclosed.
have they any thing to repent of?”
this circumstance rendered the  hymn-book which was completed at huahine, quite a favourite, and afforded the  means, not only of assisting them in the matter of their praises to almighty  god, but enabled us to convey the most important truths of revelation in the  manner most attractive and familiar to the native mind.
several masters of south sea whalers, captains and officers in  his majesty's navy, have borne the most decided testimony to these facts.
more than once having received intimation of the murderous purpose of the parents, they had, when the period of childbirth drew nigh, used all their influence to dissuade them from its execution, offering, as a reward for this act of common humanity, articles highly valued by them.
one piece of cloth, however, fifty yards in length, was finished, and presented to the king.
as the natives experienced the convenience of the new dresses, their desire for them increased, and the long loose dress soon became an every-day garment, while others of a finer texture, made after the european fashion, were procured for special occasions.
like her husband, she had been uniformly friendly to the missionaries, but continued to the last an enemy to the christian faith.
pomare was present, and exerted all his influence to stimulate the natives employed in launching the ship.
in the forenoon of the day after we came to anchor, accompanied by  matapuupuu, we walked through the district, in search of a house for mr.  orsmond and myself, and at length selected one on the southern side of the bay,  belonging to taaroarii, the young chief of the island, while mr. and mrs.  williams were accommodated with another belonging to maau, a raatira, who  resided near the anchorage.
the refugees in eimeo invited to return to tahitivoyage of the king and his adherentsopposition to their landingpublic worship on the sabbath disturbed by the idolatrous armycourage of the kingcircumstance of the battle of bunaauïadeath of the idolatrous chieftainvictory of the christiansclemency of the king and chiefsdestruction of the image, temple, and altars of orototal subversion of paganismgeneral reception of christianityconsequent alteration in the circumstances of the peoplepomare's prayertidings of the victory conveyed to eimeovisits to tahiti.
it  originated, in the selection of the most distant, isolated, and, as it regarded  the moral character of its inhabitants, the most unpromising parts of the  world, for the first field of their labours, considered its projectors as  influenced in a great degree by self-confidence, and a desire of aggrandisement  or applause.
the death of pomare did not alter the political state of tahiti; its only influence on the people was such as tended to confirm them in their superstition; for, on the occasion of a religious ceremony, wherein his spirit was invoked, and which took place shortly after his decease, it was declared that he was seen by idia, and one of the priests.
the family and district temples and altars, as well as those that were national, were demolished, the idols destroyed by the very individuals who had but recently been so zealous for their preservation, and in a very short time there was not one professed idolater remaining.
the soil, in all the level part  of the valley, was a rich vegetable mould, with a small portion of alluvial,  washed down from the surrounding hills, which are generally covered with a  stiff kind of loam or brownish-red ochre.
his name was then oito, though it  is now petero; he had formerly been an inmate of the mission family at matavai,  and had received instructions there.
the boys' school was open at two o'clock in the afternoon, but it was principally for the instruction of children.
though i could not understand their language, i was pleased with the large attendance, and the serious and 209 earnest manner in which the people listened to an animated discourse delivered by mr. nott.
at other times, we travelled round in the neighbourhood of the shore, alternately walking on the beach, or, proceeding in a light canoe, paddled along the shallow water near the shore.
it was the first time he knew that a native on tahiti had  prayed to any but his idols; it was the first native voice in praise and  prayer, that he had ever heard, and he listened almost entranced with the  appropriate and glowing language of devotion, then employed, until his feelings  could be restrained no longer.
– 203 – in the morning we arose somewhat refreshed; and, in the course of the day,  landed our goods from the vessel.
when spoken to on  the impropriety of their conduct, they would sometimes answer, “we are not  scholars,” or, “we are not praying people;” these being the  terms employed to designate those who made a profession of religion.
pomare, who had ever been most friendly, manifested unusual sorrow, and used extraordinary efforts to persuade them to stay.
the swelling bud—the  opening blossom—the expanding leaves—the tiny fruit-formations, as  they regularly pass under the eye of the observer, are not less interesting  than the bough– 353 – bending with ripened fruit.
but, although he  recovered from the shot, and lives, not only to enjoy the blessings of the  gospel in this world, and to be useful in imparting its benefits to others, he  will, to adopt the language of mr. davies, “carry the honourable scar to  his grave.”
upaparu, a chief of rank and influence 116 in the eastern part of tahiti, with his wife, and twelve or thirteen of his people, came over to eimeo, in order to receive instruction.
on wednesday afternoon we attended a native divine service.
these not only maintained their ground, but forced their adversaries back; and the scale of victory now appeared to hang in doubtful suspense over the contending parties.
these individuals beheld them with great concern; and, expressing no ordinary sympathy in their distress, immediately furnished them with native apparel and refreshment; and, when they had rested about an hour, accompanied them on their return to matavai.
let me know also, what news there may be from europe and from port jackson.
a change so important in its  character, so rapid in its progress, so decisive in its influence, sublime  almost in proportion to the feebleness of the agency by which it was, under  god, accomplished, although effected on but a small tribe or people, is perhaps  not exceeded in the history of nations, or the revolutions of empires, that  have so often altered the moral and – 186 – civil aspect of our  world.
their enemies at home became bold in denouncing the enterprise as the wild project of extravagance and folly, and stamping upon its projectors and conductors the impress of the blindest fanaticism.
the  pulpit, situated at a short distance from the northern end, was hexagonal, and  supported by six pillars of the beautiful wood of thepua, which  resembles, in its grain and colour, the finest satinwood.
his departure from the island under such circumstances, although  desirable on account of the influence of his principles and conduct on the  minds of the inhabitants, could not but be peculiarly distressing to those he  left behind.
they had established public worship; mr. davies had opened a  school; an increased and pleasing attention had been manifested, by several, to  the– 93 – instructions communicated; and only ten days before the  death of mrs. henry, pomare, the king of tahiti, publicly professed his belief  in jehovah the true god, and his determination to serve him.
tino, the idolatrous priest, and his companions, had, in the name of oro, promised their adherents a certain and an easy triumph.
the invaders– 36 – divided the  district, and the priest, taking possession of the eastern side, revelled in  all the profligacy and insolence of plunder and destruction.
pomare, who was exceedingly  delighted when he heard of its arrival, and had furnished every assistance in  his power, both in the erection of the building, and the removal of the press,  types, &c. from papetoai, where they had been landed, was not less anxious  to see it actually at work.
he came up from huahine to pomare's assistance in 1811; early in the year 1813, he had made a profession of christianity, and was among the first whose names were written down at eimeo.
such  neglect was also frequently used as a cover for wickedness.
uniformity was as deficient in the sittings of the chapel, as in the houses of the town, each family fitting up their own according to their inclination or ability.
mr. shelly, one of the  missionaries who had been stationed in the friendly islands, but had escaped to  new south wales, returned to tahiti in this ship, and was cordially welcomed by  his friends, along with those who had arrived from england.
his countenance  was lighted up with evident satisfaction, as he answered in the affirmative.
he was well qualified for the undertaking, possessing an intimate  acquaintance with the various processes by which raw cotton is made into cloth,  and having been overseer or foreman of an extensive manufactory.
his name inspired terror through the ranks of his enemies; and when the king heard that he had joined the rebels, he was so much affected, that he burst into tears.
one of these, whose name was manu, bird, resided at bunaauïa, in the district of atehuru.
where they had before  been unable to make the least impression, they now beheld numbers deeply  affected, on whom these truths appeared to produce an entire change of  character and deportment.
in addition to these, there is a  public meeting for general conversation, or rather for answering the questions  of the people, held every monday afternoon or evening.
these 198 inquiries i answered, and handed him a number of small presents which i had brought from england, adding a curious penknife of my own, which he had appeared desirous to possess.
when the party reached tahiti, they landed in  pare, the hereditary district of pomare's family, where they were welcomed by  the friends of the king, and the guardian of aimata, his only child, who with  her nurse resided here.
we did not deem what is usually termed civilisation essential to their receiving the forgiveness of sin, enjoying the favour of god, exercising faith in christ, and being after death admitted to the heavenly state; yet we considered an improvement of their circumstances, and a change in their occupations, necessary to their consistent profession of christianity, and the best means of counteracting that inveterate love of indolence to which from infancy they had been accustomed.
this habit, however, has, we have reason to  believe, very greatly diminished in all the islands, and more particularly  where congregations regularly assemble.
these thirty-one requested to have their names written down, as those who  desired to worship god, and to become disciples of christ.
if the  skulls of those nations that wear no covering on their heads, are thicker than  those who do, there is reason to suppose the craniums of the tahitians will be  much thinner in a few generations, than they have been prior to this period;  since, from their earliest history, they appear to have gone abroad bareheaded.
on the right, the high land of the interior slopes down with gentle gradual 351 descent, and terminates in an elevated point, which just out into the harbour, forming two little bays.
they are generally so impatient to see  whether it is well burnt, that they throw water upon it often before the fire  is extinct; and if they find it crumble and become pulverized, they cover it  over with cocoanut leaves, and use it as occasion requires.
forty natives came at the time appointed; the design of the  meeting was explained by mr. nott.
the rafters were bound with  braided cord, coloured in native dyes, or covered nearly to the top of the roof  with finely woven matting, made of the white bark of the purau, or hibiscus,  and often presenting a chequered mixture of opposite colours, by no means  unpleasing to the eye.
wearied with our walk, we were obliged to rest before we reached the  place where we expected to embark again.
with conflict of contending hopes and fears; but comes at last the dull and dusky eve, and sends thee to thy cabin, well prepared to dream all night of what the day denied.
i also accompanied one of the missionaries on – 210 – voyage to  the opposite side of the island, about twenty miles distant from the settlement  at papetoai.
we had many  difficulties to encounter, and were obliged to pick up the greater part of the  language from the natives, who, unacquainted with our speech, could only  explain to us the meaning of words and phrases by their own: thus their  explanations often increased our perplexity.
mr. williams and mr. orsmond had for some time past preached in the native language.
an elegant hibiscus spread its embowering shade on its rude and lowly roof.
this was the more necessary, as the natives who reside in those parts visited by shipping, soon pick up a few of the most common english phrases, which they assimilate as much as possible to the native idiom, and apply almost indiscriminately, supposing they are thereby better understood, than they would be if they used only native words; yet these words are so changed in a native's mouth, who cannot sound any sibilant, or many of our consonants, and who must also introduce a vowel between every double consonant, that no englishman would 16 recognize them as his own, but would write them down as native words.
mr. wilson, one of the missionaries who first landed from the royal admiral in 1801, resumed his labours here in the early part of 1818, within a quarter of a mile of the spot from which he had been obliged to fly when the mission was broken up in the close of the year 1809, and not far from the place where mr. lewis was murdered.
as it  appeared improbable that the place could be attacked with advantage to the  assailants, and equally improbable that its occupants would accept any terms of  capitulation that the king would offer, captain bishop returned to matavai, and  on the day following pomare sailed about twelve miles towards pare.
the carding engine, and some of the other parts of the machinery, were  turned by a large waterwheel, but the work has often been retarded by the  repairs that the wheel or its appendages have required.
every work yet printed has  been prepared by the missionaries, with the assistance of the most intelligent  among the people.
on our 321 arrival in the islands in 1817, it was in general use; and whenever we walked among the habitations of the people, some parts of it broken upon the ear.
all classes cheerfully united in the work, and the king of  the island—assisted by his only son, a youth about seventeen years of  age—might be seen every day directing and encouraging those employed in  the different parts of the building, or working themselves with the plane or  the chisel, in the midst of their chiefs and subjects.
they are principally, if  not entirely, the skulls of those who have been slain in battle.
the wind became unsteady and boisterous, the sea rose, and in long heavy billows, but in short, cross, and broken waves.
i have written to mahine  for a house for the use of the missionaries, when they arrive; you will let  mahine know where the house is to be, and he will get the people to remove it  there.
when a present of food and cloth was brought to the visitors by some of the chiefs of tahiti, the priests also attended, and, observing the party disinclined to acknowledge or render the customary 137 homage to the gods, began to expatiate on the power of the gods, and, pointing to some bunches ofuru, or red feathers, which were always considered emblematical of their deities, employed insulting language, and threatened with vengeance the queen's companions.
a man would sometimes be a fortnight in making a single pair of hinges.
it is not, however, to those  who abandoned the talks, that i refer so much, as to those who (except when  driven from it by the approaching desolations of murderous war) maintained  their post, and died in the field; or who, after having sustained the privation – 190 – and toil of thirty years of exile from country and from home,  are still willing to end their days among the people with whose interests and  destiny they have identified themselves.
they were afterwards individually interrogated as to their desires in reference to these important matters: during this inquiry thirty-one declared that they had renounced the idols, their worship, and every practice connected with idolatry; wishing to abandon every thing contrary to the word of god.
the office and the aim of every missionary require the exercise of  this disposition in the highest degree; and he who would be successful, should  by this identify himself, as far as possible, with the objects of his regard.
the large fragments or blocks of coral, sometimes three  or four feet in diameter, are conveyed on rafts to the shore, where they are  broken into small pieces.
it consisted of sofas with backs and arms, with (cinet) bottoms, really very well constructed; tables and bedsteads by the same artificers.
cut off also from the endearments of home, the pleasures of society in civilized life, the satisfaction derived from books, and the reciprocal interchange of all the offices of friendship, the only earthly solace a missionary enjoys among an uncivilized people, except what he derives from his work, is found in the social endearments of the domestic circle.
the long rafters, formed with slender cocoa-nut, casuarina, or hibiscus trees, were perfectly straight, and polished at the upper end.
most of the ships formerly visiting raiatea anchored in this convenient and sequestered harbour.
he was told that the most secure way would be to keep the fence in good repair; but 432 that if pigs should break in on the sabbath, they ought by all means to be driven out, and the breaches they had made, so far repaired as to secure the enclosure till the following day.
it is a matter of devout acknowledgment to the almighty, by whose power alone the means employed have been rendered efficacious in its 170 annihilation, and furnishes a cause of hallowed triumph to the friends of moral order, humanity, and religion.
not satisfied with this, that rage and  malignant hatred of christianity, which is gendered by ignorance and idolatry,  and cherished by satanic infatuation, pursued him still.
proposals of peace were sent by the king, but the rebels, being reinforced from districts to the estward, refused to meet pomare, or negociate with him; and war appeared inevitable.
recent accounts, however, convey the intelligence, that the prospect of ultimately introducing this branch of labour extensively among the people, is more encouraging than formerly.
by the same vessel, a supply of printing  paper was sent from the british and foreign bible society.
although among themselves accustomed to hear critically, and to ridicule, with great effect, any of their own countrymen who should use a wrong word mispronounce or place the accent erroneously on the one they used, yet they seldom laughed at the mistakes of the newly arrived residents.
this was the case with several on that occasion.
peace continued during the remainder of the year, and the missionaries were enabled to persevere in their labours, although they were cheerless, and apparently useless.
it was, however, only a promise.
they then told him that the priest, or some of his friends, wished to see him, and again invited him to descend.
there was something so pleasing and novel in their  appearance, so peculiar in their voices when singing, and in their native  language, both during the prayers and sermon, and something so solemn and  earnest in their attention, with such an air of sincerity and devotion during  the whole service, that it deeply affected my heart.
between five and six hundred native christians were there assembled, to worship the true god.
he therefore allowed the canoes to drift  towards the reef, until they were broken on the rocks.
on this we also bestowed personally many an hour, desirous not only to afford  those who were inclined to follow our advice, and cultivate the earth for  articles of commerce, the encouragement of our counsel and– 282 –  direction, but to demonstrate the practicability of accomplishing, by means  within their power, what had been proposed.
the  different joints in these, and the narrow horizontal boards supporting the  bottoms of the rafters, presented a kind of chronological index to the history  of the place.
i trust she is now resting from her labours in abraham's bosom; and that some poor heathens, amongst whom she has lived, have gone before, and that some will follow after, to glory.
the missionaries paid a visit to the king, soon  after his return; and, as he had become remarkably fond of using his pen, he  intimated his wish that they should build him a small plastered house, near  their own, in which he could attend to his writing without the interruptions he  experienced in his own dwelling.
we had already persuaded them to extend the culture of the soil beyond the growth of the articles necessary for their support during the season when the bread-fruit yielded no supply, and to raise cotton and productions, which they might exchange for clothing, tools, &c.
the frontispiece, representing this singular transaction, is taken from an original painting in the possession of mrs. wilson, relict of the late captain wilson.
– 24 – these indeed were formerly the only articles of trade, with the exception  of ardent spirits, that many adventurers ever thought of giving to uncivilized  nations, in exchange for the produce of their countries!
the corallines were spread out with all the endless variety and wild independence exhibited in the verdant landscape of the adjacent shore.
pineapples and water melons, of– 50 –  which the natives seemed remarkably fond, were preserved amidst the general  devastation.
for several years there was, in all the islands, only one small hand-bell, not so large as that ordinarily used by the bellman in an english market-town.
the improvement of our west india colonies, by  transplanting thither the most valuable indigenous productions of tahiti,  rather than a desire to impart to the inhabitants a knowledge of the arts and  comforts of civilized life, led captain bligh to their shores; and purposes of  justice, his successors.
the long rafters, formed with slender cocoa-nut,  casuarina, or hibiscus trees, were perfectly straight, and polished at the  upper end.
in the south sea islands they certainly are not a needless article, and we found it impossible to induce the people to attend the schools, or assemble for public worship, at any regular or appointed season, without some such method of calling them together.
on the 28th of july, 1813, a number of areois  visited taaroarii's encampment at teataebua, five miles from papetoai, the  missionary settlement; prepared an entertainment, invited him to attend, and,  before it commened, were about to perform some heathen rites connected with the  food they were to eat, and to deliver an oration, in which his rank, descent,  and connexion with the gods by origin and family, and his future place among  them, were to have been detailed.
they frequently expressed their apprehensions lest the number of the books should not be sufficient for those who were waiting; and have more than once told us, that the fear of being disappointed has often deprived them of sleep.
his clemency in the late victory still continued to be matter of  surprise to all the parties who had been his opponents.
lead us to jesus christ, and let our sins be cleansed in his blood.
while the inhabitants of huahine were thus laudably engaged in providing the means of increasing their domestic enjoyments, and accommodating the assemblies for public worship, their neighbours in the adjacent island of raiatea were not behind them in the rapidity of their improvement.
at the close of the evening service mr. davies gave  notice, according to previous arrangements, that on the following morning a  public meeting would be held; when all who had sincerely renounced their false  gods, who had desired also to relinquish their evil customs, to receive jehovah  for their god, and to be instructed in his word, were invited to– 106  – attend.
the missionaries returning from the ship, as  well as those on shore, watched her course as she slowly receded from their  view, under no ordinary sensations.
about sunset we found  ourselves a short distance to the northward of point venus, having sailed along  the east and northern shores of tahiti, charmed with the rich and varied  scenery of the island, justly denominated the queen of the– 194 –  pacific, whose landscapes, though circumscribed in extent, are “so lovely, so adorned with hill, and dale, and lawn, and
pomare, considering himself the protector of the missionaries, though he did not appear to think he had been murdered, yet proposed, if it appeared to the survivors that such had been the fact, to destroy the inhabitants of the district; and so much did many of the latter fear such an event, that they fled to the mountains.
from this  distressing state of feeling, they were in a great measure relieved by the  arrival of the hawkesbury, a colonial vessel, which anchored in matavai bay on  the 25th of november, 1806.
most of them had heard of horses, and some of them had, perhaps, seen those belonging to mai, (omai,) landed on the island by captain cook, forty years before; but it was undoubtedly the first animal of the kind the greater part of them had ever seen.
the temporary roof of thatch was often pervious to the rays of the sun, and the drops of the frequently descending shower.
the end of the matting usually hung down from the upper part of the rafter three, six, or nine feet, and terminated in a fine broad fringe or border.
a spark fell from the pistol, and the whole of the powder instantly exploded.
but the most remarkable object connected with opoa, was the large marae, or temple, where the national idol worshipped, and human victims  were sacrificed.
the strength, however, which his arrival added to their establishment, was partially counterbalanced by the removal of mr. youl, one of those who had arrived in the royal admiral, and who departed in the vessel that conveyed mr. warner to tahiti.
the natives where, however, determined to remove even this vestige of the system of which they so long had been the vassals, and therefore levelled, for this occasion, the extensive pile, and with the materials formed a spacious solid platform, measuring three feet high, one hundred and ninety-four feet long, and one hundred and fifty-seven feet wide; the whole surrounded with a stone wall cemented with lime.
he inquired after king george,  governor macquarrie, and mr. marsden; the time of our departure from new  holland; the nature of our voyage, &c.
in the means  employed there was nothing extraordinary.
before this time, a musket, ball, aimed at a native who had taken shelter in his house, was fired through the window of the room in which he was sitting; and during another war, the spear of one of the king's enemies was already poised, and would in all probability have inflicted a fatal wound in his body, had not the interference of one of mr. nott's friends, at the moment, saved him from the deadly thrust.
the experiment has succeeded beyond what was anticipated, and the natives now bring to the factory for sale the cotton-yarn spun at their own dwellings, and ready for the loom.
if the  spirits of departed prophets, from their seats of bliss, look down upon our  globe; how must judah's royal bard have bent with rapture, to behold the  accomplishment of triumphs, which, while he swept the hallowed harp of  prophecy, he had foretold—the multitude of the isles made glad37 under  jehovah's reign, and the kings of the isles bringing presents38 to his son!
at the appointed time, the person whose office it was to  call them together, went to the green-spreading tree, from one of whose lower  branches their rude unpolished bell was suspended.
his father pomare, and his mother idia, were  probably more infatuated with idolatry, and more uniformly attached to the  idols, and every institution connected with their worship, than even the  priests, or perhaps any other individuals in the islands.
the vessel was about seventy tons burden, and the hull nearly completed.
the preparations for battle were continued on both sides; every morning it was expected that hostilities would commence before the close of the day, and every night it was apprehended that an attack would be made before morning.
the  frontispiece, representing this singular transaction, is taken from an original  painting in the possession of mrs. wilson, relict of the late captain wilson.
instead of being spread on the floor, the mats were sometimes  spread on a low bedstead, raised nine or twelve inches above the floor.
whatever advantages the king or chiefs might expect to derive from this settlement on the island, they were not influenced by any desire to receive general or religious instruction.
it is only in comparatively recent times that individuals of this class have, by embarking personally on the arduous and self-denying work of propagating christianity amongst pagan nations, exhibited some noble examples of christian devotedness.
when i had reached it, i sat down to enjoy the sensations  created by the lovely scene before me.
after all, they were easily broken, and made a most unpleasant noise every time the door was opened or shut.
it is impossible to behold them without sympathizing in the feelings of pomare, when he calls them tahiti's foolish gods.
the noble magnanimity of the  king and chiefs in the hour of conquest, when under all the intoxicating  influence of recent victory and conscious power, were no less honourable to the  principles which they professed, and the best feelings of their hearts, than  conducive to the cause of christianity.
hitherto their labours had been confined to tahiti; but in december, 1802, mr. bicknell, accompanied by mr. wilson, made a voyage to eimeo, and, travelling round it, preached the unsearchable riches of christ to its inhabitants, many of whom appeared to listen with earnestness, and desired to be more fully instructed.
mrs. ellis, unable to walk any further, sat down upon a rock of coral, and gave our infant the breast, while i hailed the natives, and directed them to bring the canoe over the reef, and take us on board.
this afforded  the people of matavai time to retire, and encamp in the adjoining district with  the people of apaiano.
four, besides those we occupied, were of considerable size, belonging to the chiefs; the others were mere huts.
these chapels were formerly numerous, and the inhabitants of each district had their ownfare bure, or house of prayer, in which they were accustomed to assemble twice on the sabbath, and once during the week, for reading the scriptures and prayer.
the first that issued from the still  being the strongest, they called theao; it was carefully received, and  given to the chief: that subsequently procured, was drunk by – 132 –  the people in general.
so strong was her desire on this subject, that she is said to have left it with the late dr. haweis as her dying charge, that he would attempt to accomplish it.
besides the refugees,  who in consequence of defeat in tahiti had taken shelter in eimeo, numbers who  had secretly embraced christianity, and feared ultimate destruction from the  idolaters, although religion appeared to have no influence in the present  commotion, came over to eimeo, and joined the christians.
in order to preserve the books, it was deemed inexpedient to give them into the hands of the natives, either unbound, or merely covered as pamphlets.
those  who came were so little acquainted with the gospel, that in the lessons given  in the school, and the addresses delivered to assemblies met for worship, it  was found necessary to begin with the first principles of instruction, and of  christianity.
the natives in the several islands were in want, not only of teachers, but also of books.
the natives, therefore, assembled soon after sunrise: mr. barff usually repaired to the school for the men and boys about half past six o'clock in the morning, and, during the latter part of our residence in huahine, mrs. barff and mrs. ellis, either unitedly or alternately, visited the female school at the same hour.
two days after the plunder of the missionaries, pomare, anxious to remove all apprehension from their mind, sent the chief priest of the island with a fowl as an atonement, and a young plantain as a peace-offering, and on the following day hastened to their dwelling.
he had still  “thoughts of mercy” towards its inhabitants, and was, by this  distressing event, teaching those who had undertaken the work—and  instructing his church, in regard to all their future efforts to extend his  gospel—that singleness of aim, purity of motive, and patient diligence in  labour, were of themselves insufficient for the work; that it was by his spirit  that the heathen were to be converted; and without his blessing, paul might  plant, and apollos might water, in vain.
this ship was under the command  of capt.
her person was about the middle  stature; her complexion fairer than any other native i have seen; her form  elegant, and her whole appearance prepossessing.
this 340 by being repeatedly trodden under foot, became dry, broken, and filled with dust, furnishing also a resort for vermin, which generally swarmed the floors in such numbers, as to become intolerable.
when, however, fully convinced of the reality, the hand  of an almighty providence is distinctly acknowledged.”
among the curiosities  preserved by the young chief of tahaa, there was an article that i was very  glad to see; it was a large quarto english bible, with numerous – 371  – coloured engravings, which were the only objects of attraction with the  natives.
haapii parau,  learners, or brethren, friends, and disciples, are the terms most frequently  employed by the converts themselves.
the size of the building was regulated by the number in the family, the rank or the means of its proprietor, and the shape by his fancy.
public assemblies during the week—questional and conversational  meetings—topics discussed—the seat of the thoughts and  affections—duty of prayer—scripture biography and history—the  first parents of mankind—paradise—origin of moral evil—satanic  influence—a future state—condition of those who had died  idolaters—the sabbath—inquiries respecting england—the doctrine  of the resurrection.
the females, no longer exposed to that humiliating neglect to  which idolatry had subjected them, enjoyed the comforts of domestic life, the  pleasure resulting from the culture of their minds, the ability to read the  scriptures, and to write in their own language, in which several excelled the  other sex; they also became anxious to engage in employments which are  appropriated to their own sex in civilized and christian communities.
the assembly dispersed with the utmost propriety and order; many of them, as they passed by, cordially shook me by the hand, and expressed their joy at seeing me among them.
when the congregation has dispersed, the children are conducted to the schools in the same order in which they came to the chapel, and are there dismissed by one of their teachers.
the captain lowered down the boat; the king shouting, directed the natives to leave the horse to himself; but 199 his voice was lost amid the din and clamour of the crowds that accompanied the exhausted and frightened animal to the land.
the walls are either of plank or plaster, the  floors are boarded, and the area within is fitted up with a pulpit, desk, and  pews, or seats.
these gave a richness and picturesque appearance to the landscape, which was greatly heightened by the lofty mountain in the centre.
in reference to their attempts to acquire the knowledge of tahitian, they remarked, that they found all europeans, who had visited tahiti, had mistaken the language as to spelling, pronunciation, and ease of acquisition.
he said but little; yet  there was reason to suppose, that if the assault had not been made by his  direction, he was privy to it.
most of the natives sat down in the bottom of the boat;  and, under the influence of fear, either shut their eyes, or covered them with  their hands, expecting every moment that the waves would close over us.
it was some time after the adoption of the english dress.
he then stated the obligations they were under to god for sending them his word, and the partial manifestation of gratitude they had yet given.
whether his mind had at this time undergone a divine and decisive change, it is not necessary now to inquire; every evidence that could be required, has since been given, of the sincerity of his profession of christianity, and the influence of its principles on his heart.
conduct of the rebelsdiscouraging impressions under which the missionaries abandoned the islandsinvitation from pomare to returnstate of the king's mind during his exile in eimeohis reception of the missionariesdeath of three of their numberinfluence of domestic bereavement on the missionary lifepomare's profession of christianityapplication for baptismdemonstration of the impotency of their idolsproposal to erect a place of worshipextracts from his correspondenceinfluence of his steady adherence to christianityridicule and persecution to which he was exposedvisit of missionaries to tahitivalley of hautauaoitu and tuahine.
pomare took his station in a canoe with a number of musketeers, and annoyed the flank of his enemy nearest the sea.
their inquiries referred not only to historical, biographical, and other  facts connected with the sacred volume, but to those relating to other nations  of the earth.
they have a number of these kinds of songs, some of considerable length, which i have at different times written down.
the people around were astonished, and could hardly believe the king was in a state of sanity, or was really in earnest.
every letter in every word passing repeatedly, not only under my eye, but through my hand, i acquired almost mechanically the orthography.
those who heard the young  man's dying words, and witnessed his calm unshaken firmness in the moment of  trial, with many, among whom the report circulated, were probably led to think  differently of the religion he professed, than they had done before.
in the native language, they also possess old and new testament  histories—several large editions of spelling-books, reading lessons, and  different catechisms—a short system of arithmetic—the codes of laws  for the different islands—regulations for barter, and their intercourse  with shipping.
we had only a small quantity of mill-boards, and it was necessary to increase them on the spot; a large quantity of native cloth, made with the bark of a tree, was therefore purchased, and females employed to beat a number of layers or folds together, usually from seven to ten.
many of the parents attend as spectators at the  sabbath-schools, and it is not easy to conceive the delight they experience in  beholding the improvement of their children, and in attending at an exercise  often advantageous to their own minds.
the roof was too low, and the width and elevation of the building too disproportioned to its length, to allow of its appearing either stupendous or magnificent.
numbers assemble at this time, and the exercise, we have reason to  believe, is useful in keeping alive that interest in matters of religion, which  might be diminished by the secular engagements of the week.
in addition to this, he had been nurtured amid  the debasing and polluting immorality, for which his country, ever since its  discovery, had been distinguished; and although his ideas of the moral  perfections of the true god might be but indistinct, and his views of the  purity required by the gospel but partial, yet it might naturally be expected,  that the convictions of guilt in such an individual, when first awakened to a  sense of the nature and consequence of sin, would be deep and severe.
they marked the steps, and developed the process, by which they were  rising from the rude and cheerless degradation of the one, to the elevation and  enjoyment of the other.
while in port jackson, they received affectionate and encouraging letters from the society, and their friends in england, and communications of a 89 most touching, yet confident kind, from the king, who invited their return.
the missionaries sought an early  opportunity to unfold to the rulers of the nation the objects of their mission,  and, after several disappointments, held a public interview with pomare, otu,  and other principal chiefs, in which they stated, as distinctly as possible,  through the medium of peter hagerstien, as interpreter, their design in coming  to reside amongst them;viz.
the language was altogether oral; consequently, neither alphabet,  spelling-book, grammar, nor dictionary existed, and its acquisition was a most  laborious and tedious undertaking.
the sacred day was not only distinguished by a total cessation from labour, trade or barter, amusements, and worldly pleasurebut no visits were made, no parties of company entertained, no fire lighted, nor food cooked, except in cases of illness.
the whole of the new, and detached portions of the old  testament, have been finished, and the remaining parts are in progress.
turn thou us to thyself, and enable us to cast off every evil way.
ia ora na oe e haweis, prosperity to you, o haweis.
shortly after this decision, communications from england required a general meeting of the missionaries from the several stations; and messrs. williams, barff, and myself, went up from the 286 leeward islands to tahiti and eimeo.
this priest, it is stated by some of the  natives, proposed to go to tahiti to excite persecution against the christians,  and procure their banishment; then to stir up war among the idolatrous  insurgents themselves, until their numbers should be so diminished as to render  them unable to withstand the force which
pomare, his mother, idia, his brother and sister, and the chiefs, paid him every attention; human sacrifices were offered; and both pomare and otu frequently invoked their gods in his favour, and presented the most costly offerings.
vi distillation of ardent spiritsdescription of a native stillmaterials employed in distillationmurderous effects of intoxicationseizure of the queen charlottemurder of the officersescape of mr. shellyseizure of the daphnemassacre of the captain and part of the crewpublic triumph over idolatry in eimeovisit of the queen and her sister to tahitiemblems of the gods committed to the flamesaccount of farefauprojected assassination of the bure atuamanner of their escapewar in tahitipomare's tour of eimeo.
in continuing my labours, i found it necessary, on  account of the peculiarities of the native language, to write out most of my  discourses, and commit them to memory, before i could venture to address them  to the people.
they were designed to stimulate the men who were drawing the canoes into the water.
some sold what they had collected, others were so disappointed, that they  seemed hardly to care what became of it.
our sins are great, and more in number than the fishes 40 in the sea, and our obstinacy has been very great, and without parallel.
this intelligence was like life from the dead to the  missionaries; they thanked god, and took courage; but, before commencing their  journey round tahiti, they wrote to their brethren in eimeo an account of what  they had seen and heard: declaring all that they had heard was true, that god  had “also granted to the gentiles repentance unto life,” that some  had cast away their idols, and were stretching out their hands in prayer to  god, &c.
the atehuruans ratified the treaty, returned to their own land, and thus afforded the foreigners at matavai, and those under their protection, a short respite from the dread of immediate attack.
this was not done with a view of deriving any profit from the sale of the books, but merely to teach the people their value; as no higher price was required than what it was supposed would cover the expense of paper and printing materials,and we still continued to distribute elementary books gratuitously.
in the commencement of a new settlement, or the establishment of a town, like  that rising around us at the head of fare harbour, we were desirous that it  should assume something like a regular form, as it regarded the public  buildings and habitations of the chiefs and people.
oito was an inhabitant, if not a native, of hautaua, and in this lovely, verdant, and sequestered valley, the first native meeting for prayer was held, and the first associated vows were paid to heaven.
several warriors, with clubs and spears, surrounded the missionary house, but its inmates remained unmolested; and in the course of the day, haamanemane arrived, and assured the mission family no evil was designed against them.
some of his ablest allies, especially tapoa the chief of raiatea, was removed by death, and the others prepared to return to their own islands.
they sung a hymn; a portion of their scripture history, which was entirely composed of scripture extracts, was read; and prayer, in simplicity of language but sincerity of heart, was offered up to god.
the effect of a present on the mind of a rude or partially civilized chieftain is instantaneous, but it requires constant repetition, or increase, to prevent its decline.
this was peculiarly desirable in reference to the rising generation, who were to be the future population, and who would arrive at years of maturity under circumstances and principles as opposite as light and darkness to those under which their parents had 339 been reared.
about a quarter before nine, the congregation begins to assemble, and at nine the morning service commences.
our sabbath afternoon worship on the  quarter-deck had just terminated; mrs. ellis was lying on a sofa, and,  observing unusual indications of terror in the countenance of the boy at the  helm, she said, “what is it that alarms you?”
here it was printed, and  afterwards transmitted to the islands, for the use of the schools.
sometimes they have approached the shore, and although i do not recollect any instance of their actually destroying persons at sea, i am inclined to presume such a calamity must have occurred, or they would not be such objects of terror to the people.
a  spot near the principal stream was selected for their site; the inhabitants of  the district undertook ot build the printing-office, while the king's people,  and the inhabitants of maatea, agreed to put up the frame of my dwelling-house.
this  building, the king and chiefs presented to the strangers as their dwelling: it  was pleasantly situated on the western side of the river, near the extremity of  point venus.
bent on the conquest of the whole island, and desirous, in conjunction with those attached to his interests, of depriving his father and younger brother of all authority in tahiti, muskets and powder were articles in greatest demand, and the aid of europeans was most earnestly desired.
frames of buildings were seen rising, with astonishing rapidity, in every part of the district; and houses of every size, from the lowly snug little cottage with a single door and window in front, to the large two-storied dwelling of the king or the chief.
it is not easy to form an accurate idea of the  distress of the last missionaries who reluctantly left tahiti, when they beheld  their gardens demolished, their houses plundered and burnt, their pupils  engaged in all the barbarity of a savage war; and the people, among whom they  had hoped to introduce order, and peace, and happiness, doomed to the  complicated miseries attending anarchy, idolatry, and the varied horrors of  cruelty and vice.
under these auspicious appearances,– 90 – although prevented by the  unsettled state of tahiti from resuming their station in matavai, the  missionaries were enabled to commence their labours in the island of eimeo.
he spared no efforts, favourably to impress them in regard to christianity; but to no purpose for a long time.
the spaces between the posts, excepting those for doors  or windows, were filled with a kind of hurdle-work, or wattling of small rods  or sticks, of the toughcasuarina.
when the benefits which the tahitians have already derived from  education, and the circulation of books, are considered, with the increasing  advantages which it is presumed future generations will derive from the  establishment of the press, we can not but view the introduction of printing as  an auspicious event.
the mission houses were ransacked and burnt, and whatever the insurgents were unable to carry away was destroyed.
they had long been acquainted with the properties and uses of iron, having procured some from the natives of a neighbouring island,31 where a dutch vessel, the african galley, 12 belonging to roggewein's squadron, had been wrecked, in 1722, upwards of forty years before they were visited by captain wallis.
their habit of invariably asking a blessing, and returning thanks at their meals, and their frequent attention to prayer, attracted the notice of their countrymen, and procured for them, as a term of reproach from their enemies, the designation of bure atua, literally, prayers to god; from bure, to pray, and atua, god; the meaning of which was, the people who prayed to god, or the praying people.
without admitting the existence of a power, alike at variance with common sense and religion, in virtue of which the pope authorized the commanders from spain and portugal to seize any country they might discover, for the purpose of bringing its plundered inhabitants within the pale of christendom, or approving the proceedings of those who acted upon such authority; their object, the conversion of the idolaters, was one that must commend itself to every enlightened christian; and their ardour was frequently proportioned to the importance they attached to the enterprise.
this was his only ground of hope for pardon from the most high; and when, by thus looking to the great means of purity and peace, he was enabled to rest in hope, and his mind became calm and peaceful, tears of contrition were often seen, while he gratefully remembered the amazing love of god.
under cover of  the darkness of night, he crept down to the dwelling of his friends, who  dressed his wound, and conveyed him to a place of safety.
behind them appeared a kind of open, or trellis-work line of pews, which were followed by several rows of benches with backs; and, still more remote from the pulpit, what might be called free or unapporpriated sittings, were solid benches or forms, without any support for the back or arms.
pomare, however, was uninfluenced by any of these representations, and, notwithstanding the embarrassed state of his 100 affairs, and the uncertainty of the result, to which the present agitation, and the approaching national assembly of chiefs and people, might lead; and though his friends added insult and reproach to his misfortunes, he remained stedfast.
his clemency in the late victory still continued to be matter of surprise to all the parties who had been his opponents.
the hours of the evening, instead of being a season of the greatest care and hurry, are, i believe, often seasons of preparationprelude to hours of holy rest.
this person had been chosen with others for an arduous undertaking; had been set apart to the great work, and had engaged in it to a considerable extent; having acquired a tolerable knowledge of the language in which he was to preach to the heathen.
the tahitians in  general are good imitators of others; this talent he possessed in an eminent  degree, and adopted that polite, elegant, and unembarrassed address, whereby  the class with which he associated has ever been distinguished.
in the religious services,  the repeated singing, the reading prayers, and preaching, afford sufficient  variety to prevent their being irksome or dull, while there is nothing childish  and unmeaning, or purely ceremonial.
no small portion of our time was occupied in  directing and encouraging them in their labours.
as the  evening approached, multitudes were met returning from the inland streams,  whither they had repaired, to bathe after the occupations of the day; the men  bringing home their calabashes of water for drinking, or theiraanos of  water for washing the feet; while the females were carrying home bundles of the  broad leaves of the hibiscus, which they had gathered, to serve instead of  plates for sabbath meals.
perceiving there was but little prospect of inducing him, by falsehood, to  accompany them towards the beach, and irritated, probably, by his heroical  reply, they rushed upon him, wounded, and murdered him, and then, in a long  basket made with the leaves of the overshadowing cocoanut– 129 –  tree, bore his body to the temple, where, with exultation, it was offered in  sacrifice to their god they had, perhaps, beheld, with fiend-like joy, his  writhing agonies in death, and listened with equal delight to his expiring  groans.
the command of christ to teach all nations, in obedience to which the missionary had devoted his life to the labour of preaching the gospel, directed him to baptize every proselyte in the name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy ghost, and thus explicitly enjoined the exhibition of the doctrine of the trinity, which every unitarian professes to deny: and, so far as polynesian researches is concerned, the affirmation appears without the least foundation.
several of the best native carpenters have, however, readily come forward to repair the wheel, and have received their payment in cloth made at the 302 factory.
i should have gone to destruction if jehovah had not interposed.
he was told that pride was the cause of his fall, but that how  pride entered heaven was not revealed.
around the outside of the liquid cylinder was a kind of thick mist, and, within, a substance resembling steam, ascending apparently with a spiral motion.
towards noon, our goods were most of them landed, and taken into our new habitation.
they were occasionally visited by  shipping; and the latter has, since the removal of the missionary station,  become the general place of anchorage.
in every place they were welcomed and entertained with hospitality.
this good word (or gospel) of the kingdom shall be published in all the world, matt. xxiv.
their ready and early attendance is a circumstance cheering to their teachers, who often receive a message, informing them, that though it may not be time to ring the second bell, the house is full, and the people are waiting.
19 the tahitian was the first polynesian language reduced to writing.
he thought he saw an immense oven (such as that used in preparingopio) intensely heated, and in the midst of the fire a large fish writhing in apparent agony, unable to get out, and yet unconsumed, living and suffering in the midst of the fire.
a number of  beautiful trees grow around, especially thetamanu, callophyllum  inophyllum, and the aoa, ficus prolixa, resembling, in its  growth and appearance, one of the varieties of thebanian in india.
negociations for the  adjustment of the differences that had existed between the king and his  friends, and the idolatours chiefs, were for a time carried on, and at length  arranged, apparently to the satisfaction– 146 – of the respective  parties.
may jehovah regard me before i die, and then i shall rejoice, because i have obtained favour of jehovah.
how it might be when the house was filled, i do not know; but when empty, the human voice could be distinctly heard from one end to the other, without any great effort on the part of those who at this distance called or answered.
mr. blossom has been engaged in  teaching native youth, and others, these arts; and though not altogether so  successful as he desired, has nevertheless seen two or three excellent workmen  trained under his care.
so great was the  influx of strangers, that for several weeks before the first portion of the  scriptures was finished, the district of afareaitu resembled a public fair.
when the party reached tahiti, they landed in pare, the hereditary district of pomare's family, where they were welcomed by the friends of the king, and the guardian of aimata, his only child, who with her nurse resided here.
the individual who acted so heroic and conspicuous a part on these  occasions was farefau, a native of borabora, but attached to the household of  pomare-vahine, with whom he had arrived from the leeward islands in 1814.
they had, however, scarcely  proceeded a mile on their way, when, on approaching the margin of a river, they  were each suddenly seized by a number of natives, who stripped them, dragged  two of them through the river, attempted to drown them, and, after other  ill-treatment, threatened them with murder.
the spinning-wheel will also become an article of furniture in their houses; and the father, the brother, and the son, will have the satisfaction of wearing native or home-spun garments, made with cotton grown in their own gardens or plantations, and spun by their wives' or sisters' or daughters' hands.
but, although he recovered from the shot, and lives, not only to enjoy the blessings of the gospel in this world, and to be useful in imparting its benefits to others, he will, to adopt the language of mr. davies, carry the honourable scar to his grave.
the missionaries  could not view these things with in sensibility, as they saw what they had to  except, should they fall into the hands of those who had been guilty of such  wanton cruelty; their support was, however, derived from the conviction, that  their god was governor among the nations, and that the lord omnipotent reigned.
the foregoing statement of the  teaching of the missionaries in the south sea islands, i have deemed not less  just to them than due to my readers.
in the inland part of the district there is a celebrated pare, or natural fortress, frequently resorted to by the inhabitants in seasons of war; and with a little attention it might easily be made impregnable, at least to such forces or machines as the natives could bring against it.
how little such an event had been anticipated by captain wilson's predecessors, we may learn from the testimony of captain cook.
that principal idol, that has  the red fathers of the otuu, is temeharo, that is his name, look you; you may  know it by the red feathers; that was vairaatoa's own god, and those feathers  were from the ship of lieutenant watts;42 it was vairaatoa that set them  himself about the idol.
the scrupulous attention to the outward observance of the sabbath, may perhaps in some degree be the result of the impression left on the minds of the people by the distinguishing features of their former system, in which all the efficacy of their services consisted in the rigid exactness with which sacred days were kept, and religious ceremonies performed, without the least regard to the motives and dispositions of the devotees.
i have heard several wish they could remove from their bodies the marks tataued upon them, but these figures remain too deeply fixed to be obliterated, and perpetually remind them of what they once were.
these individuals beheld them with great concern; and,  expressing no ordinary sympathy in their distress, immediately furnished them  with native apparel and refreshment; and, when they had rested about an hour,  accompanied them on their return to matavai.—when they reached otu's  dwelling, pomare called the king, his son, into the outer court, and questioned  him as to the treatment the missionaries had received.
this circumstance, together with the  length of time and the constant attention that a cotton plantation required,  before any return could be received, greatly discouraged them, and prevented  their continuing its culture.
the erection of their dwelling, culture of their garden, building the house  for hidden prayer, &c. (the labours of the present proprietors of  beritani,) are very different from the erection of a boarded house merely as a  fortress, in which are deposited, as the most valued treasures of its  inhabitant, arms and ammunition.
at the same time it was recommended, that two young men and two young women from each island, should be sent, to learn the art of making looms, spinning, weaving, &c.
pomare was also on board the same vessel when it was driven  from the shores of eimeo, and exerted his influence to persuade the people of  the leeward islands to embrace the christian religion.
sometimes, in a deserted still-house might be seen the fragments of the  rude boiler, and the other appendages of the still, scattered in confusion on  the ground; and among them the dead and mangled bodies of those who had been  murdered with axes or billets of wood in the quarrels that had terminated their  debauch.
sugarcane grows  spontaneously in all the south sea islands, and more than ten varieties are  indigenous.
its appearance was coarse, and  inferior to the imported calicoes of british manufacture; it was nevertheless  grateful to the chiefs, from the fact of its– 299 – being the first  ever manufactured in their own islands.
a change in their views and feelings had now taken place, and, learning from the scriptures, that idleness, and irregular and debasing habits of life, were as opposed to the principles of christianity, as to their own personal comfort; they were disposed to attend to the recommendations of their teachers in this, as well as other matters.
one of the most effectual means of implanting and preserving this impression is, the exhibition of uniform benevolence.
let us also give of the produce of our islands,pigs, or arrow-root, or cocoa-nut oil.
the first instance of  decisive and salutary effect from their teaching, was, we are informed, what  would, in general, be termed accidental, and occasioned by their reading to  some native visitors an account of the sufferings and death of the saviour,  which they– 180 – were translating into the vernacular tongue.
the native were in want of books, and most eager for them: the first inquiry of every party that arrived, usually was, when will the books be ready?
the commencement of the year 1815 is distinguished, in the annals of  tahiti, by changes in society, affecting deeply, not only the religious, but  the domestic condition of the people, especially of the females.
on our first visit to raiatea, in january 1819, the servants of tamatoa, the king of that island, were plastering a house for his residence: it was nearly finished; the outside was completed, and they were at work within.
the sides or walls around are  composed of planks of the bread-fruit tree, fixed perpendicularly in square  sleepers.
the english, therefore, acceded to the first proposition.
while we  remained, we visited the different parts of the district, and called upon the  king,—whom we were delighted to find in a neat plastered house,—and,  after spending two or three days with them at vaóaara, we returned to  huahine.
we have sometimes been surprised at  the readiness with which the children have recited the text, divisions, and  leading thoughts in a discourse, without having written it down.
most of the islanders who had boarded us in the morning continued in the ship, others arrived as we approached the bay; and long before we anchored, our decks were crowded with natives.
he  informed me that it was devoted to that object, and spoke with apparent  satisfaction of the happiness he enjoyed in the retirement it afforded.
the departure of the duff did not occasion any diminution in the attention of the natives to the missionaries in tahiti.
they neglected public worship, because they  said they did not know how to read; this being considered a sufficient apology  for the non-observance of the sabbath, or the social duties of religion.
while the hands of the parties spinning or weaving are employed,  the improvement of their minds is not neglected.
pages, had been printed at port jackson, and were in circulation; but many hundreds of the natives who had learned to read, were still destitute of a book.
the 12th of november,  1815, was the most eventful day that had yet occurred in the history of tahiti.
excepting those parts enclosed as gardens or plantations, the land near the shore is covered with long grass, or a species of convolvulus, called by the natives pohue; numerous clumps of trees, and waving cocoa - nuts, add much to the beauty of its appearance.
and, although the scene before me was now one of loveliness and quietude, cheerful, yet placid as the smooth waters of the bay, that scarcely rippled by the vessel's side, it has often worn a very different aspect.
the night  passed without any attack; several leading chiefs, whom the rebels expected,  had not arrived, and the europeans were thus permitted to pack up a few  articles for their use on board.
shortly, however, after  sunset this evening, the land-breeze came down from the mountains.
i felt, also, in connexion with the change that has since taken place, that he had indeed desired to see the things that i beheld, but he had died, without witnessing, on earth, the gladdening sight; and that, in reference to his unremitted exertions, i and my junior companions had entered into his labours, and were reaping the harvest for which he had toiled.
at the appointed time, the person whose office it was to call them together, went to the green-spreading tree, from one of whose lower branches their rude unpolished bell was suspended.
although dangerously ill at the time these efforts were made, the woman  recovered, and, notwithstanding all the fearful representation of consequences,  made by her friends, attended the school again, so soon as her strength  admitted.
the conduct of  the natives during his absence had been friendly and respectful; and supplies  in abundance had been furnished.
in one week more, mrs. hayward terminated in death her sufferings, and was buried by the side of her departed sisters.
they neglected public worship, because they said they did not know how to read; this being considered a sufficient apology for the non-observance of the sabbath, or the social duties of religion.
the  distressing circumstances under which this unnatural and revolting crime was  practised, and the awful extent to which it prevailed, was one of the first of  the many horrid cruelties filling these “dark places” of paganism,  that deeply affected them.
the plans of procedure, in the commencement of a new mission, must necessarily be regulated in a great degree by the circumstances of the people among whom it may be established; and the extreme poverty, or fugitive habits, of the parents, may render it desirable for the teachers either wholly or in part to maintain the scholars, in order to secure attendance.
he was often heard to say, while confined to his couch, when he saw his former companions going to the school, or the place of worship, my feet cannot follow, but my heart goes with you.
water  and wood were at all times procured with facility from the adjacent shore; and  supplies of stock, poultry, and vegetables might generally be obtained by  barter with the inhabitants.
atua peace to you from jesus, blessing on you from godwas the general strain of their salutation.
but there are individuals,  from whose general habits of observation, and principles of judgment,– 189  – it might have been supposed a more just conclusion would have been  formed, who have occasionally described them as the most unsuitable agents that  could have been employed.
this is the exact position in which a  captive, doomed to death, awaited the fatal stroke of a victor by whom he had  been overcome in battle.
when the captains came on shore in the evening, they were welcomed by the missionaries, and introduced to the chiefs, whose familiarity and cheerfulness soon evinced that every feeling of suspicion had subsided.
although the king was residing in matavai, they landed in the district of pare, and, proceeding to the valley of hautaua, they learned that the report was correct, and that in the neighbourhood there were some who had renounced idolatry, and professed to believe in jehovah, the true god.
the orthography  of bougainville, who visited tahiti in 1768, about twelve months after its  discovery by wallis, they found approximate nearer the native sounds than that  which captain cook and his companions afterwards followed.
towards the close of the year 1799, the missionaries were called to the melancholy duty of conveying to the silent grave, under very distressing circumstances, mr. lewis, one of their number, and the first missionary who had terminated his life on the shores of tahiti.
it belonged to an ingenious and industrious young man, whose name was navenavehia, and who, although an inferior chief in huahine, had accompanied mahine to eimeo, where he had resided in the family of mr. george bicknell, by whom he had been taught the use of tools, and the art of burning lime.
on the tenets of unitarians,  their adaptation to the circumstances of ignorance, depravity, guilt, and  wretchedness, inseparable from paganism, even in its most favourable  circumstances, i make no remarks.
this state of affairs,  together with the earnest desire of the people to increase their knowledge of  sacred truth, rendered it desirable that the press should be set to work as  soon as possible.
during the same year, the profession of  christianity became general throughout the whole of the society islands.
four brass cannon, which had been saved from the wreck of the norfolk, were fixed in two of the upper rooms, and the inmates of the dwelling were placed under arms, as far as the number of muskets would admit.
mr. blossom has been engaged in teaching native youth, and others, these arts; and though not altogether so successful as he desired, has nevertheless seen two or three excellent workmen trained under his care.
the boys' school was open at two o'clock in the  afternoon, but it was principally for the instruction of children.
they felt  interested in their destiny, and asked whether, after the fall, and expulsion  from paradise, they had repented and obtained pardon; and at one time, when, in  answer to this question, it had been stated that there was reason to believe  that they had obtained forgiveness, and were now in heaven, – 428 –  the native immediately inquired further, how adam's crime could affect his  posterity, after the guilt contracted by it had been removed even from the  perpetrators of that crime?
the chief added, that although he had no desire after these  things himself, he did not wish to oppose his son, or prevent his hearing  whatever mr. nott might have to communicate.
pomare was greatly delighted with the horse; and, in the course of  the afternoon, the poor animal, after having been hung in slings, and unable to  lie down during the greater part of the voyage, was hoisted out of the hold, to  be taken ashore in a large pair of canoes which the king had ordered alongside  for that purpose.
he was a man of low education, and bad  principles; and if he did not intentionally misrepresent the communications of  the missionaries, his statements must often have conveyed to the minds of the  natives very erroneous impressions of their sentiments and wishes.
over the shoulders, when not at work, they wore a loose ahu buu, a kind of scarf or mantle, in some degree resembling the roman toga; or they appeared in thetiputa, an article of dress, having an aperture in the centre through which the head is passed, the other parts extending over the shoulders, breast, and back.
the queen and her daughter-in-law, dressed in the english fashion, received us in their neat little cottage.
the conduct of patii, when it became more extensively known, produced the most decisive effects on priests and people.
it appeared  more desirable, in the partially organized state of society then prevailing in  the islands, to conclude all our public meetings by daylight, rather than call  the people from home after sunset.
they were, however, now anxious not only to adopt the english style of clothing, but also to be able to make their own dresses.
this formerly would have completed his dwelling, but he now had to collect,  with great labour, a large pile of firewood, to dig a pit, to dive into the sea  for coral rock, to burn it, to mix it with sand so as to form mortar, wattle  the walls and partitions of his house, and plaster them with lime.
mr. davies, i believe, first taught them to sing, and a tune usually called george's was the first they learned.
by this contrivance it could be lighted up for an evening congregation, while we were under the necessity of concluding all our public services before the sun departed.
in consequence of this intimation, and the increasing signs of approaching hostilities, they established a strict nightly watch, and seldom went far from their dwelling.
one of the most effectual means of  implanting and preserving this impression is, the exhibition of uniform  benevolence.
why, said he, do you thus seek to deceive me?
when he offered himself for baptism, he stated that he had endeavoured to persuade tamatoa, his father-in-law, and tapoa, the king and 95 principal chief of raiatea, to renounce idolatry, and become the disciples of jesus christ; but they had assured him, whatever he might do, they would adhere to oro.
again he answered in the affirmative; and the king again said, do you think those that value the gospel would think it a great labour to collect so much yearly for this purpose?
idolatry had exerted all its withering and deadly influence, not only over every 124 moment of their earthly existence, but every department of life, destroying, by its debasing and unsocial dictates, every tender feeling, and all the enjoyments of domestic intercourse.
the members of the family  were alarmed; and, accustomed to attribute every calamity to the anger of–  122 – the gods, immediately concluded that her illness was occasioned by  their displeasure, which she had probably incurred by attending the school and  the christian worship of the missionaries.
an entertainment and a procession usually terminate  the exercises of the day.
when the political questions referred to their  foreign relations, or their intercourse with other islands, we sometimes  allowed them to be entertained; but whenever they were connected with any civil  proceedings, or the internal government on the island, although the person who  introduced it was not interrupted during his speech, the– 422 –  matter was always referred to the king and chiefs, for whose consideration he  was directed to present it at a convenient season, unless the chiefs, who were  generally present, wished it to be then discussed.
he landed from the ship duff in 1797, continued to labour with his companions, respected and useful, until about three months after the departure of the nautilus 37 to port jackson, when he left the mission-house, and took up his residence with ataio, or friend, in the eastern part of the district.
to reclaim the inhabitants from superstition, to impart to them  the truths of revelation, and to improve their present condition, were the  objects that had brought them to tahiti.
the conduct and conversation of pomare in reference to the gods, on this and similar occasions, must necessarily have weakened the influence of idolatry on the minds of those by those by whom he was attended; and if it produced no immediate and salutary effect on them, it doubtless confirmed his own belief in the vanity of idols, and the folly of indulging either hope or fear respecting them.
i have visited the district only once since; and although welcomed with every expression of gladness by the people, i experienced a sensation of melancholy interest, in walking over the garden, the fences of which had been taken down, and a few flourishing shrubs only remained, to mark its situation.
it was  called hawaii; and as distant colonies are said to have proceeded from it, it  was probably the place at which some of the first inhabitants of the south sea  island arrived.
the natives employed in this work generally laid down on the beach short logs of the cylindrical trunk of the cocoa-nut tree, and drew the canoes over these natural rollers into the sea.
this circumstance shews the difficulties they had to contend with, even when they had acquired the meaning of many of the substantives and adjectives in the language.
in all their idol worship, however large  or costly the sacrifices that had been offered, and however near its close the  most protracted ceremony might be, if the priest omitted or misplaced any word  in the prayers with which it was always accompanied, or if his attention was  diverted by any means, so that the prayer washai, or broken, the whole  was rendered unavailable, he must prepare other victims, and repeat his prayers  from the commencement.
pomare was dressed in a fine yellow tiputa, stamped on that part which covered his left breast with a rich and elegant scarlet flower, instead of a star.
at the same time we commenced the erection of permanent places of residence for ourselves, and spared no pains to induce the people to do the same.
when they took the book, it was only necessary for them to be told the first word or sentence in a chapter, in order to their repeating the whole correctly, even though the book should be open at some other part, or the page be placed bottom upwards.
and, though he fell upon the field before he heard or uttered the shout of victory, his end was peaceful, and his hopes were firm.
however remote from the land of his  nativity may be its locality, however humble its structure, however rude its  appendages, or limited its sources of comfort, compared with what in other  parts may be enjoyed,—around his rustic hearth, and in the bosom of his  family, he finds the scene of his richest earthly felicity.
to an individual who could have stood at one end of the building, a little above the assembly, and directed his glance to the other, the three pulpits and preachersthe seven thousand hearers assembled around in all the variety, and form, and colour of their different costumemust have presented an imposing and a deeply interesting spectacle.
such we found society in huahine,  and such our friends in raiatea found it there.
it is somewhat singular, that my companions and myself, though in each instance we have inculcated the same sentiments, should have been represented by one class of readers as, by my own account, usually choosing, for subjects of address, the immaculate conception, the trinity, and the holy ghost, and other mysterious doctrinal points; and by another class, as teaching the simple principles of unitarianism.
how striking the  contrast which the evening of his days must have presented, to the early part  of his life, spent among the impure, degraded, and wretched members of that  infamous association to which he belonged!
patii became a pupil of the missionaries, and a constant worshipper of the true god, persevering amidst much ridicule and persecution.
negociations for the adjustment of the differences that had existed between the king and his friends, and the idolatours chiefs, were for a time carried on, and at length arranged, apparently to the satisfaction 146 of the respective parties.
in the visit of mai, the experiment, in reference to the effect of refinement, civilization, and philosophy, upon the ignorant and uncivilized, was tried under circumstances the most favourable for producing sympathy in one party, and impression on the other:the result was affecting.
the intelligent and enterprising chiefs of borabora, mai, and tefaaora, were remarkably active in weakening the influence of the gods on the minds of the people under their government, undermining and subverting every species of idol-worship that prevailed in the islands.
having offered a human victim to his idol, he invaded the district of the absent chieftain, and brought war to the very doors of the mission-house, in less than seventeen months after the departure of the duff.
pomare, and not the missionary, had on this occasion been employed as the agent, under god, in influencing the mind of the young chief, who was likely to become the king of huahine and eimeo, and in a way which at once demonstrated that it was the purpose of god that he he should be made acquainted with divine truth.
the people stood aghast, and uttered  exclamations of horror at the sacrilegious deed; and it is probable that this  act increased the hatred already rankling in the bosoms of the idolatrous party.
at eleven o'clock  i attended public worship in the english language.
such a measure might, while they were but partially  acquainted with the true nature and design of christianity, have induced some,  who were perhaps halting between two opinions, to infer that the missionaries  were influenced by motives of pecuniary advantage, in their endeavours to  induce them to receive christian instruction.
to tempt us in thy country.
mr.  gyles was engaged for four years, during which time it was supposed he would be  able, not only to commence– 283 – his operations, but to proceed so  as to convince the kind and chiefs what might be done, and also to improve the  natives in the art of cultivating cane, instruct them in the process of  boiling, &c. and leave them capable of carrying it on by themselves.
he then had  to ascend the mountains again, for trees, which he must either split or saw  into boards for flooring his apartments, manufacturing doors, windows,  shutters, &c.
peace continuing in the island during the  close of 1806, and the beginning of 1807, allowed the teachers to pursue  uninterruptedly their endeavours to plant christianity among the inhabitants,  although at that time with little prospect of success.
one of our  little ones was smiling in the lap of its native nurse, while the other was  playing on the dried grass lying by the side of the boxes on which we were  sitting, and the natives, under the full influence of highly excited curiosity,  thronged around us in such numbers as to impede the circulation of the air.
the missionaries, considering the  whole of the twelve years spent in tahiti as so much time lost, were commencing  afresh their endeavours on another island, and could hardly expect that at this  time, after such a protracted delay, god would at once prosper their enterprise.
upwards of 200 had given in their names,  as professors of christianity.
it is satisfactory to know, that not a few have enjoyed a sense of the pardoning mercy of god, and though some have been distressed in the prospect of death, others have been happy in the cheering hope, not of a pagan elysium, or a sensual sort of turkish paradise, but of a holy and peaceful rest in the regions of blessedness.
the point on the left, in going in, is low, and covered with wood, with several cottages along the shore.
their salutations were cordial, though unaccompanied by the  observances that were formerly regarded as indispensable.
the walls are either of plank or plaster, the floors are boarded, and the area within is fitted up with a pulpit, desk, and pews, or seats.
the former was beautifully white and glossy, while the latter was of a  yellow colour, and much more firm and durable, on which account it was  preferred for hats.
a man once asked, what caused the angels in heaven to sin, or satan to become a wicked spirit?
the ground on which they now fought, excepting that near the sea-beach, was partially covered with trees and bushes; which at times separated the contending parties, and intercepted their view of each other.
they usually formed the walls of their dwellings, either by mortising upright  posts into large trees laid on the earth, or planting the posts in the ground  about three feet apart.
the public adherents of christianity were but few, (less than fifty,) and surrounded by jealous and cruel idolaterswho already began to wonder whereunto this thing might grow.
until he has effected this, he can expect but little success; and when once, under the blessing of god, it is attained, one of the greatest difficulties in his way will be removed.
they have been seen occasionally looking  down to notice what had attracted the attention of a little boy or girl,  standing, perhaps, beside them; and if they thought the child could not  distinctly see the different pieces, they have lifted it up, that it might look  over the table, and then have asked the child which it would like to have.
haamanemane, the high-priest, appears in a crouching 8 position, addressing captain wilson, and surrendering the district.
god, they had always endeavoured to represent as a powerful, benevolent, and holy being, justly requiring the grateful homage, and willing obedience, of his creatures.
a carpenter's shop had been erected, the forge was daily worked by the natives, neat cottages were rising in several directions, and a large place of worship was building.
the district around, which when we arrived was altogether uncultivated, and overrun with brushwood growing in wild luxuriance, has been cleared; the garden has been again enclosed, and planted with many useful vegetable productions of the tropical regions.
this, to us and to them, was one of the most distressing discussions  upon which we ever entered.
our business at tahiti being finished, messrs. barff, williams, and myself, with a number of natives, sailed from eimeo about noon, on the 12th of august, in an open boat belonging to mr. hayward.
our temporary dwelling was scarcely rendered comfortable, by partitioning the different rooms with bamboo-canes, and covering them with tahitian cloth, when it was necessary to prepare for the erection of a printing-office, the supply of books brought from eimeo being found unequal to the increasing demand.
this method of saluting is called by the new zealanders ho-goi, honi by the sandwich islanders, and hoi by the tahitians.
on their arrival, they found two swedes, peter hagersteine, and andrew cornelius lind; the former had been wrecked in the matilda, and the latter had been left by captain new of the dædalus, only a few years before the missionaries arrived.
the queen's sister, like a daughter of pallas,  tall, and rather masculine in her stature and features, walked and fought by  mahine's side; clothed in a kind of armour, or defence, made with strongly  twisted cords ofromaha, or native flax, and armed with a musket and a  spear.
thus were the  idols which patii, who was a powerful priest in eimeo, had worshipped, publicly  destroyed.
the converts were punctual and regular in their observance of the  outward ordinances of religion, in frequent social meetings for prayer, and  seasons of retirement for private devotion.
the fabled legends by  which, as by enchantment, they had been deceived, were banished from their  recollections; the abominations and the bloodshed to which they had been  addicted, ceased; and they became moral, virtuous, affectionate, devout, and  upright members of a christian community.
the natives employed in this work  generally laid down on the beach short logs of the cylindrical trunk of the  cocoa-nut tree, and drew the canoes over these natural rollers into the sea.
it was a rough flat  oval-shaped stone, about three feet long, and twelve or eighteen inches wide.
matapuupuu, or, as he is now called, taua, was the  bearer of the gladdening intelligence, and was a very suitable person to be  sent on such an errand.
he was told that the most secure way would be to keep the fence in good repair;  but– 432 – that if pigs should break in on the sabbath, they ought by  all means to be driven out, and the breaches they had made, so far repaired as  to secure the enclosure till the following day.
an instance of this occurred early in the following year, 1803, when the unicorn, a london ship, arrived, on her return from the north-west coast of america.
its impression on their minds was at this time proportionate.
leather was now the article in greatest requisition among all classes; and  the poor animals, that had heretofore live in undisturbed ease and freedom,  were hunted solely for their skins.
the people of the king's  household stood, in mute expectation of some fearful visitation of the god's  anger, as soon as he should touch a morsel of the fish; by which he had, in  this instance, committed, as they– 94 – imagined, an act of daring  impiety.
the temples, altars, and idols, all round tahiti, were shortly after  destroyed in the same way.
there is reason to believe that many,  even of the areois, have been purified from their moral defilement, in that  blood which cleanseth from all sin, and that the language addressed by the  apostle to the corinthians41 may with propriety be applied to them.
one of pomare-vahine's  men, the individual who had offered their acknowledgments to god, on the  presentation of food in eimeo, hearing this, and pointing to the feathers,  said, “are those the mighty things you so extol, and with whose anger you  threaten us?
every letter in every word passing repeatedly, not only under my eye,  but through my hand, i acquired almost mechanically the orthography.
some hundred copies of a smaller spelling-book, and a  brief summary of the old and new testament, the latter containing about  seventy-five 12mo.
a religious service in the chapel closed the exercises of the day, and all retired to their respective homes, apparently delighted.
i refrain from comments on the numerous inquiries  brought forward at these meetings, which have been proved essentially  serviceable to the nation—stimulating inquiry, giving a proper direction  to their search after truth, expanding and strengthening the mind, yet  restraining them within the limits of revelation.
i had heard of the success of the missionaries  before i came to otaheite, and, after making great allowance for exaggeration  in the accounts they had sent home, there remained sufficient to lead me to  anticipate that they had done a great deal.
save thou us through jesus christ, thy son, the prince of life; yea, let us obtain salvation through him.
those who were frequently upon the waters, and enjoyed the gentle  sea-breezes, or wished to excel their neighbours, built a massy pier or  causeway in the sea, and, raising it four or five feet above high-water mark,  covered it with smooth flat stones, and then erected their houses upon the spot  they had thus recovered from the sea, by which it was on three sides  surrounded.
a large body of armed and lawless warriors,  belonging to different and rival chieftains, thus brought together under  irritated feelings, and perhaps mutually accusing each other as the cause of  their disappointment, were not long without a pretext for commencing the work  of death among themselves.
we made no presents to those who were our  scholars, more than to others from whom we had experienced an equal degree of  hospitality; we offered no reward to any one for learning, and held out no  prospect of personal or temporal advantage to our pupils and hearers; and  studiously avoided presenting any other inducements to learn, than the  advantages that would be secured to our scholars themselves, by the possession  of that knowledge, which– 256 – we were not only willing but desirous  to impart.
423 the thought of the bowels, or within the bowels;te hinaaro o te aau, the desire of the bowels; te riri o te aau, the anger of the bowels.
since the interment, (they  added,) they had been thinking about the resurrection, and wished to know how  the body would then appear, whether, if left in that manner, it would not rise  deformed, and whether they had not better disinter the corpse, and deposit it  in a straight or horizontal position.
he was evidently a shrewd and enterprising man; yet i should think sometimes rather eccentric.
the attendants, and  others who were not so distinguished, after recovering from evident  astonishment at seeing the huahinian ladies for the first time in european  caps, were by no means sparing in their remarks.
he therefore allowed the pig to remain till he was satisfied, and did not mend the fence till the following morning.
it was, however, thought desirable that no division of their numbers should take place until the vessel, the building of which had been commenced soon after the return from port jackson, should be finished, and the works prepared for the press were printed.
previous to our embarkation from england, we had heard that a favourable change, in regard to christianity, had taken place in the minds of the king of tahiti, and a few of the people.
iv conduct of the rebelsdiscouraging impression under which the missionaries abandoned the islandsinvitation from pomare to returnstate of the king's mind during his exile in eimeohis reception of the missionariesdeath of three of their numberinfluence of domestic bereavement on the missionary lifepomare's profession of christianityapplication for baptismdemonstration of the impotency of their idolsproposal to erect a place of worshipextracts from his correspondenceinfluence of his steady adherence to christianityridicule and persecution to which he was exposedvisit of missionaries to tahitivalley of hautauaoitu and tuahine.
at four in the afternoon the natives again assembled, and i attended at their worship.
this service i attended, and was also gratified to find, that not fewer than four of five hundred of the natives, 206 imitating their teachers in this respect, met for the purpose of praise and supplication to the true god, during the interval of public worship, which was held early in the morning, and at four in the afternoon.
the missionaries at raiatea procured what is called a pig of cast-iron  ballast, a solid piece about three or four feet long, and six or nine inches  square, with a hole through one end.
temporary verandas or coverings of cocoa-nut leaves had been attached to the  side of the house next the sea, widening it five or six feet, and on the other  side it was also thrown open.
about a week after the arrival of the norfolk, the venus, another colonial vessel, came into the bay, and left on shore captain bishop and six seamen, to purchase pigs and salt pork for port jackson, while captain bass pursued his voyage to the sandwich islands, on the same errand.
i can scarcely 110 allow myself to believe what you say.
in mere casual visits, or journeys through the countries of uncivilized tribes, presents to their chiefs are necessary, and often desirable, even where a missionary is a permanent resident; but they should always be given as a token of friendship and personal respect from the missionary, or of good-will from some friends by whom they may have been sent, and not as a means of obtaining influence, or inducing the people to attend to instruction.
in some of their ceremonies, a plantain-tree was substituted for a man, and in the first plantain-trees offered in this ceremony to the god and the friend, they might perhaps be so regarded.
the missionaries  frequently visited him after his arrival in pare, and, as far as their scanty  means would allow, administered cordials suited to his languid state.
the most pleasing results  continued also to attend the efforts of the new converts in tahiti.
these  letters had been written by individuals, who were unable to come, and apply  personally for a book, and had therefore thus sent, in order to procure a copy.
the clear sky was reflected in the unruffled waters of  the bay, which was bordered with a fine beach strewn with shells.
it is the result of a conviction in  the minds of the people, that his ultimate aim is their welfare; that he comes  among them to promote, not his own, but their interest; and that his efforts  tend to increase their knowledge and their enjoyments, and are adapted to put  them in possession of the means of multiplying their comforts in this life, and  leading them to future blessedness.
the king repeated his direction; a fire was made, the  turtle baked, and served up at the next repast.
their limbs are well formed, their stature  generally tall.
in this letter, he stated  his delight in beholding the chiefs inclined to obey the word of god; which, he  said, jehovah himself was causing to grow, so that it prospered exceedingly.
soon after  sunrise the next morning, our vessel was surrounded with canoes, and provisions  in abundance were offered for barter.
tamatoa and his brother, with other chiefs, had been residing for some time at the missionary 119 station in eimeo; they had attended the school and public instruction in the place of worship; and several, among the most promising of whom was paumoana, at present a valuable native missionary in the hervey islands, appeared to be under the decisive influence of christian principles.
this considerably  diminished the pleasure we derived from watching, through the perfectly  transparent waters, the playful movement of the shoals of small and variegated  rockfish, of every rich and glowing hue, which often shone in brilliant  contrast with the novel and beautiful groves of many-coloured coral, that  rendered the sandy bottom of the sea, though frequently – 214 –  several fathoms beneath us, in appearance at least, an extensive and charming  submarine shrubbery, or flower-garden.
if this was not agreed to, they demanded permission to march  through the district to attack their enemies beyond matavai, and, in the event  of refusal, declared their intention of forcing a passage with the club and the  spear.
i shall not go around tahiti before the month of march.
by the sandwich islanders, who had arrived some years before, the natives had been taught to distil ardent spirits from the saccharineti root, which they now practised to a great extent; and exhibited, in a proportionate degree, all the demoralizing and debasing influence of drunkenness.
others nearer the  shore, with their sails lowered, have been rowed by the men; while the women  and children were sitting in the stern, screened from the sun by a temporary  awning.
these vessels were the cornwall and the sally of london, south sea whalers.
notwithstanding this, the assailants met with steady and determined resistance.
they frequently  expressed their apprehensions lest the number of the books should not be  sufficient for those who were waiting; and have more than once told us, that  the fear of being disappointed has often deprived them of sleep.
tell us how we may be safe from satanhow we may be safe for heaven, and secure of admission there?
the king and chiefs, with their numerous attendants, had  removed to the vicinity of the missionary station on the other side of the  island, and the district was comparatively deserted.
they have since learned that he was  murdered; and some of them have also regretted, that, after his separation,  kindness and friendly intercourse were not continued, which might perhaps,  without compromise of character, have been consistently maintained.
we needed and sought repose, but the incidents of the day had produced a degree of excitement that did not speedily subside; in addition to which, the constant and loud roaring of the surf kept us awake till nearly daybreak.
the interior was at once  singular and striking.
we were detained there about a fortnight; during which period we received from mr. gyles much information on the culture of the plant, and the manufacture of sugar.
in the  same manner they fastened most of their floors to the sleepers underneath,  using, however, large pegs resembling the treenails in a ship's plank, more  than the nails in a house-floor.
in this state we found navenavehia's house, when we paid him our  first visit.
this we filled  with the oil, and thus our lamp and oil were entirely the production of the  cocoa-nut tree; the small piece of cotton-wick gathered from the garden in  eimeo, being the only article it had not supplied.
mai, the king or chief of borabora, who was alos at huahine, had before written to the missionaries, reminding them that jesus christ and his apostles did not confine themselves to one place, but visited different parts, that as many as could might receive their instructions.
about four  hundred usually attend in fare: they are divided into classes, under native  teachers.
the men rejoiced at the idea of making hats; and yet,  notwithstanding this, and the repeated offers of mrs. barff and mrs. ellis to  teach the females to plat, and to make the plat into bonnets and hats, they  were exceedingly averse to learn.
whole districts frequently united, to erect  what might be termed a public still.
it is probable that at that period  public ordinances were altogether discontinued.
the schoolmaster was not abroad in the earth, and, proceeding onward with the tide of commerce that rolled round the world, the progress of discovery and science penetrating every remote, inhospitable section of our globe; the bible and the missionary had not been sent.
where they had before been unable to make the least impression, they now beheld numbers deeply affected, on whom these truths appeared to produce an entire change of character and deportment.
we were desirous of securing the advantages of garden-ground and water; but in seeking these, we avoided obliging the natives to remove from any of those spots which they had already appropriated 273 to their own use.
the curiosity awakened in the inhabitants of afareaitu by the establishment of the press, was not soon satisfied: day after day pomare visited the printing-office; the chiefs applied to be admitted inside, while the people thronged the windows, doors, and every crevice through which they could peep, often involuntarily exclaiming, be-ri-ta-ni-e!
numbers assemble at this time, and the exercise, we have reason to believe, is useful in keeping alive that interest in matters of religion, which might be diminished by the secular engagements of the week.
peter had a slight knowledge of the colloquial language of the natives; and in all their early communications with the chiefs and people, the missionaries were glad to avail themselves of his aid as interpreter.
in these exercises they did not confine themselves to the  inhabitants of their own vicinity, but visited the adjacent districts; and, in  the month of march, 1802, mr. nott, accompanied by mr. elder, made the first  missionary tour of tahiti.
these proceedings, however, must  have originated in very contracted views of the influence of such an  establishment, which, while it may induce and encourage habits of more regular  employment, can never diminish the demand for british calicoes, which will be  superior in texture, pattern, &c. to any that can be made in the islands.
these momentous objects absorbed all the powers of the mind, and  produced an intensity of feeling, which for a long time rendered me almost  insensible to the storm, or the liquid columns which threatened our destruction.
the banners of the schools attached to the different stations were various; some of white native cloth, with the word hosanna impressed upon it in scarlet dye; another was of light, but woven cloth, with the following sentiment inscribed upon it,ia ora te hui arii e ia maoro teienei hau, life and blessing to the reigning family, and long be this peaceful reign!
he also added to their number  thirty-nine others, whose names, at their own desire, were recorded as the  professed worshippers of the true god.
being driven by a heavy gale  to kamtschatka, and unable to pursue her intended voyage, she had altered her  course for massuefero, near the south american coast, but had been compelled by  stress of weather to steer for tahiti.
the inhabitants, unable to  withstand the young king and his ally, abandoned their plantations and their  dwellings, and fled for their lives.
on the present occasion, governor king, in a letter to pomare,  remarked, that he could “not too strongly recommend to his kind  protection, the society of missionaries whom he had taken under his care;”  and that, “such protection could not fail to excite the gratitude of the  missionaries, and the friendship of king george.”
the necessity also of divine influences, to make the declaration of these truths effectual to conversion, and to meeten those who believed, for the heavenly state, had ever been inculcated in the catechetical and other exercises of the school, in the meetings for reading the scriptures and conversation, and in the discourses delivered in their assemblies for public worship.43 it is not, however, my object now to remark on the toasts, nor even the speech of dr. carpenter, excepting so far as the speech regards the instructions given to the tahitians.
these journeys were exceedingly wearisome: returning from one of them, night overtook us many miles before we reached our home; we travelled part of the way in a single canoe, but for several miles, where there was no passage between the reef and the shore, and the fragile bark was exposed without shelter to the long heavy billows of the pacific, we proceeded along the beach, while the natives rowed the canoe upon the open 245 sea.
in the family of mr. williams he spent the greater part of his time, when not engaged in public 304 duties, and experienced from its members every attention which kindness and attachment could bestow.
it is remarkable, that at a period of such  unparalleled domestic distress, the most encouraging appearances of the divine  favour towards the nation around them, should have been afforded; and it is  probable that the very cheering prospects under which they were at this time  called upon to pursue their missionary engagements, greatly alleviated their  sorrow.
multitudes flocked from the different districts, to attend the means of instruction in the school, and on the sabbath.
one of his intimate companions informed me, that a short time before his death, he had a dream which somewhat alarmed him.
the woman answered with some earnestness, you asked me to come and learni have been here so longi have learnt.
in a short time after our arrival at afareaitu, the people began to erect the printing-office, and the frame of our dwelling.
one of the scholars, the wife of an areoi, who had for some time, with her husband's consent, attended the school, was suddenly taken ill.
in one week more, mrs. hayward  terminated in death her sufferings, and was buried by the side of her departed  sisters.
in some of their ceremonies, a plantain-tree was substituted for a man, and  in the first plantain-trees offered in this ceremony to the god and the friend,  they might perhaps be so regarded.
a pistol was loaded, and fired over the whole heap of powder they had received, and around which the chief and his attendants were sitting.
discouraging indeed  will be his prospects, if the estimation in which he is held by those among  whom he labours be only that– 259 – which arises from their  expectation of the presents he may make them.
the queen was in person about  the middle stature; mild and affable in her behaviour; addicted to all the  vices of her country; and was cut off in the prime of life, being about  twenty-four years of age at the time of her death.
i have frequently seen canes as thick as a man's wrist, and ten or twelve feet between the root and the leaves.
frequently we have been approaching the place of  worship at the same time that the schools have entered it, and it has often  afforded us satisfaction to behold a father or a mother, with an infant in  arms, standing under the shade of a tree that grew by the side of the road near  the chapel, to see, in the line of scholars, a son or daughter pass by.
as the number of stations increased, bells were sent from england, but they were either too small, badly made, or carelessly used, and were frequently broken a few days after their arrival.
like every other undertaking that has yet been made to benefit the people,  the cotton factory had to contend with great difficulty.
it  was placed on a kind of platform; and a number of superstitious ceremonies were  observed.
this was the most difficult  article to procure, and many books were used without it for many months.
if the natives affirmed that the word or  sentence was correctly pronounced by the missionary, it was left for more  careful and deliberate investigation.
my joy, and excitement of feeling, was not  less than theirs.
when i concluded, they all stoop up; the boys formed a circle on one side, and the girls on the other, and sang alternately the verses of a hymn in the native language; after which, one of the teachers offered a short prayer,and we retired, under the influence of emotions of satisfaction; but it was not easy to say whether joy was most powerfully exhibited in the countenances of the children or their parents.
many soon learned to sew the sheets together, others cut pieces of wood very thin, instead of pasteboard, which were fastened to the sides; the edges of the leaves were then cut with a knife; and the book used in this state daily, while the owner was searching for a skin or a piece of leather, with which to cover it for more effectual preservation.
the  missionaries who had arrived undertook to finish what their predecessors had  commenced; and although it was an undertaking of great labour, it was ready to  be launched in a few weeks after they had landed.
sometimes they endeavoured to persuade him to abandon so hopeless a project, as that of attempting to train the people to habits of industry.
considering her an idolatress, the missionaries deemed this an inconsistent and unlawful act, and not only declined to sanction the proceeding, but endeavoured by every means to dissuade him from it; but mr. lewis, persevering in his determination, they dissolved the connexion that had subsisted between him and themselves, as members of a christian church or society, and discontinued all religious and social intercourse with him.
in tahiti, the idolaters proceeded to the  greatest acts of lawless violence and horrid murder.
and i  cannot but regret, that by dr. carpenter, towards whom i entertain no other  feelings than those of respect, and desire to use no other language than that  which courtesy would dictate, any statement in these volumes should have been  so misunderstood as to have occasioned the declaration to which i have felt it  needful to refer.
it is much to be regretted, that the missionaries on the spot—who were  intimately acquainted with every indication of the moral and spiritual process  that was going on, even in its incipient stages, and every event which marked  its gradual development, until, in the language of the natives on another but  similar occasion, it burst upon them like the light of the morning—did  not, at the time, prepare a full and particular account of the work which,  under god, they had been instrumental in effecting: but their motto always was,  to “say too little rather than too much,” to persevere in labour,  rather than employ their time in detailing their engagements; and to exercise  the greatest caution and brevity in speaking of any thing connected– 177  –with themselves, or the people around them, lest subsequent events should  disappoint the anticipations which existing favourable appearances might  originate.
pomare, in infancy, had been rocked in the cradle of paganism, and trained under its influence through subsequent life.
they now celebrated the subversion of idolatry, under  circumstances that, but a few hours before, had threatened their own  extermination, with the overthrow of the religion they had espoused, and on  – 153 – account of which their destruction had been sought.
at length, after writing a long letter, in which he described the anguish of his mind with dreadful minuteness, he obtained a private interview with dr. marshman and mr. ward, of which the following is the result.
on reaching atehuru, they found the rebels had taken refuge in their pare or natural fortress, about four miles and a half from the beach.
when death enters a  family, and removes a wife and a mother from the domestic circle, though every  alleviation which society, friendship, and religion can impart are available,  there is a chasm left, and a wound inflicted on the survivors, which must be  felt in order to be understood: when death repeatedly enters in this way a  family connexion, the distress is proportionably augmented; but it is  impossible to form an adequate idea of the desolateness of the mission family,  (for such it might be called,) at this time, and the cheerless solitude of  those thus bereft of the partners of their days, and the mothers of their  children.
they had heard that, when seen by navigators, they sometimes 311 averted the threatened danger by discharging their artillery at the waterspout.
these chandeliers, as they may perhaps with propriety be called, were not indeed of curious workmanship of dazzling brilliancy, in polished metal or cut-glass, but of far more common materials, and simplicity of structure.
peace continued during the remainder of the  year, and the missionaries were enabled to persevere in their labours, although  they were cheerless, and apparently useless.
he was accompanied by his wife, maihota, and twelve of his people, equally anxious with himself, to know more respecting these important matters.
the influence which a missionary will aim to possess is more difficult to attain; but when once possessed, is of exceedingly greater value.
six hundred children assembled to partake of the feast their parents had provided.
in this delightful situation, as he travelled round the islands, he literally found them not merely willing to be instructed, but anxious to hear; meeting together of their own accord, and often spending the hours of night in conversation and inquiry on the important matters connected with the religion of jesus christ.
the frame of the building  had been prepared with great care, several of the pillars being of polished aito, or casuarina.
the natives of the south sea islands, although scarcely alarmed at thunder and lightning, are at sea greatly terrified by the appearance of waterspouts.
our prepossessions in their favour continued to increase, and we viewed them with no ordinary 197 interest, as those among whom we were to spend the remainder of our days.
he was yoked to a lever on one side of the  central roller; a number of natives, pushing at another on the opposite side,  turned the mill, and pressed the juice from the cane.
our houses were now thronged by individuals anxious to be instructed; and so soon as mrs. barff or mrs. ellis had taught any of the females, these immediately taught others; and those who excelled in the fineness of their platting, or in putting it together, were fully employed by the chiefs and others, and derived no small emolument from their new avocation.
it was, when i was last there, in 1824, one of the most neat,  substantial, and convenient modern houses in the settlement, containing two  stories and eight apartments.
the men who had eaten their fellow-men, might have been, and perhaps  often were, (as many of the cannibals inhabit the low coralline islands, and  live by fishing,) eaten by sharks, which would sometimes be caught and eaten by  the inhabitants of distant islands.
axes, hatchets, planes, chisels, gimlets, and saws, were, next to their books, the articles in greatest demand and highest esteem.
the conduct of patii,  when it became more extensively known, produced the most decisive effects on  priests and people.
when they beheld the letters black, and large, and well defined, there was one simultaneous expression of wonder and delight.
he made such progress in the  use of letters, that on his voyage to the south seas, while staying at the cape  of good hope, he wrote a letter to his friend dr. solander.
the excitement manifested frequently resembled that with  which the people of england would hasten to witness, for the first time, the  ascent of a balloon, or the movement of a steam-carriage.
as soon as this was concluded, pomare addressed  the multitude of his subjects around, proposing the formation of a society.
first preaching in the native language—national council in  atehuru—seizure of the idol oro—rebellion of the  oropa—introduction of useful foreign fruits and  vegetables—providential arrival of two vessels—battle of  pare—king's camp attacked, oro retaken—mission house garrisoned with  seamen, &c.—desolation of the war—death of the king's  brother—ravages of foreign – iv – diseases—death of  pomare—sketch of his character—otu assumes the name of his late  father—origin of the regal name—efforts to instruct the  children—death of the queen—compilation of the first  spelling-book—first school for teaching reading and writing—arrival  of the hawkesbury—death of mr. jefferson—mr. nott's visit to the  leeward islands—rebellion in matavai—defeat of the  king—departure of the majority of the missionaries—abandonment of the  mission.
among the last number  was taaroarii, the young chief of huahine and sir charles– 107 –  sanders' island, and matapuupuu, a principal areoi, and chief priest of  huahine, who had long been one of the main pillars of idolatry in the island to  which he belonged.
the beauty of  the wooded or rocky shores now appeared more rich and varied than before; the  stillness of the smooth waters around was only occasionally disturbed by the  passage of a light nautilus-like canoe, with its little sail of white native  cloth, or the rapid flight of a shoal of flying-fish, which, when the dashing  of our oars or the progress of our boat intercepted their course or awakened  their alarm, sprang from their native element, and darted along, three or four  feet above the water.
not a few instances have occurred among the islands of the pacific, in which individuals, who, while their presents were unsparingly lavished upon the people, were regarded as kings and chiefs among them, but who, when they have experienced a reverse in their circumstances, have been treated with marked and contemptuous neglect.
in addition to these public instructions, they held a meeting every sabbath evening with those whose names had been written down as the disciples of christ, and spent much time in more private endeavours to direct 120 the views, and confirm the belief, of those who were desirous to be added to their number.
xiv voyage to raiatea—landing at tipaemau—description of the  islands—arrival at vaóaara—singular reception—native  salutations—improvement of the settlement—general state of  society—former modes of living—proposed improvement in the native  dwellings—method of procuring lime from the coral-rock—first  plastered house in the south sea islands—progress of  improvement—irregularity of the buildings—public road—effect on  the surrounding country—duration of native habitations—building for  public worship—division of public labour—manner of fitting up the  interior—satisfaction of the people—chapel in raiatea—native  chandeliers—evening services.
in reference to tahiti, and the change generally, captain gambier observes, the testimony is a strong one: as i had never felt any interest in the labours of missionaries, i was not only not prepossessed in favour of them, but i was in a measure suspicious of their reports.
in this state of distressing anxiety, without any  means of flying from the gathering storm, all the families continued till the  25th of october, when a vessel from port jackson providentially anchored in the  bay, and, by ensuring a safe retreat in the event of sudden assault, afforded  no small alleviation to their minds.
by the same conveyance mr. and mrs. nott removed to tahiti, where mr. nott has since laboured in matavai, or the adjacent district of pare.
we enjoyed a most delightful sail along the northern part of eimeo the next morning, and soon after twelve o'clock anchored in the spacious and charming bay of opunohu, or, as it is usually called by foreigners, the harbour to taloo.
mr. g. bicknell, a nephew of mr. bicknell, was on board at the time, but his life was spared, amidst the general carnage that attended the assault.
in the religious services, the repeated singing, the reading prayers, and preaching, afford sufficient variety to prevent their being irksome or dull, while there is nothing childish and unmeaning, or purely ceremonial.
some substituted tough pieces of fish-skin, pieces of  the skin of other animals, or leather procured from the ships; but these soon  broke, and many of the natives set to work to make wooden hinges.
it is because of this that i  rejoice, and i pray to jehovah, that he may increase my abhorrence of every  evil way.
some months afterwards, three of them were compelled to follow their companions to huahine.
i have occasionally preached in the royal mission chapel, but never when any other person besides was engaged; consequently, i cannot say what effect is produced on the ear by the delivery of more than one discourse at the same time.
after our arrival at huahine, in addition to the preparation of their  dwellings, messrs. nott and davies had been employed in preaching to the  people, and preparing the gospels of matthew and john for the press.
of tea and sugar, and many other comforts, they had long been destitute; and their apparel was scarcely such as to enable them to appear respectable in the company of any of their countrymen who might visit the island.
circumstances, unforeseen and uncontrollable by their enemies, had prevented the different parties from arriving punctually at their respective points of rendezvous; otherwise, even now escape would have been impracticable, and destruction inevitable, as the porionu, inhabitants of pare, matavai, and apaiano, would have been on the one side, and in their rear, and the party from atehuru and papara on the other.
there were  others also, who, whatever might be their opinion of the measure itself, and  however they might approve or disapprove of the choice of those with whom
the three-one, he it is that can make the love of sin to cease; we  cannot effect it; it is the work of god to cause evil things to be cast off,  and the love of them to cease.
when the missionaries met at the house in which 102 they had lodged, the good tidings were communicated; the individual was sought out; and they were cheered with the simple yet affecting account he gave of what god had done for his own soul, and of the serious impressions then operating on the minds of several of his countrymen.
they are sublime objects of unusual interest,  when viewed from the shore; but when beheld at sea, especially if near, and  from a small and fragile bark, as we had seen them, it is almost impossible so  to divest the mind of a sense of personal danger, as to contemplate with  composure their stately movement, or the rapid internal circular eddy of the  waters.
they were, however, followed by a numerous train of his attendants, &c. who had by some means heard that the work was about to commence.
all who felt inclined to come were invited, but none were urged.
for a number of days no fires were  allowed to be lighted, in order that these might be effectual: but all were  unavailing; the young chief, who had scarcely arrived at the age of manhood,  died in the district of pare on the 19th of june, 1803.
the sleeves were long and loose, and buttoned at the wrists, while the lower parts reached nearly to the ankles.
frequently, however, they answered their entreaties only with ridicule and scorn, tauntingly inquiring, where is the good of which you speak so muchthe salvation of which you tell us?
their object was to make  the tour of tahiti, with the visitor from the leeward islands.
beside these, the  singular novel, light, waving, and not inelegant adornments of the roof, all  combined to increase the effect.
it was on the northern shores of this bay, that eighteen of the missionaries, who left england in the duff, first landed, upwards of thirty years ago.
they immediately left hold of the ropes, and stood gazing in astonishment alternately at the king, and the place against which the bottle had been thrown.
the chief at first  seemed unwilling to listen, but at last said he would attend to their religion.
they were planted, and have since flourished, so that in every island the coffee plant is now growing, and it may be cultivated 292 to almost any extent.
crowds of the natives were already collected around the door, but they made way for him, and, after he and his two companions had been admitted, the door was closed, and the small window next the sea darkened, as he did not wish to be overlooked by the people on the outside.
when the printing-office was finished, as the purau branches composing the walls afforded but an indifferent shelter from the rain and wind the 219 sides of the printing-office were boarded, and one or two glass windows introduced; probably the first ever seen in eimeo.
their family connexions may not indeed have been of the highest class,  neither may the individuals themselves have enjoyed the advantages of a very  liberal education, nor possessed any very extensive acquaintance with the  world.
two new places, upon  the same plan as the chapel, and built with similar materials, were afterwards  erected, one for the boys' school, and the other for the girls'; these, when  finished, greatly facilitated the instruction of the people—the  accommodation they afforded, encouraging those to attend who had before been  deterred.
since the profession of christianity has become general, it has been much less used than formerly.
a heathen ceremony was at hand, for which a human victim was required, and this young man was selected by his persecutors, because he professed to be a worshipper of the true god.
and strictly prohibited any of his warriors from pursuing those who had fled from the field of battle; forbidding them also to repair to the villages of the vanquished, to plunder their property, or murder their helpless wives and children.
“the almighty can (or will) make me good.
they were not only anxious to instruct the people in religion, but to improve their present condition by encouraging them to build comfortable houses after our example, and to bring under cultivation a larger portion of the soil than they had hitherto been accustomed to enclose.
when returning from the sandwich islands on board the ship russell, in 1825, we experienced a happy deliverance from one of these wonderful and alarming objects.
mr. armitage taught them to card  the cotton, and mrs. armitage instructed them in spinning.
a  plentiful repast had been prepared, which was carved, and handed to them as  they sat upon the green turf.
they did this reluctantly.
before, however, these feelings could be exercised, and the earth  had drunk up his blood, or his insulted corpse was deposited on their altar,  his liberated and ransomed spirit had winged its way to the realms of  blessedness, had joined “the noble army of martyrs;” and united in  ascriptions of grateful homage unto him who had loved him, and not only made  him faithful to the end, but triumphant over death.
there were no  haberdashers' shops at hand, whence a supply could be procured; recourse was  therefore had to native productions.
the first garment in general use among the females, was a kind of roman tunic, usually of white or blue calico, these being their favourite colours.
a considerable party of the aura tribe came one day to the printing-office, to see the press 228 when they were admitted, and beheld the native printer at work, their astonishment was great.
man, they had represented as the scripture  described him, and their own observation represented him to be, a sinner  against his maker, and exposed to the consequences of his guilt;—the love  of god, in the gift of his only begotten son, as a propitiation for sin, and  the only medium and ground of reconciliation with god,– 182 –  restoration to the enjoyment of his favour, and the blessing of immortality.
211 about two o'clock in the afternoon we resumed our journey; travelling sometimes along the seabeach, and at other times availing ourselves of the canoe until near sunset, when we reached afareaitu, and created by our arrival no small stir among the people.
such are the men who have long laboured in these islands; and though others may have been associated with them, who have turned back, or proved themselves unequal to the station, where many, who stand firm at their post at home, would perhaps have fainted, or have fallen under the discouragements inseparable from itthey have been faithful.
the sides were fourteen or sixteen feet high, and the centre not  less than thirty.
his  ship remained stationary nearly an hour; and, in consequence of this  circumstance, the reef has received the name of the dolphin rock.
trimmings are not so scarce now as formerly, but the supply taken is still inadequate to the requirements of the people, among whom bonnets and hats are now so common, that before i left the leeward islands, scarcely a man, woman, or child was to be seen out of doors without onemany of them possessing two, and sometimes three or four.
was the cry  which re-echoed through the place; as the approaching army were seen from  different parts of the building.
the same was continued through the second day; but on the third, to the great astonishment of all on board, no individual came near the ship, assigning, afterwards, as a reason, that it was the sabbath.
i  then placed the composing-stick in his hand; he took the capital letters, one  by one, out of their respective compartments, and, fixing them, concluded the  alphabet.
the scholars are the same as in the day-schools, but the mode of  instruction pursued is different.
the atehuruans fled to the valley, and the king and pomare set  sail with their fleet to the place of rendezvous; and, lest oro should feel  indignant at the treatment he had received, a human sacrifice was ordered; but  as they had no captives with them, one of pomare's own servants was murdered,  and offered, as soon as the king reached the shore.
he that desires the word of god to grow where it has been planted,  and to be conveyed to countries wretched as ours was before it was brought to  us, will contribute freely and liberally to promote its extension: he who is  unacquainted with its influence, and insensible to its claims, will not,  perhaps, exert himself in this work.
the tender plants were once or twice removed, and all perished, excepting those in my garden at huahine, which i was happy to succeed in preserving.
on the evening of the day preceding that on which the ceremony was to take place, the young man, as his custom was, had retired to the brow of a hill that overlooked the valley where he dwelt; and there, seated beneath the embowering shade of an elegant clump of trees, was absorbed in meditation, previous to offering up his evening supplications to his god.
the islands in general are well supplied with water.
when employed in agricultural pursuits, or in  fishing, in which occupation they were as much in the sea as out of it, the men  seldom wore any other dress than theirtihere or maro, a broad  girdle passed several times round the body.
convinced it is not in the dress with which the person is invested, but in the feelings of the heart 405 with which that dress is regarded, that the evil existsand that pride does not consist in the wearing of apparel superior to that to which an individual may have been accustomed, or to that worn by others, provided it be suitable to his circumstances, and the society with which he associatesthey did not disapprove of the native dresses.
many, in tahiti especially, were plundered of their property, banished from their homes and their possessions; their houses were burnt, and they themselves hunted for sacrifices to be offered to oro, merely because they were bure atua, prayers to god.
the men are generally above the middle stature, and proportionably stout, so that few of the coats, &c. belonging to the captains or officers of vessels touching at the islands were large enough.
it is not easy to estimate correctly the  advantages already derived from this important engine of improvement.
in the sandwich islands they sometimes used a bullock's  horn, or a long tin horn resembling that used by a mail-coach guard; but, in  general, a far more classic instrument, a beautiful marine shell, a species of  turbo, or trumpet-shell, varying in size according to the power of the  individual by whom it might be sounded.
this retreat was rendered by nature almost impregnable  to the native warriors, and the only avenues leading to it being defended by  the barriers its occupants had thrown up, it appeared difficult, if not  impossible, to take it by storm, even with the foreign aid by which the king  was supported.
the district of fa-re, bordering the harbour of the same name, is about a mile  and a half, or two miles, in length, and reaches from the shore to the centre  of the island.
they succeeded, at length, in inducing the  inhabitants, by their example and persuasion, to seek an acquaintance with that  more excellent way revealed in the word of god, for whose worship they erected  a convenient and respectable building.
a few, including two or three who had been to eimeo, had acquired the elements of reading, or had learned to repeat the lessons in the spelling book, more from memory than acquaintance with spelling and reading; the rest remained nearly in the same state in which they were when visited in 1808 and 1809, excepting that their superstitious ceremonies were discontinued, and they had a building for the worship of the true god.
they embarked on the 7th amid much confusion, but with the sincerest gratitude to god for the refuge so seasonably provided.
the roaring of the tempest, and the hollow sounds that murmured on the ear, as  the heavy billow rolled in foam, or broke in contact with opposing billows,  seemed as if deep called unto deep; and the noise of waterspouts might almost  be heard, while we were momentarily expecting that the mighty waves would sweep  over us.
in some stations, the boys and the men have been educated in one school, and the women and girls in another; in others, the different sexes have been taught at different times; and in some, they have assembled in the same schools.
the blessings of christianity were diffused amongst the fine people who inhabited it; a taste for industrious employment had taken deep root; a praiseworthy emulation to excel in the arts which contribute to their welfare and comfort, had seized upon all, and, in consequence, civilization was advancing with rapid strides.
while engaged  in these labours, the principal object besides, that occupied our attention,  was the study of the language.
mr. nott replied, i fear you are jesting with me, and stating what you think we wish, rather than what you intend.
our endeavours, however, were unavailing.
the natives were delighted to behold  foreigners coming to take up their permanent residence among them; as those  they had heretofore seen had been transient visitors, with the exception of the  spanish missionaries and their attendants, and a spaniard, who had saved his  life by escaping from langara's ship, while it was lying at anchor off vaiarua,  in taiarabu, in march, 1773; at which time three of his shipmates were executed.
the natives, in general, now considered it a great favour  to be taught, though it was sometimes found that they had entertained very  incorrect ideas of the motives by which their instructors were influenced.
on the left, next to the king, stands his father pomare, the upper part of his body uncovered in homage to his son, and behind him is hapai, the king's grandfather.
at on place, though the people on their first arrival welcomed them cordially, yet when they understood the object of their visit, a marked, and by no means pleasing change, appeared in their behaviour.
shortly after our arrival  in huahine, a large boat belonging to mahine, the chief of the island, two  others belonging to messrs. orsmond and williams, and a fleet of canoes,  brought down from eimeo a number of chiefs and people belonging to huahine,  raiatea, &c.
the first bound copy was sent  to papetoai, and is still, i believe, in mr. nott's possession; the second,  half-bound in red morocco, was presented– 229 – to the king, who  received it with high satisfaction.
raiatea is not only the most important island  of the leeward group, from its central situation and its geographical extent,  but on account of its identity, in tradition, with the origin of the people,  and their preservation in the general deluge.
pomare then  recommended his son, the king, to allow the atehuruan chiefs to retain the idol  until a certain ceremony had been performed.
one hundred and thirty-three windows or apertures, furnished  with sliding shutters, admit both light and air, and twenty-nine doors afford – 377 – ingress and egress to the congregation.
traders, influenced by the narrow views and interested motives which too frequently regulate the proceedings of those who traffic with uncivilized nations, employed a variety of inducements to prevent the natives affording any encouragement to the establishment.
assisted by the natives, we subsequently erected a rustic mill; and, when the cane in our plantation was ripe, commenced our endeavours to convert it into sugar.
the plan was proposed to the king, and at once approved by him; it was also mentioned to several of the leading chiefs, by whom it was favourably received.
by– 143 – whatever political considerations he  may have been actuated, and whatever may have been the influence of christian  principles on his own mind, in this or subsequent periods of his life, pomare  certainly was convinced of the excellency of christianity, and desirous to  introduce it among his people, and was employed by the almighty as an  instrument most effectually to promote the important process, which was at this  time changing altogether the moral and religious aspect of the nation.
their ideas and ours were totally at variance on this point; and, from the very nature of the subject, it was impossible to demonstrate the accuracy of one or the other.
that this  was actually the case, appears from several letters which he wrote to the  missionaries soon after his arrival in tahiti, as well as from the conversation  they had with him on the subject.
a venerable chief rose, and addressed the assembly, with impressive action, and strongly excited feeling.
but to return to our voyage to raiatea: the storm, which had raged with violence ever since an hour after our departure from huahine, began to abate towards the close of the day: we did not, however, see the land, and knew not whither we had drifted; but soon after the setting of the sun, the clouds dispersed, and a streak of light lingering in the western sky, indicated the direction in which we ought to proceed.
as  soon as possible, mr. nott was despatched by his companions to tahiti.
that in favour of a name that will ever be dear to every friend of humanity.
this mode of representation, although i do not regard the missionaries or their proceedings as perfect, i consider to be far from just.
mr. crook and family preceded us in a fine large double canoe, called  tiaitoerau, literally, “wait for the west wind,” fromtiai to  wait, andtoerau west wind.
the rain now ceased; the wind subsided; and although the surface of the sea was considerably agitated, it was no longer that quick dashing conflict of the waves to which we had been exposed, while a war of mountains raged upon its surface, but a long and heavy sluggish sort of motion.
the more intelligent among the natives, who had been longest under instruction at eimeo, usually presided.
when employed in agricultural pursuits, or in fishing, in which occupation they were as much in the sea as out of it, the men seldom wore any other dress than theirtihere or maro, a broad girdle passed several times round the body.
in addition to these means, i found the composing, or setting, of the types for the tahitian books, the best method of acquiring all that was printed in the language.
it  was, indeed, a rude and perishable building, totally destitute of every thing  imposing in effect, or exquisite in workmanship; yet i beheld it with emotions  of pleasure, as the first roof under which the natives of tahiti had assembled,  in any number, to receive the elements of useful knowledge, to listen with  attention and satisfaction to the word of god, and to render publicly unto him
he was an early convert to christianity; his deportment was uniformly  upright; his character respected by all who knew him; and for several years  before his death, he was a member of the christian church at burder's point.
their astonishment was probably greater than would be experienced by an english peasant from a retired village, on beholding, for the first time, a spacious public building splendidly lighted up with gas.
the proprietors of the cotton garden watched the progress of the plants with care and anxiety, accompanied probably with some of those golden dreams of future emolument which frequently operate very powerfully on the minds of individuals commencing an enterprise, which, although in some degree uncertain as to its results, yet promises, upon the whole, an increase of wealth or enjoyment.
industry, however, soon languishes, unless nurtured by more powerful motives than the effects of abstract principles upon partially enlightened and ill-regulated minds.
the different parties, as they arrived towards midnight, learned, with no ordinary remorse and disappointment, that their prey had been alarmed, and had escaped.
the  pilfering habits of the people rendered it necessary for them to watch their  property during the night; and the unsettled state of political affairs in the  island indicating their exposure to the consequences of actual war, led them to  consider the line of conduct it would be their duty under such circumstances to  pursue.
this was strikingly evinced on several  occasions, when they beheld them use their carpenters' tools, cut with a saw a  number of boards out of a tree, which they had never thought it possible to  split into more than two, and make, with these, chests, and articles of  furniture.
the battle continued to rage with fierceness;  several were killed on both sides; the idolaters still pursued their way, and  victory seemed to attend their desolating march, until they came to the  position occupied by mahine, pomare-vahine, and their companions in arms.
a capacious hole is then dug, wherein fuel in immense  logs is piled up till it assumes the appearance of a mound four or five feet  high.
in the month of january, 1806,  pomare returned from eimeo, bringing with him the idol oro, which was kept in  his sacred canoe; while the human sacrifices, offered on his arrival, were  suspended on the trees around.
they  immediately left hold of the ropes, and stood gazing in astonishment  alternately at the king, and the place against which the bottle had been  thrown.
cotton for another piece was  prepared, and the natives commenced spinning; but the confinement required  being irksome, and their expectation rather lowered, as to the quality of the  cloth they were to receive as wages for their labour,—before the warp was  ready for the loom, they simultaneously discontinued their work.
but he replied, “no, let us not mind these  things, let it be built.”
a number of instances, strikingly illustrative  of this fact, might be adduced: i will, however, only refer to one.
it was 231 quite amusing to see goats' dogs' and cats' skins collected to be prepared for book-covers.
others said they intended to cast away their idols, but did not wish to have their names written down at that time.
they  were, however, the only inventions of the kind the natives had ever seen; and  on the night when the chapel was first illuminated by their aid, as they came  in one after another, and saw the glare of such a number of lights suspended  from the roof in a manner that they could not at first understand, they  involuntarily stopped to gaze as they entered the door, and few proceeded to  their seats without an exclamation of admiration or surprise.
the island of huahine had, in common with the others forming the leeward group, been visited by mr. nott, who had travelled round it, preaching to the inhabitants of the principal villages.
he was a man of low education, and bad principles; and if he did not intentionally misrepresent the communications of the missionaries, his statements must often have conveyed to the minds of the natives very erroneous impressions of their sentiments and wishes.
long before we anchored, messrs. bicknell, – 201 – wilson,  henry, and davies, came on board, followed by the other members of the mission,  who greeted our arrival with satisfaction.
hautaua valley is an interesting spot, not only on account of the events connected spot, not only on account of the events connected with the early history of christianity, which transpired within its borders, but also from the peculiarity of its scenery.
it has appeared matter of  surprise to many, that the natives should desire, or the missionaries  recommend, the erection of such large places of worship; and i have often been  asked, how we came to build such immense houses.
taatahee, the remaining chief of the rebels, who was related to pomare, directed her to tell him, that when they had done to him, as they had done to rua the slain chief, then, and not till then, there would be peace.
this commission was executed, and not only were their objects of worship destroyed, their temples thrown down, the houses of their idols consumed, and idol-worship no longer practised; but the rude stills employed in preparing ardent spirits from the sugarcane, and other indigenous productions, were either broken, or hid under ground.
pomare said he was  pleased with their arrival, and expressed his willingness that others should  join them.
the example, thus furnished by their teachers, has led to the strict  and general observance of the sabbath by the nation at large.
he knew of the approaching ceremony, that a human  sacrifice was then to be offered,—and
in adapting letters to  its sounds, forming its orthography, and exhibiting the vernacular tongue in  writing to the people, presenting to the eye that which had before been applied  only to the ear, and thus furnishing a vehicle by which light and knowledge  might be conveyed through a new avenue to the mind, they were unaided by the  labours of any who had preceded them, and were therefore the pioneers of those  who might follow.
the arrival of so large a reinforcement enabled the missionaries to make  arrangements for re-occupying their original station in tahiti, and  establishing a mission in the society, or, as they are usually termed, when  spoken of in connexion with tahiti and eimeo, the leeward islands.
but the ship duff had not sailed, and the spirit of missionary enterprise was not aroused in the british churches.
here he fixed his encampment; and, although peace was not concluded, hostilities appear to have been for some time suspended.
in any situation,  bereavements such as those which befel the little band at eimeo at this time,  would have been distressing: to the missionaries they were peculiarly so.
we commenced preparing it for the site of our dwelling; and when  cleared, it was a most delightful spot.
mr.  nott again read the verse, “god so loved the world,” &c. told him  it was true, and that it was the message god had sent to them, and that  whosoever believed in him, would not perish, but be happy after death.
i was astonished at the  accounts i now received, of the change that had taken place among the people.
in the latter, the inmates took their food, and rested on their mats spread upon the floor, which, had it been simply of earth, would have been comparatively clean and comfortable.
they had not communicated to him their business, but their having  applied for the return of the sandwich islanders, who had before absconded from  the vessel, led him to suspect their business on the present occasion.
these changes in the exterior of the people were sometimes attended with rather humorous circumstances.
hence he  was induced to prohibit an acknowledgement to the gods of his ancestors, and to  invite the teachers of christianity to his camp, to speak unto him and his  adherents words whereby they might be saved.
a kind of running fight commenced, and the parties  intermingled in all the confusion of barbarous warfare.
the men, however, were less  scrupulous: and whether it resulted from their fondness of variety, or a  supposition that the same clothes, worn in different ways, would appear like  distinct articles of dress, i am not able to say; but i have seen a stocking  sometimes on the leg, and sometimes – 394 – on the arm, and a pair of  pantaloons worn one part of the day in a proper manner, and during another part  thrown over the shoulders, the arms of the wearer stretched through the legs,  and the waistband buttoned round the chest.
captain gambier, who visited them in the same year, in the extracts from his journal, which have been published, states, in reference to the manner of attending the duties of the sabbath among the young, that, the silencethe order preservedthe devotion 416 and attention paid to the subject, surprised and pleased me beyond measure.
many of  their relatives or countrymen had been devoured by sharks; a limb or large  portion of the fleshy part of the body of others, had been destroyed by these  voracious fish.
assisted by two or three natives, mr. bicknell and  mr. nott dug a grave in a spot near their dwelling on the north side of matavai  bay, which had been selected as a place of interment.
on this, as well as other equally important points, their queries, from native simplicity and entire ignorance, were sometimes both puerile and amusing.
and we have in several of the stations been highly favoured in the co-operation of valuable sabbath-school teachers.
iv conduct of the rebels–discouraging impression under which the  missionaries abandoned the islands–invitation from pomare to  return–state of the king's mind during his exile in eimeo–his  reception of the missionaries–death of three of their  number–influence of domestic bereavement on the missionary  life–pomare's profession of christianity–application for  baptism–demonstration of the impotency of their idols–proposal to  erect a place of worship–extracts from his correspondence–influence  of his steady adherence to christianity–ridicule and persecution to which  he was exposed–visit of missionaries to tahiti–valley of  hautaua–oitu and tuahine.
after watching in breathless suspense for some time its advance in a line towards our ship, we had the satisfaction to see it incline in its course towards the starboard quarter, and ultimately pass by about a mile distant from the stern.
mr.  and mrs. threlkeld, who had sailed with us from england, but had been obliged  by domestic affliction to remain at rio janeiro, and mr. and mrs. barff, who  had originally left england with mr. orsmond, joined us by the same conveyance.
we had, however, occasion to regret, that we were sometimes at as great a loss as the people themselves.
i was enabled to conclude the service with less difficulty than i expected, and was happy to have an opportunity of declaring, though very imperfectly, truths that were able to make those to whom they were delivered, wise unto salvation, through faith in christ jesus.
no long period had elapsed since the first establishment of the mission, without a vessel's touching at tahiti.
the inhabitants of the neighbouring islands were in still  greater need.
mr. and mrs. bicknell, the first who arrived, resided some time in the same house with him.
it would enable  missionary institutions– 295 – to follow more energetically their  simple and primary labours, in sending forth messengers to preach the gospel to  the heathen.
he awoke in a state of great agitation of mind, with profuse  perspiration covering his body, and was so affected, that he could not sleep  again that night.
the matter of  the lessons, they also thought was the great thing to be remembered; and this,  together with a desire to facilitate the advancement of those under their care,  led them to adopt the method of teaching the scholars to repeat lessons without  due attention to the words of the book.
the banners of  the schools attached to the different stations were various; some of white  native cloth, with the word “hosanna” impressed upon it in scarlet  dye; another was of light, but woven cloth, with the following sentiment  inscribed upon it,ia ora te hui arii e ia maoro teienei hau, “life  and blessing to the reigning family, and long be this peaceful reign!”
and have thy joys lost nothing by comparison with ours?
our temporary dwelling was scarcely rendered comfortable, by partitioning  the different rooms with bamboo-canes, and covering them with tahitian cloth,  when it was necessary to prepare for the erection of a printing-office, the  supply of books brought from eimeo being found unequal to the increasing  demand.
6 from a spanish account of chiloe, &c. published in 1791, it appears that, in 1772, two ships, sent by the viceroy of peru to survey the islands of the pacific, visited tahiti, and conveyed to peru two natives, who were baptized there, and sent back, in 1774, with two roman catholic missionaries.
notwithstanding this, it was 250 impossible to behold without emotion either the scenery or inhabitants.
in huahine we found able assistants among them, especially the teachers in the girls' school.
we have always superintended the schools, and generally taught the  higher classes.
they would then pronounce others, as a i, and ask what it meant; the natives, putting their hand to the back of the neck, and repeating ai, told them that that part of the body was thus called.
the arrival of the evening of the following day was awaited with an unusual agitation and excitement of feeling.
the time when, the means  by which, the attending circumstances, and the manner of the resurrection, the  recognition of friends, the identity of the bodies of adults, and whether the  souls of infants would be united to infant bodies, and whether they would be as  inferior in the future state, as their powers and faculties appeared in this,  often furnished matter for interesting conversation.
pomare, entering one day when the blacksmith was employed, after gazing a few  minutes at the work, was so transported at what he saw, that he caught up the  smith in his arms, and, unmindful of the dirt and perspiration inseparable from  his occupation, most cordially embraced him, and saluted him, according to the  custom of his country, by touching noses.
mr. gyles, on his way to the colony of  new south wales in the month of august 1819, spent some time at huahine and  raiatea; and we gladly availed ourselves of his visit, to make further  inquiries relative to the object for which he had come to the islands.
he also requested to be baptized, and to become one of the disciples of the lord jesus christ, assuring the missionaries that his resolution to give himself up to god, was the result of long and increasing conviction of the truth and superiority of the religion of the bible, expressing at the same time his desire to be more fully instructed in the matters to which it referred.
several chiefs, of inferior influence, – 254 – collecting their dependents, encamped on the borders of the  lake near maeva, and threatened to avenge the insult to the gods, by attacking  the chiefs who had sanctioned their destruction.
they said to me, write down our names.
the soul enlarged, devout, sincere, with equal piety draws near the holy house of god, that rudely rears  its rustic head, scarce higher than the indian's shed; by indians  only trod.”
when first declared by the missionaries, it merely awakened astonishment,  and was considered as one among the many novel and striking facts connected  with the doctrines which the new religion unfolded.
unable to  meet, in port jackson, with any vessel proceeding to tahiti, mr. marsden had at  length engaged the hawkesbury, a small sloop of about twenty tons burden, to  take out the letters and articles that had been so long delayed.
another stream, more broad and  rapid, rises at the head of the principal valley, and flows in a circuitous  course to the southern part of the bay.
in acquiring a knowledge of its character and peculiarities, and reducing it to a regular system, the missionaries had to proceed alone.
the horrid 316 piles of skulls, in their various stages of decay, exhibit a ghastly spectacle.
before him, in a large arm-chair provided for the  occasion, sat pomare, supported on the right by tati, chief of papara, and on  the left by upaparu, the king's secretary.
in the evening several  of the missionaries met for social worship, and with this sacred exercise we  closed our first sabbath in the society islands, under a deep impression of the  advantages of christianity, and the pleasing effects, which we had that day  witnessed, of divine influence over the hearts of the most profligate idolaters.
individuals, whose minds were deeply imbued with the subject, who had  identified themselves with its progress and its results, and had embarked not  only their influence, but much of their property, in the undertaking, might,  and probably did, under the ardour of their feelings, indulge on some occasions  in a splendour of imagery, and a richness of description, that exceeded the  sober realities of fact: but they never imagined that they could subvert any  system of idolatry by their own agency; or, that their efforts would be in any  degree effectual for the conversion of the people, but as they were attended by  the influence of the holy spirit.
the religion of jesus christ was the topic  of conversation until they reached the settlement; when patii took his leave,  and mr. nott informed his colleagues of the success of his visit to the young  chief of huahine, and the determination which the priest of the district had  made known to him.
of  equipage, our gardens, and our sports, and heard our music; and thy simple  friends, thy simple fare, and all thy plain delights, as dear to  thee as once?
to us it was a matter of gratitude and satisfaction.
moorea,45 they said, was their teacher, and had instructed them concerning the true god, for whose worship in the island of anaa,46 whence most of them came, they had already erected three chapels.
i am ——, who left  his brethren nine years ago.
the uncultivated sides of the  mountains, and the low flat sandy parts of the shore, seldom tilled by the  natives, were reclaimed by his industry; and many extensive groves of cocoa-nut  trees in tahiti and eimeo, which the inhabitants say were planted by pomare,  remain as monuments of his patriotism, and yield no small emolument to their  present proprietors.
pomare  approached, and exclaimed, atira!
it has also been stated, that in his  reception and treatment of the refugees, he was not acting more from the  dictates of his own generosity, than from the suggestions of the chief heathen  prophet of the nation, who had engaged, provided his advice was followed, to  restore to him the dominion in tahiti.
by the queen, or her sister, the king sent over a new book to aimata, his infant daughter, which being considered as an indication of his purpose that she should be trained up in the new religion, was a source of great encouragement to the converts, and of corresponding dissatisfaction to the idolaters, who already began to meditate on the means of effecting the destruction of the christians.
it is not my intention to eulogize their labours, or to lavish panegyric upon their achievements.
if satan be only a dependent creature, and the cause of so much evil, which is displeasing to god, why does not god kill satan at once, and thereby prevent all the evil of which he is the author?
near one of the large cocoa-nut trees, whose cylindrical trunk appeared like a natural pillar supporting the roof, there was a rustic sort of stand, four or five feet above the ground, on which mr. nott took his station.
while making these inquiries, many of them, doubtless, recollected the conduct of his father, in sending one night, when the warriors of atehuru had gone over to tautira, a body of men, who at midnight fell upon their defenceless victims, the aged relations, 159 wives, and children of the atehuruans, and in cold blood cruelly murdered upwards of one hundred helpless individuals; and this probably made the conduct of pomare ii.
on the following sabbath, taaroarii attended; his father also became, a  few months afterwards, a sincere convert.
this is  abundantly proved by the statements made in seasons when men are most likely to  be sincere—the near approach to the unseen world, and the direct appeal to  the most high in prayer.
these alarming statements were strengthened by allusion to the present  state of the west indies, where mr. gyles had been engaged in the manufacture  of sugar and the culture of coffee.
her commander, captain bunker, brought them no letters from england, but conveyed the melancholy tidings of the capture of the duff by a french privateer.
but he replied, no, let us not mind these things, let it be built.
the only hats i wore in the islands during the subsequent  years of my residence there, were made with this material; and in that climate  i should never desire any other.
in those parts of the world where the scholars could  not be supported while at the schools, it would be better for them to devote a  portion of their time to such employment as would enable them to procure the  means of subsistence themselves, than that they should receive their  maintenance from the mission.
many of the first missionaries to the south sea islands were acquainted with the most useful of the mechanic arts, which were adapted to produce a favourable impression upon the minds of the people.
some of the sugar manufactured by mr. gyles was of a very  superior quality; and if hired labour were less expensive, or the people more  industrious, it might be raised with facility in considerable quantities.
some spare machinery and boilers, sent out by the society, were also left at huahine.
about a month after our departure from papetoai,  mr. orsmond, who had sailed from england about july, 1816, arrived at eimeo,  and, after residing some time with the missionaries at papetoai, he removed to  afareaitu, pursued harmoniously with us the study of the language, assisted in  preparing books for the people, and in other duties of the station, and  subsequently accompanied us to the leeward islands.
although  reports of war were heard during the year, there was no actual hostility; and,  under discouragements every day increasing, the missionaries were enabled to  prosecute their labours, having found it difficult to engage the attention of  the children, while attempting to teach them in the presence of the adults, who  ridiculed the idea of their learning letters, they opened a school in a part of  their own dwelling.
anxious to increase  the resources of the islands, those who had arrived in the royal admiral had  brought with them a variety of useful seeds from port jackson, with plants of  the vine, the fig, and the peach-tree, which were planted in the mission  garden.
this universal observance of the sabbath-day appears to an englishman in humiliating contrast with its profanation in many favoured sections of his own country.
ancient animosities, restrained only for the purpose of crushing what they considered a common enemy, were soon revived, and led to an open declaration of war between the tribes assembled.
the success of these  individuals encouraged others, although we found great difficulty in persuading  them to persevere in the labour this improvement required, particularly as they  were now employed in the erection of a spacious chapel, and the frames of our  dwellings.
on the 23d of november, the missionaries heard  that he had died on the preceding evening.
these excursions, although they  gave us an opportunity of examining more extensively the aspect of the country  and the state of its inhabitants, often proved fatiguing.
a knowledge of the language was, however, indispensable; and many of the missionaries employed much of their time in making excursions through the neighbouring districts, spending several days together with the chiefs at their own habitations, for the purpose of observing their customs, and obtaining an acquaintance with the words which they employed in social intercourse.
they were  certainly both in hand at the same time, and the periods of their completion  were probably not very remote from each other.
the king and his mother  appeared affected with their loss; and the grief of his relatives was severe,  as the death of so many members of pomare's family threatened, at no very  remote period, its total extinction.
one of the  scholars, the wife of an areoi, who had for some time, with her husband's  consent, attended the school, was suddenly taken ill.
most of those who wear it now are able to procure at least one complete suit, and consequently appear less singular.
while the missionaries were thus employed, the chiefs continued friendly and attentive; the people, however, began to manifest that propensity to theft, which they evinced even on the first visits they received.
the effect of this magnificent scene has often been heightened by the impression that the voyagers, whose approaching bark became every moment more conspicuous among the surrounding 233 objects, were not coming in search of pearls or gems, but the more valuable treasure contained in the sacred scriptures, deemed by them more precious than gold, yea, than much fine gold.
this circumstance should never be lost sight of; it is a wonderful manifestation of the faithfulness of god, who has declared 184 that his word shall not return unto him void, but shall be found even after many days; and it is remarkably adapted to cheer the hearts of all who are called to labour and wait patiently, sowing season after season in hope, without reaping the wished-for harvest.
so long as our distributions had been frequent and increasingly valuable, the expressions of attachment would 257 have been ardent, and the attendance regular; but when these had failed, their zeal, &c. would have declined, and the chapel and the school would have been deserted.
mai being the first native of the islands of the south sea, brought to england, produced an excitement as unprecedented, in connexion with an untutored islander, as it was powerful and extensive, even in the most polished circles of society.
we travel far,  'its true, but not for nought; and must be bribed to compass earth again
we were, however, sufficiently encouraged to recommend the people, notwithstanding their disappointment in regard to the cotton, to direct their attention to the culture of sugar, since they had no longer any cause to doubt the practicability of procuring, from their respective plantations, sugar for their own use, or for barter with shipping.
success did not bring peace or  rest to the victorious– 141 – party.
the presses were therefore fixed, and, having acquired some knowledge of bookbinding as well as printing, before leaving england, i proceeded, as soon as the printing was finished, to binding, though but inadequately furnished with materials.
shortly afterwards we saw a small  island with two or three cocoa-nut trees upon it, and subsequently the coral  reef appeared in view.
a system of maintenance should only  be adopted in regard to such pupils as it is hoped are under religious  impressions, or are training with a view to their becoming monitors or  schoolmasters themselves.
soon after the return of captain bishop, the nautilus sailed; and the venus having revisited tahiti, on the 19th of the following month capt.
perhaps king george may be dead, let me know.
the soldiers of pomare, soon after reaching the district, proceeded to the temple, acquainted the inhabitants of the place, and keepers of the temple, with the events of the war, and the purpose of their visit.
the natives held one among themselves at the same hour.
the rocks rise nearly  perpendicular in some places on both sides, and the smooth surface of the ocean  extends a mile and a half, or two miles, towards the mountains.
ten days after, they heard that the inhabitants of atehuru had invaded the district of faa, murdered those who had not escaped by flight, burnt the houses, and continued their murderous and desolating course into the district of pare, which joins matavai on the south.
have i done wrong in this?
the only means they had of obtaining it was, by observing carefully the native sounds of words, and then writing down the characters by which they were expressed.
the assembly maintained the most perfect silence, until mr. davies, who officiated on the occasion, and was seated behind the table, which answered the double purpose of a desk for the schoolmaster, 208 and a pulpit for the minister, rose, and gave out a hymn in the native language.
some of the natives built their houses  facing the sea; others, turning their fronts towards the mountain, reared them  within five or six feet of the road; while several, of a more retiring  disposition, built in the centre of their plantations, or under the embowering  shade of a grove of bread-fruit trees, enclosing them within the fence that  surrounded their dwelling.
it has been 315 distinguished as the cradle of their mythology, the birth-place and residence of oro, the region to which disembodied spirits resorted, the seat of their oracle, and the abode of those priests whose predictions for many generations regulated the expectations of the nation.
it having been agreed to designate the first vessel of any size built  in the islands– 242 – the haweis, in honour of the late dr. haweis  who was the steady friend of the south sea mission, and in some respects may be  said to have been its founder.
a kind of running fight commenced, and the parties intermingled in all the confusion of barbarous warfare.
but in the estimate of their character, qualifications, and exertions, a variety of considerations ought to have a greater influence on the minds of those by whom they are thus represented, than they are sometimes allowed to exert.
he had been above five years on the island, having arrived in the  duff in 1797.
the best boy in school carried the flag; which was not of silk emblazoned with letters of gold, but of less costly materials.
frequently we have been approaching the place of worship at the same time that the schools have entered it, and it has often afforded us satisfaction to behold a father or a mother, with an infant in arms, standing under the shade of a tree that grew by the side of the road near the chapel, to see, in the line of scholars, a son or daughter pass by.
among them were our fellow-voyagers, mr.  and mrs. threlkeld, and our esteemed friends mr. and mrs. barff; we had parted  with them in england, and were truly rejoiced to welcome them to the distant  shores of our future dwelling-place.
dr. gilham having intimated to the captain his wish to return to england, was taken on board, and the duff finally sailed from matavai on the 4th of august, 1797.
he was esteemed by the  natives, and supposed to be a favourite with the gods.
he  reached tahiti in august, 1818, and shortly afterwards removed to eimeo, where  the began to erect the machinery, and enclosed a considerable tract of ground  in the fertile and extensive valley at the head of the beautiful bay of  opunohu, usually called taloo harbour.
he was told that pride was the cause of his fall, but that how pride entered heaven was not revealed.
exclaimed one of the natives; and, looking in the direction to which
though not possessed of the greatest  personal courage, he was a good politician, and a man of unusual activity and  perseverance.
it closed in general about eight, after which the people repaired to their daily employments.
this, when finished, they considered their own part of the chapel; and near the part of the wall they had built, and the side of the roof they had thatched, they usually fitted up their sittings.
on the following day, when the king, chiefs, and people, were  assembled within the temple, otu and his father, pretending to have received  intimation that oro wished to be conveyed to tautira, in taiarabu, pomare  addressed the chiefs of atehuru, requesting them to give him up; but the  orators of the atehuruan chiefs resisted.
when i last saw the boy going his accustomed rounds, i perceived that, in consequence of frequent and continued use, the side he struck had actually become concave, the opposite exhibiting a corresponding convexity.
taatahee, the remaining chief of the rebels, who was related to pomare,  directed her to tell him, that when they had done to him, as they had done to  rua the slain chief, then, and not till then, there would be peace.
the rivers that flow along  their rocky courses from the head of the ravines to the ocean below—and  the distant mountains, that rise in the interior—combine to form, though  on a limited scale, rich, romantic, and beautiful landscapes.
this gave a peculiar interest to the nondescript sort of dwelling, half native  hut, and half european cottage, which many of the people at this time  inhabited.
he had been early  initiated in all the mysteries of falsehood and abomination connected with the  system, and had– 97 – engaged with avidity in the bloody and  murderous rites of idol worship.
in this state we continued, i suppose, about two hours, hoping that the clouds would disperse, and the winds abate; but, instead of this, the storm seemed to increase, and with it our danger.
the lower extremities were ornamented with finely-woven variegated  matting, or curiously braided cord, stained with brilliant red or black and  yellow native colours, ingeniously wound round the polished wood, exhibiting a  singularly neat and– 359 – chequered appearance.
in less than a year, i was able to converse with the people on 276 common topics, and preached my first sermon in tahitian in the month of november, 1818.
the colour of these  articles was generally in perfect contrast.
haamanemane was also the taio, or friend, of captain wilson; and rendered him considerable service, in procuring supplies, facilitating the settlement of the mission, and accomplishing other objects of his visit.
on such occasions, the truth of the doctrine of the resurrection was exhibited, as demonstrated by the resurrection of lazarus and of christ; the identity of our lord's body, by his subsequent intercourse with the disciples, especially with thomas; and the certainty of the general resurrection presented, as deduced from the numerous and explicit declarations of scripture, and the reasoning of the inspired writers.
yet it would undoubtedly  have been highly advantageous to the mission, had some such gifted individuals  been included among its members.
i hastened out, and asked them, if they  had been there all night: they said they had; i then inquired why they did not,  as i had directed them, go and lodge at some house, and come again.
i wish you to send those idols to britane for the  missionary society, that they may know the likeness of the gods that tahiti  worshipped.
some of these songs were very short, asiriti i mua, iriti i muri, e to, e to tau vaa ie: lift up the stem, lift up the stern, and pull, and pull, my strong canoe.
at raiatea, a sun-dial was erected, by which the natives, when  the sun shone, were informed of the proper time for ringing their bell: at the  other stations they usually applied to the missionaries, by whose watches the  meetings were regulated, but here they had neither dial nor watch: they  therefore regulated their time of assembling in the school or the chapel by the  situation of the sun.
the two figures on men's shoulders are the late king and queen.
save us from hypocrisy.
clothing and iron tools appeared to be most earnestly sought; and,  not-withstanding the measures of security which they adopted, their  blacksmith's shop was robbed by a native, who dug two or three feet into the  ground on the outside, and, burrowing his way under the wall or side of the  house, came up through the earthen floor within, and stole several valuable  articles.
the wind being fair, we expected to reach the  raiatean shore in three or four hours, and to arrive at the residence of our  friends long before the close of day.
xii arrivals in huahinesupport of the missionformation of the tahitian missionary societyplace of meetingspeech of the kingformation of a society in huahineestablishment of the mission in raiateadescription of the district of fareerection of dwellingspreaching in the native languageindolence of the south sea islandersmeans adopted for the encouragement of industrycotton plantationdisappointment in returnsarrival of mr. gylesintroduction of the art of making sugar, &c.visit to tahitisugar plantations and mills in the leeward islandsintroduction of coffee from norfolk islandculture and preparation of tobacco for exportation.
his conversation 366 was said to be lively and facetious.
prayer– 426 – in their families was  regularly observed; and among the many inquiries in reference to this subject,  it was once asked, whether jesus christ had family prayer with his disciples;  whether, in their own houses, in the event of the sickness or absence of the  husband, the wife should not convene the family, and perform this important  duty?
the ravages of diseases originating in licentiousness, or nurtured by the vicious habits of the people, and those first brought among them by european vessels, appeared to be fast hastening the total desolation of tahiti.
the public service in the evening commences, in most of the stations,  about a quarter before four, and is performed in the same manner as that in the  forenoon.
most of the islanders  who had boarded us in the morning continued in the ship, others arrived as we  approached the bay; and long before we anchored, our decks were crowded with  natives.
an equal degree of this kind of influence, the means of the missionary will never enable him to gain among the people, nor ought he for a moment to desire it.
after the departure of mr. davies in 1820, the superintendence of the school had devolved entirely on mr. barff.
not long after the departure of the nautilus, it was reported, that in order to avenge the death of the two men he had killed, the people of pare had declared war against pomare.
this is followed by singing a second time; a sermon is then 411 preached, after which a short hymn is sung, prayer presented, and the benediction given; with which the service closes, between half past ten and eleven o'clock.
before the assembly departed, i gave a short address to the parents,  teachers, and children.
their diet and modes of living are, however, still very different from those to which a european has been accustomed, and which he finds, even in their altered climate, most conducive to his health.
near  the queen, on the right, stands peter the swede, their interpreter, and behind  him stands idia, the mother of the king.
hence he was induced to prohibit an acknowledgement to the gods of his ancestors, and to invite the teachers of christianity to his camp, to speak unto him and his adherents words whereby they might be saved.
mr. nott) remained with him; and when, in consequence of the state of perpetual alarm and agitation in which the people were kept by the war, none could be induced to attend preaching or instruction.
independently of the desolation that surrounded them, and the confusion and disquietude that must necessarily have attended their being all confined in one house, together with the two captains and their seamen, they were daily expecting an attack.
by some, after the first emotion of curiosity had subsided,  the books were neglected; but by most they were carefully and regularly read,  becoming– 235 – at once the constant companion of their possessors,  and the source of their highest enjoyment.
a house of wood was erected for these missionaries, near the shore of vaitapeha bay, in taiarapu.
these, however, it was no easy matter to procure, and they would at that time, certainly, have been the last article a captain or trader would have thought of taking to the south sea islands for barter.
– 222 – having been told how it was to be done, he jocosely charged his companions  not to look very particularly at him, and not to laugh if he should not do it  right.
i refrain from comments on the numerous inquiries brought forward at these meetings, which have been proved essentially serviceable to the nationstimulating inquiry, giving a proper direction to their search after truth, expanding and strengthening the mind, yet restraining them within the limits of revelation.
had the  missionaries been the only englishmen residing on the island at the time, it is  most probable the victors would not have been checked by them in their career  of conquest.
in the afternoon they assemble in the schools, and read the scriptures, and repeat hymns, or portions of the catechism, and are questioned as to their recollection of the sermon of the forenoon.
this generous temper did not terminate  with the command issued on the field of contest, but it was a prominent feature  in all their subsequent conduct.
the natives dive  into the sea, sometimes several fathoms deep, in order to procure the solid or  sponge-shaped coral, which for this purpose is better than the forked or  branching kinds.
their own circumstances were by no means prosperous: they had heard but once from england; they were expecting every day the arrival of the duff with cheering tidings and additional aid; but the intelligence now received, not only disappointed their hopes, but depressed their spirits, and darkened their prospects.
dress making and straw-bonnet making, now  profitable employments to a number of females, were certainly the first regular  female occupations from civilized society being introduced into the islands.
numbers of the natives had indeed visited england, but their observation had been so limited, or their accounts so contradictory and exaggerated that their countrymen knew not what to believe, and not unfrequently, when any of these had returned, the substance of their reports was brought to the questioning meeting, to receive our confirmation or explanation.
often have i seen the mists and clouds resting on its sides, or encircling its brow, while the sunbeams have irradiated its summit; and it has appeared, especially when seen from a distance,
in the court-yard of the king we were met by our friends messrs. williams and threlkeld, in whose society we spent about fourteen days, and who, considering the short time they had been among the people, had been the means of producing an astonishing change, not only in their habits and appearance, but even in the natural face of the district.
being asked their reasons for such a proceeding, they  answered, that seeing two large english ships, they apprehended they were come  to revenge the assault upon the missionaries.
there was no  swamp or marshy land between the shore and the mountains; the ground was high,  and the whole district not only remarkably beautiful, but apparently dry and  healthy.
i have frequently been  delighted to see families of natives going on board the vessels, or repairing  to the market-house on shore with the produce of their labour, and when they  have arrived at the place of barter, and the captain or the merchant has spread  before them his attractive goods, glossy and bright in all the shining colours  of which they are so fond, the parent's eye has often glanced over them, in  wonder when and how they were made.
we followed, amid the multitude of  their parents and friends; and, on reaching the place of assemblage, beheld  about three hundred boys sitting in classes on the grass on the right-hand side  of the rising ground, each teacher presiding at the head of his class.
the former continued to be worn after their renunciation of idolatry; and the missionaries knew no reason why they should recommend the discontinuance of a dress to which the nation was accustomed, merely on account of its gay appearance.
they were generally large, and, when attached to a light thin door, looked remarkably clumsy: but they were made with great industry and care, and the joints very neatly fitted.
he was a raiatean; who, after a defeat which  his countrymen had sustained in an engagement with the daring and warlike  natives of borabora, had taken shelter in huahine.
reading-lessons and passages of scripture are affixed to the walls and different parts of the factory.
this feeling, on their parts, also, has been at times 430 almost overpowering, and has either suspended our conversation, or induced an abrupt transition to some other topic.
some employed the long filaments of the dried plantain-stalk; and others split the thin bark of thepurau into fine threads or fibres, and, though not equal in strength to the twisted thread, both answered remarkably well.
several messages were exchanged, and the  negociations appeared to terminate in confidence and friendship.
a pistol was loaded, and fired over the whole heap of  powder they had received, and around which the chief and his attendants were  sitting.
about midday the captain returned to the ship; and we shortly afterwards weighed anchor, and sailed for the island of eimeo.
saying a word, yet each seeming to wonder whether her head, with its new  appendages, resembled in appearance that of her neighbour.
those who had not  printed books, wrote out portions of scripture for these occasions, and  sometimes the prayers they used.
for these, many waited five or six weeks, while they were printing.
many of the natives listened with attention and  apparent interest.
the bundle of masts, oars, &c., acted as a kind of  buoy, or floating anchor; and– 306 – not only broke the force of the  billows that were rolling towards the boat, but kept it tolerable steady, while  we were dashed on the broken wave, or wafted we knew not whither by the raging  tempest.
while the ship remained at tahiti, mr. w. wilson made the tour of the island; the iron, tools, and other supplies for the mission, were landed: the missionaries, and their friends on board, having spent a month in agreeable intercourse, now affectionately bade each other farewell.
the first public or open indications of the change, were given at a time which, according to human probabilities, was but little favourable to such events.
the rebels were now masters of the greater part of the island; and, as the  missionaries had every reason to believe they would attempt the conquest of the  remainder, and knew that their establishment was the only point where they were  likely to meet with the slightest resistance, they neglected no means of  defence.
this peculiarity appears to have accompanied them to the temples, to have distinguished the homage and the service they rendered to their gods, to have marked their affairs of state, and the carriage of the people towards their rulers, to have pervaded the whole of their social intercourse, and to have been mingled with their diversified amusements.
near the chapel they erected a low frame,  consisting of two upright posts, and a cross-piece at the top, resembling a  gallows, from the centre of which the pig of iron was suspended; and when used,  struck with a stone.
it was apprehended that, notwithstanding what had befallen the adherents of idolatry in battle, the inhabitants of taiarabu, who were at that time more zealous for the idols than those of any other part of the island, who considered it an honour to be entrusted with the custody of oro, and also regarded his presence among them as the palladium of their safety, might, perhaps, rise en masse, to protect his person from insults, and his temple from spoliation.
the king and chiefs, with their numerous attendants, had removed to the vicinity of the missionary station on the other side of the island, and the district was comparatively deserted.
but since the  arrival of the royal admiral, in july, 1801, although the directors had  repeatedly sent out articles to port jackson for tahiti, yet the missionaries  had received neither supplies nor letters from england.
no time was to be lost.
instead of listening with attention,  the natives seemed only irritated by being, as they said, mocked with promises  of advantage from a god, by whom, as they imagined, so much suffering had been  inflicted.
in mere casual visits, or journeys through the countries of  uncivilized tribes, presents to their chiefs are necessary, and often  desirable, even where a missionary is a permanent resident; but they should  always be given as a token of friendship and personal respect from the  missionary, or of good-will from some friends by whom they may have been sent,  and not as a means of obtaining influence, or inducing the people to attend to  instruction.
the bodies of the slain were not wantonly mangled, nor left exposed to  the elements, or to be devoured by the wild dogs from the mountains, and the  swine that formerly would have fed upon them; but were all decently buried by  the victors, and the body of the fallen chief, upufara, was conveyed to his own – 154 –district, to be interred among the tombs of his forefathers.
a new  station was also commenced by mr. crook and mr. bourne at papaoa, in the  district of faa; and when the haweis was finished, mr. darling joined mr.  wilson at matavai.
i declare, i  never saw any thing to equal it!
diseases, introduced by europeans, were spreading, unmitigated, their destructive ravages, and some members of almost every family were languishing under the influence of foreign maladies, or dying in the midst of their days.
it was therefore recommended to them to  erect for themselves more comfortable dwellings, and cultivate a larger  quantity of ground, to meet the– 280 – exigencies of those seasons of  scarcity which they often experienced during the intervals between the  bread-fruit crops.
mr. shelly, one of the missionaries who had been stationed in the friendly islands, but had escaped to new south wales, returned to tahiti in this ship, and was cordially welcomed by his friends, along with those who had arrived from england.
ia ora na oe i te atua, ia ora oe i te haere raa mai io nei, no te aroha o te atua ce i tae mai ai;' blessing on you from god, peace to you in coming here, on account of the love of god are you come.
when i had reached it, i sat down to enjoy the sensations created by the lovely scene before me.
whether god would not be angry, if they should use incorrect expressions in prayer?
preparation for  this service has therefore been regarded as demanding particular attention.
on the 23d of september  following, they took their final departure from portsmouth.
prayer for divine direction accompanied their earliest inquiries on the subject of religion; and when in any district even two or three were desirous of becoming the disciples of jesus christ, they were accustomed to associate together for this purpose.
the warrior was seen standing on the prow of his light skiff, that seemed impatiently dashing through the spray, and rushing along the tops of the waves towards the shore, which its keel scarcely touched, when, with his light mat around his loins, his scarf hanging loosely over his shoulder, and his spear in his hand, he leaped upon the sandy beach.
happily for us, the evening was fair, the moon shone brightly, and her mild beams, silvering the foliage of the shrubs that grew near the shore, and playing on the rippled and undulating wave of the ocean, added a charm to the singularity of the prospect, and enlivened the loneliness of our situation.
their most zealous devotees were in general now convinced of their delusion, and the people united in declaring that the gods had deceived them, were unworthy of their confidence, and should no longer be objects of respect or trust.
their own improvement, and the  preparation for instructing the people, was prosecuted contemporaneously with  their efforts to teach the people; and the numerous and respectable  philological and other manuscripts which these have transmitted to england,  although never published, shew that they were far from being unqualified for  their work.
amidst all these unfavourable circumstances, he continued bold and uncompromising in his renunciation of the idols, and every rite of idolatry; observing the sabbath, and, on every suitable occasion, exhibiting the truth and excellency of the religion of jesus christ.
those who sent them expressed at the same time their determination to renounce every evil practice connected with their former idolatrous life, and their desire to become altogether a christian people.
all confessed that the new kind of houses were better  than the old; that when the weather was warm, they could have as much air as  was agreeable; and when the night was cold and the wind high, or the rain  drifting, they had not, as formerly, to rise and move their beds, or secure  their clothing from wet, but could sleep on, sheltered from the elements  without.
i procured a trumpet-shell 385 actually used for these purposes in oahu, during my residence there, and consider it one of the most interesting curiosities which i was enabled to deposit in the missionary museum.
in their native islands  they grow remarkably fine.
they were astonished at themselves, and were a wonder to all who beheld them.
this  building, which is called the royal mission chapel, and might, not  inappropriately, be termed the cathedral of tahiti, is certainly, when we  consider the imperfect skill of the artificers, their rude tools, the amazing  quantity of materials used, and the manner in which its workmanship is  completed, an astonishing structure.
the chiefs and people listened attentively to their proposal, appeared pleased, and said no more children should be murdered.
all the varied passions and the mental exercises of which  they were sensible, they spoke of as connected with theaau or obu , a term literally signifying the whole of the ibdominal viscera—for each  separate organ in which, they have a distinct name.
the vessel, in the building of which the missionaries were engaged when we arrived, had been undertaken jointly by them and the king, at the recommendation of the governor of new south wales, and of the rev. s. marsden.
at borabora, for a long time after mr. orsmond's settlement there, their only substitute for a bell was a broad carpenter's axe.
in every part i met with sections of pavement, and other vestiges of former inhabitants; and was deeply affected, witnessing the depopulation thus indicated, and which is found to have taken place throughout the island.
an elegant hibiscus  spread its embowering shade on its rude and lowly roof.
they felt interested in their destiny, and asked whether, after the fall, and expulsion from paradise, they had repented and obtained pardon; and at one time, when, in answer to this question, it had been stated that there was reason to believe that they had obtained forgiveness, and were now in heaven, 428 the native immediately inquired further, how adam's crime could affect his posterity, after the guilt contracted by it had been removed even from the perpetrators of that crime?
in the haweis, which left huahine early in december, 1818, mr. hayward, from eimeo, proceeded on a voyage to port jackson, and mr. and mrs. orsmond to raiatea, while messrs. nott, davies, barff, and myself, remained at huahine.
the advancement  of knowledge, the benefit of those interested in scientific research– 2  – in britain and europe, not the communication of the light of science to  the uninformed inhabitants, prompted the successive visits which captain cook  paid to their shores.
occasionally we  passed through the inland village of tamae; and although, whenever we took this  route, we had to walk three-quarters of a mile along the margin of the lake, up  to our knees in water, yet we have always been amply repaid, by beholding the  neatness of the gardens, and the sequestered peace of the village, by  experiencing the generous hospitality, and receiving unequivocal proofs of the  simple piety, of its inhabitants.
the missionaries recovered the boat on the  following day; and, anxious to afford the captain and supercargo of the  nautilus every assistance in their power, agreed to use their influence with  the king, and two of the principal chiefs, to induce them to send the seamen on  board.
besides these, however, he was furnished with a portable organ, an electrical machine, fireworks, and numerous trinkets.
we procured cocoa-nut oil, and when it grew dark, breaking a cocoa-nut in half, took one end, and winding a little cotton-wool round the thin stalk of the leaflet of the tree, fixed it erect in the kernel of the nut.
its lowland is  extensive, and the valleys, capable of the highest cultivation, are spacious,  and conveniently situated for affording to the inhabitants intercourse with  other parts of the island.
from the few christians in the neighbourhood,  they were happy to learn that the inhabitants of– 136 – large  sections of pare, and the adjacent district of matavai, the former residence of  their teachers, had renounced idolatry, and were desirous to receive christian  instruction.
raveae  was armed with a short musket, which he had reloaded since wounding the chief;  of this, it is supposed, the man who held him was unconscious.
these were often remarkably simple,  expressive, and appropriate: i have one of pomare's by me, in his own  hand-writing, furnished by mr. nott.
this generous temper did not terminate with the command issued on the field of contest, but it was a prominent feature in all their subsequent conduct.
having left the mission and gone to sea, several alarming incidents, particularly the breaking of a limb at madras, and a severe illness in calcutta, tended to arouse him to a sense of his danger.
we therefore waited on the principal  chiefs, one of whom had accompanied us from papetoai, and inquired if it would  be agreeable to them for us to come and reside there.
they purposed to attempt their civilization, the establishment of schools, and, with the assistance of pious and intelligent natives, their instruction in the use of letters, and the first principles of religion; while they were cultivating such an acquaintance with the language as would enable them more fully to unfold the great objects of their mission.
during the early periods of their residence in the islands, our predecessors often endeavoured to rouse them from their abject and wretched modes of life, by advising them to build more comfortable dwellings, to wear more decent clothing, and to adopt, so far as circumstances would admit, the conveniences and comforts of europeans.
at length, they concluded that it must be from the new religion, as they termed christianity; and hence they unanimously declared their determination to embrace it, and to place themselves and their families under the direction of its precepts.
the establishment of schools, the reducing to writing,  and a regular grammatical system, uncultivated and oral languages, and the  translation of the sacred scriptures, have ever been acknowledged as important,  if not essential parts of a missionary's duty; but the promulgation of the  gospel by the living voice has always been considered by us as the primary,  and, wherever– 277 – practicable, the best means of converting the  heathen; and though the other departments of labour have not been neglected,  this has been regarded as the first great duty of a missionary—according  with his very designation, the principal design of the institution under whose  patronage he is engaged, the practice of the apostles and first missionaries,  and the spirit as well as the letter of the divine commission, whence he  derives his highest sanction, and anticipates greatest success.
the powder being coarser in the grain than what the natives had been accustomed to receive, they imagined either that it was not powder, or that it was a very inferior kind.
i have often heard mr. nott speak, with  evident indications of strong feeling, of the emotions with which this letter  was read.
the females were the most active in this work.
a short time afterwards,  several of the natives of our island sailed over to raiatea, and returned with  very flattering accounts of the improved appearance of those who wore hats and  bonnets.
the  individual who had been brought from the ends of the earth, and shewn whatever  england could furnish, suited to impress his wondering mind, returned, and  became as rude and indolent a barbarian as before.
in this state we found navenavehia's house, when we paid him our first visit.
he reached england when the interest of captain cook's first voyage, and the deep impression produced by his discoveries, were still vivid and universal, and anticipation was raised to the highest pitch, in reference to the developments expected from his second visit to that distant part of the world.
their wants were few, and their desires limited to the means of mere  animal existence and enjoyment; these were supplied without much anxiety or  effort, and, possessing these, they were satisfied.
the necessary labour required  from the natives was paid for at a remarkably high price, and often difficult  to obtain on any terms.
one of  these anniversaries, held at burder's point, the missionary station in the  district of atehuru, in the year 1824, was unusually interesting.
it may, perhaps, be thought  that i am trespassing the bounds of propriety in giving these particulars to  the public; but, in this instance, and there are others that might also be  adduced, i feel it due, not more to the individual than to the cause in which  he is embarked; to the friends by whom– 297 – it is supported; and  even to those who, in consequence of mistaken views, and misrepresentation, may  sometimes be induced to suppose mercenary motives influence those who engage in  missionary undertakings.
a number of chiefs, with the queen and principal women of the islands, sat around; while thousands of the people, attired in their gay and many-coloured native or european dresses, composed the vast assemblage, each one having come, as to a public festival, in his best apparel.
mr. nott conversed a long time with them, and  preached an instructive and affecting discourse fromisa. xlix.
the first sabbath i spent  in the islands, was a day of deep and delightful interest.
most of the valuable plants had been removed by the people to their own  gardens, as the spot selected by me was not one which they would have  preferred.
the change which had taken place in tahiti and eimeo, in consequence of the abolition of idol worship, had been exceedingly gratifying, as it regarded the general conduct of the people, their professed belief in the truth of revelation, and their desire to regulate their lives by its injunctions; but the visible change which resulted from the establishment of the missions in huahine and raiatea, was more striking, and did not fail to attract the notice, and command the approbation, of the most superficial observer.
none  of the spontaneous productions of the islands were available for purposes of  barter or exportation.
a good-looking native, about forty years of age, who said his name was maine, and who came on board as a pilot, we invited to our breakfast.
in the evening of the day, when the confusion of battle had in some degree  subsided, pomare and the chiefs invited the christians to assemble, probably in  the place in which they had been during the morning disturbed—there to  render thanks to god, for the protection he had, on that eventful day, so  mercifully afforded.
when, however, they saw  one of the seamen, who had landed with the captain from the ship, take hold of  the halter that was on his neck, they returned, to gratify their curiosity.
towards the middle of the year 1804, the king went over to  eimeo, talking with him the great idol oro, to propitiate whom, so many of the  inhabitants had been sacrificed.
all agreed that they looked very strange, and the wearers appeared to think so themselves; but it was supposed to be according to the usage of ladies in england,and to the despotism of fashion, even here, all minor considerations were rendered subservient.
the gospel was preached, not only in the immediate  neighbourhood of matavai, but in every district in tahiti and eimeo; yet the  people seemed more than ever disposed to neglect or ridicule it.
writing, reading, and spelling are not  taught, but the time is devoted to the religious instruction of the children.
as we passed by it, we felt grateful that the winds were fair and the weather calm, and that we had reached our anchorage in safety.
pomare, and not the  missionary, had on this occasion been employed as the agent, under god, in  influencing the mind of the young chief, who was likely to become the king of  huahine and eimeo, and in a way which at once demonstrated that it was the  purpose of god that he he should be made acquainted with divine truth.
the natives cheerfully gave up a large oval-shaped house for our accommodation: mr. and mrs. crook occupied one end of it, and we took up our abode in the other.
i am a wicked man, and my sins are  great and accumulated.
he was a native of manchester, where the members of his family still  reside.
the improvement of our west india colonies, by transplanting thither the most valuable indigenous productions of tahiti, rather than a desire to impart to the inhabitants a knowledge of the arts and comforts of civilized life, led captain bligh to their shores; and purposes of justice, his successors.
at intervals we beheld, through the clouds and rain, one or other of the waterspouts, the whole of which appeared almost stationary, until at length we lost sight of them altogether, when the spirits of our native voyagers evidently revived.
on the 23d of april,  in the same year, messrs. nott, davies, orsmond, and myself, held a meeting  with the king, at our house; when the principles upon which the society should  be formed, and the rules by which it was proposed to regulate its proceedings,  were considered, and, on the following day, finally adjusted.
on the 17th of november, in the same year, messrs. bourne, darling, platt, and williams, with their wives, who had sailed from england 17th of november, 1816, reached the islands.
the experience of those who were true  christians in england, was also introduced; and their remarks on this point,  especially when they first became interested in the subject of religion  themselves, were often rather amusing.
the  man at the helm now shut his eyes, and his companions threw themselves flat on  their faces in the bottom of the boat.
the  sides and bottom of this bedstead were made– 341 – with the boards of  the bread-fruit tree.
in the south sea islands they certainly are not a needless  article, and we found it impossible to induce the people to attend the schools,  or assemble for public worship, at any regular or appointed season, without  some such method of calling them together.
we had not, however, been an hour at sea,  when the heavens began to gather blackness, and lowering clouds intercepted our  view of the shore we had left, and that to which we were bound.
the missionaries, who, in 1812, had returned from port jackson, were joined in 1816 by mr. crook, who had been formerly stationed by captain wilson in the marquesas.
the rustic palm-leaf thatch, and beautifully white plastered walls, of all the buildings, whether standing on the sea-beach, on the mountain's side, embowered under the bread-fruit and cocoa-nut grove, or situated in the midst of their plantations, with a walk strewed with fragments of coral and shells leading from the road to the door, appeared in delightful contrast with the thick dark foliage of the trees, the perpetual luxuriance of vegetation, and the variegated blossoms of the native flowers.
to the former they gave up their public stores, and all the property they possessed, together with the smith's shop, and the tools.
a number of the principal chiefs of the  leeward islands, as well as the adherents to his cause, and the friends of his  family in tahiti, constantly resided with the king, after his expulsion from  the island of his ancestors, and accompanied him on his return to resume his  former government.
the  hours of the evening, instead of being a season of the greatest care and hurry,  are, i believe, often seasons of preparation—“prelude to hours of  holy rest.”
it was naturally a matter of the deepest interest to a missionary, important in all its bearings on the object nearest to his heart, and first in the aims and the purposes of his life.
as soon as the natives had recovered from the shock, perceiving the powder adhering to their limbs, they attempted to rub it off, but found the skin peel off with it; they then plunged into an adjacent river.
in reference to another order resembling this, and issued november 19,  1814, it is declared, that— “any neglect or disobedience of these orders, will subject the  offenders to be proceeded against with the utmost rigour of the law, on their  return thither, (viz.
mr. williams, in reference to this  interesting spectacle, questions whether, but for the influence of  christianity, one-third of the children would have been in existence, and  states his opinion, that they would not, and that “the hands of their  mothers would have been imbrued in their blood.”
such were the views with which the vessel was  commenced; but circumstances had arisen since that time, which left but little  hope that these ends would ever be answered.
in addition  to this, whenever a fresh supply of articles, for our own maintenance or use,  might have arrived, if we had not been equally liberal in the distribution of  our presents, we should have been unhesitatingly charged with keeping for  ourselves that which was designed for them, and thus have been involved in  unpleasant altercation.
in the preamble of the bill, it is stated that grievous murders and manslaughters had been committed in the south pacific ocean, as well on the high seas, as on land, in the islands of new zealand and otaheite, and in other islands, countries, and places, not within his majesty's dominions, by the masters and crews of british ships, and other persons, who have, for the most part, deserted from, or left their ships, and have continued to live and reside amongst the inhabitants of these islands; whereby great violence has been done, and a general scandal and prejudice raised against the name and character of british and other european traders: and whereas such crimes and offences do escape unpunished, by reason of the difficulty of bringing to trial the persons guilty thereof: for remedy whereof, be it enacted by the king's most excellent majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the lords spiritual and temporal, and the commons, in this present parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, that from and after the passing of this act, all murders and manslaughters committed, or that shall be committed, in the said islands of new zealand and otaheite, or within any other islands, countries, or places, not within his majesty's dominions, nor subject to any european state or power, nor within the territory of the united states of america, by the master or crew of any british ship, or vessel, or any of them, or by any person sailing in, or belonging thereto; or that shall have sailed in, or belonged to, and have quitted any british ship, or vessel, to live in any of the said islands, countries, or places, or either of them, or that shall be there living; shall and may be tried, and adjudged, and punished, in any of his majesty's islands, plantations, colonies, dominions, forts, or factories, under or by virtue of the king's commission, or commissions, which shall have been, or may hereafter be issued, under, and by virtue, and in pursuance of, an act passed in the 45 forty-sixth year of his present majesty, entitled, an act for the more speedy trial of offences committed in distant countries, or upon the sea.
this was the first native meal i  had sat down to, and it was served up in true tahitian style.
the bodies of the slain were not wantonly mangled, nor left exposed to the elements, or to be devoured by the wild dogs from the mountains, and the swine that formerly would have fed upon them; but were all decently buried by the victors, and the body of the fallen chief, upufara, was conveyed to his own 154 district, to be interred among the tombs of his forefathers.
the spelling-book being most needed, was first put to press, and an edition of 2600 copies soon finished.
a plentiful repast had been prepared, which was carved, and handed to them as they sat upon the green turf.
here he  fixed his encampment; and, although peace was not concluded, hostilities appear  to have been for some time suspended.
mr. nott replied, “i fear you are  jesting with me, and stating what you think we wish, rather than what you  intend.
some stimulus to more regular employment than that  to which the natives had been accustomed, during the indolent state of society  from which they were emerging, was still necessary for their individual  happiness, as well as their national prosperity.
with some who had now arrived, we had parted nearly two years before in our native land; others we had left among strangers on a foreign shore; but we were now, in the providence of god, brought together under circumstances peculiarly encouraging; and not only permitted to enjoy each others' society, but to combine our energies for the advancement of that cause to which our lives were devoted.
the idolatrous army continued to fight with obstinate fury, but were unable  to advance, or make any impression on mahine and pomarevahine's – 151  –forces.
whether god would not be angry, if they  should use incorrect expressions in prayer?
we were glad to furnish the chiefs and others with these most valuable articles, so far as our stock would allow, but it was useless to think of supplying the wants of the entire population; we only regretted that we could not have more ready access to our friends in england, many of whom, we had no doubt, would readily have supplied them with an article easily procured in abundance there, but here exceedingly scarce.
on the 29th of march, those missionaries who intended to leave, bade their companions farewell; and, during the night of the 30th, sailed from matavai, and proceeded to new south wales.
pages, had been printed at port jackson, and were in  circulation; but many hundreds of the natives who had learned to read, were  still destitute of a book.
our first effort was to build a lime-kiln, on which we bestowed considerable labour, though it did not ultimately answer.
the root was cut off above the part that had been in the ground, and the stem being then fixed over a vessel, half a pint sometimes of thick purple juice exuded from it.
another large meeting of chiefs, priests, and warriors, was held during  the summer of 1803 at atehuru, and rumours of war were again spread through the  land.
on a visit to matavai,  in the early part of 1821, conducted by mr. nott, i made a pilgrimage to his  grave.
in addition to this, and any latent conviction that still might  linger in his mind, of– 155 – the power of oro, and the result of his  anger should he draw back, he stood pledged to the cause of the gods, and  probably might feel a degree of pride influencing his adherence to their  interest, lest he should be charged with cowardice in wishing to avoid the war,  on which the chiefs, who were united to suppress christianity, had determined.
the state of feeling, also, that prevailed among the inhabitants at this time, predisposed them readily to attend to any recommendations of the kind; and the great deference they now paid to the counsel of their teachers, presented an opportunity more favourable than had ever occurred before, or was likely to occur again.
it was known, that with but slight attention the cotton-plant might be cultivated in the islands to almost any extent; and it was supposed, that although the smallness of the returns it had brought, when offered for sale in the raw state, together with the difficulties attending their first attempt, had deterred the people from persevering in its culture; yet that they might be induced to resume it, if taught on the spot to manufacture cotton 296 cloth.
the queen and her  daughter-in-law, dressed in the english fashion, received us in their neat  little cottage.
after boiling it some time, we added the temper, or mixture of lime and water; and when we supposed the quantity had been sufficiently reduced, directed the natives to remove it to a suitable vessel for cooling, the progress of which we watched very anxiously, and, ultimately, had the satisfaction of beholding fine-grained crystals of sugar formed from the liquid.
at length they brought out the idol, stripped him of his sacred  coverings and highly-valued ornaments and threw his body contemptuously on the  ground.
the roof was  covered withpandanus leaves, the windows closed with sliding shutters,  and the doors hung with iron hinges of native workmanship.
they are fond of calculations, and make themselves familiar with figures, so far as their books enable them to proceed.
his own affairs remained unsettled and discouraging;  he was still in exile;– 96 – and rumours of war not only prevailed in  tahiti, but invasion threatened eimeo.
a distressing epidemic had raged for some time among the people, and still confined many to their habitations, yet there were not fewer than fifteen hundred present.
the refugees in eimeo invited to return to tahiti—voyage of the  king and his adherents—opposition to their landing—public worship on  the sabbath disturbed by the idolatrous army—courage of the  king—circumstance of the battle of bunaauïa—death of the  idolatrous chieftain—victory of the christians—clemency of the king  and chiefs—destruction of the image, temple, and altars of oro—total  subversion of paganism—general reception of christianity—consequent  alteration in the circumstances of the people—pomare's prayer—tidings  of the victory conveyed to eimeo—visits to tahiti.
he engaged with diligence in teaching the inhabitants of the remote and rocky parts of taiarabu the catechism 138 and the art of reading; and after a lingering illness, during which he enjoyed the presence and support which true religion alone can impart, delivered, as he expressed himself on the last day of his life, from the fear of death, and having his hopes fixed or relying on the son of god as the only saviour, he died in peace, at our missionary station in afareaitu, on the 29th of july, 1817, nearly two years after the total overthrow of idolatry in 1815.
the man at the helm now shut his eyes, and his companions threw themselves flat on their faces in the bottom of the boat.
eiaha oe e riri, faaora, faaora, teie te hapa, ua faarue ia oe, ua haavarehia e te papaa, teie te buaa, eiaha e riri;
this invitation they accepted; and, as the presence of the king was necessary in several of the usages and ceremonies observed on such occasions, pomare went over about the same time, formally to reinstate them in their hereditary possessions.
although this honourable  conduct produced a surprising effect upon the minds of many of the inhabitants  of tahiti and eimeo, who considered the king better acquainted both with the  religion of the natives, and that of the foreigners, than any other person in  the islands; it procured him many enemies, and exposed him to no ordinary  degree of ridicule and persecution, or contempt, not only from his idolatrous  rivals, but from his allies, and the members of his household and family.
their crimes have never been  like ours; they never offered human sacrifices, murdered their infants, &c.
various were the expedients resorted to for supplying the deficiency thus occasioned, and i have often been amused at beholding the singular substitutes employed.
in that one year they reaped the harvest of sixteen laborious seed-times, sixteen dreary and anxious winters, and sixteen unproductive summers.
the circumstances of the south sea islanders, their habits, institutions, ceremonies, &c., described in the preceding volume, represent the state of the inhabitants of tahiti and the adjacent isles at the time of their discovery, and during a period antecedent to this, the extent of which it is not easy to ascertain.
the study of the language, which, under the guidance and assistance of mr. nott, had been regularly pursued one or two evenings every week, was resumed.
in all the trials of the mission she had sustained her part; and, with unwavering devotedness to its interests, had endeavoured to perform with efficiency and cheerfulness the duties of her station, until her life fell a sacrifice to the privations and toils of her eventful and perilous career.
his supposed influence  with the gods, his deep skill in the mysteries of their worship, and the  constant dread of his displeasure, which would probably have doomed the  individual, by whom it was incurred, to immolation on the altar of his idol,  favoured, in no small degree, his assumption and exercise of civil power, both  in eimeo and tahiti.
unhappily for them, the ground they had chosen was unsuitable, and many of the plants were not productive.
when the gospel of luke  was finished, an edition of hymns in the native language was printed, partly  original and partly translations from our most approved english compositions;  and although the book was but small, it was acceptable to the people, who are  exceedingly fond of metrical compositions, their history and traditions having  been preserved in a metrical kind of ballad.
it had been so  long in use, that the bar of iron was considerably battered by the blows.
it was impossible, at such a season, to behold this scene, exhibiting impressively the grandeur of creation, and the insignificance of man, without experiencing emotions of adoring wonder and elevated devotion, and exclaiming with the psalmist, when i consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained; what is man, that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man, that thou visitest him?
in the evening the missionaries arrived at their dwelling, having been furnished by pomare with a double canoe, for their conveyance.
no  long period had elapsed since the first establishment of the mission, without a  vessel's touching at tahiti.
no  remonstrance was made, no opposition offered— they entered the depository  of tahiti's former god; the priests and people stood round in silent  expectation; even the soldiers paused a moment; and a scene was exhibited,  probably strikingly analogous to that which was witnessed in the temple of  serapis in alexandria, when the tutelar deity of that city was destroyed by the  roman soldiers.
on his assurances of protection, those who remained reposed  the most entire confidence; which, during his subsequent life, his conduct  uniformly warranted.
the chiefs of the district, and island, soon visited us, received a few articles as presents, and appeared highly gratified with what they saw, especially with some engravings of natural history.
the following is a translation of the letter which he sent  with them.
blees britain, and every country in the world.
this is the exact position in which a captive, doomed to death, awaited the fatal stroke of a victor by whom he had been overcome in battle.
i have  endeavoured to present an outline of this great change.
the frequent eulogy pronounced by us on an oration or action, in which understanding and right feeling are developed, viz.
our prayers were offered to him who is a present help in every  time of danger—for ourselves—and those who sailed with us; and under  these, or similar exercises, several hours passed away.
had cowper witnessed  these– 376 – operations of christian benevolence, he would have  cheered, with his own numbers, those who had gone out from britain, and other  lands, not only to civilize, but to attempt the moral renovation of the heathen.
the mission-house was converted into a garrison.
advantage was derived from the instructions they had received; and we have  every reason to remember, with pleasure, the hospitality and kindness we  experienced.
– 131 – the but-end of a tree was then hollowed out, and placed  upon the rough stone boiler for a cap.
the body of the deceased chief was embalmed by a process  peculiar to the inhabitants of the south sea islands, and already described.
in the autumn of the same year, mr. wilson went on board a vessel at eimeo, which was driven 118 to the leeward islands, where contrary winds detained him and his companions for three months.
the inhabitants frequently assembled to hear  their instructions as soon as they knew of their arrival in a district or  village; whereas, on every former occasion, it had required much time and  labour, by personal application, to assemble the smallest congregations.
in this respect, the first  missionaries endured far greater privations than those who have since joined  them.
a small bay was formed by an elliptical indentation of the coast; an opening in the reef opposite the bay admitted small vessels to enter, and a picturesque little coral island, adorned with two or 212 three clumps of hibiscus and cocoa-nut trees, added greatly to the beauty of its appearance.
mai is the name of the present king of borabora, though i am not certain of his having descended from the same family.
pursuing this plan, 20 they were under the necessity of presenting to the natives a mode of spelling different from that which had been given to europeans in the narratives of early voyagers.
private  prayer has long been almost universal, as well as the practice of imploring a  blessing on their food; and although they at first asked whether they must not  learn to pray in the english language?
a fine quay, or causeway, of coral rock, had been raised along the edge of the southern side of the bay, on which the natives had erected the frame of a large and substantial place of worship.
the visitors from raiatea were supported in their application  by a number of chiefs belonging to the same island; who, after residing some  years in eimeo, had now removed to huahine, and were desirous of returning to  their own possessions in raiatea and tahaa, yet did not wish to go  unaccompanied by some of those, from whose instruction they had derived  advantage.
when our goods, &c. were all brought under its cover, and the boats had returned to the ship, we sat down to rest, and could not avoid gazing on the scene around us, before we began to adjust our luggage.
the chiefs vied with each other in the size, elevation, or conveniences of their houses: some being, like pohuetea's and teriitaria's, built upon a pier in the sea; others preparing to attach verandas, by which they could remain cool under a meridian sun; others erected rude covered balconies, in which they might enjoy a more extended prospect, be shaded from the sun, and breathe purer air.
besides the refugees, who in consequence of defeat in tahiti had taken shelter in eimeo, numbers who had secretly embraced christianity, and feared ultimate destruction from the idolaters, although religion appeared to have no influence in the present commotion, came over to eimeo, and joined the christians.
no sabbath had then dawned no happy multitudes met for praise and prayer, no lovely throngs of children gathered in the 417 sabbath-schools, no inspired page or christian preacher directed their attention to the lord of the sabbath; but when the devotees met for public worship, it was under the gloom of overshadowing trees, amid the recesses of some rude temple, before some rustic altar, or in the presence of some deity of frightful form and fearful attributes, the offspring of their own imagination.
the  overwhelming feelings of the wondering native were too powerful for expression  or restraint.
he answered, in hurried  accents, “i see a whirlwind coming,” pointing to a cloud a little to  the windward of the ship.
the king acquiesced in their proposal, and requested their instructions.
once they observedadam fell in paradise, and angels fell even in heaven itself; how then can we be preserved from sinning against god?
the singularity of their conduct, together with the  report of the change in the sentiments of the king, soon– 103 –  attracted observation: many derided them, but several young men and boys  attached themselves to oito and tuahine, and this little band, without any  missionary to teach them, or even before any one was acquainted with the  circumstance, agreed to refrain from worshipping the idols—from the evil  practices of their country—to observe the sabbath-day,—and to worship  jehovah alone.
in a walk through the village, on the  afternoon of the day preceding the sabbath, looking along the shore, we have  often beheld the light canoe doubling a distant point of land, and, with its  native cloth or matting sail, wafted towards the station.
about nine o'clock in  the morning, mr. barff and myself, accompanied by five natives, and an english  sailor who had charge of the boat, embarked from huahine.
it was fastened round the neck with a short collar, which, if possible, was united by a bright gilt or plated button.
the greater number of houses, already erected, contain only two or three rooms on one floor, but several of the chiefs have built spacious, and, considering the materials with which they are constructed, substantial habitations, with two stories, and a number of rooms in each, having also some of the windows glazed.
specimens of  fibrous limestone, and small fragments of calcareous rock, have been  occasionally– 343 – found in some of the islands, but not in quantity  or kind to be available in the preparation of lime for building.
buildings, also, in every stage  of their progress, might be seen in a walk through the settlement: sometimes  only a heap of spars and timber lay on the spot where the house was to be  raised, but at other places the principal posts of the houses were erected,  others were thatched, and some partially– 347 – or entirely enclosed  with the beautiful white coral-lime plaster.
the missionaries did not disclose the object of their visit; but pomare insisted on the deserters being delivered up, assuring them they should be carried on board the next day.
at maatea i landed about twelve  o'clock, and walked through the district of haume to afareaitu.
they encamped in the northern part of pare, where they were joined by a number of the inhabitants of those districts, favourable to his cause; but they were attacked, and driven in confusion before the rebels towards matavai, which had now become the frontier district.
xiii renewed endeavours to promote industry among the peoplearrival of messrs. blossom and armitageestablishment of the cotton factoryfirst cloth made in eimeoprospects of successdeath of mrs. orsmondvoyage to raiateasudden approach of a stormconduct of the nativesappearance of waterspoutsemotions awakened by the surrounding phenomenaeffects of waterspouts on the minds of the nativesconduct of a party overtaken by one at seadeliverance during a voyage from the sandwich islandsabatement of the stormarrival at raiateakindness of the inhabitantsdistrict of opoavisit to the settlementimportance of educationmethods of instructionsabbath schoolsannual examination of the scholarspublic processioncontrast between the present and former circumstances of the children.
but while i was thus destroying them, no one, not even my own cousin, (pointing to tamatoa the king, who presided at the meeting,) stayed my hand, or said, spare them.
brother marshman entreated this returning prodigal to be assured of the  utmost love on our part; encouraged him in his determination to return to his  missionary brethren; and promised to intercede on his behalf, both with his  brethren, and those who sent him out.”
a portion of scripture was read, a prayer offered to the almighty, and the service closed.
four of the unmarried  missionaries offered to remain with the king, that they might be upon the spot,  should any favourable change take place; the others, with most of the europeans  on the island, sailed from tahiti on the 10th of november, 1808, and arrived  the following day at the island of huahine.
this prudential reserve, on some accounts, cannot be too highly commended; yet, it is possible to carry it too far; and, in the present instance, however honourable to the individuals who maintained it, it cannot be doubted that the world has been thereby deprived of a full record of events, intimately connected with the destinies of the of the people among whom they transpired, and with the propagation of the gospel in the most distant parts of the world, during every future age of the christian church.
they were certainly both in hand at the same time, and the periods of their completion were probably not very remote from each other.
– 243 – although finishing the vessel, and printing, required the greater number of  the missionaries to continue in eimeo, these duties did not detain the whole,  but left several at liberty to extend, in some degree, their efforts.
their arrival was  welcomed with joy, and we were happy to receive their countenance and  co-operation in the prosecution of our work.
we commenced preparing it for the site of our dwelling; and when cleared, it was a most delightful spot.
at this critical period, his majesty's ship porpoise arrived in matavai bay.
on this occasion, three distinct sermons, from different texts, were preached at the same time, to three distinct congregations.
the cities, towns, houses, carriages, dress, and 433 manners of the english, the royal state of king george, the numbers in his army, the evolutions of his troops, the laws of the kingdom, the punishment of crimes, the principles of commerce, and the extent and variety of manufactures, were at different times brought forward.
one of our little ones was smiling in the lap of its native nurse, while the other was playing on the dried grass lying by the side of the boxes on which we were sitting, and the natives, under the full influence of highly excited curiosity, thronged around us in such numbers as to impede the circulation of the air.
for two or three months contrary winds prevented any intercourse between us, when at length mr. orsmond's boat arrived, with the unexpected and melancholy tidings of the death of mrs. orsmond, which had taken place on the 6th of january, 1819.
the natives, however, persevered in their depredations on the little remaining property of the mission; and, in order to deter others, one of them, who had been detected, was publicly flogged by the king's order.
the first native bonnet we have heard of, as manufactured in the islands, was finished while we resided in afareaitu, by mrs. ellis.
by this time the shades of the evening began to gather  round us, and the sun was just hidden by the distant wave of the horizon, when  the king rose from his chair, and the chiefs and people retired to their  dwellings, under feelings of excitement and satisfaction.
in addition to  the seeds and plants, a breed of horses, goats, and other useful animals, were  brought on shore; but the greater part of the presents was comparatively  useless, and many were bartered to the sailors for hatchests or iron tools.
by many of these the missionaries had been able to  write to the directors and to their friends in england, and from several they  had secured a small supply of such articles as they most needed.
raveae was retiring towards the main body of mahine's  men, when one of the idolaters, who had outrun his companions, sprang upon him  before he was aware of his approach.
for public worship it is repeated a second timeonce at a quarter before the commencement, and again immediately preceding the service; and indifferent as the means of giving public notice are there is no cause to complain of delay or interruption, from the late attendance of the people.
presentations of this kind were not uncommon among the  islanders, as a compliment, or matter of courtesy, to a visitor; and were  regulated by the rank and means of the donors, or the dignity of the guests.
it  comprises two valleys, or rather one large valley partially divided by a narrow  hilly ridge extending from the mountains in the interior, towards the shore.
instead of returning the fire, the king sent a flag of truce and a proposal of peace.
at one time, no article of dress  was more acceptable to the men than a thick shaggy great coat, which, to us, it  was quite oppressive even to behold.
he came up from huahine to pomare's assistance in 1811; early in  the year 1813, he had made a profession of christianity, and was among the  first whose names were written down at eimeo.
the floor was covered partly with the trunks of trees split in two, and partly paved with stone.
notwithstanding these and various other  discouragements, mr. armitage was able to persevere; and as there was little  prospect of the females he had taught to spin making up their minds to return,  another party was selected.
in assuming the posture of defence, the king's friends formed themselves into two or three columns, one on the sea-beach, and the other at a short distance towards the mountains.
they beheld, with deepest distress, their gardens  destroyed, their trees cut down, the fences they had reared with so much care  demolished, the country around a desolate wilderness, and the inhabitants  reduced to a state of destitution and wretchedness; yet they could not  contemplate the remarkable interposition of providence, in affording them the  means of perfect security amidst the surrounding destruction, without mingled  emotions of admiration and gratitude.
she was told that the labour of teaching had been gratuitous, and the advantage resulting was all her own; and appeared satisfied when assured, that now she had learned, she should be regularly paid for the needlework she might do.
a pair of cattle, that we had brought from new south wales, with a  young calf, all of which had been landed from the ship during the morning, were  tied to an adjacent bread-fruit tree; two or three milch goats from eimeo,  fastened together by bands of hibiscus bark tied round their horns, had already  taken their station on the craggy projections at the foot of the mountain, and  were cropping the herbage that grew in the fissures of the rocks.
under these impressions, those who were stationed in the leeward  islands, next to religious instruction, directed their attention to the  promotion of industry among the people and the improvement of their temporal  condition.
they were not satisfied  with attending during the hours of school, and merely imparting the ordinary  instruction, or hearing the usual recitals, but identified themselves with the  advancement of the children, and exercised an affectionate care over them  during the intervals between the sabbaths.
visiting almost daily the spot, and living in habits of intercourse with the successors of mai, i have been often led to compare the views and circumstances of the present inhabitants of beritani with those of the resident originally left there by its discoverer; and in connexion with the circumstances of mai after his return to his native islands, 374 the following beautiful and pathetic lines have often occurred to my mind; and though perused on the spot with sensations probably unfelt elsewhere, i have nevertheless supposed, that could the poet have foreseen what has since taken place, not only in this island, but throughout the groupor had he lived in the present dayhe would never, in anticipation of their abandonment so soon after their discovery, have recorded such mournful anticipations: these i can pity, but far beyond the rest, and with most cause, thee, gentle savage, whom no love of thee or thine, but curiosity perhaps, or else vain-glory, prompted us to draw forth from the native bowers, to shew thee here
i wish you to send those idols to britane for the missionary society, that they may know the likeness of the gods that tahiti worshipped.
when he returned, mr. bicknell went over on the same errand; and observed every where the most encouraging attention, on the part of the people, to the instructions he communicated.
they were, however, now anxious not only to adopt the  english style of clothing, but also to be able to make their own dresses.
the people of the king's household stood, in mute expectation of some fearful visitation of the god's anger, as soon as he should touch a morsel of the fish; by which he had, in this instance, committed, as they 94 imagined, an act of daring impiety.
anxious to obtain direction and relief, yet having no one to whom he could unburden his mind with hopes of suitable guidance, he applied to tuahine, who had for a long time lived with the missionaries; hence oito inferred he would be able to direct him aright.
they were exceedingly anxious to obtain a supply of elementary books, as the spelling books from england were expended, and the desire for instruction had increased to such a degree, that upwards of two hundred scholars attended their school at papetoai.
the sleeves were long and loose, and buttoned at the wrists, while the lower  parts reached nearly to the ankles.
the following account of one of these meetings is given by captain gambier, in the extracts of his journal.
before, however, she fairly floated, an accident  occurred, which threw a damp over the spirits of all present.
the vessel remained five days at tahiti, procured such  supplies as the crew were most in need of, and ultimately sailed, leaving the  five sandwich islanders on shore.
in the division of the territory thus seized,  the chief priest received the eastern part of matavai; but he did not long  enjoy it; he was murdered, at the instance of pomare, very shortly afterwards.
let thy word grow with speed in the world, so as to exceed the progress of evil.
many of the adults received instruction more readily than the children, and acquired a knowledge of reading with much greater facility than persons of the same age would do in england.
in the course of the night, two seamen absconded with  the ship's boat; and the next morning the captain and supercargo addressed a  letter to the missionaries, acquainting them with the desertion of the men; and  their determination, in consequence of their deficiency of hands, to recover  them, cost what it would; soliciting, at the same time, aid in effecting their – 25 – apprehension.
the most showy english dress they ever saw, would probably, in the estimation of every beholder, appear comparatively plain, when placed by the side of those the natives formerly wore.
the indolence of the south sea islanders has long been proverbial, and our minds were not less affected on beholding it, than those of other visitors had been.
v first record of the names of the professors of christianitytaaroarii's rejection of idolatrous ceremoniesdetermination of patii, the priest of papetoaiidols publicly burnt at uaeva, in eimeoincrease of the scholarscontempt and persecution on account of the profession of christianitybaneful influence of idolatry on social intercoursehumiliating circumstances to which its institutes reduced the female sexhappy change in domestic society, attending the introduction of christianitypersecution of the christiansworshippers of the true god sought as victims for sacrifice to the pagan idolsnotice of aberahamamartyrdom in tahiti.
thy cocoas and bananas, palms and yams, and homestall thatched with leaves.
peter had a slight knowledge  of the colloquial language of the natives; and in all their early  communications with the chiefs and people, the missionaries were glad to avail  themselves of his aid as interpreter.
in all works subsequently published, 225 the missionaries, on whom the management of printing has devolved, have been in a great measure relieved by the aid of those instructed in that department of this useful art.
thus, in one year, the system of false worship, which  had, from the earliest antiquity of its population, prevailed in these islands,  was happily abolished—it is hoped, to be revived no more.
in january, 1775, the ships returned, taking two other  natives with them.29 the missionaries do not seem to have held much, if any,  intercourse with the people; they remained about ten months in the island, when  the ships, in which they had arrived, returned, and they embarked for lima.
mr. nott conversed a long time with them, and preached an instructive and affecting discourse fromisa. xlix.
the numbers employed rendered these allotments but small, seldom more than three of six feet in length, devolving on one or two families.
some said they desired to pray to the true god, but were afraid the  gods of tahiti would– 51 – destroy them if they did: others remarked,  that the duff came last among the ships, but that, if the gospel had been  conveyed by the first ship, the gods of feathers, as they denominated their  idols, would long ago have been destroyed: and one of the principal chiefs, at  whose residence they spent the night, observed to the natives around, that he  believed the missionaries possessed the true foundation of knowledge.
in the month of january, 1806, pomare returned from eimeo, bringing with him the idol oro, which was kept in his sacred canoe; while the human sacrifices, offered on his arrival, were suspended on the trees around.
we explored the district  carefully, but often found the brushwood, and interlaced branches of the trees,  so impervious, that, without a hatchet, we should have penetrated but a short  distance from the winding paths trodden by the natives.
the effect of their letter was scarcely less on the minds of the  missionaries in eimeo, than the recital had been to themselves in tahiti.
before they returned, the king informed them, that, apprehensive of unfavourable results from the reports already in circulation among the chiefs and people, he could not consent to the prosecution of the manufacture of sugar, &c., excepting on a very limited scale.
we had been acquainted with mr. and mrs. orsmond before leaving england.
pursuing this plan,– 20 – they were under the necessity of presenting  to the natives a mode of spelling different from that which had been given to  europeans in the narratives of early voyagers.
on the 28th of july, 1813, a number of areois visited taaroarii's encampment at teataebua, five miles from papetoai, the missionary settlement; prepared an entertainment, invited him to attend, and, before it commened, were about to perform some heathen rites connected with the food they were to eat, and to deliver an oration, in which his rank, descent, and connexion with the gods by origin and family, and his future place among them, were to have been detailed.
two natives paddled our light single canoe along the smooth water  within the reefs, till we reached moru, where we landed, to take some  refreshment at the house of a friendly chief.
these proceedings, however, must have originated in very contracted views of the influence of such an establishment, which, while it may induce and encourage habits of more regular employment, can never diminish the demand for british calicoes, which will be superior in texture, pattern, &c. to any that can be made in the islands.
in these  thinly peopled, damp, and woody districts, they are exceedingly numerous and  annoying, especially to those who have recently arrived; and although during my  subsequent residence in the island, i was less incommoded by them, i was on  this occasion glad to escape their noise, &c. by leaving the house
the veranda in front of their dwelling was protected by chests, bedding,  and other articles, so as to afford a secure defence from musket-balls; and the  sides of the house, which were only boarded, were fortified with similar  materials.
at  such times, those who had stood round the missionary only to insult him by  their insinuations, ridicule him by their vulgar wit, or afflict his mind by  their death-like indifference to the important truths he had declared, have  instantly formed a ring around the areois, and gazed on their exhibitions of  folly and of vice with interest and pleasure.
ot think she would never be launched.
few among modern missionaries have been called to endure such afflictions; and it is matter of devout acknowledgment, that, notwithstanding the darkness of their prospects and the destitution of their circumstances, they were still enabled to persevere, and leave 76 the event with him, at whose command they had entered on their work.
shortly, however, after sunset this evening, the land-breeze came down from the mountains.
their private  devotions are on this, as well as other mornings, usually concluded by sunrise,  and shortly afterwards the greater part of the inhabitants assemble for their  sabbath morning prayer-meeting.
a project was formed by the pagan chiefs of pare, matavai, and apaiano, to  assassinate, in one night, every individual of the bure atua.
this  part of our voyage, for twelve or fourteen miles, was delightful.
from the time of  my arrival in the islands, i had always a great desire to know whether any  change had been made by the early preachers in their discourses, and other  means employed at this period: but i have not been able to learn that there was  any thing extraordinary; they do not appear in any respect to have varied the  manner, or the matter, of their instructions.
in all these labours he endeavoured to infuse his own  spirit into the bosom of his followers,– 68 – and to animate them by  his example, usually labouring with his people, and planting with his own hands  many of the trees.
on this, as well as other equally important points, their  queries, from native simplicity and entire ignorance, were sometimes both  puerile and amusing.
many purchased with avidity a thick blanket, which they would wear as anahubuu over the shoulders, or a pareu round the waist.
this meeting  originated in that held on the 26th of july, 1813, for the purpose of writing  the names of those who were desirous of publicly professing christianity; and  was designed for the particular instruction of such individuals, though it has  since assumed a more general character.
pomare then recommended his son, the king, to allow the atehuruan chiefs to retain the idol until a certain ceremony had been performed.
there are special meetings, held once a week, for the instruction of those who desire to make a public profession of the christian faith by baptism, and another for the candidates for communion.
when the printing-office was finished, as the purau branches composing the walls afforded but an indifferent shelter from the  rain and wind the– 219 – sides of the printing-office were boarded,  and one or two glass windows introduced; probably the first ever seen in eimeo.
considering her an idolatress, the missionaries deemed  this an inconsistent and unlawful act, and not only declined to sanction the  proceeding, but endeavoured by every means to dissuade him from it; but mr.  lewis, persevering in his determination, they dissolved the connexion that had  subsisted between him and themselves, as members of a christian church or  society, and discontinued all religious and social intercourse with him.
and this is my shelter, my close hiding-place, even from the anger of jehovah.
early voyages to the pacific—interest in behalf of the people  excited by the published accounts—formation of the missionary  society—sailing of the duff—arrival off tahiti—notice of a roman  catholic mission—opinion of captain cook on the formation of a settlement  in tahiti—cession of matavai—departure of the duff—influence of  the mechanic arts on the minds of the people—comparative estimate of iron  and gold—difficulties attending the acquisition of an unwritten  language—methods adopted by the missionaries—propensity to theft  among the natives—efforts to prevent human sacrifices and infant  murder—resolution of the missionaries relative to the use of fire-arms.
the coral rock makes excellent lime, not perhaps so strong as that made from rock-limestone, but fine, beautifully white, and durable.
the natives dive into the sea, sometimes several fathoms deep, in order to procure the solid or sponge-shaped coral, which for this purpose is better than the forked or branching kinds.
those in the new testament also interested them.
on the 16th of january, 1814,  idia, the king's mother, died.
the lively feeling that attended the establishment of the missionary society, the liberality of the principles recognized as its basis, and the combination of different parties in its support, were at that time adapted to excite in minds of a cautious and deliberative habit, and fearful of innovation, the apprehension that it had originated in a desire, on the part of its projectors, to signalize themselves, and secure a name and influence in the christian world, to which they were not otherwise entitled.
on one side the mountains of the interior, having  their outline edged, as it were with silver, from the rays of the moon, rose in  lofty magnificence, while the indistinct form, rich and diversified verdure, of  the shrubs and trees, increased the effect of the scene.
this obliged the europeans to watch very narrowly their  property.
we were robbed by an  english servant, whom we had taken from port jackson, of linen and clothing;
he appears to have passed the remainder of his life in inglorious indolence or wanton crime, to have become the mere instrument of the caprice or cruelty of the king of the island, who not only availed himself of the effects of his fire-arms in periods of war, but frequently ordered him to shoot at a man at a certain distance, in order to see how far the musket would do execution; or to despatch with his pistol, in the presence of the king, the ill-fated objects of his deadly anger.
hitherto their labours had  been confined to tahiti; but in december, 1802, mr. bicknell, accompanied by  mr. wilson, made a voyage to eimeo, and, travelling round it, preached  “the unsearchable riches of christ” to its inhabitants, many of whom
the dissatisfaction  of the farmers, inferior chiefs, and lower orders of the people, with pomare's  conduct, was daily increasing, and his recent massacre of the atehuruans had  greatly strengthened their determination to destroy his authority, and revive  the ancient aristocratical form of government.
mr. nott gladly complied with his request, and, accompanied by mr.  hayward, repaired a few days afterwards to his encampment.
the  presence of the chiefs of the different islands, with numbers of their people,  the former devotees of their respective national idols, and the adherents of  the different political parties, who had often within the last twenty years met  for battle on the shores of huahine or raiatea, together with the novelty of  the object, and the excitement of feeling which such a concourse of people  necessarily produced, rendered the meeting exceedingly interesting, though to  us it was less so than one subsequently held in fare, and that which we had  attended in eimeo.
shortly  after this decision, communications from england required a general meeting of  the missionaries from the several stations; and messrs. williams, barff, and  myself, went up from the– 286 – leeward islands to tahiti and eimeo.
when they beheld the letters black, and large, and well  defined, there was one simultaneous expression of wonder and delight.
both parties, however, after  assuming a hostile attitude for some time, adjusted their differences, and  returned in peace to their respective districts, mutually agreeing to embrace  christianity, and wait the arrival of the missionaries, whose residence among  them they had been led to expect.
it is difficult to suppose that, when this latter assertion was made, it simply meant, that, in connexion with other great doctrines of revelation, the missionaries taught that, in opposition to the lords many, and the gods many, the gods of wood, and stone, and feathers, the works of their own hands which the heathen worshipped, there was one living and true god.
a number of small round stones lay underneath, with which, when it was necessary to call the people together, the large one was struck.
they were small carved wooden images, rude imitations of the human figure; or shapeless logs of wood, covered with finely braided and curiously wrought cinet of cocoa-nut fibres, and ornamented with red feathers.
the greater part of the body is tataued, sometimes in broad stripes, or large masses of black, and always without any of the taste and elegance frequently exhibited in the figures marked on the persons of the tahitians.
it was the custom of the missionaries, not only to instruct the natives  in the school, preach to them in the chapel, and itinerate through the  villages, but to assemble them for the purpose of reading, from manuscript,  such portions of the scripture as were deemed suitable to their circumstances.
here the first missionaries frequently  heard the song accompanying the licentious areois dance, the deafening noise of  idol worship, and saw the human victim carried by for sacrifice: here, too,  they often heard the startling cry of war, and saw their frighted neighbours  fly before the murderous spear and plundering hand of lawless power.
there being no term in the native language answering to the word translated gospel, the greek word euangelion was introduced, some of the consonants being omitted in conforming it to the native idiom.
this meeting has always been highly interesting and has generally indicated the progressive improvement of the people.
they hastened to the idol temple of the district, which they demolished, breaking down the altars, and bringing forth their gods, which they execrated as false, and publicly committed to the flames.
following the example of those in raiatea,  their teachers made bonnets for themselves with the bark of thepurau;  and though the chief women acknowledged that they looked very well on them,  they said they had not yet procured the articles necessary to form a complete  european dress, that– 401 – many were still without shoes and  stockings, and that it would be quite ridiculous for the head to be covered  with a bonnet after the fashion of the foreigners, while the feet, like those  of the islanders in general, were without shoes.
as soon as possible, mr. nott was despatched by his companions to tahiti.
on our arrival in port jackson, this intelligence was confirmed, and we were also encouraged by the accounts we received of the abolition of idolatry by the whole of the inhabitants of the georgian or windward islands.
two or three hundred warriors came from eimeo to pomare's  aid.
the rebels conducted their expedition with so  much secrecy and despatch, that the king was taken by surprise.
may jehovah regard me before i die, and then i  shall rejoice, because i have obtained favour of jehovah.”
although many of the spectators undoubtedly viewed patii with  feelings analogous to those with which the melitians viewed the apostle paul  when the viper fastened on his hand, and were, many of them, evidently  disappointed when they saw no evil befal him, they did not attempt to rescue  the gods, when insulted, and perhaps riven by the axe, or stripped to be cast  into the flames.
when  he reached eimeo, he was an idolater, but soon became a pupil in the school;
he was a raiatean; who, after a defeat which his countrymen had sustained in an engagement with the daring and warlike natives of borabora, had taken shelter in huahine.
appearance and convenience, however, were not much considered by the society islanders, and it was often amusing to see a nativesans culotte, without waistcoat or shirt, with amaro or pareu round his waist, and a fashionably made black coat 395 on his back.
the ship was in great distress, the crew  in want of most of the necessaries of life, and the captain had nothing to  barter with the natives for supplies, but muskets and powder.
if satan be only a dependent creature, and the cause of  so much evil, which is displeasing to god, why does not god kill satan at once,  and thereby prevent all the evil of which he is the author?
some stimulus to more regular employment than that to which the natives had been accustomed, during the indolent state of society from which they were emerging, was still necessary for their individual happiness, as well as their national prosperity.
here an entertainment had been provided for them by the chiefs.
pomare withdrew, and they afterwards agreed not to resort to the use of arms, either for offence or defence.
they have a  number of these kinds of songs, some of considerable length, which i have at  different times written down.
discouraging as these circumstances were, the missionaries would not have abandoned their station, but for the destruction with which the civil war, and the defeat of the king, seriously threatened them; and, in addition to this darkened aspect of affairs, as it regarded the success of their enterprise, the state of feeling, bordering on hopeless despair, under which they departed from the islands, greatly augmented their distress.
this, to us and to them, was one of the most distressing discussions upon which we ever entered.
if so, i will soon convince you of their inability even to  preserve themselves.”
all that the settlers ever desired was, the permanent occupation of the ground  on which their dwellings and gardens were situated; yet, in writing to the  society, in 1804, they remark, in reference to the district, “the  inhabitants do not consider the district, nor any part of it, as belonging to  us, except the small sandy spot we occupy with our dwellings and gardens; and  even as to that, there are persons who claim the ground as theirs.”
in addition to the diseases resulting from their  immorality, – 66 – there were others of a contagious and often  fatal character, to which the natives were formerly strangers.
present circumstances and connexions claimed a thought.
notwithstanding this, it was– 250 –  impossible to behold without emotion either the scenery or inhabitants.
before we left, mr. gyles very obligingly had a quantity of cane bruised and boiled, that we might not only understand the theory, but witness the process of grinding canes, boiling the juice, and granulating the syrup, so as to introduce it among the inhabitants of the leeward islands.
they resolved that their arms should be used for defence only,  in the event of an attack being made upon their habitations; and not even then,  until every means of avoiding it had been employed.
the only hats i wore in the islands during the subsequent years of my residence there, were made with this material; and in that climate i should never desire any other.
rude as thou art, (for we returned thee rude and ignorant, except of  outward show,) i cannot think thee
they were left to sustain alone the toils, sorrows, and privations of  their remote and isolated station, and privations of their remote and isolated  station, and to pursue in solitary pilgrimage the arduous and rugged track in  which the providence of god had called them to walk, far from the sympathy of  the kindred and friends of the departed.
others expressed the same determination; and pomare came forward alone, requesting baptism, and desiring to hear and obey the word of god, as he said he desired to be happy after death, and to be saved at the day of judgment.
they  erected, within the precincts of their garden, a beautiful but rustic little  summer-house or cottage, which they call afare bure huna, or house for  hidden– 372 – prayer.
the decision  of those who left tahiti, may to some, perhaps, appear premature, but it is not  easy to form a correct estimate of the dangers to which they were exposed.
this has been one of the most important  and efficient means of promoting general and religious improvement in the  islands.
at any rate, there is reason 303 to hope that whatever difficulties may yet be encountered, the efforts made to introduce this branch of labour will be advantageous to the natives.
but the most interesting of these referred to england; and although their recollections of captain cook were generally more indistinct, and very different from those entertained by the sandwich islanders, he was often alluded to; and we were asked, if any members of his family still survived, and whether they would ever come to the islands.
mr. davies, i believe, first taught them to sing, and a tune usually called  “george's” was the first they learned.
the betsy of london, a letter of marque, arrived with a spanish brig her prize, 39 with which she was proceeding from south america to port jackson.
while he was employed in dressing our bread-fruit, &c. we removed some of the boxes, piled up our luggage as compactly as we could, and, when the food was prepared, sat down to a pleasant repast of fried fish, bread-fruit, and plantains, cocoa-nut milk, and tea.
the communications from england conveyed to the missionaries the welcome and the needed assurance that they were not forgotten by their friends at home; but most of the articles, especially those of clothing, from the length of time they had been lying at port jackson, and the wretched state of the vessel in which they were sent, were so injured as to be almost useless; the packages were wet with the sea-water, and their contents consequently spoiled.
their dress was generally a pareu round the waist; and a native tiputa over their shoulders, which covered the upper part of the body, excepting the arms.
their most zealous devotees were in general now convinced of their  delusion, and the people united in declaring that the gods had deceived them,  were unworthy of their confidence, and should no longer be objects of respect  or trust.
there was a degree of openness  in their countenances, and vivacity in their manners, which was not unpleasing.
they were directed to let it remain undisturbedthat probably long before the resurrection it would be so completely dissolved, and mingled with the surrounding earth, that no trace would be left of the form in which it had been deposited.
besides these sources of intensely painful reflection, there  is something overwhelming in the thought of relatives and friends removed from  the world of hope and probation, having their doom irrevocably fixed!
the splendid appearance of the loose and flowingahu  puu, or the richness of the tiputa, dyed in their bright and  favourite scarlet and yellow colours, together with some of their head-dresses  of tropicbird feathers, and garlands of the gayest flowers, gave them certainly  an imposing appearance.
a  portion of scripture was read, a prayer offered to the almighty, and the  service closed.
sugarcane was, however, procured  from the gardens of the adjacent districts, and sugar made in the presence of  the natives, who were delighted on discovering that an article, so highly  esteemed, could be made on their own shores, from the spontaneous product of  their soil.
when the food was  ready, we were requested to seat ourselves on the dry grass that covered the  floor of the house.
if dr. carpenter meant that, with these doctrines as parts of a revelation, to the completeness of which they were essential, and in the full declaration of which their own fidelity was to be proved, the missionaries inculcated a belief in one god; he must have known, that the term unitarianism, when used as descriptive of such teaching, was inapplicable to the sentiments of those who have designated themselves unitarians.
before, however, she fairly floated, an accident occurred, which threw a damp over the spirits of all present.
to the head they  attributed nothing in connexion with intellect, nor to the heart with regard to  moral feeling.
those who were unarmed, now repaired to their tents, and procured their weapons.
in the beginning of 1816, pomare sent most of his own family idols to the  missionaries, that, as he observed in a letter accompanying them, dated  february 19th, “they might either commit them to the flames, or send them  to england.”
their countenances were open and lively; many had a small bunch of the fragrant and delicately white gradenia, orcape jessamine flowers, in their hair; in addition to which, several of their chief women wore two or three fine native pearls fastened together with finely braided human hair, and hanging pendent from one of their ears, while the other was adorned with a native flower.
the rapidity with which the natives appeared to speak, and the want of divisions between the words.
five months after the departure  of the missionaries in the nautilus, two large vessels were seen standing  towards matavai bay.
the prayer is excellent, and the  translation, which i also received from mr. nott, will require from the  christian reader no apology for its insertion, as a specimen of the style and  sentiments employed by the natives of tahiti in their devotional services.
the time was fixed for the perpetration of this bloody deed.
our houses  were now thronged by individuals anxious to be instructed; and so soon as mrs.  barff or mrs. ellis had taught any of the females, these immediately taught  others; and those who excelled in the fineness of their platting, or in putting  it together, were fully employed by the chiefs and others, and derived no small  emolument from their new avocation.
they could not but indulge unfavourable  apprehensions on his account; yet, considering his previous habits, that  intemperance had ever been the vice to which he was most addicted, and the  peculiar temptations to which his residence in tahiti had exposed him, they  could not readily relinquish the hopes they had entertained respecting him.
to produce and sustain this  conviction in the minds of the people around him, should be among the first and  the constant endeavours of a missionary.
accordingly, on the 14th of may, “in order to satisfy the  king, and quiet the minds of the people,” they advised mr. gyles “to  return to new south wales by the first conveyance.”
this, taaroarii strictly prohibited;  declaring that he intended no longer to acknowledge the gods of tahiti, which  were no gods; that no more ceremonies should be performed on his account, as he  purposed to worship jehovah, he was anxious to know more respecting god, and  wished them also to hear about him; and, therefore, sent a message to mr. nott,
the king and principal chiefs appeared at the east, which, contrary to the order observed in their antipodes, is considered the court end.
it is not easy, nor is it material, to determine which of these two houses was finished first.
when the place became again too small, a similar enlargement had been made; and, as the new piece which supported the roof, was laid upon the former ridge-pole, it distinctly marked the increase of christian worshippers at the place within the last four or five years.
the missionaries who had arrived in the duff, had now acquired so much of the language as to be able to preach to the natives in their own tongue, and to engage in the catechetical instruction of the children.
but the ship duff had not  sailed, and the spirit of missionary enterprise was not aroused in the british  churches.
arrival in the south sea islands—anchorage in matavai—visit  from pomare—landing his horse—interview with the queen and  princess—astonishment of the natives on viewing the horse and his  rider—voyage to eimeo—opunohu. or taloo harbour—landing at  eimeo—welcome– vi – from the natives—first night on  shore—present from the chiefs—visit to the schools—first sabbath  in the islands—description of the native chapel—appearance and  behaviour of native congregations—voyage to afareaitu—native  meal—description of afareaitu—removal—conveyance—arrival.
the native  carpenters will be able to make looms, as they have made turning-lathes, which,  though rude, will be such as to answer their purpose.
the public road, from six to twelve feet  wide, which led through the district, extending in a line parallel with the  coast, presented all its curvatures.
numbers of the vanquished fled to eimeo, where they were received by the king, or protected by the chiefs, who had taken no part whatever in the wars that were now desolating tahiti, and who determined to observe the strictest neutrality; or, if they acted at all, to do so only on the defensive, should invasion be attempted.
his forehead was rather prominent and high, his eyebrows narrow, well defined, and nearly straight; his hair, which was combed back from his forehead, and the sides of his face, was of a glossy black colour, slightly curled behind; his eyes were small, sometimes appearing remarkably keen, at others rather heavy; his nose was straight, and the nostrils by no means large, his lips were thick, and his chin projecting.
in the native language, they also possess old and new testament historiesseveral large editions of spelling-books, reading lessons, and different catechismsa short system of arithmeticthe codes of laws for the different islandsregulations for barter, and their intercourse with shipping.
the missionaries in raiatea also erected a mill more efficient than the one we had constructed in huahine, cultivated a quantity of 290 cane, made sugar themselves, and taught the inhabitants of the island to do the same.
their salutations were often exceedingly ceremonious.
as we stopped occasionally to speak to some of the natives standing near their huts, we had frequent opportunities of observing the value they set upon the comforts of our english style of cotage, and other things introduced among them of late.
the whole number of hearers, according to the nearest calculation, was about  seven thousand; and, notwithstanding this number assembled, a space remained  between the different congregations.
this was, indeed, a matter of regret to the missionaries; but it was also an evidence of his displeasure at the treatment they had received.
it was cheering to behold the people so prepared to receive the sacred volume, and anxious to possess it.
they are, however, productive of important benefit.
the universal, and in many instances decisive moral and religious change, that has been effected in the south sea islands, (of the commencement, and more important parts of which, a regular, though necessarily brief account, has now been 185 given,) appears, in whatever view we can possibly contemplate either its nature or its results, nothing less than a moral miracle.
most of those who wear it now are able to procure at  least one complete suit, and consequently appear less singular.
ix arrival in the south sea islands—anchorage in matavai—visit  from pomare—landing his horse—interview with the queen and  princess—astonishment of the natives on viewing the horse and his  rider—voyage to eimeo—opunohu, or taloo harbour—landing at  eimeo—welcome from the natives—first night on shore—present from  the chiefs—visit to the schools—first sabbath in the  islands—description of the native chapel—appearance and behaviour of  native congregations—voyage to afareaitu—native meal—description  of afareaitu—removal thither—means of conveyance—arrival at the  station.
luka, orte parau na luka,  “luke, or, the word of luke,” was the simultaneous reply, accompanied  with the exhibition of the bamboo-canes filled with cocoa-nut oil, which they  held up in their hands, and had brought as payment for the copies required.
it resembled the dismantling of some dark and gloomy fortress, or the razing to its very foundation of some horrid prison of despotism and cruelty, with the materials of which, when cut and polished and adorned, a fair and noble structure was, on its very ruins, to be erected, rising in grandeur, symmetry, and beauty, to the honour of its proprietor, and the admiration of every beholder.
mr. orsmond appeared to sustain his bereavement with christian fortitude.
with great effort she was replaced, during the same afternoon, in an upright position, and subsequently launched upon the bosom of the pacific, amid the exulting shouts of the multitudes who thronged the shores.
they could not but indulge unfavourable apprehensions on his account; yet, considering his previous habits, that intemperance had ever been the vice to which he was most addicted, and the peculiar temptations to which his residence in tahiti had exposed him, they could not readily relinquish the hopes they had entertained respecting him.
arrival of the first ship after the duff's departure—assault upon  the missionaries—its disastrous consequences—pomare's  revenge—death of oripaia—league against pomare—invasion of  matavai—description and character of haamanemane—his  assassination—murder of mr. lewis—pomare's offering for the mission  chapel—arrival of a king's ship—friendly communications from the  governor of new south wales—government orders—act of parliament for  the protection of the south sea islanders—arrival of the royal  admiral—landing of the missionaries—departure of mr.
oito was an inhabitant, if not a  native, of hautaua, and in this lovely, verdant, and sequestered valley, the  first native meeting for prayer was held, and the first associated vows were  paid to heaven.
our sabbath afternoon worship on the quarter-deck had just terminated; mrs. ellis was lying on a sofa, and, observing unusual indications of terror in the countenance of the boy at the helm, she said, what is it that alarms you?
they were in the possession of fire-arms, which they had brought on shore solely with a view to intimidate the natives, and deter any, who, unrestrained by the influence of the chiefs who had guarantied their protection, might be disposed to attack them.
it was, when i was last there, in 1824, one of the most neat, substantial, and convenient modern houses in the settlement, containing two stories and eight apartments.
he had occasionally been with the king  since his return to tahiti, and some remarks from pomare had awakened  convictions of sin in his conscience.
he  frequently observed, that the heaviest labour and the most spacious and  enduring buildings ever erected, were in connexion with the worship of their  former deities, illustrating his remarks by allusion to the nationalmaraes at atehuru, tautira, and other parts; declaring, at the same time, his  conviction that the religion of the bible was so much superior to that under  which they formerly lived, and the service of the true god so happy and  beneficial in its influence, that they ought to erect a much better place for  the homage of jehovah than had ever been reared for the worship of their idols.
the occupation furnished by the new order of things that has followed the introduction of christianity, is one of the important sources of their present enjoyment.
when the congregation has dispersed, the  children are conducted to the schools in the same order in which they came to  the chapel, and are there dismissed by one of their teachers.
wheat is not grown in any of the islands; it has often been tried,  but, either form the heat of the climate, the exceeding fertility of the soil,  or the absence of regular seasons, it has always failed.
the orthography of bougainville, who visited tahiti in 1768, about twelve months after its discovery by wallis
this they  knew could not be done without their permission, and that permission they could  at any time withhold.
east india company, but who now generously offered  to conduct the distant and adventurous voyage.
when he approached– 112 – the burning  pile, he laid them down on the ground.
the mighty workings of the spirit of god, in producing this remarkable change, were not confined to tahiti, eimeo, and the adjacent islands, forming the georgian group, it extended also to the leeward or society islands.
a number of the broad leaves of the purau, hibiscus tileaceus, having the stalks plucked off close to the leaf, were then spread on the ground, in two or three successive layers, with the downy or under side upwards, and two or three were handed by a servant to each individual, instead of a plate.
it having been agreed to designate the first vessel of any size built in the islands 242
407 along the coast, many were unloading their canoes, or drawing them upon the beach for security.
he visited us almost daily until the 30th, when, having received intimation that it was ready for the press, he came, attended by only two of his favourite chiefs.
when we arrived in eimeo, messrs. hayward and bicknell were residing in boarded dwellings with chambers, and mr. nott in a house, the walls of which were neatly plastered.
the doctrine of divine benevolence, thus displayed, was altogether new to the  tahitians; nothing analogous to it had ever entered into any part of their  mythology.
this meeting has always been highly interesting and has  generally indicated the progressive improvement of the people.
it is my earnest  desire, that i may become one of jehovah's people; and that god may turn away  his anger from me, which i deserve, for my wickedness, my ignorance of him, and  my accumulated crimes!”
it was a period of humiliation, darkness, and distress; while the population of tahiti itself was torn by factions, and desolated by wars, that threatened its extinction.
all agreed  that they looked very strange, and the wearers appeared to think so themselves;  but it was supposed to be according to the usage of ladies in england,—and  to the despotism of fashion, even here, all minor considerations were rendered  subservient.
four, besides those we occupied, were of considerable size, belonging to the  chiefs; the others were mere huts.
when the flour, and other foreign articles of provision which we had brought from port jackson, were nearly expended, we subsisted almost entirely on native food; and though most of it was rather unsavoury at first, it afterwards became tolerably palatable.
it was not very distant, and seemed moving towards our apparently devoted boat.
bent on the conquest of the whole island, and  desirous, in conjunction with those attached to his interests, of depriving his  father and younger brother of all authority in tahiti, muskets and powder were  articles in greatest demand, and the aid of europeans was most earnestly  desired.
in person, pomare, like most of the chiefs of the south sea islands, was tall and stout; in stature he was six feet four inches high, his limbs active and well-proportioned, his whole from and gait imposing.
the watchful providence of god, over his infant cause in these  islands, was remarkably conspicuous in preserving patii and his friends, and  allowing them, after the events of the evening, safely and peacefully to  retire.
the houses of the chiefs were better built, and more capacious; the roofs generally impervious, and the sides frequently enclosed with straight white poles of the hibiscus tree.
such individuals did not always like to go back to the lowest classes; yet it was necessary.
renewed endeavours to promote industry among the peoplearrival of messrs. blossom and armitageestablishment of cotton factoryfirst cloth made in eimeoprospects of successdeath of mrs. orsmondvoyage to raiateasudden approach of a stormconduct of the nativesappearance of waterspoutsemotions awakened by the surrounding phenomenaeffects of waterspouts on the minds of the nativesconduct of a party overtaken by one at seadeliverance during a voyage from the sandwich islandsabatement of the stormarrival at raiateakindness of the inhabitantsdistrict of opoavisit to the settlementimportance of educationmethods of instructionsabbath schoolsannual examination of the scholarspublic processioncontrast between the present and former circumstances of the children.
when they approached the  shores of this island, the idolatrous party appeared in considerable force on  the beach, assumed a hostile attitude, prohibited their landing, and repeatedly  fired upon the king's party.
it has sometimes been unwarrantably 85 insinuated, that the founders of the missionary society expected to convert the heathen to christianity by their own energy; and the allegation has been occasionally repeated since those days,perhaps, in some instances, to increase the impression produced by the accounts of the recent changes which have taken place in those islands, contrasting the former and latter results of missionary labours, and representing them as demonstrations of the impotency of man, and the power of the most high.
success did not bring peace or rest to the victorious 141 party.
the vessel was but  imperfectly manned, and a number of natives, of raiatea and tahiti, were taken  on board, to dive among the lagoon– 133 – islands for the pearl  oyster.
notwithstanding his being thus engaged, they told him jehovah alone was god, that pigs were not acceptable to him as offerings, that jesus christ was the true atonement for sin, and that god was offended with them for killing men.
in answer, he was  told that the facts of satan's dependence on, or subjection to the almighty,  and his yet being permitted to tempt men to evil, were undeniable from the  declarations of scripture, and the experience of every one accustomed to  observe the operations of his own mind.
in the  month of june, the flame of war was rekindled in taiarabu, and the district of  atehuru, where the king's party suddenly attacked the inhabitants; and, after  killing upwards of one hundred, including their principal chiefs, covered the  country with all the murder and desolation that usually attended the march of  the infuriated bands through the territories of those who were too weak to  oppose their progress.
no tumult followed, and no one came forward to revenge the  insult offered to the tutelar deities of their country.
the death of pomare did not alter the  political state of tahiti; its only influence on the people was such as tended  to confirm them in their superstition; for, on the occasion of a religious  ceremony, wherein his spirit was invoked, and which took place shortly after  his decease, it was declared that he was seen by idia, and one of the priests.
the reflections also associated with the purpose for which it had been erected, and the recent events in the history of the people, whose first national christian temple we were visiting, awakened a train of solemn and grateful emotions.
he printed two more; and, while he was so  engaged, the first sheet was shewn to the crowd without, who, when they saw it,  raised one general shout of astonishment and joy.
their wants were few, and their desires limited to the means of mere animal existence and enjoyment; these were supplied without much anxiety or effort, and, possessing these, they were satisfied.
it has also long been a place of celebrity, not only in raiatea, but throughout the whole of the society islands.
such vessels usually entered the reefs that surround the two islands, either at the opening called teavapiti, a little to the southward of utumaora, or at that denominated tomahahotu, opposite the south end of the island of tahaa.
the greater part of the people, however, spend the middle of the day in their own dwellings.
the stations have also been hitherto but indifferently supplied with a far more useful appendage to their places of public worship than even a dial, namely, a bell.
the conditions on which they were instructed were almost such as they or their friends chose to propose, both as to 301 the time they should continue, and the hours they should labour; and instead of receiving a premium for teaching them, mr. armitage agreed to pay them for every ounce of cotton they should spin.
the thatch was composed of the leaves of thepandanus,  neatly fastened on rafters ofpurau or hibiscus, and the walls, or sides  and ends, were formed with straight branches resembling the rafters, and  planted in the ground about two inches asunder.
pomare, however, appeared to experience great satisfaction in superintending its erection, and in marking its progress.
they had erected a number of dwelling-houses,  and a building for divine service, larger than that at huahine, but inferior in  elevation and breadth; being forty-two feet wide, and at the sides about ten  feet high.
they replied, that they were evil spirits, and had never done them any good, but had caused frequent and desolating wars.
about nine o'clock in the morning, mr. barff and myself, accompanied by five natives, and an english sailor who had charge of the boat, embarked from huahine.
the district around, which when we arrived was  altogether uncultivated, and overrun with brushwood growing in wild luxuriance,  has been cleared; the garden has been again enclosed, and planted with many  useful vegetable productions of the tropical regions.
we trust some 247 advantage was derived from the instructions they had received; and we have every reason to remember, with pleasure, the hospitality and kindness we experienced.
the chiefs and greater part of the population of tahaa, an island included in the same reef with raiatea, imitated the example of tamatoa and the raiatean christians, and destroyed their idols.
the house in which we lodged was near the shore; and the long heavy billows of the sea rolling in successive surges over the coral reefs that surround the island, kept up, through the night, a hollow and heavy sound, resembling that produced by the rumbling of carriages in a vast city, heard at a distance in the stillness of evening.
i am going a journey around tahiti, to  acquaint the raatiras with the word of god, and to cause them to be vigilant  about good things.
the evening passed pleasantly and rapidly away;  many of the pious inhabitants and chiefs, in the neighbourhood, came to greet  our arrival, with evident emotions of delight; among them was one, whose  salutation i shall never forget: “ia ora na oe i te
i have known some of these devoted men, who, though not  insensible to the endearments of kindred and home, and the comforts of  civilized life, have for years been deprived of what most would deem the  necessaries of life.
this was not only the signal for war, but the commencement of hostilities.
the way being thus opened for the resumption of their work, and depending on the blessing of god, they again embarked, in the autumn of 1811, for the islands.
their salutations were  often exceedingly ceremonious.
the missionaries were accustomed to meet for prayer at sunrise, on the morning of the sabbath.
on the minds of the family, and the inhabitants of the place, it produced a powerful impression.
the wind died away, and a perfect calm succeeded.
the present state of the islands in which they have spent so many years, compared with what it was at the time of their arrival, and during several subsequent years, is a sufficient refutation to every charge of this kind.
every implement of iron was converted into a weapon of war.
both parties, however, after assuming a hostile attitude for some time, adjusted their differences, and returned in peace to their respective districts, mutually agreeing to embrace christianity, and wait the arrival of the missionaries, whose residence among them they had been led to expect.
he was a native of manchester, where the members of his family still reside.
after the abolition of idolatry in tahiti and eimeo, and the subsequent adoption of christianity by their inhabitants, mahine, the king of huahine, had sent down vahaivi, one of his principal men, with directions to the chiefs to burn the idols, demolish the temples, and discontinue the ceremonies and worship connected therewith.
by some of the natives,  this journey has been regarded as a measure of policy adopted by the king, to  prevent the chiefs of the eastern part of eimeo joining his enemies in tahiti,  and to attach them to his own interest.
this constant variety deprived him of all useful knowledge, and diverted his attention from the important subjects that demanded his notice while residing in the metropolis of britain.
under cover of the darkness of night, they sent spies from the retreats to their habitations, and to the places of security in which they had left their aged and helpless relatives, their children, and their wives.
they would then pronounce others, as a i, and ask what it  meant; the natives, putting their hand to the back of the neck, and repeating ai, told them that that part of the body was thus called.
illustration of this remark may be found in pomare's prayer, recorded in page 163; his letter, page 173; the experience of the dying areoi, page 172; the conduct of the astonished native, on hearing the 3d chapter of st. john's gospel, as given in page 187 of the present volume; and other places, which it is needless to enumerate.
houses, plantations, districts, and even whole islands, were sometimes  presented; still, those who thus received them, never thought of appropriating  them to their own use, and excluding their original proprietors, any more than  a visitor in england, who should be told by his host to make himself perfectly  at home, and to do as he would if he were in his own house, would, from this  declaration, think of altering the apartments of the house, or removing from it  any part of its furniture.
the walls at the ends and the back were plastered with excellent  coral lime; and both the printing-house and dwelling were floored with  bread-fruit boards,– 275 – split or sawn by the natives; the windows  in the bed-rooms, sitting-rooms, study, and printing-house, were glazed; and,  what was a new and strange thing to the natives, our kitchen, in which was a  stone oven, fire-place, and chimney, was included under the same roof.
with more frequency, however, and greater eagerness, they often  inquired how they could prevent evil thoughts arising in their minds during  seasons of devotion—how they could avoid repeating words of prayer  unattended by devotional desires—and how they could at all times engage  the heart in this exercise?
the long flat neck of land which forms its northern boundary, was the spot on which captain cook erected his tents, and fixed his instruments for observing the transit of venus; on which account, it has ever since been called point venus.
– 169 – mahine sent a special message to huahine, and the same change took place in  that island; which was perhaps, for its size and population, more attached to  its idols than any other.
the timber principally employed in their buildings, is  the wood of the bread-fruit; and although they are careful of this valuable  tree, it is necessary frequently to urge the duty of planting, in order to  ensure a future supply not only of timber but of food, as the large trees are  now comparatively few, and the population is evidently in creasing.
those who had not printed books, wrote out portions of scripture for these occasions, and sometimes the prayers they used.
the  chiefs vied with each other in the size, elevation, or conveniences of their  houses: some being, like pohuetea's and teriitaria's, built upon a pier in the  sea; others preparing to attach verandas, by which they could remain cool under  a meridian sun; others erected rude covered balconies, in which they might  enjoy a more extended prospect, be shaded from the sun, and breathe purer air.
the walls were plastered within and without.
mr. henry was the only one of the number who had left, that resumed his labours in tahiti.
the king endeavoured to convince his companions that their idea of  the power of the gods was altogether imaginary, and that they had been the  subjects of complete delusion; but the people could not believe him: and  although the meal was finished without any evil result, they carried away the  dishes with many expressions of astonishment, confidently expecting some  judgment would overtake him before the morrow, for they could not believe that  an act of sacrilege, such as he had been guilty of, could be committed with  impunity.
six hundred children assembled to partake of the feast their parents had  provided.
this arose from the circumstance of the word, which in english is translated scribe, being in tahitian rendered writer, and the secretaries of the native missionary societies being the only individuals among them thus designated.
after wandering some time among the  clustering sugar-cane, rows of pine-apples, plantains, and bananas, i  approached this house for private devotion.
the only clothing most of them wore was  a girdle of cloth bound loosely round the waist, and a shade of cocoa-nut  leaves over their foreheads.
but the most  impressive exercise of mind was that referring to the awful change approaching.
when they first entered with their bonnets on, much surprise was not excited; but when these were removed, and the cap appeared, they viewed each other for some time most significantly, without, 393 however, saying a word, yet each seeming to wonder whether her head, with its new appendages, resembled in appearance that of her neighbour.
raveae was retiring towards the main body of mahine's men, when one of the idolaters, who had outrun his companions, sprang upon him before he was aware of his approach.
be not angry, restore, restore; this is the sin, deceived by the foreigners  (she) has forsaken you.
each audience, consisting of upwards of two thousand hearers, assembled round the respective pulpits within the same building.
we were desirous to induce some of the chiefs to  attempt the erection of a stone house; but they had no proper tools for  preparing the stone, and the labour was also greater than in their present  state of civilization they were disposed to undertake.
the floor was covered partly with the trunks of trees split in two, and partly  paved with stone.
all the books, hitherto in circulation among the people, had  been gratuitously distributed; but when the first portion of scripture was  finished, as it was a larger book than had yet been published, it was thought  best to require a small equivalent for it, lest the people should expect that  books afterwards printed would be given also, and lest, from the circumstance  of their receiving them without payment, they should be induced to undervalue  them.
in 1821, captain  grimes “was surprised at the regularity and good order observed; the  children of the sabbath-school were ushered in by their teachers in their  different classes, with as much uniformity as we see in public schools in  london.”
the wind was contrary throughout the day, and it was near sunset before mrs. ellis and our little girl, with her nurse, arrived in the canoe.
it was not very  distant, and seemed moving towards our apparently devoted boat.
pomare was also on board the same vessel when it was driven from the shores of eimeo, and exerted his influence to persuade the people of the leeward islands to embrace the christian religion.
they spent about two hours on board; and then, followed by their numerous retinue, returned to the shore.
it was also truly affecting to see many of them, not with phylacteries,  but with portions of scripture, or the texts they had heard preached from,  written on scraps of paper, or fragments of cloth, preserved with care, and  read till fixed in the memory of their possessors.
sometimes the child would smile and hang its head, and fall upon its mother's  shoulder, as if it knew not which to choose.
in this island captain cook judged it most prudent to establish his fellow-voyager, and consequently solicited for him a grant of land from the chiefs.
in january, 1775, the ships returned, taking two other natives with them.29 the missionaries do not seem to have held much, if any, intercourse with the people; they remained about ten months in the island, when the ships, in which they had arrived, returned, and they embarked for lima.
the men who remained at home, in times of war, were generally either aged or sick, and incapable of bearing arms.
in connexion with this subject, and others of a similar kind, the most important referred to what might be called their christian experiencethe effect of texts of scripture committed to memory, in stimulating to duty, and restraining from sin.
they  are punctual in repairing to the house of prayer after the first intimation,  and are usually all assembled before the period for the service to commence has  arrived.
the true god jehovah, it was  he that made us acquainted with these things.
iron tools they considered the most valuable articles they could possess; and a circumstance that occurred during the second visit of the duff, will decisively shew the comparative value they placed upon gold and iron.
pomare had for  some time past shewn his contempt for the idols of his ancestors, and his  desire to be taught a more excellent way, that he might obtain the favour of  the true god.
mai, on  his arrival in london, was considered a sort of prodigy; he was introduced to  fashionable parties, conducted to the splendid entertainments of the highest  classes, and presented at the british court amidst a brilliant assemblage of  all that was illustrious in rank, and dignified in station.
questions of this kind were only presented during the first stages of their christian progress, and they were not frequent.
tino, the idolatrous priest, and his  companions, had, in the name of oro, promised their adherents a certain and an  easy triumph.
in this state we  continued, i suppose, about two hours, hoping that the clouds would disperse,  and the winds abate; but, instead of this, the storm seemed to increase, and  with it our danger.
it is not, however,  improbable that stone buildings will ultimately supersede the neat, yet,  compared with those erected of less perishable materials, temporary dwellings  they are now occupying.
with one solitary exception, the humanizing and elevating principles of the bible do not appear to have been presented to his notice, and he seemed to have derived no benefit from his voyage.
midday was past before we entered matavai bay.
but this is not the only  advantage resulting therefrom.
a piece of twisted bark was tied across it, and fastened to the tree.
he applied to the missionaries for assistance, and, entering the room in which they were assembled, inquired how many of them knew how to make war.
on his arrival, a small pig and a young plantain were  procured, and handed to patii; who, in offering them to his god, thus addressed  him:o
notwithstanding the inferior appearance of the cloth  manufactured in eimeo, it was soon found to be more durable than that procured  from the ships.
this inspired, them for the conflict, and made them more  confident and obstinate in battle than they would otherwise have been; but the  tide of conquest, which had rolled with them in the onset, and during the early  part of the engagement, was already turned against them, and as the tidings of  their leader's death became more extensively known, they spread a panic through  the ranks he had commanded.
it also prevails among the natives of madagascar.
the house had been enclosed with a fence five or six feet high; but this, instead of presenting an obstacle to the gratification of their curiosity, was converted into the means of facilitating it: numbers were constantly seen sitting on the top of the railing; whereby they were able to look over the heads of their companions who were round the windows.
the present state of the  islands in which they have spent so many years, compared with what it was at  the time of their arrival, and during several subsequent years, is a sufficient  refutation to every charge of this kind.
some of the leading chiefs, in order to enjoy a more extensive prospect, and to breathe a purer atmosphere, left the humility and shade of the lowland and the valley, and built their houses on the sides of the verdant hills 357 that rise immediately behind the bay, and form the connecting link between the rocks around the beach and the high mountains of the interior.
he welcomed me to tahiti; but, at the  same time, appeared disappointed when he learned that only one missionary had  arrived, having been led to expect several.
this, when finished, they  considered their own part of the chapel; and near the part of the wall they had  built, and the side of the roof they had thatched, they usually fitted up their  sittings.
he was  still constant in attendance on public worship, industrious in the culture of  his garden, and in working for the king and principal chiefs, who were  evidently much attached to him.
however, should the missionaries arrive at morea, write to me quickly,  that i may know.
by the same vessel, a supply of printing paper was sent from the british and foreign bible society.
it was not in words only, but also in their application,  that the most ludicrous mistakes were made by the people.
such was the pleasing state of things in the commencement of 1815.
mr. g. bicknell, a nephew of mr.
as soon as the  printing was finished, we prepared to remove to the island of huahine, the most  windward of the group properly called the society islands.
that, as they could not divert its channel so as to avoid the building without great additional labour, and judged it best to make a grating at each side under the wall, and allow it to pass in its accustomed course.
pomare,  considering himself the protector of the missionaries, though he did not appear  to think he had been murdered, yet proposed, if it appeared to the survivors  that such had been the fact, to destroy the inhabitants of the district; and so  much did many of the latter fear such an event, that they fled to the  mountains.
it  was some months since they had arrived from their native islands, which they  had left for the purpose of procuring books and teachers for their countrymen.
they were occasionally visited by shipping; and the latter has, since the removal of the missionary station, become the general place of anchorage.
excepting those parts enclosed as gardens or plantations, the land near the  shore is covered with long grass, or a species of convolvulus, called by the  natives pohue; numerous clumps of trees, and waving cocoa - nuts, add much to  the beauty of its appearance.
upufara, the late chief of papara, was an intelligent and  interesting man; his death was deeply regretted by tati, his near relative, and  successor in the government of the district.
visiting almost daily the spot, and living in habits of intercourse  with the successors of mai, i have been often led to compare the views and  circumstances of the present inhabitants of beritani with those of the resident  originally left there by its discoverer; and in connexion with the  circumstances of mai after his return to his native islands,– 374 –  the following beautiful and pathetic lines have often occurred to my mind; and  though perused on the spot with sensations probably unfelt elsewhere, i have  nevertheless supposed, that could the poet have foreseen what has since taken  place, not only in this island, but throughout the group—or had he lived  in the present day—he would never, in anticipation of their abandonment
the progress of divine truth was so rapid among  the natives, that, in the close of 1814, not fewer than 300 hearers regularly  attended the preaching of the gospel.
pomare had, ever since our arrival, been engaged in preparing materials, and erecting a chapel, at papaoa, by far the largest ever built in the islands; it had been opened twelve months before those in the leeward islands were finished.
for some years after our arrival in the islands, the supply of this last  article was very inadequate and uncertain; we have been months at a time  without tasting it, either in the form of bread or any other preparation.
there was no division or skreen between the sleeping places, but the  whole ranged along in parallel lines from one end of the house to the other.
soon after his arrival, i took the composing-stick in my hand, and, observing  pomare looking with curious delight at the new and shining types, i asked him  if he would like to put together the first a b, or alphabet.
at the close of the examination, the children were rewarded by mr. barff, who, on delivering the presents, which were different books in the native language, accompanied each by a suitable remark to the favoured proprietor.
the people of africa, said he, have already done so; for though, like us, they have no money, they have given of their sheep, and other property.
he therefore allowed the canoes to drift towards the reef, until they were broken on the rocks.
part of  each day was by several devoted to the study of the language, while once a  week, the whole met together for conversation and mutual aid.
he burst into tears, and as these chased each other down his  countenance, he retired to meditate in private on the amazing love of god,  which had that day reached his soul; and there is every reason to believe he  was afterwards raised to share the peace and happiness resulting from the love  of god shed abroad in his heart.
convinced, that  though the chiefs of the victorious army might be friendly to them, yet that  they could not restrain their followers, who, in time of war, threw off all  subordination; and expecting that the victors, after this success, would  instantly– 82 – attack their dwelling, and that their lives were no  longer secure, the missionaries remaining at tahiti fled to eimeo, where they  were shortly after joined by the king.
ev'ry speck seen in the dim horizon turns thee pale
it was called hawaii; and as distant colonies are said to have proceeded from it, it was probably the place at which some of the first inhabitants of the south sea island arrived.
a rustic sort of table, or desk, between three and four feet high, stood on one side, equally distant from each end, and the whole of the building was filled with low forms, on which the natives were sitting; while on one side i saw one or two forms longer and 205 broader than the rest, with small ledges on the sides, filled with sand, for the purpose of teaching writing after the manner of the national schools in england.
the lively feeling that attended the establishment  of the missionary society, the liberality of the principles recognized as its  basis, and the combination of different parties in its support, were at that  time adapted to excite in minds of a cautious and deliberative habit, and  fearful of innovation, the apprehension that it had originated in a desire, on  the part of its projectors, to signalize themselves, and secure a name and  influence in the christian world, to which they were not otherwise entitled.
his ship remained stationary nearly an hour; and, in consequence of this circumstance, the reef has received the name of the dolphin rock.
first record of the names of the professors of  christianity—taaroarii's rejection of idolatrous  ceremonies—determination of patti, the priest of papetoai—idols  publicly burnt at uaeva, in eimeo—increase of the scholars—contempt  and persecution on account of the profession of christianity—baneful  influence of idolatry on social intercourse—humiliating circumstances to  which its institutes reduced the female sex—happy change in domestic  society, attending the introduction of christianity—persecution of the  christians—worshippers of the true god sought as victims for sacrifice to  the pagan idols—notice of aberahama—martyrdom in tahiti.
the men are generally  above the middle stature, and proportionably stout, so that few of the coats,  &c. belonging to the captains or officers of vessels touching at the  islands were large enough.
he then directed the native servants of the house to take care of it, and departed.
land of skill, or knowledge.
the natives  cheerfully gave up a large oval-shaped house for our accommodation: mr. and  mrs. crook occupied one end of it, and we took up our abode in the other.
the missionaries, however, have not, in any degree, introduced the love of finery; they found it there, and cannot be supposed to have produced any change for the worse, in the taste of a people, by whom a black coat fringed round the edge with red feathers was considered a suitable dress even for a high-priest.
as it was not during the rainy season that we were 380 there, it was dry; the sides were walled, and the bottom neatly paved; but in the rainy season, when the water is constantly flowing through, its effect must be rather singular on the minds of those sitting near it during public worship.
he directed his servants to clear out all the  grass from the floor of the house he occupied; they then levelled the earth,  procured lime, and plastered it over nearly an inch thick with mortar; this  hardened, and formed an excellent, solid, durable, and clean floor.
their situation was critical, but in a letter which they forwarded on this occasion to the society, they express firm confidence in god, unabated attachment to their work, and contentment with such means of support as the country afforded.
accident, so far as captain  wallis was concerned, made us acquainted with their existence.
immediately behind this spot,  matoereere, a black rock, the loftiest mountain in the island, towered in  majesty above the surrounding hills.
this rebellion, called in the annals of tahiti, te tamai ia rua, the war of rua, (rua being the name of the principal leader of the rebellion,) was the most powerful and alarming that had yet taken place; and the circumstances by which god providentially preserved the missionaries from its rage, and from inevitable ruin, were remarkable.
towards the close of the year, the mission sustained a heavy loss in the death of mr. jefferson.
soon after this event, the pagan chiefs of tahiti sent  messengers to the refugees in eimeo, inviting them to return, and re-occupy the  lands they had deserted.
they followed him with their compassionate regard and their prayers, and, after a number of years, learned that he had been engaged in a vessel trading in the indian seas; that he had at length made himself known to the baptist missionaries at serampore, from whom they heard that he had renounced his erroneous sentiments, and professed his belief in the truth of the christian revelation.
the printing-office was daily crowded by the strangers, who thronged the doors, &c. in such numbers, as to climb upon each others backs or on the sides of the windows, so as frequently to darken the place.
the only exception to the prevailing opinion, which deprives the head or brain of all connexion with the exercise of the mind, is the term for headache, which istahoa, and is also used to signify confusion of noise, and perplexity from attention to a multitude of objects at the same time.
it is true, there was no missionary to preach the gospel to them, or to lead their public service, yet it was performed with earnestness, propriety, and devotional feeling.
with him, mr. broomhall left tahiti for china  or india.
this was our stove, or fire-place, and, during the dry  season, answered tolerably well.
here a garden was enclosed, and many valuable seeds and roots, which had been brought from england or the cape of good hope, were planted.
a few of the trinkets, such as a jack-in-a-box, a kind of serpent that darts out of a cylindrical case when the lid is removed, were preserved with care by one of the principal chiefs, who, when we first saw them, considered them great curiosities, and exhibited them, as a mark of his condescension, to particular favourites.
but although the missionaries were cheered with the hope of  often beholding it filled with attentive hearers or christian worshippers, they  were obliged to pull it down early in the year 1802, to prevent its affording  shelter to their enemies, or being set on fire by the rebels, by which their  own dwelling might have been destroyed.
the texture of the  palm-leaves composing the thatch is not such as to resist for any protracted  period and the intense heat of the climate.
besides eight hundred copies of the abridgment of scripture, and many copies of  part of the gospel of st. luke in manuscript, about two thousand seven hundred  spelling-books had already been distributed among the pupils at eimeo, or sent  over to tahiti; still they were unable to meet the daily increasing demands of  the people.
when we landed at fare in huahine, i do  not think there were more than ten or twelve houses in the whole district.
the seamen, who had deserted from the nautilus, were under the protection of the king, and appeared among his attendants.
counter-ceremonies were performed; prayers, calledfaatere, were offered, to drive the evil spirits from him, and these, it was imagined, would all be unavailing, should the europeans direct his mind to any other source, or offer on his behalf prayers to any other god, and hence in part might have proceeded the aversion of his friends to the presence and efforts of the missionaries.
beside these, the singular novel, light, waving, and not inelegant adornments of the roof, all combined to increase the effect.
in this there was not much difficulty, the whole district was before us,  and but few places, except in the vicinity of the shore, had been selected by  the people, who were waiting till we had made our choice, that they might build  as near our dwelling as would be convenient.
traders, influenced by the narrow views and interested motives which too  frequently regulate the proceedings of those who traffic with uncivilized  nations, employed a variety of inducements to prevent the natives affording any  encouragement to the establishment.
it is a pleasing fact, which demonstrates unequivocally that the south sea islanders are not deficient in capacity, but are capable, when inducement sufficient is offered, of acquiring habits of close industry, that in the islands of raiatea and huahine, or any of the stations in the leeward islands, there was hardly an adult female, excepting the aged and infirm, who could not use her needle so as to make her own clothes, and those required by other members of the family.
we always stated plainly, that it– 429 – was  the contents of that volume which we came to teach them; that the existence of  this baneful and often fatal influence was too extensively felt to allow of its  being questioned; that the antidote to the evil it might have already  inflicted, and the preservative against its future effects, were pointed out;  and that it was wiser, and far more important, to apply to those remedies, than  to indulge in unprofitable speculations relative to its origin.
while these delightful changes were advancing in tahiti, the king and his  friends were not unmindful– 164 – of those who had been left behind  in a state of painful uncertainty at eimeo.
as soon as the new building in huahine was  finished, and appropriated to the sacred use for which it had been reared, the  original chapel was converted into a school, and was scarcely sufficient to  accommodate the increasing number of scholars.
most of them, however, repair to the settlement for the sabbath; and it is a spectacle that has often gladdened our hearts, when, on the saturday afternoon, we have seen parties from every direction approaching, by land or by water, the bay, at the head of which our settlement was formed.
during  this period he was much among the people, preached to attentive congregations  on the sabbath and other days, and was happy to find that those whose names had  been written down at tahiti continued stedfast.
the walls at the ends and the back were plastered with excellent coral lime; and both the printing-house and dwelling were floored with bread-fruit boards, 275 split or sawn by the natives; the windows in the bed-rooms, sitting-rooms, study, and printing-house, were glazed; and, what was a new and strange thing to the natives, our kitchen, in which was a stone oven, fire-place, and chimney, was included under the same roof.
the missionaries returning from the ship, as well as those on shore, watched her course as she slowly receded from their view, under no ordinary sensations.
leather was now the article in greatest requisition among all classes; and the poor animals, that had heretofore live in undisturbed ease and freedom, were hunted solely for their skins.
the floor was boarded with thick sawn planks, or split trees; and, although it exhibited great variety of timber and skill, was by no means contemptible.
the scene was one of diversified beauty, and the only sounds were those occasioned by the rustling among the sugar-canes, or the luxuriant and broad-leaved plantains, while the passing breezes swept gently through them.
the missionaries in raiatea also  erected a mill more efficient than the one we had constructed in huahine,  cultivated a quantity of– 290 – cane, made sugar themselves, and  taught the inhabitants of the island to do the same.
this, in fact, was the trumpet carried  by the king's messenger; and i have often been delighted to see a tall and  active man, or a lively and almost ruddy boy, with a light cloak or scarf  thrown loosely over his shoulder, a wreath of flowers on his head, and amaro or girdle around loins,—a shell, suspended by a braided cord,  carelessly hanging on his arm,—going round the village, stopping at  intervals to sound his shell, and afterwards, perhaps, inviting the listening  throng to hasten to the school, or to attend the place of worship.
the song employed on the present occasion appeared rather a long one: i tried to comprehend its import, but, notwithstanding all the vociferation of the orator, it was recited with such rapidity, and there was so much din and clamour among the people, who on such occasions only put forth their strength in proportion to the noise which they make, that i could only now and then distinguish the word pahi, a large canoe or ship.
they expressed themselves pleased with the prospect of such an event, and promised every assistance in the erection of our houses, &c.
he remained attentively watching the press, and admiring the facility with which, by its mechanism, so many pages were printed at one time, until it was near sunset, when he left us; taking with him the sheets he had 223 printed, to his encampment on the opposite side of the bay.
the 30th of june, 1817, was, on this account, an important day in the annals of tahiti; and there is no act of pomare's life, excepting his abolition of idolatry, his clemency after the battle of bunaauïaa, and his devotedness in visiting every district in the island, inducing the chiefs and people to embrace christianity, that will be remembered with more grateful feeling than the circumstance of his printing the first page of the first book published in the south sea islands.
the individual who acted so heroic and conspicuous a part on these occasions was farefau, a native of borabora, but attached to the household of pomare-vahine, with whom he had arrived from the leeward islands in 1814.
so  soon after their discovery, have recorded such mournful anticipations:—
this  is only one instance among many that occurred at the time, both at afareaitu  and papetoai, exhibiting the ardent desire of the people in general to possess  the scriptures as soon as they could be prepared for them.
most of them had heard of horses, and some of them had, perhaps, seen those  belonging to mai, (omai,) landed on the island by captain cook, forty years  before; but it was undoubtedly the first animal of the kind the greater part of  them had ever seen.
the natives of taiarabu were defeated, and fled to their fortresses in the mountains of their craggy peninsula, leaving the oropaa masters of the island.
the district is well watered and wooded.
the family at matavai were exposed to trials not only from the evils of  war, and the opposition of the heathen to their instructions, but also from the  false reports which were circulated against them.
in the schools, mr. barff had been much engaged, and mr. orsmond, prior to his removal to raiatea, had assisted in the instruction of the people, not only of fare, but also of the adjoining districts.
it is impossible to describe the  sensations experienced on seeing the poor natives of otaheite walking to a  protestant church in the most orderly and decent manner, with their books in  their hands, and most of them dressed in european clothes.
when he looks upon me, i will hide me at the feet of jesus christ the  saviour, that i may escape.
the circumstances of the inhabitants of the windward and leeward islands, most of whom had renounced idolatry, and their earnest desire to receive religious instruction, rendered it exceedingly desirable that the missionaries should no longer remain altogether at papetoai, but establish themselves in the different islands; but the vessel which they had commenced building in 1813, being still unfinished, and the anticipation of a considerable accession to their numbers, induced them to defer forming any new station, until such reinforcement should arrive.
our answers generally lead to farther questions, either from the first inquirer, or other individuals in the assembly.
in the instruction of the children, the greatest difficulties had been experienced from their restless and unrestrained dispositions and habits; for, having been unaccustomed to any steady application, or to the least control, they seldom attended to their lessons long enough to derive any advantage from the efforts of their teachers; yet, as opportunity offered, the missionaries continued to catechize them, and to preach to the adults.
in walking along this  aisle on my first visit, i was surprised to see a watercourse five or six feet  wide, crossing, in an oblique direction, the floor of the chapel.
these sacred exercises were enlivened by  the natives, who united with their teachers in celebrating the praises of  jehovah, a number of the natives having been taught to sing hymns that had been  composed in the native language.
in the  investigation and illustration of many things connected with the peculiar  genius and character of their own countrymen, they will have advantages which  no individual, who is a foreigner, can ever possess; and we may hope that the  time is not far distant, when they will not only have standard works by native  authors, but that their periodical literature will circulate widely, and spread  knowledge and piety among all classes of the people.
mai is the name of the present king  of borabora, though i am not certain of his having descended from the same  family.
the wall, or  outside of the dwelling, was composed only of large sticks, or poles, placed  perpendicularly from the floor to the roof, two or three inches apart, so that  we could see the ocean on one side, and the dark outline of the inland  mountains on the other; while looking up through the roof, which was, in this  respect, like ossian's ghost, we discerned the stars twinkling in a blue and  cloudless sky.
in  this island captain cook judged it most prudent to establish his  fellow-voyager, and consequently solicited for him a grant of land from the  chiefs.
considerable ceremony attended the reception of a company of areois.
some of these songs were very short, asiriti i mua, iriti i muri, e to, e to  tau vaa ie: lift up the stem, lift up the stern, and pull, and pull, my  strong canoe.
by this means  they sometimes discovered the meaning of a variety of words, which they did not  before know were even parts of the language.
he did  not pretend to know much, but he knew that he was a sinner, and that jesus  christ came into the world to save sinners, and this knowledge removed from his  mind the fear of death.
this is my  speech to you, my friends.
as a priest, he practised every species of extortion and cruelty; neither was he less familiar with intrigue, nor free from ambition, as a politician.
brother marshman entreated this returning prodigal to be assured of the utmost love on our part; encouraged him in his determination to return to his missionary brethren; and promised to intercede on his behalf, both with his brethren, and those who sent him out.
wheat is not grown in any of the islands; it has often been tried, but, either form the heat of the climate, the exceeding fertility of the soil, or the absence of regular seasons, it has always failed.
every one, therefore, followed his own 356 inclinations.
ure ure, tia moana! exclaimed one of the natives; and, looking in the direction to which he pointed, we saw a large cylindrical waterspout, extending, like a massive column, from the ocean to the dark and impending clouds.
i was told it belonged to paari, or mai, and hope it was given him among the presents from england, although no mention whatever is made of a bible, or any other book, among the various articles enumerated by those who conveyed him to his native shores.
the example, thus furnished by their teachers, has led to the strict and general observance of the sabbath by the nation at large.
these, however, it was no easy matter to procure, and they would at  that time, certainly, have been the last article a captain or trader would have  thought of taking to the south sea islands for barter.
their conversation deepened their impressions; they frequently  met afterwards for this purpose, and often retired to the privacy of the  sequestered valleys or verdant shrubberies adjacent to their dwellings, for  conversion and prayer.
but if, when dr. carpenter stated that  in the south sea islands “the simple principles of unitarianism are  essentially taught,” he meant that the missionaries instructed the natives  in the belief of one god, to the exclusion or neglect of the other great  doctrines of revelation above stated, viz.
james wilson, who had retired, after a perilous and honourable career  in the service of the hon.
at a  late hour we retired to rest, but not to sleep.
pomare took his station in a canoe with a number of musketeers, and  annoyed the flank of his enemy nearest the sea.
the floor, which was of sand, was covered with long dry grass.
it is not to be expected that a people unaccustomed to mental effort should be constantly engaged with their books.
i answered, it is agreed.
the  idolaters were defeated, and afterwards treated with the same clemency and  jenient conduct which the christian conquerors in tahiti had manifested, and  christianity was firmly established.
arrival of missionaries from englandbuilding and launching of the haweisre-occupation of matavainew stations in tahitijourneys across the interior of eimeovillage of tamairetrospect of labour at afareaituhonesty of the peopledeparture from eimeovoyage to the society islandsappearance of huahinefa-re harbour and surrounding countryaccommodations on shorestate of the inhabitants of huahinecommencement of missionary laboursinfluence of presents on the people.
the albion had scarcely sailed, when large fleets of  canoes, filled with fighting men, arrived, and the island was agitated with the  apprehension of hostilities between the king and chiefs.
but the people were so much under the slavish influence of custom, that, with one or two exceptions, their efforts were unavailing, and the guilty murderers have in a few days presented themselves at the missionary dwellings, not only with most affecting insensibility, but apparently with all the impudence of guilty exultation.
in the afternoon of the 10th of july,  1801, the royal admiral, commanded by captain w. wilson, anchored in the bay,  having a number of missionaries on board, together with supplies and letters  from their friends and the directors, from whom they had heard only once,  during the four years they had dwelt on the island.
they attended public worship in the forenoon; and when they saw the congregation stand up, and heard them sing the praises of jehovah in their native tongue, they were for some time mute with astonishment, and some of them so deeply affected, as to be unable to refrain from tears.
this view of the enterprise led pomare to decline rendering that assistance which was expected, and the want to which retarded the progress of the work.
those who were unarmed, now repaired to their tents, and  procured their weapons.
we passed between tahaa and raiatea, and arrived at the new missionary settlement on the north-west side of the latter, about 317 noon.
the lower hills, at the time of our arrival, were clothed with verdure, and the mountains in the centre of the island, whose summits appeared to penetrate the clouds, were often entirely covered with trees.
tamatoa, the king of raiatea, shortly after his return from tahiti, publicly renounced idol-worship, and declared himself a believer in jehovah and jesus christ.
the contrast is still more striking when compared with the manner in which it is perverted into a season of activity, business, and unwonted gaiety in the pursuit of pleasure, in catholic countriesbut it never appears so surprising as when viewed in comparison with the actual state of the people themselves only a few years ago.
when, in the course of conversation, the building was mentioned, or he was asked why he reared one so large, he inquired whether solomon was not a good king, and whether he did not erect a house for jehovah superior to every building in judea, or the surrounding countries.
during my visit to new zealand, i was several times greeted in this manner by  chiefs, whose tataued countenances, and ferocious appearance, were but little  adapted to predispose for so close a contact.
many vessels had sailed  from port jackson, where the supplies were lying, and had afterwards touched at  the island; but the captains, having no intention of doing so when they sailed,  had refused to take the goods on board.
hence, the letters which conveyed to england the animating tidings of the first dawning of a brighter day on tahiti, conveyed also the sad recital of these inroads of death; and well might the missionaries on that occasion sing of mercy and of judgment.
this is a most distressing consideration, and is a subject often brought before  a missionary's mind, from the circumstances into which his engagements lead  him, and the intimate connexion of his every effort with the future and eternal  destinies of those around him; while it furnishes, next to the love of christ,  one of the most powerful incentives to devotedness and unabated effort.
the missionaries had every reason to believe that the king was sincere in his desires to become a christian; but as they then deemed only those who were true converts to christianity, proper subjects for the rite of baptism, and feared that his mind might not be sufficiently informed on the nature and design of that ordinance, and that he was rather an earnest inquirer after divine truth, than an actual possessor of its moral principle and spiritual influence, they proposed to him to defer his baptism until he had received more ample instruction.
the removal of oro, the national idol, from pare to atehuru, was the cause of the threatened conflict: ammunition was prepared; a large assembly of chiefs and warriors met at pare; and it was daily 42 expected that the long concealed elements of war would there explode, and plunge the nation in anarchy and bloodshed.
the incarnation, the life, especially the sufferings and death, of the lord jesus christ, were, from this time, the principal subjects brought before the minds of their hearers; and the results were such as to shew the propriety of the alteration.
about the same time, the publication of letters on missions, by the rev. melville horne, directed the attention of british christians to this subject; and, in 1795, a society, including among its founders and supporters liberal and enlightened ministers of the established church and dissenters, was formed, under the designation of the missionary society: its object was to send the gospel to heathen and other unenlightened nations.
this was the first building ever erected on the south sea islands, for the worship of the living god.
from the enumeration already given of the articles of diet procurable among the islands, it will be evident, that though neither wheat, oats, 217 barley, peas, and beans, nor other pulse and grain, are grown, yet the aborigines with a moderate degree of labour may obtain the necessaries, and many of what are by them esteemed the luxuries, of life.
the season we had spent with them had been to us a period of no ordinary activity and excitement, and it would probably be regarded by them as an era in their history.
once or twice, when approaching tamae about  sunrise, we have met the natives returning from the bushes, whither by the  break of day, they had retired for mediation and secret prayer.
when we were prepared to remove, the haweis came round, took  our goods, and the articles belonging– 248 – to the printing-office,  &c., on board, and proceeded to papetoai, where we shipped our cattle.
the attendants, and others who were not so distinguished, after recovering from evident astonishment at seeing the huahinian ladies for the first time in european caps, were by no means sparing in their remarks.
during their residence  here, some had made the tour of the island, and endeavoured, with but little  prospect of success, to instruct the inhabitants.
under these circumstances, 77 their distresses were somewhat relieved by the arrival of mr. warner; who, after the ordinary preparation, had been sent from england in the capacity of surgeon to the mission, which he joined on the 12th of may, 1807.
on looking  at that part of the pavement where he had fallen, one or two of the stones were  stained with blood.
when the missionaries who returned  from port jackson landed in eimeo, the king received them with the warmest  demonstrations of joy.
his companions endeavoured to remove his scepticism;  but failing in their efforts, he was separated from their communion, having on  several occasions publicly declared his sentiments to be deistical.
three hundred 123 scholars attended the means of instruction in eimeo; besides which, there were a number in sir charles sander's island, huahine, and raiatea; so that, at this time there is reason to believe that between five and six hundred had renounced idolworship.
it appeared to them that both these ends might  be answered most appropriately and effectually, by establishing among the  natives a missionary society, auxiliary to the london society, rather than by  calling upon them, immediately after their conversion, to support the teachers  labouring among them.
a  more acceptable sacrifice they thought they could not offer, as the revenge  they should thereby wreak upon him, would not only gratify their own insatiate  malice, but be so acceptable to the gods whom he had rejected, as certainly to  render them propitious.
we were anxious to aid in the accomplishment of their design; and a day was fixed, on which a public meeting was to be held for its formation.
many boats, after our manner, were building, and lime burning for cement and whitewashing.
had any popular tumult followed this heroic act, the idolaters were so numerous and powerful, and the christians so weak, that their destruction would have been inevitable; and even the lives of the missionaries, who would have been considered as the cause of all the disturbances, might not have been secure.
before  we left, mr. gyles very obligingly had a quantity of cane bruised and boiled,  that we might not only understand the theory, but witness the process of  grinding canes, boiling the juice, and granulating the syrup, so as to  introduce it among the inhabitants of the leeward islands.
altogether, the building was finished in a manner highly creditable to their public spirit, skill, and industry.
for their binding, the few sheep-skins brought from england were  cut into slips for the backs and corners, and a large bundle of old newspapers  dyed, for covers to the sides.
he was well qualified for the undertaking, possessing an intimate acquaintance with the various processes by which raw cotton is made into cloth, and having been overseer or foreman of an extensive manufactory.
numerous addresses on the subject of christian  practice—several editions of the native hymn-book—the reports of  their different societies —and, lastly, they have commenced a periodical  publication called the repository.
in this state matters remained some  time—several of the finer parts of the iron-work were destroyed by the  rust, and the whole greatly injured.
the helmet, and some other parts  of his armour, with several cutlasses, are still preserved, and, when we  arrived in huahine, were displayed on the sides of the house standing on the  spot where mai's dwelling was erected by captain cook.
we accepted his offer; he became a faithful servant, and continued  with us till we removed from the islands.
the subjects discussed are perhaps less miscellaneous now than they were some years ago, when the people were totally uninformed in all the first principles of christianity; and the nature of these meetings in some of the stations has, perhaps, undergone a slight change.
walker of  the endeavour, who succeeded in retaking the vessel, and thus deprived them of  their plunder.
one of these anniversaries, held at burder's point, the missionary station in the district of atehuru, in the year 1824, was unusually interesting.
pomare was dressed in a fine yellow tiputa, stamped on that part which  covered his left breast with a rich and elegant scarlet flower, instead of a  star.
all classes cheerfully united in the work, and the king of the islandassisted by his only son, a youth about seventeen years of agemight be seen every day directing and encouraging those employed in the different parts of the building, or working themselves with the plane or the chisel, in the midst of their chiefs and subjects.
the animals, with the exception of the goats and pigs, have all died; and in this instance, the benevolent intentions of the british government, in sending out horses, cattle, &c. proved abortive.
when  the object of affection has approached, a smile of pleasure has indicated the  gratification of the child at the notice taken by the parent, and that smile  has been reciprocated by the parent, who, in silent gladness, followed to the  house of god.
the place where it stands is rather damp, and this may, perhaps, have caused it to appear so sickly.
and if angels, who have none of those sympathies which the redeemed must feel, experience an addition to their joy, in every sinner that by penitence returns to god, it seems an inference not unwarranted by revelation, that the spirits of departed believers may have a knowledge of events and moral changes, which transpire in our world, especially with those relating to the progress of the messiah's reign among mankind.
they were  unanimous in opinion, that there was no prospect of safety or usefulness, even  should the rebel chiefs prove their friends; and this, together with the  consideration of the little success that had attended the labours of so many  years, occasioned their determination to remove.
had the first mission to the south seas been composed  entirely of individuals eminent for their scientific knowledge and classical  attainments, they would probably have been less suitable agents than those who  actually went; as, it may be presumed,– 191 – their previous habits  of life would not have furnished the best preparatives for the privations and  difficulties to which they would have been exposed.
the front was boarded with materials brought from  port jackson.
travellers among the natives experienced greater inconvenience from these district stills than from any other cause, for when the people were either preparing one, or engaged in drinking, it was impossible to obtain either their attention, or the common offices of hospitality.
shortly afterwards we saw a small island with two or three cocoa-nut trees upon it, and subsequently the coral reef appeared in view.
the latter, however,  frequently became indignant at the very proposal, charging the god of the  foreigners with all the maladies under which they suffered, and the  disturbances that agitated the country; accusing them also of bringing down the  vengeance of their own gods upon the family, by deserting their altars, and  worshipping with the strangers.
it was built with  care, and, considering it as a specimen of native workmanship, was highly  creditable to their industry, perseverance, and ingenuity.
the abundance of natural productions, the apparent salubrity of the  air, the convenience of the stream of water, the facility of the harbour,  combined to recommend it as an eligible spot for at least the temporary  residence of a part of the missionaries.
the mountains of the interior sheltered the bay from the strong eastern and southerly winds; and the wide opening in the reef, opposite the mouth of the valley forming the head of the bay, favoured the departure of vessels with the ordinary winds.
the scene described by captain gambier is represented in the accompanying engraving, which exhibits the progress of the buildings along the shore at the time.
we always told those who inquired, that it was not for us to say,  what was the actual state of the departed; that of those who died in infancy,  we were permitted to cherish the consolatory hope of their felicity; that those  who survived– 431 – infancy, had not been without the admonitions of  conscience, which had borne a faithful testimony to the character of all their  actions; and that on the evidence of that witness they would be acquitted or  convicted at the bar of god.
a flood of light, like the rays of the morning, had broken in upon the intellectual and spiritual night, which, like a funeral pall, had long been spread 160 over the inhabitants of the valleys and hills of tahiti, and had rendered their abodes, though naturally verdant and lovely as the bowers of eden, yet morally cheerless and desolate as the region of the shadow of death!
the whole island  was again involved in war, and the conquering party scoured the coast from  atehuru to the eastern side of the isthmus, burning every house, destroying  every plantation, plundering every article of property, and reducing the  verdant and beautiful districts of pare, faaa, the romantic valleys of hautaua,  matavai, and apaiano, and the whole of the north-eastern part of the island, to  a state of barrenness and desolation.
unless thou have mercy upon us, we perish.
this they knew could not be done without their permission, and that permission they could at any time withhold.
they have not such sweet melodious voices as the natives of africa have, yet learn to sing, considering their circumstances, remarkably well.
this priest, it is stated by some of the natives, proposed to go to tahiti to excite persecution against the christians, and procure their banishment; then to stir up war among the idolatrous insurgents themselves, until their numbers should be so diminished as to render them unable to withstand the force which
their limbs are well formed, their stature generally tall.
what a spectacle of loveliness and peace must the platform have on this day exhibited, when compared with the scenes of abomination, absurdity, and cruelty, that had often been presented, when the very materials of which it was composed had formed part of an idolatrous temple.
as we had no  shelter for our lamp, we found it difficult to keep it burning, and at an early  hour retired to rest, tying our screen down with strips of bark, to prevent its  being blown aside by the wind.
the danger then came upon me suddenly, and my thoughts, while in  peril, were but few.
for soul and spirit, however, they have distinct terms,varua, and the ancient word vaiti; but it does not appear that they were accustomed to consider the soul or spirit as experiencing, in conjunction with the body, either mental or moral sensations.
his evident  satisfaction was proportionate, when he perceived that mr. and mrs. eyre, and  five of the single missionaries, resolved to continue in tahiti.
the combination of these with some parts of the men's apparel worn  in europe, produced an effect less pleasing than the apparel of the females.
not only were the sacred materials with which the altars, and the appendages of the temple, had been constructed, converted into fuel; but the food, considered sacred, was esteemed so no longer, the invidious and debasing distinctions attached to the females were removed, and both sexes, among those who professed christianity, sat down together to their cheerful meal.
the people around  were astonished, and could hardly believe the king was in a state of sanity, or  was really in earnest.
when we arrived, they readily made way for us to enter; when a scene, 207 destitute indeed of magnificence and splendour as to the structure itself, or the richness in personal adornment of its inmates, but certainly the most delightful and affecting i had ever beheld, appeared before me.
mr. nott was also revising, for the press, the gospel by john, and mr. davies had the gospel of matthew ready.
the captain, therefore, took in none of the sails, but called all hands on deck, ordered them to stand by the halyards, or ropes by which the sails are pulled up, so that, if necessary, they might let them go in an instant, and thus lower down the sails.
multitudes arrived from every district of eimeo, and even from other islands, to procure books, and to see this astonishing machine.
he had occasionally been with the king since his return to tahiti, and some remarks from pomare had awakened convictions of sin in his conscience.
the thatch was composed of the leaves of thepandanus, neatly fastened on rafters ofpurau or hibiscus, and the walls, or sides and ends, were formed with straight branches resembling the rafters, and planted in the ground about two inches asunder.
there was no division or skreen between the sleeping places, but the whole ranged along in parallel lines from one end of the house to the other.
this building, the king and chiefs presented to the strangers as their dwelling: it was pleasantly situated on the western side of the river, near the extremity of point venus.
they seek not the praise that cometh from man,  but the testimony of their consciences, and the approval of heaven; and,  irrespective of the honour god has put upon them, they are entitled, from their  steady and successful course, to be “highly esteemed for their works'  sake.”
here they were  checked by pomare's musketeers, and retreated a few moments, when they halted,  and faced their pursuers; but on the arrival of the english, they were seized  with a panic, and fled.
while thus engaged, his seclusion was invaded, and  his solitude disturbed, by the– 128 – appearance of a band, similar,  in some respects, to that which broke in upon the saviour's retirement in  gethsemane.
the  woman answered with some earnestness, you asked me to come and learn—i  have been here so long—i have learnt.
government and general orders, dated december 1, 1813 “no ship or vessel shall clear out from any of the ports within this  territory, (new south wales,) for new– 43 – zealand, or any other  island in the south pacific, unless the master, if of british or indian, or the  master and owners, if of plantation registry, shall enter into bonds with the  naval officer, under £1000 penalty, that themselves and crew shall  properly demean themselves towards the natives; and not commit acts of trespass  on their gardens, lands, habitations, burial grounds, tombs, or properties, and  not make war, or at all interfere in their quarrels, or excite any animosities  among them, but leave them to the free enjoyment of their rites and ceremonies;  and not take from the islands any male native, without his own and his chief's  and parents' consent; and shall not take from thence any female native, without  the like consent—or, in case of shipping any male natives, as mariners,  divers, &c. then, at their own request at any time, to discharge them,  first paying them all wages, &c.
some observed, they were perhaps designed to keep the head cool; others, to keep it warm; and others supposed they were to preserve it from the flies and the mosquitoes.
the first native improvement was made by mai, the chief of borabora, residing at that time at fare in huahine; and we believe this was at the request of his daughter.
numbers of verdant  little islands, situated like those of tipaemau, at the openings in the reef,  are remarkably useful as sea-marks, and furnish convenient temporary residences  for the fishermen, who resort to them during the season for taking theoperu , scomber scomber of linneus, and other fish, periodically visiting  their shores.
they  replied, that they were evil spirits, and had never done them any good, but had  caused frequent and desolating wars.
it comprises two valleys, or rather one large valley partially divided by a narrow hilly ridge extending from the mountains in the interior, towards the shore.
here a festival was held on the 11th of june, 1824.
although not a chief of the highest rank, he had been raised by the king and people to the office of a magistrate, in his own district.
two or three thousand naked arms were simultaneously elevated from the multitude assembled under the cocoa-nut grove, presenting a spectacle no less imposing and affecting, than it was picturesque and new.
by other great doctrines of revelation, i refer, in addition to the existence, perfections, and character of the true god, to the doctrine of the fall of man from his original state of rectitude and happiness; and, in consequence of this, to an inherent disposition to prefer and practise evil, and an exposedness to its penalty; to the messiah, the divinely appointed and only means of deliverance; to the divinity of christ; to the atonement by his death; to faith in him as the sinner's justification before god; and to the divinity of the holy spirit, and the necessity of his influence to render the declaration of the gospel effectual to those to whom it was proclaimed.
another individualwhen
when the  missionaries spoke to them on the subject of religion, the deformed and  diseased were sometimes brought out and ranged before them, as evidences of the  efficacy of their prayers, and the destructive power of their god.
we  delivered the few presents we had brought for them, regretting that we could  not enter into conversation.
wilson; between him and his nephew, mr. w. wilson, stands a child of mr. hassel; mrs. hassel with an infant is before them.
at this remarkably critical period, the whole of the party having to attend a meeting either for public worship, or for some other general purpose, assembled in the evening near the sea.
he was afterwards associated 202 with us at huahine, subsequently became my fellow-labourer in the sandwich islands, and was, when i last heard from the islands, about to be ordained pastor of a christian church in sir charles sander's island.
the work was, however, already so far advanced, that all parties were unwilling to abandon it.
cooking-houses were usually detached from the dwellings of the chiefs and  foreigners, but we attached it to our house, that mrs. ellis might avoid  exposure to the sun, and heat of the middle of the day, whenever it might be  necessary to superintend the dressing of our food.
several from each class were examined, and manifested that they had been neither indolent nor careless.
the spinning-wheel will  also become an article of furniture in their houses; and the father, the  brother, and the son, will have the satisfaction of wearing native or home-spun  garments, made with cotton grown in their own gardens or plantations, and spun  by their wives' or sisters' or daughters' hands.
the tahitians believe them to be cannibals; but as to the evidence or extent of this charge, we cannot speak confidently.
sugarcane was, however, procured from the gardens of the adjacent districts, and sugar made in the presence of the natives, who were delighted on discovering that an article, so highly esteemed, could be made on their own shores, from the spontaneous product of their soil.
they are usually held in the chapel, in order to  afford accommodation to a greater number of persons than could gain admittance  to the schools.
next to the direct communication of the gospel by the living voice, the schools have been considered 318 as the most important department of regular instruction.
in the arrangement, however, of the different articles of a complete dress, they were at first equally unhappy, and not unfrequently presented an appearance which it was impossible to behold with gravity.
their principal aim, however, was to encourage habits of industry;  and this, from the heat of the climate, the spontaneous productions of the  soil, and other causes, appeared likely to be done by the introduction of what  might be called artificial wants, which should operate on the native mind with  power sufficient to induce labour for their supply.
the demand will increase in the exact proportion in which industry shall augment the produce of the islands, and the property of their inhabitants.
in patronizing the idols, and adhering to all the requirements of the priests, &c. he appears to have been influenced by the constant apprehension of the anger of his gods.
their  habit of invariably asking a blessing, and returning thanks at their meals, and  their frequent attention to prayer, attracted the notice of their countrymen,  and procured for them, as a term of reproach from their enemies, the  designation of bure atua, literally, prayers to god; from bure, to pray, and  atua, god; the meaning of which was, the people who prayed to god, or the  praying people.
the natives were  delighted and astonished; and although our surprise was not less than theirs,  our satisfaction was more chastened; for, notwithstanding we had succeeded so  well in our first attempt, we considered it more the result of accident than  skill, and were by no means confident that, in a second effort, we should be  equally successful.
although bowels is,  perhaps, the best single word forobu or auu, in the signification  of which we have not been able to discover any difference, it does not convey  the full meaning of the wordaau.
aimata, the young princess, only daughter of pomare and the queen, who appeared about six years of age, was brought by her nurse, and followed 200 by her attendants into the cabin.
to the  censure thus passed upon those, under whose care he spent the period of his  residence in england, one exception at least must be made, and that in favour  of a name that will ever be dear to every friend of humanity.
to this method of instruction we have looked for the perpetuity of the work, of which we had been privileged to witness the commencement; and from its influence on the rising generation, we have derived encouragement in reference to the stability and increase of the christian church.
soon after we reached huahine, a number of those who accompanied us from eimeo, with some of the chiefs of the island, united in clearing and fencing a large piece of ground, which they planted with the best seeds they could procure, and called aua vavae, cotton-garden.
these were often remarkably simple, expressive, and appropriate: i have one of pomare's by me, in his own hand-writing, furnished by mr. nott.
these mats were generally rolled up like a sailor's hammock in the morning, and spread out at night.
early in  january, 1805, the missionaries prepared a larger catechism; and, on the 6th of  march, they adopted their tahitian alphabet.
his name  inspired terror through the ranks of his enemies; and when the king heard that  he had joined the rebels, he was so much affected, that he burst into tears.
although exhibited in the person of a chief, the incongruity of  such an arrangement furnished matter of ridicule even for themselves, and is  now never seen.
the seamen  expressed their determination to remain; and one of– 27 – them said,  “if they take me on board again, they shall take me on board dead.”
several of the officers were much affected at his seriousness; and though one attempted to raise a smile at his expense, it only elicited from him an expression of compassion.
they  were powerfully affected on one occasion when a present was brought him of a  turtle, which had always been held sacred, and dressed with sacred fire within  the precincts of the temple, part of it being invariably offered to the idol.
the bure atua requested to form theviro or  front line, advanced guard; and theapoa viri, or cheek of their forces;  while the people of eimeo, immediately in the rear, formed what they called the tapono, or shoulder, of their army.
the spinning-wheels and the loom now stood still, excepting that mrs.  armitage and mrs. blossom, with the assistance of their own servants, spun the  cotton, which mr. armitage wove into about fifty yards of cloth, for the use of  the academy.
our answers generally lead to farther questions, either  from the first inquirer, or other individuals in the assembly.
their object was to make the tour of tahiti, with the visitor from the leeward islands.
we had suffered much from exposure to the sun, and from the fatigue of our tedious voyage; we were, however, thankful to have reached our destination in safety.
these excursions, although they gave us an opportunity of examining more extensively the aspect of the country and the state of its inhabitants, often proved fatiguing.
the king, and those attached to his interest, were not however without  suspicion, that it was only an apparent satisfaction; and they were not  mistaken.
in the letter sent at this time to  the directors, they express their anxiety to hear from england, their  conviction of the facilities that would be afforded towards the establishing  the gospel in tahiti and the neighbouring islands, if they were joined by a  body of missionaries and an experienced director, and recommended that a  surgeon and several mechanics should be included in the number of those who  might be sent.
view of fa-re harbour, in huahine p. 352.
the rebels conducted their expedition with so much secrecy and despatch, that the king was taken by surprise.
should this be elicited, they will confer no ordinary benefit on the cause of missions, and afford great satisfaction to the christian world.
this was  conspicuous in the conduct of many of the voyagers of the sixteenth century,  and presents them in striking contrast with their successors.
about six weeks before mr. nott commenced his tour of  tahiti, the norfolk, an armed brig from port jackson, arrived at matavai, and  brought mr. and mrs. shelly to join the mission.
no tumult followed, and no one came forward to revenge the insult offered to the tutelar deities of their country.
when a chieftain from another island, or from  any distant part, arrived, he seldom proceeded at once to the shore, but  usually landed, in the first instance, on some of the small– 336 –  islands near.
the members of the family were alarmed; and, accustomed to attribute every calamity to the anger of 122 the gods, immediately concluded that her illness was occasioned by their displeasure, which she had probably incurred by attending the school and the christian worship of the missionaries.
he kneeled down, and offered up a fervent prayer to the true god.
hautaua valley is an interesting spot, not only on  account of the events connected spot, not only on account of the events  connected with the early history of christianity, which transpired within its  borders, but also from the peculiarity of its scenery.
don't be unbelieving, replied patii, wait till tomorrow, and you shall see.
aberahama, an interesting and intelligent young man, who was a pupil in our school at eimeo, was marked out as a victim; and, when the servants of the priests came to take him, being obliged to fly for his life, he was pursued by the murderers, shot at, wounded, and but narrowly escaped.
before him, in a large arm-chair provided for the occasion, sat pomare, supported on the right by tati, chief of papara, and on the left by upaparu, the king's secretary.
after this affair, the people of taiarabu joined the victors.
we were  not unconscious of our peril, and, as a last resort, took down our little sail  and our mast, tied the masts, bowsprit, and oars together in a bundle, with one  end of a strong rope, and, fastening the other end to the bow of our boat,  threw them into the sea.
still their progress was but slow, and one of them, who has perhaps made himself most familiar with the native tongue, has frequently assured me, he was ten years on the island, before he knew the meaning of the wordahiri, corresponding to the english word if, used only in connexion with the past tense of the verb to have, as, if i had seen, &c.
the numerous attendance and increasing earnestness of the people, induced the missionaries to meet them for divine worship twice on the lord's day, and once during the week.
taaroarii died rather suddenly– 109 – in 1821.
they now enjoyed the unexpected but exhilarating satisfaction resulting from the pleasure of the lord prospering in their hands, in a degree and under circumstances that few are privileged to experience.
many of the parents attend as spectators at the sabbath-schools, and it is not easy to conceive the delight they experience in beholding the improvement of their children, and in attending at an exercise often advantageous to their own minds.
sometimes the adults are examined as well as the children, but, in general, only the latter.
the indolent habits of these young persons, their  impatience of control, and the fugitive mode of life to which many had been  accustomed, were not to be at once removed.
we reposed the most entire confidence in the people, and had no  reason to regret even the exposure of our property.
the light fleecy clouds that passed over the  surface of the sky, fringed with the moon's light, gave a pleasing animation to  the scene, and “with scarce inferior lustre gleamed the sea, whose waves were  spangled with phosphoric fire, as though the lightnings there had spent  their shafts, and left the fragments glittering on the field.”
in huahine they are usually held at the close of  the public services connected with the missionary anniversaries.
he exchanged inviting prospects of wealth, comfort, and usefulness at home, for the toil and self-denial inseparable from such an attempt.
he was often seen at  matavai, walking with firm steady step, and using with ease as a walking-stick  a club of polished ironwood, that would have been almost sufficient for an  ordinary native to have carried.
at a former meeting held on the spot where the chapel stood, in which the children were examined, he was present.
the sides were fourteen or sixteen feet high, and the centre not less than thirty.
however large  the building might be, there were no partitions or skreens.
it has always appeared preferable, even to multiply the services, should that be necessary, than weary the attention of the people by unduly protracting them.
at one time, no article of dress was more acceptable to the men than a thick shaggy great coat, which, to us, it was quite oppressive even to behold.
the devout attention these poor people paid to what was going forward, and the earnestness with which they listened to their teacher, would shame an english congregation.
on the eighteenth of june, 1818, mr davies, mr. and mrs. williams, mr. and mrs orsmond, mrs. ellis, and myself, accompanied by a number of the principal chiefs, sailed from eimeo to the leeward islands.
the authentic information possessed by many who combined in arranging the plan, as well as by those who attempted its execution, was not only exceedingly limited, but received through a medium44 that necessarily imparted a higher glow of colouring, than those channels through which more accurate accounts have since been transmitted.
pomare, who was exceedingly delighted when he heard of its arrival, and had furnished every assistance in his power, both in the erection of the building, and the removal of the press, types, &c. from papetoai, where they had been landed, was not less anxious to see it actually at work.
this immense building was opened for divine service on the 11th of may, 1819, when the encampment 378 of the multitudes assembled stretched along the sea-beach, on both sides of the chapel, to the extent of four miles.
referring to his illness about this time, he said, my affliction is great; but if i can only obtain god's favour before i die, i shall count myself well.
in connexion with this attack upon the district of matavai, which belonged to pomare, otu and 34 haamanemane declared that pomare was deprived of all authority in the larger peninsula.
in the circumstances attending the formation of  his character, and in the commencement, progress, and result of his public  career, there was a striking resemblance between pomare, the first king of that  name in tahiti, and his contemporary, tamehameha, the first king of the  sandwich islands.
the missionaries were far from approving of the scale on  which pomare was proceeding; and, on more than one occasion, some of them  expressed their regret that so much time and property should be– 381 –  appropriated to the erection of a building which would be of far less general  utility than one of smaller dimensions.
thus he might have become a father to his nation; and his visit to england might have been rendered a blessing to its latest generations.
instruction itself will be undervalued; it can never be attempted but on a very limited scale, and will be always liable to vexatious interruptions.
it was by no means an uncontested triumph, nor an undisputed possession, that christianity acquired in those islands; every inch was reluctantly surrendered; and, at several periods, persecution raged, amid the elysian bowers of tahiti and eimeo, as much as ever it had done in the valleys of piedmont, or the metropolis of the roman empire.
to them it was peculiarly so; for we may naturally  suppose, the recollection of the individuals whom many of them had perhaps  poisoned, murdered without provocation, slain in battle, or killed for  sacrifice, would on these occasions forcibly recur to their minds; and at these  times, many a parent's heart must have been rent with anguish, to us  inconceivable, at the remembrance of those children in whose blood their hands  had been imbrued.
the coral rock is also more durable than the plaster;  and although soft, and easily hewn when first taken out of the sea, it  afterwards assumes a degree of hardness which resists the weather for a long  series of years.
every work yet printed has been prepared by the missionaries, with the assistance of the most intelligent among the people.
about five in the afternoon of the same day, mr. barff and myself were restored to our families; thankful for the guidance and protection we had enjoyed on the voyage, and the merciful care which those we left had experienced during our absence.
numerous applications  were also made for spelling-books, of which, with others of an elementary kind,  a supply had been printed in eimeo.
i had selected for the text what  appeared a most suitable passage with which to commence my public ministry:  “this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that christ  jesus came into the world to save sinners,”
mr. crook and family preceded us in a fine large double canoe, called tiaitoerau, literally, wait for the west wind, fromtiai to wait, andtoerau west wind.
one evening, about sunset, a canoe from tahiti with five men arrived on this errand they landed on the beach, lowered their sail, and, drawing their canoes on the sand, hastened to my native dwelling.
at the  openings of several of the little glens which surround it, the cottages of the  natives are seen through the luxuriant foliage of thepandanus, or the purau; while the cultivated plantations in various parts extend from the  margin of the sea to the foot of the mountains.
a second hymn is sung, another portion of scripture read, and prayer offered by
when we arrived in eimeo, messrs. hayward and bicknell were residing in boarded  dwellings with chambers, and mr. nott in a house, the walls of which were  neatly plastered.
the royal chapel at papaoa, however, is the only one of the kind in the islands.
we desire genuine faith; where can we obtain it?
these annual examinations and festivals are not peculiar to bunaauïa, but are instituted in several other stations of the georgian group.
it was apprehended  that, notwithstanding what had befallen the adherents of idolatry in battle,  the inhabitants of taiarabu, who were at that time more zealous for the idols  than those of any other part of the island, who considered it an honour to be  entrusted with the custody of oro, and also regarded his presence among them as  the palladium of their safety, might, perhaps, rise en masse, to protect his  person from insults, and his temple from spoliation.
one of these natives was upaparu, a chief of rank, present secretary to the government of tahiti, and a steady friend to foreigners.
their chapel was also pulled down, lest the enemy  should occupy it or burn it, and from it set fire to their own dwelling.
the former was a carpenter, acquainted with the  construction of machinery and wood-work in general; a department of labour  highly advantageous to a rude, or but partially civilized people, and at this  time in great estimation among the tahitians.
a spacious chapel was erected prior to our arrival, and a large school was subsequently built; multitudes from other parts of the island took up their abode in the settlement, the school was filled with scholars, and the chapel well attended.
in the  family of mr. williams he spent the greater part of his time, when not engaged  in public– 304 – duties, and experienced from its members
subjects of every kind were formerly discussed, and  questions brought forward relative to the discipline of children, the forming  of connexions, and the whole of their domestic economy, agriculture, trade, or  barter, legislature, war and politics, history and science, as connected with  the natural phenomena by which they were surrounded, and, occasionally, what  might be termed the first efforts of philosophical research in their partially  enlightened minds.
they could perceive nothing  that was either desirable or advantageous in a straight road, or regularity in  the site, or uniformity in the size or shape, of their habitations.
it was smaller than tamatoa's, and differently shaped, his  being oval, and this being nearly square, with high gable-ends.
xvi improved circumstances of the females—instruction in  needle-work—introduction of european clothing—its influence upon the  people—frequent singularity of their appearance—development of  parental affection—increased demand for british manufactures—native  hats and bonnets—reasons for encouraging a desire for european dress,  &c.—sabbath in the south sea islands—occupations of the preceding  day—early morning prayer-meetings—sabbath schools—order of  divine service—school exercises—contrast with idolatrous worship.
ancient animosities, restrained only for the purpose  of crushing what they considered a common enemy, were soon revived, and led to  an open declaration of war between the tribes assembled.
after it was over, crowds, as usual, gathered round, to look at our  uniforms, to them so new and uncommon.
they furnish a striking illustration of the sentiment, that to civilize a people they must first be christianized; that to attempt the former without the latter, is like rearing a superstructure without a foundation.
i venture with my guilt, (or evil deeds) to jesus christ, though i am not equalled in wickedness, not equalled in guilt, not equalled in obstinate disobedience, and rejection of the truth, hoping that this very wicked man may be saved by jehovah jesus christ.
the altars were then broken down, the  temples demolished, and the sacred houses of the gods, together with their  covering, ornaments, and all the appendages of their worship, committed to the  flames.
the young  plants brought from the mountains were generally two or three inches in  diameter at the lower end.
the king and his followers were allowed to land, and several of the people returned unmolested to their respective districts and plantations.
pickaninny is a specimen of this kind.
the labour required for effecting this, prevented any but chiefs  from building in such situations.
the place was thronged with people, and numbers were standing or sitting round the doors and the outside of the building.
the pagan army now gave way before their opponents, and soon fled precipitately from the field, seeking shelter in theirpari's , strong-holds, or hiding-places, in the mountains; leaving pomare, mahine, and the princess from raiatea, in undisputed possession of the field.
in these cabins, parents, children, dogs, and frequently pigs and fowls, passed the night, and the greater part of the day.
a letter having been forwarded to inform him that we were nearly ready, he hastened to our settlement, and, in the afternoon of the day appointed, came to the printing-office, accompanied by a few 221 favourite chiefs, and followed by a large concourse of people.
pomare, with his vanquished forces, pursued their voyage to matavai, where he and his son were received with respect by captain bishop and his companions.
at the same time we were most anxious, distinctly and powerfully to impress on their minds the desirableness and necessity of their possessing correct ideas of the true godthe means of seeking his favour through jesus christ the only saviourthe happiness that would result there from in the present life, and in that state of existence after death, to which this was but preparative together with the increase of knowledge and enjoyment that would attend their being able to read the printed books,preserve whatever they heard that was valuable, by making it fast upon the paper,and corresponding by letter with their friends at a distance, as familiarly and distinctly as if they were present.
these found all remaining as they had been left on the morning 158 of the battle, and were informed, by the wives and relatives of the defeated warriors, that pomare and the chiefs had, without any exception, sent assurances of security to all who had fled.
vi from page 130 to page 143.
i am going a journey around tahiti, to acquaint the raatiras with the word of god, and to cause them to be vigilant about good things.
the stairs, reading-desk, and communion table, were all  of deep umber-coloured bread-fruit; and the whole, as a specimen of  workmanship, was such as the native carpenters were not ashamed of.
but the most  interesting of these referred to england; and although their recollections of  captain cook were generally more indistinct, and very different from those  entertained by the sandwich islanders, he was often alluded to; and we were  asked, if any members of his family still survived, and whether they would ever  come to the islands.
the letter and presents pomare received by this conveyance from the governor of new south wales, and the attentions paid to him by the commander of the vessel, tended, in no small degree, to confirm otu in his government, and to intimidate his enemies.
at the same time, messrs. nott and davies were requested to draw up a brief summary of the 74 leading events, and a short account of the principal persons mentioned in the old testament, in the form of a scripture history, for the use of these scholars.
the only clothing most of them wore was a girdle of cloth bound loosely round the waist, and a shade of cocoa-nut leaves over their foreheads.
the leaves of the pandanus were next gathered, and soaked, and sewed on reeds, with which the roof was thatched.
the grass that grew underneath appeared like  a rich carpet, spread by nature for the ceremony; pendulous plants, some  verdant in foliage, others rich and variegated in blossom, hung from the  projections of the rocks, while several species of convolvulus and climbing  plants were twined round the trunks of the trees, ornamenting the whole with  their large and splendid pink blossoms.
the  supply now procured is, however, more regular, and the introduction of goats  furnishing milk, and the flesh of the kid, the feeding of cattle, by which  means the residents are able to make butter, and occasionally to kill an ox,  has greatly improved their circumstances.
the proprietors of the cotton garden watched the progress  of the plants with care and anxiety, accompanied probably with some of those  golden dreams of future emolument which frequently operate very powerfully on  the minds of individuals commencing an enterprise, which, although in some  degree uncertain as to its results, yet promises, upon the whole, an increase  of wealth or enjoyment.
in this delightful situation, as he  travelled round the islands, he literally found them not merely willing to be  instructed, but anxious to hear; meeting together of their own accord, and  often spending the hours of night in conversation and inquiry on the important  matters connected with the religion of jesus christ.
these collateral exertions often occasion embarrassment, and it would be highly gratifying, if other institutions were able to prosecute those departments of effort, which are rather appendages than proper parts of missionary labour.
after spending the day in almost harmless firing at the enemy, the english and the natives were on the point of embarking to return, when the rebels having been decoyed from their encampment by the daring and challenges of an active and courageous young man, who had assumed the name of to-morrow morning, chased him and his companions down to the sea-side.
bure 117 atua is a designation in no respect dishonourable to those to whom it was applied, and of which they have never been ashamed, though considered as an epithet of contempt or opprobrium, and applied in a manner similar to that in which the term saint or methodist is used in the present day, or the designation of nazarene or christian was given to the first disciples.
the printing-office was converted into a  tanyard; old canoes, filled with lime-water, were prepared; and all kinds of  skins brought to have the hair extracted, and the oily matters dissipated.
after rowing some time, we heard the hoarse roaring of the surf, as it broke upon the coral reef surrounding the shore.
on the contrary, they endeavoured to correct them in the most friendly manner, and were evidently desirous that the foreigners should be able to understand their language, and convey their own ideas to them with distinctness and perspicuity.
the bread-fruit ripened, while they lay beneath its shadows in luxurious indolence; the cocoa filled its nuts with milk and kernels; and while they slumbered from their heavy meals, in dead forgetfulness of life itself, the fish were spawning in unsounded depths: unplanted roots were thriving under ground, to spread the tables of their future banquets!
here an entertainment  had been provided for them by the chiefs.
the congregation was large, the chiefs and missionaries were present; and, at  the appointed time, i commenced the services with reading and prayer, exercises  in which i had occasionally engaged before.
his  conversation– 366 – was said to be lively and facetious.
when the fleet reached papara, pomare sent them word  that it was probable the atehuruans would attack them, and advised them to be  upon their guard.
at this period, he fell into open iniquity; and embraced a gloomy state of infidelity, the frequent consequence of backsliding from god.
if the skulls of those nations that wear no covering on their heads, are thicker than those who do, there is reason to suppose the craniums of the tahitians will be much thinner in a few generations, than they have been prior to this period; since, from their earliest history, they appear to have gone abroad bareheaded.
the introduction among an indolent people, of any art that requires constant, and sometimes heavy labour, must be gradual; but as building, and the use of household furniture, &c., increases among the people, skill in these departments will be held in higher esteem, and the number of workmen will necessarily increase with the demand for their labour, and the remuneration it receives.
at other times, we travelled round in the  neighbourhood of the shore, alternately walking on the beach, or, proceeding in  a light canoe, paddled along the shallow water near the shore.
the extent of territory, number of inhabitants, colour, language,  religion, of the different countries of whom they had heard from occasional  visitors, were topics of conversation at these meetings, together with the  efforts of christians to propagate the gospel among them.
the horses, included among  his presents, appear to have been regarded by mai as mere objects of curiosity,  and, when occasionally ridden, it was to inspire terror or excite admiration in  the minds of the inhabitants.
the appearance of  the females was equally interesting; most of them wore a neat and tasteful  bonnet, made with the rich yellow-tinted cocoa-nut leaf.
he, however, wished to know, and the people in general were evidently interested in the inquirywhether, in the event of a similar occurrence at any future period, he should do wrong in driving out the animal, and repairing the fence.
the men, however, were less scrupulous: and whether it resulted from their fondness of variety, or a supposition that the same clothes, worn in different ways, would appear like distinct articles of dress, i am not able to say; but i have seen a stocking sometimes on the leg, and sometimes 394 on the arm, and a pair of pantaloons worn one part of the day in a proper manner, and during another part thrown over the shoulders, the arms of the wearer stretched through the legs, and the waistband buttoned round the chest.
she had survived but a few hours the birth of an infant  daughter, by whom, in the space of five short days, she was followed to the  eternal world, and, we believe, to the abodes of holy and unending rest.
it was readily furnished, and a spot marked out, measuring about two hundred yards, along the sea-shore, and extending from the beach to the mountain.
he had formerly been a principal chief in raiatea, and still possessed great influence over the natives, especially in the adjacent island of eimeo, where, with a little assistance from the european workmen, he had built a schooner, in which he came over to see his friend captain wilson, during the second visit of the duff to tahiti.
the total overthrow of idolatry, splendid and important as it appeared, was  but the beginning of the amazing work that has since advanced progressively in  those islands.
it is with youyou are our teachers, and you are to direct us.
the missionaries did not disclose the  object of their visit; but pomare insisted on the deserters being delivered up,  assuring them they should be carried on board the next day.
circumstances detained the king at  tahiti for many months after mr. gyles's arrival in eimeo, and retarded very  materially the progress of the undertaking.
two months afterwards mr. nott, accompanied by mr. hayward,  visited huahine, raiatea, and tahaa, the principal of the society islands,  conversing with the inhabitants, travelling round the islands, and preaching to  the people wherever it was convenient.
polynesian researches during a residence of nearly eight years in the society and sandwich islands by william ellis
in the month of september, 1821, they reached tahiti.
several masters of south sea whalers, captains and officers in his majesty's navy, have borne the most decided testimony to these facts.
i do not, however, suppose we are to infer from the  account that is given of this amazing work in greenland, that, during the first  five or seven years of their labours there, the being and character of god,  &c. were inculcated, to the exclusion or neglect of the way of salvation  through jesus christ.
the missionaries, considering that in such retaliation the innocent would suffer with the guilty, interposed, and prevailed upon the king to spare the district, but to punish the guilty whenever they might be discovered.
unable to throw him on the sand, he cast his arms around his neck, and en devoured to strangle, or at least to secure his prey, until some of his companions should arrive, and despatch him.
at distant points of the district, they stationed piquets; and when divine service was about to commence, and the individual who was to officiate stood up to read the first hymn, a firing of muskets was heard; and, looking out of the building in which they were assembled, a large body of armed men, preceded and attended by the flag of the gods, and the varied emblems of idolatry, were seen marching round a distant point of land, and advancing towards the place where they were assembled.
the acquisition of the language i commenced with mr. crook, and was happy to avail myself of the aid of mr. davies, who was 216 well acquainted with it, and willing to render us every assistance which his other avocations would admit.
it was, however, only those who were recently awakened to a sense of the enormity of these crimes, and were but very partially informed as to the true state 434 of england, that ever asked such questions as these.
there are no lakes in raiatea  or tahaa, but both islands are encircled in one reef, which is in some parts  attached to their shores, and in others rises to the water's edge, at the  distance of two or three miles from it.
with many, however, more advanced in life, if was a difficult task; and some, after two or three years', application, were unable to advance beyond the alphabet, or the first syllables of the spelling-book.
the missionaries had often, with mingled  feelings of horror and pity, heard their songs of licentiousness or of war, as  well as the cantillations of their heathen worship, and their songs in honour  of their idols; and it is scarcely possible to form an adequate idea of the  delightful transport with which, at first, they must have heard the high  praises of the almighty preferred by native voices.
if this was not agreed to, they demanded permission to march through the district to attack their enemies beyond matavai, and, in the event of refusal, declared their intention of forcing a passage with the club and the spear.
as soon as pomare was acquainted with the accident, he begged mr. broomhall to visit the house in which the accident had occurred, and endeavour to relieve the sufferers.
one evening, about sunset, a canoe from tahiti with five men  arrived on this errand they landed on the beach, lowered their sail, and,  drawing their canoes on the sand, hastened to my native dwelling.
this formerly would have completed his dwelling, but he now had to collect, with great labour, a large pile of firewood, to dig a pit, to dive into the sea for coral rock, to burn it, to mix it with sand so as to form mortar, wattle the walls and partitions of his house, and plaster them with lime.
the use of the press in  the different islands, we naturally regard as one of the most powerful human  agencies that can be employed in forming the mental and moral character of the  inhabitants, imparting to their pursuits a salutary direction, and promoting  knowledge, virtue, and happiness.
it was also the first  building in the islands ever used by the natives for this sacred purpose.
although the demand has increased, and larger editions of the subsequent books have been necessary, the british and foreign bible society has generously furnished the paper for every subsequent portion of the scriptures that has been printed in the islands.
a native who had assisted in the smith's shop was enabled, after 31 the departure of the missionaries, who had used the forge, to make fish-hooks, adzes, and a number of useful iron articles; but the skill he had acquired, instead of being employed to promote the industry, civilization, and comfort of his countrymen, was soon applied to purposes of barbarity and murder; and the missionaries beheld with regret that he was often employed, not in manufacturing useful tools, but weapons for battle.
the whole number of hearers, according to the nearest calculation, was about seven thousand; and, notwithstanding this number assembled, a space remained between the different congregations.
his countenance was open and prepossessing,  his conversation affable, though his manner was grave and dignified.
the flames became extinct, and the sun cast his last beams, as he sunk behind the western wave, upon the expiring embers of that fire, which had already mingled with the earth upon which had been kindled, the ashes of some of the once obeyed and dreaded idols of eimeo.
as they passed themarae, they saw a number  of hogs on the altar, and several human sacrifices placed in the trees around;  and when they reached the spot where the chiefs were assembled, they found  pomare offering five or six large pigs to oro, on board a sacred canoe, in  which the ark, or residence of the idol, was placed.
at the hour of midnight they were to be attacked, their property plundered, their houses burnt, and every prisoner secured, to be slaughtered on the spot.
next to idolatry, and the diseases introduced by foreigners, it is  the greatest scourge that has ever spread its desolations through their  country, and we cannot deprecate in terms too strong; the– 291 –  conduct of those who now visit these shores, and who, insensible to any other  consideration than that of avarice or vice, spare no pains to introduce ardent  spirits among the people, and promote its use.
the king's visit to tahiti did not succeed so well as the  messengers had promised, or his friends– 99 – had anticipated:  rumours of war prevailed in the western and southern parts of the island, and  many of the chiefs sent professions of subjection; but the continuance of such  acknowledgment was uncertain.
raiatea is not only the most important island of the leeward group, from its central situation and its geographical extent, but on account of its identity, in tradition, with the origin of the people, and their preservation in the general deluge.
our voyage was pleasant; and soon after two in the afternoon of the same day, we entered an opening in the reef, a few miles to the northward of that leading to opoa.
he thought he saw an immense oven (such as  that used in preparingopio) intensely heated, and in the midst of the  fire a large fish writhing in apparent agony, unable to get out, and yet  unconsumed, living and suffering in the midst of the fire.
the natives of taiarabu were defeated, and fled to their  fortresses in the mountains of their craggy peninsula, leaving the oropaa  masters of the island.
pomare was present, and exerted all his influence to  stimulate the natives employed in launching the ship.
on a subsequent occasion, when he feared, that on account of a destructive war then prevailing, they might leave, he directed them to take their property with them; hereby evincing the most disinterested friendship, and a desire to alleviate, rather than profit by, their distresses.
the king's mind appears to have been first seriously exercised in reference to the declaration which he subsequently made, after the dispersion of the missionaries, and their departure from the islands, when only one (viz.
when he left them, they expressed the deepest regret, and requested that one of the missionaries would come and reside among them.
the cylinders for crushing the cane were perpendicular: an ox  was trained to draw in the mill.
the leaves of the pandanus were next  gathered, and soaked, and sewed on reeds, with which the roof was thatched.
next to tahiti, raiatea perhaps is better supplied with rivers, or streams of excellent water, than any other island of the group.
it was the first time he knew that a native on tahiti had prayed to any but his idols; it was the first native voice in praise and prayer, that he had ever heard, and he listened almost entranced with the appropriate and glowing language of devotion, then employed, until his feelings could be restrained no longer.
no circumstances connected with the station at raiatea afforded us more satisfaction, than the favourable appearance under which the education of the inhabitants had been commenced.
many, however, from the rude and hurried manner in which they were built, became dilapidated in a much shorter period.
many of them have been its most regular and laborious teachers in our schools, and the most efficient and successful 171 native missionaries.
it is worthy of remark, that this event, so destructive to the strength of the mission, crippling the efforts of its members, and spreading a cloud over their future prospects, resulted not from opposition to the efforts of the missionaries, nor from any dispute between them and the priests or people, on subjects connected with the idolatry of the latter, but from their benevolent endeavours to serve those, whom purposes of commerce had brought to their shores, and whom adverse weather had reduced to circumstances of distressa class of individuals whom the missionaries, in those seas, have ever been ready to succour, but who, with some gratifying exceptions, have not always honourably requited that kindness, to which, in some instances, they have owed their own preservation.
questions of this kind were only presented during the  first stages of their christian progress, and they were not frequent.
the printing-office was daily crowded by  the strangers, who thronged the doors, &c. in such numbers, as to climb  upon each others backs or on the sides of the windows, so as frequently to  darken the place.
in  person, pomare, like most of the chiefs of the south sea islands, was tall and  stout; in stature he was six feet four inches high, his limbs active and  well-proportioned, his whole from and gait imposing.
it has ever been considered a mark of respect due to every  distinguished visitor, to prepare, soon after the arrival of such an  individual, a sumptuous feast, termed by the natives afaamuraa, or  feeding; not, however, by furnishing a rich and splendid entertainment at the  habitation of the proprietors, and inviting as guests the parties in honour of  whom it was prepared, but by cooking a number of whole pigs, fowls, and fish,  with a proportionate accompaniment of vegetables, puddings, and what may be  called their made-dishes, and– 135 – carrying the whole to the  encampment of the visitor, with a considerable addition of the choicest fruits  the season may afford.
the battle continued to rage with fierceness; several were killed on both sides; the idolaters still pursued their way, and victory seemed to attend their desolating march, until they came to the position occupied by mahine, pomare-vahine, and their companions in arms.
their inquiries shew, if evidence were wanting, that their mental capabilities are not contemptible, and demonstrate the influence of the highest order of christian principles upon the mind and the heart.
soon after the abolition of idolatry by the inhabitants of huahine, raiatea,  and the adjacent islands, several of the chiefs and the people of borabora and  raiatea visited maurua, the most westerly of– 173 – the leeward  islands, and succeeded in persuading the chiefs and people to demolish their  temples and idols, and receive christian instruction.
the king took up the sheet, and having looked first at the paper and then at  the types with attentive admiration, handed it to one of his chiefs, and  expressed a wish to take another.
it may be thought that it has a  tendency to engender pride, occupy the head and the hands about trifles, to the  neglect of more important matters, inducing them to devote to the adorning of  the person that time which might with greater advantage be appropriated to the  cultivation of morals, and the improvement of their minds.
we recommended each family to build distinct and comfortable cottages for themselves, 342 and the chiefs to partition bed-rooms in their present dwellings, in which they must reside while building others; even in these we recommended them to reduce the number of their inmates, and to erect distinct sleeping rooms for those they retained.
he was a native of huahine, where he had been chief  priest since the death of his elder brother, who had sustained that office  before him.
several broad cascades flowed in silvery streams down the sides of the mountain, and, broken occasionally by a jutting rock, presented their sparkling waters in beautiful contrast with the rich and dark foliage of the stately trees, and the flowering shrubs that bordered their progress.
exactly a fortnight after her departure, this vessel again entered matavai bay, much to the surprise of the missionaries, who were informed by the captain and supercargo, that, in consequence of a severe gale off huahine, she was unfitted for her voyage to massuefero, and that they intended to proceed to port jackson, when they had increased their supplies.
their aim had always been to exhibit fully, and with the greatest possible  simplicity, the grand doctrines and precepts taught in the bible, giving each  that share of attention which it appeared to have obtained in the volume of  revelation.
it has appeared matter of surprise to many, that the natives should desire, or the missionaries recommend, the erection of such large places of worship; and i have often been asked, how we came to build such immense houses.
this habit, however, has, we have reason to believe, very greatly diminished in all the islands, and more particularly where congregations regularly assemble.
the preparations for battle were continued on  both sides; every morning it was expected that hostilities would commence  before the close of the day, and every night it was apprehended that an attack  would be made before morning.
although this honourable conduct produced a surprising effect upon the minds of many of the inhabitants of tahiti and eimeo, who considered the king better acquainted both with the religion of the natives, and that of the foreigners, than any other person in the islands; it procured him many enemies, and exposed him to no ordinary degree of ridicule and persecution, or contempt, not only from his idolatrous rivals, but from his allies, and the members of his household and family.
the little band of scholars in  the mission school, and worshippers in the chapel, unwilling to enjoy their  privileges alone, employed every proper and persuasive means to induce their  friends and relatives to attend to these things; at least to make a trial of  the school, and to hear what was said about the true god.
the declaration and the pronunciation of the  natives formed their only rule in fixing the spelling of proper names, as well  as other parts of the language.
many appeared to listen with earnestness and satisfaction to the message they delivered, called god, the good spirit, and scrupled not to designate their own gods asvarua maamaa, and varua ino, foolish spirits, and evil spirits.
unhappily for them, the ground they had chosen was  unsuitable, and many of the plants were not productive.
these regularly attended the school, and increased the congregation to such a degree, that it was necessary again to enlarge the place of worship.
“that it is creditable  alike to the head and the heart” of the speaker or actor, would have been  altogether unintelligible to them.
habits of application were also essential to the cultivation of intellect, the increase of knowledge, and enjoyment in the present life.
they doubtless supposed the  attempt was on his part a speculation for the accumulation of wealth; the only  end which most propose, who visit those island; and which, when pursued on fair  upright principles, is not to be condemned.
we were anxious,  also, to mingle our sympathies with those of our companions there, in that  bereavement by which all were so deeply affected.
here is a pig (as an atonement,) be not angry.”
cannibalism, though some deny its having been practised among themselves, is  supposed to have existed in one of the islands at least, and is known, and  universally acknowledged to prevail among those by which they are surrounded;  and it is not considered by them improbable that some of their own countrymen  have been eaten by the islanders among whom they have, from stress of weather,  been cast.
the recollection of the abominations and iniquity of which he had been guilty while a member of the areoi institution, though not greater 172 than those of his companions in crime, often filled his mind with horror and dismay.
the king wrote a letter to the chief of the district, hastening him in the undertaking, and in a few weeks came over himself, in order to encourage the parties engaged in the work, which advanced with celerity, and was in a short time completed.
he  engaged with diligence in teaching the inhabitants of the remote and rocky  parts of taiarabu the catechism– 138 – and the art of reading; and  after a lingering illness, during which he enjoyed the presence and support  which true religion alone can impart, delivered, as he expressed himself on the  last day of his life, from the fear of death, and having his hopes fixed or  relying on the son of god as the only saviour, he died in peace, at our  missionary station in afareaitu, on the 29th of july, 1817, nearly two years  after the total overthrow of idolatry in 1815.
ix arrival in the south sea islandsanchorage in matavaivisit from pomarelanding his horseinterview with the queen and princessastonishment of the natives on viewing the horse and his ridervoyage to eimeoopunohu, or taloo harbourlanding at eimeowelcome from the nativesfirst night on shorepresent from the chiefsvisit to the schoolsfirst sabbath in the islandsdescription of the native chapelappearance and behaviour of native congregationsvoyage to afareaitunative mealdescription of afareaituremoval thithermeans of conveyancearrival at the station.
great as was the loss experienced on this  occasion, they had reason to fear it was caused by some of their neighbours,  who had designedly set fire to the long dry grass immediately to windward of  the plantation.
sometimes they endeavoured to find out words, by presenting to the natives different combinations of the letters of their alphabet: thus they would pronounce the letters a a, and say, what is that?
a system of maintenance should only be adopted in regard to such pupils as it is hoped are under religious impressions, or are training with a view to their becoming monitors or schoolmasters themselves.
the rain calmed in a degree the broken and agitated surface of the ocean, that  raged with threatening violence.
162 crowds, who never had before attended any worship but that of their demon gods, might now be seen repairing to the rustic and lowly temple erected for jehovah's praise; amidst their throng, mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters, who never were before allowed to join the other sex in any acts of worship.
the impetuous attack of the idolaters, attended with all the fury, imprecations, and boasting shouts practised by the savage when rushing to the onset, produced by its shock a temporary confusion in the advanced guard of the christian army: some were slain, others wounded, and upaparu, one of pomare's 149 leading men, saved his life only by rushing into the sea, and leaving part of his dress in the hands of the antagonis33 with whom he had grappled.
they represented distinctly the disadvantages under which they should commence public instruction, from their very partial knowledge of the language; but the chiefs always replied, never mind that, you possess enough now to teach us more than we know, and we will make it our business to teach you our language.
their regular and early attendance on the  sabbath, ever has been, and still is, remarkably conspicuous; the day is to  them a season of holy rest and devotional enjoyment.
these not only maintained their ground, but forced their  adversaries back; and the scale of victory now appeared to hang in doubtful  suspense over the contending parties.
in 1822, when i last visited it,  the roof had already begun to decay.
in the account the missionaries  give of its opening, they say, the pulpits being at so great a distance from  each other, no confusion ensued from the speakers preaching at once in the same  house.
from one of these ships, oripaia, a chief of papara, and a rival of pomare, had received a large quantity of gunpowder as a present.
the bakedti root, called dracanæ terminalis, macerated in water, and already in a state of fermentation, was then put into the hollow stone, and covered with the unwieldy cap.
one of the most curious and interesting topics of conversation, frequently introduced by the more thinking or inquisitive among them, was, the seat of the affections, and the locality of intellect.
shortly after mr.  jefferson's death, mr. nott, accompanied by mr. hayward, visited the islands of  huahine, raiatea, and borabora; travelled round each, preaching and teaching  the people; and thus, for the first time, published among their inhabitants the  great truths of christianity.
such a measure might, while they were but partially acquainted with the true nature and design of christianity, have induced some, who were perhaps halting between two opinions, to infer that the missionaries were influenced by motives of pecuniary advantage, in their endeavours to induce them to receive christian instruction.
as he does not, however, seem to have evinced, either on board the vessels in which he sailed, or among the company with which he mingled while in england, any latent malignity of character, or cruelty of disposition, he might perhaps have returned with very different sentiments and principles, had he fallen into other hands during his visit here.
this inspired, them for the conflict, and made them more confident and obstinate in battle than they would otherwise have been; but the tide of conquest, which had rolled with them in the onset, and during the early part of the engagement, was already turned against them, and as the tidings of their leader's death became more extensively known, they spread a panic through the ranks he had commanded.
they did not relax in their  attendance at the school, or– 406 – any of the meetings for public  instruction; and we observed with satisfaction, their altered appearance in all  public assemblies, as indicating an improvement in civilization, and an  increase of industry.
the log of wood, called by the natives the body of  oro, into which they imagined the god at times entered, and through which his  influence was exerted, pomare's party bore away on their shoulders, and, on  returning to the camp, laid in triumph at their sovereign's feet.
the influence of the bure atua in the nation, from the rank many of them held, and the confidence with which they maintained the superiority of their religion, together with the accessions that were daily made to their numbers from various parts of the island, not only increased the latent enmity against christianity which the idolaters had always cherished, but awakened the first emotion of apprehension lest this new word should ultimately prevail, and the gods, their temples, and their worship, be altogether disregarded.
in reference to another order resembling this, and issued november 19, 1814, it is declared, that any neglect or disobedience of these orders, will subject the offenders to be proceeded against with the utmost rigour of the law, on their return thither, (viz.
in all these labours he endeavoured to infuse his own spirit into the bosom of his followers, 68 and to animate them by his example, usually labouring with his people, and planting with his own hands many of the trees.
for many years, the first missionaries were variously annoyed in almost all their attempts to preach the gospel.
it is not, however, improbable that stone buildings will ultimately supersede the neat, yet, compared with those erected of less perishable materials, temporary dwellings they are now occupying.
i took a ramble through  the district a short time before sunset, and was delighted with the wild and  romantic beauty of the surrounding scenery,—the luxuriant groves of trees,  and the shrubs, that now covered the fertile parts of this almost uninhabited  district.
these chandeliers, as they may perhaps  with propriety be called, were not indeed of curious workmanship of dazzling  brilliancy, in polished metal or cut-glass, but of far more common materials,  and simplicity of structure.
the stillness of every thing around,  the secluded retirement of the spot, and the varied objects of nature with  which it was associated, seemed delightfully adapted to contemplation and  devotion.
in this statement of his motives, we have every reason to believe  the king was sincere, and we consequently felt less inclined to object.
he was often seen at matavai, walking with firm steady step, and using with ease as a walking-stick a club of polished ironwood, that would have been almost sufficient for an ordinary native to have carried.
matavai, the original missionary station, was the first that was re-occupied.
this retreat was rendered by nature almost impregnable to the native warriors, and the only avenues leading to it being defended by the barriers its occupants had thrown up, it appeared difficult, if not impossible, to take it by storm, even with the foreign aid by which the king was supported.
when arrayed in a favourite dress, which was a glazed hat,  and a black coat fringed round the edges with red feathers, his appearance must  have been somewhat ludicrous, although this was probably his sacerdotal habit,  as red feathers were always considered emblematical of their deities.
had the first mission to the south seas been composed entirely of individuals eminent for their scientific knowledge and classical attainments, they would probably have been less suitable agents than those who actually went; as, it may be presumed, 191 their previous habits of life would not have furnished the best preparatives for the privations and difficulties to which they would have been exposed.
dreadful and alarming as these superstitious and bloody contests had been, and though still exposed to the horrors of savage war, the missionaries, protected in their work by the care of providence, felt that they were devote to god and truth, and sworn to man's eternal weal, beyond repentance sworn, or thought of turning back, 60 and determined, in dependence on divine protection and support, to maintain their station; diligently to labour, and patiently to wait for the reward of their toil.
scarcely were the remains of mr. lewis consigned to the silent grave, when an event occurred, which again reduced the number of this already weakened band.
in this address it is singular to notice the application of the term satan to the god patii invoked.
the greater part of the inhabitants of the settlement in which it is held, and many from remote districts, having assembled in the place of worship; we usually took our seats near a table at one end of the building.
28 noti, eiaha e haere, mr. nott, don't go, was his language to that individual; and such was also used to others.
seventeen englishmen were thus cast ashore, and added to the number of those already residing there.
yet so dull of heart, and spiritless, as never to regret sweets tasted here, and left as soon as known.
numbers in tahiti and eimeo were emboldened, by his examplenot only in burning their idols, but demolishing theirmaraes or temples; their altars were also stripped and overthrown, and the wood employed in their construction converted into fuel, and used in the native kitchens.
the grove, stately and rich in all the luxuriance of tropical verdure,  extended from the beach to the very base of the mountains, whose gradual  ascent, and rocky projections, led to the interior.
mai, on his arrival in london, was considered a sort of prodigy; he was introduced to fashionable parties, conducted to the splendid entertainments of the highest classes, and presented at the british court amidst a brilliant assemblage of all that was illustrious in rank, and dignified in station.
during the performance of these rites, pomare's orator, and some of the inhabitants of matavai, used insulting expressions in reference to the corpse; which so incensed otu, that, aided by the chief priest, he immediately made war upon the district of matavai.
– 64 – about this time the margaret, in which captain byers and mr. turnbull had  visited the islands for purposes of commerce, was wrecked on a reef about 200  miles distant; mr. turnbull had remained in tahiti; captain byers, his  officers, and crew, consisting of sixteen individuals, with the mate's wife and  child, safely reached that island in a long kind of chest, or boat, which they  had built with the fragments of the wreck.
i have not  heard that glass windows have been introduced into the chapels of any of the  stations.
in the drier  parts of the house, along each side, the inmates slept at night.
the idolatrous chiefs and inhabitants  took up arms, to defend the cause of the gods, and revenge the insult offered  by the king their efforts, however, were but as the ragings of an expiring  monster, whose fangs were broken, and whose heart had been pierced.
this entrance is called by the 331 inhabitants tipae mau, true, or permanent, landing (place.)
this not only aroused the jealousy of the chief, and the rage of otu, but having nearly cost mr. broomhall and his companions their lives, it made the missionaries extremely cautious in administering medicine to any of the chiefs.
that their difficulties were great, must be already obvious.
the distressing circumstances under which this unnatural and revolting crime was practised, and the awful extent to which it prevailed, was one of the first of the many horrid cruelties filling these dark places of paganism, that deeply affected them.
they did not scruple to tell them that he was killing the people;  but that by and by, when oro gained the ascendancy, they should feel the  effects of his vengeance.
it originated entirely with the king, and in its erection the misionaries took no part.
one or two european vessels were seized, and  the crews inhumanly murdered.
i recollect a father and a mother asking with  ardent solicitude, whether it would be right to take their little boy, or girl,  with them to the bushes or the garden, talk with it in this retirement, and  teach it there to pray to god?
their early associations and strongest predilections were all in favour of otaheite, ulitea, otahaa, &c. names which english voyagers had given to the scenes and persons they describe, and it was only from the firm conviction that such were not their native designations, that they adopted others.
the storm continued during the day.
the sky was  clear, the smooth surface of the ocean rippled with the cool and stirring  breeze.
his death was sudden; he had taken his dinner, and was  proceeding with two of his attendants in a single canoe towards the dart, a  vessel on the point of sailing from the bay.
on  the 29th of march, those missionaries who intended to leave, bade their  companions farewell; and, during the night of the 30th, sailed from matavai,  and proceeded to new south wales.
all was rich and luxuriant in vegetation, but it was the richness and the luxuriance of a wilderness; scarcely a trace of human culture could be seen, yet i could but think the scene how fair, were it but from sin refined: man how free, how happy here, were he pure as god is kind.
suffer us not to come to thine house with carelessness, and return to our own houses and commit sin.
the inhabitants formerly wore a kind of bonnet, or rather shade for the eyes, made of the leaves of the cocoa-nut, in a variety of forms, many of them tasteful and elegant.
well might the poet lament his fate.—
i  have not had equal opportunity of knowing what progress the females in the  windward islands have made, but have reason to believe it is highly creditable  to their application.
it was impossible, at such a season, to  behold this scene, exhibiting impressively the grandeur of creation, and the  insignificance of man, without experiencing emotions of adoring wonder and  elevated devotion, and exclaiming with the psalmist, “when i consider thy  heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast  ordained; what is man, that thou art mindful of him, and the son of man, that  thou visitest him?”
the men who had eaten their fellow-men, might have been, and perhaps often were, (as many of the cannibals inhabit the low coralline islands, and live by fishing,) eaten by sharks, which would sometimes be caught and eaten by the inhabitants of distant islands.
the  time was fixed for the perpetration of this bloody deed.
by him they also unexpectedly received the pleasing intelligence of the duff's second destination to tahiti, and were led to hope, on her arrival, a reinforcement of labourers, and the various supplies of which they stood so much in need.
these, whether  they had been conveyed to the islands by the visits of ships, or the desertion  of seamen afflicted with them, produced the most distressing sickness and  mortality among the people; and, although nothing could be more absurdly  imagined, yet, according to their ideas of the causes of disease and death,  that they originated in the displeasure of some offended deity, or were  inflicted in answer to the prayers of some malignant enemy, they were, from the  representations of some, and the conjectures of others, led to suppose that  these diseases were sent by the god of the missionaries, in answer to their  prayers, and because they would not reject oro, and join in their worship.
about six weeks before mr. nott commenced his tour of tahiti, the norfolk, an armed brig from port jackson, arrived at matavai, and brought mr. and mrs. shelly to join the mission.
him, and him alone, i found to be a refuge, a rock in the storm of contending feelings, on which my soul could cast the anchor of its hope for pardon and acceptance before god; and although not visibly present, as with his disciples on the sea of tiberias, we could not but hope that he was spiritually present, and that, should our bodies rest till the morning of the resurrection in the unfathomed caverns of the ocean, our souls would be by him admitted to the abodes of blessedness and rest.
when the missionaries paid a visit of condolence, idia requested them to tell her son it was her wish that the body should remain at pare; and to this the king consented.
this considerably diminished the pleasure we derived from watching, through the perfectly transparent waters, the playful movement of the shoals of small and variegated rockfish, of every rich and glowing hue, which often shone in brilliant contrast with the novel and beautiful groves of many-coloured coral, that rendered the sandy bottom of the sea, though frequently 214 several fathoms beneath us, in appearance at least, an extensive and charming submarine shrubbery, or flower-garden.
there are no lakes in raiatea or tahaa, but both islands are encircled in one reef, which is in some parts attached to their shores, and in others rises to the water's edge, at the distance of two or three miles from it.
all was rich and  luxuriant in vegetation, but it was the richness and the luxuriance of a  wilderness; scarcely a trace of human culture could be seen, yet i could but  think the scene “how fair, were it but from sin refined: man how free, how  happy here, were he pure as god is kind.”
the earth in some parts of the islands would probably answer – 355 – for bricks; and the missionaries formerly made one or two  attempts to prepare them for ovens, &c. but did not succeed.
shortly after mr. jefferson's death, mr. nott, accompanied by mr. hayward, visited the islands of huahine, raiatea, and borabora; travelled round each, preaching and teaching the people; and thus, for the first time, published among their inhabitants the great truths of christianity.
the first sabbath i spent in the islands, was a day of deep and delightful interest.
i have not had equal opportunity of knowing what progress the females in the windward islands have made, but have reason to believe it is highly creditable to their application.
a number of the broad leaves of the purau, hibiscus  tileaceus, having the stalks plucked off close to the leaf, were then spread on  the ground, in two or three successive layers, with the downy or under side  upwards, and two or three were handed by a servant to each individual, instead  of a plate.
the characters of their immediate descendants were in some respects similar to each other, though both were very different persons from their respective predecessors.
on the 23d of april, in the same year, messrs. nott, davies, orsmond, and myself, held a meeting with the king, at our house; when the principles upon which the society should be formed, and the rules by which it was proposed to regulate its proceedings, were considered, and, on the following day, finally adjusted.
two or three hundred warriors came from eimeo to pomare's aid.
a part of a black coat, or a soldier's red jacket, cut into strips about two inches wide, was greatly esteemed.
the shores of  this sequestered bay are covered with sand, shells, and broken coral.
with many, however, more advanced in life, if was a  difficult task; and some, after two or three years', application, were unable  to advance beyond the alphabet, or the first syllables of the spelling-book.
the schools are important appendages o every missionary station, and are  considered such by the most intelligent and influential of the people.
he instantly rose to the surface; and,  snorting, as if glad, even under these circumstances, to gain his freedom, swam  towards the shore; but the natives no sooner saw him at liberty, than they  plunged into the water, and followed like a shoal of sharks or porpoises after  him.
they were planted, and have since  flourished, so that in every island the coffee plant is now growing, and it may  be cultivated– 292 – to almost any extent.
though the inconsistency of this statement  with the defenceless manner in which the missionaries had come amongst them,  would have been self-evident to an enlightened mind,—being supported by an  incontrovertible historical fact, it was remarkably adapted to operate  powerfully upon an individual but partially informed, and exceedingly  suspicious of every measure that might permanently alienate the smallest  portion of territory, or lead to the establishment of foreign proprietorship,  and consequent influence, in the islands.
the queen's sister, like a daughter of pallas, tall, and rather masculine in her stature and features, walked and fought by mahine's side; clothed in a kind of armour, or defence, made with strongly twisted cords ofromaha, or native flax, and armed with a musket and a spear.
the gratification he expressed on their landing, however, did not  arise from any desire after religious instruction, for in this interview he  spoke of their engaging in war with him, and probably rejoiced in their arrival  only as a means of increasing the extent of his influence, and the stability of  his government.
mr. nott replied, we know nothing of war.
the pulpit, situated at a short distance from the northern end, was hexagonal, and supported by six pillars of the beautiful wood of thepua, which resembles, in its grain and colour, the finest satinwood.
exactly a fortnight after her  departure, this vessel again entered matavai bay, much to the surprise of the  missionaries, who were informed by the captain and supercargo, that, in  consequence of a severe gale off huahine, she was unfitted for her voyage to  massuefero, and that they intended to proceed to port jackson, when they had  increased their supplies.
presentations of this kind were not uncommon among the islanders, as a compliment, or matter of courtesy, to a visitor; and were regulated by the rank and means of the donors, or the dignity of the guests.
this entrance is  called by the – 331 – inhabitants tipae mau, true, or permanent,  landing (place.)
in reference to presents made by missionaries to chiefs, on their first settlement among an unenlightened people, i am disposed to think they are always injurious, when given with a view of gaining influence, or inducing their recipients to attend to religious instruction.
the first was the queen charlotte, of port  jackson, the vessel by which we arrived in the islands.
we explored the district carefully, but often found the brushwood, and interlaced branches of the trees, so impervious, that, without a hatchet, we should have penetrated but a short distance from the winding paths trodden by the natives.
appearance and convenience, however, were not much considered by the society  islanders, and it was often amusing to see a nativesans culotte, without  waistcoat or shirt, with amaro or pareu round his waist, and a  fashionably made black coat– 395 – on his back.
this mode of representation, although i do not regard  the missionaries or their proceedings as perfect, i consider to be far from  just.
in every undertaking of this kind, the greatest embarrassments attend its outset, and the same difficulties that had suspended the instruction of the two former parties, were again to be overcome.
it was also the first building in the islands ever used by the natives for this sacred purpose.
what the natives thought of it i do not know, but to those  who were accustomed to associate with a gallows, and any object so attached to  it, only ideas of an execution, or of a criminal hung in irons, its appearance  was not adapted to awaken very gratifying feelings.
about a month after our departure from papetoai, mr. orsmond, who had sailed from england about july, 1816, arrived at eimeo, and, after residing some time with the missionaries at papetoai, he removed to afareaitu, pursued harmoniously with us the study of the language, assisted in preparing books for the people, and in other duties of the station, and subsequently accompanied us to the leeward islands.
i called them into the printing-office, and, as soon as i could put the sheets together, gave them each a copy: they then requested two copies more, one for a mother, the other for a sister; for which they had brought payment.
for school the bell is rung, the shell sounded, or the bar of iron beaten, only once; which is about a quarter of an hour before it commences.
some have neat and commodious galleries; and in the island of eimeo, on the site of the temple in which patii was priest, a neat and substantial chapel has been built with white hewn coral.
the place  was soon filled, and a far greater number remained outside than were assembled  under the roof.
pomare, by uniting the refugees with  his adherents in eimeo, and his auxiliaries from the leeward islands, might  bring against them.
in the forenoon, pomare, and the people who had come over  from eimeo, probably about eight hundred, assembled for public worship at a  place called narii, near the village of bunaauïa, in the district of  atehuru.
the king's visit to tahiti did not succeed so well as the messengers had promised, or his friends 99 had anticipated: rumours of war prevailed in the western and southern parts of the island, and many of the chiefs sent professions of subjection; but the continuance of such acknowledgment was uncertain.
he was an intelligent, active young man, 24 years of age, had  been highly serviceable to the mission, and was respected by the natives, until  about tweleve months prior to the arrival of the royal admiral, when he  intimated his doubts as to the reality of divine influence on the mind, and the  immortality of the soul.
a spot near the principal stream was selected for their site; the inhabitants of the district undertook ot build the printing-office, while the king's people, and the inhabitants of maatea, agreed to put up the frame of my dwelling-house.
the interior  of the roof was remarkable for the neatness of its appearance, and the  ingenuity of its structure.
in the forenoon of the day after we came to anchor, accompanied by matapuupuu, we walked through the district, in search of a house for mr. orsmond and myself, and at length selected one on the southern side of the bay, belonging to taaroarii, the young chief of the island, while mr. and mrs. williams were accommodated with another belonging to maau, a raatira, who resided near the anchorage.
we accompanied them to the shore, and landed on the western side of the bay, in the afternoon of the 13th of february, 1817, happy, under circumstances of health and comfort, to enter upon our field of future labour, and grateful for the merciful providence by which we had been conducted in safety to the end of our long and eventful voyage.
the  tender plants were once or twice removed, and all perished, excepting those in  my garden at huahine, which i was happy to succeed in preserving.
it was first erected by the liberality of a gentleman in london.
he laboured diligently to multiply the resources of the island, and improve the condition of the people, and his adherents were always well furnished with all that the island afforded.
the king proposed to find materials, and the missionaries  labour.
in the month of april, 1820, it was  finished, and on the 3d of may opened for divine service.
this, in fact, was the trumpet carried by the king's messenger; and i have often been delighted to see a tall and active man, or a lively and almost ruddy boy, with a light cloak or scarf thrown loosely over his shoulder, a wreath of flowers on his head, and amaro or girdle around loins,a shell, suspended by a braided cord, carelessly hanging on his arm,going round the village, stopping at intervals to sound his shell, and afterwards, perhaps, inviting the listening throng to hasten to the school, or to attend the place of worship.
while he was thus engaged, relief was afforded, and the weeping and forebodings of the family turned into grateful wonder, and joyous gratulations.32a i simply state the fact, as it is recorded by the missionary in the island at the time, without making any comment; which, indeed, it neither requires nor admits.
the chiefs take a pride in building their own houses,  which are now all after the european manner; and think meanly of themselves, if  they do not excel the lower classes in the arts necessary for the construction.
the texture of the palm-leaves composing the thatch is not such as to resist for any protracted period and the intense heat of the climate.
here is a pig (as an atonement,) be not angry.
the shores of this sequestered bay are covered with sand, shells, and broken coral.
on some occasions, while they have been preaching, a number of areois, or strolling players, passing by, have commenced their pantomime or their dance, and drawn away every one of the hearers.
they also learned with pleasure, that they were accustomed to retire morning and evening for secret prayer.
flour is, consequently, now only to be obtained from vessels  visiting the islands.
the missionaries who had been expelled from tahiti in 1808, had remained here some months prior to their final departure for port jackson; but at these periods only a temporary impression had been made upon the minds of the people, which had in a great degree, if not altogether, subsided.
idleness has been a most fruitful source of many of their vices and sufferings; and when we have seen the females working with their needle, or with the straw for their bonnets, &c. we could not but deem it an occupation far more conducive to their enjoyment, than indolence, or their former unprofitable and often injurious pastimes.
some months afterwards, three of them  were compelled to follow their companions to huahine.
not a few instances have occurred among the  islands of the pacific, in which individuals, who, while their presents were  unsparingly lavished upon the people, were regarded as kings and chiefs among  them, but who, when they have experienced a reverse in their circumstances,  have been treated with marked and contemptuous neglect.
after wandering some time among the clustering sugar-cane, rows of pine-apples, plantains, and bananas, i approached this house for private devotion.
a fine stream, rising in the interior mountains, winds through the sinuosities of the head of the valley, and, fertilizing the district of matavai, flows through the centre of this long neck of land, into the sea.
besides these sources of intensely painful reflection, there is something overwhelming in the thought of relatives and friends removed from the world of hope and probation, having their doom irrevocably fixed!
the king had been unable to withstand the temptation with which he had been assailed at tahiti, to use ardent spirits; and although not addicted to entire intoxication, yet it induced the missionaries to fear that he, like agrippa, was but almost a christian.
the commander of the betsy having intimated his intention of  returning in five or six months, mr. harris proposed to his companions to visit  new south wales; and on the 1st of january 1800, he sailed from matavai bay,  intending to return when the ship should revisit the islands.
the curiosity awakened in the  inhabitants of afareaitu by the establishment of the press, was not soon  satisfied: day after day pomare visited the printing-office; the chiefs applied  to be admitted inside, while the people thronged the windows, doors, and every  crevice through which they could peep, often involuntarily exclaiming, be-ri-ta-ni-e!
the individual who had been brought from the ends of the earth, and shewn whatever england could furnish, suited to impress his wondering mind, returned, and became as rude and indolent a barbarian as before.
the soil was good throughout; and, as the people had chosen the most eligible places along the shore, we fixed upon a small elevation near the junction of two clear and rapid streamlets, about a quarter of a mile from the entrance of the valley of mahamene.
but, although he held a correspondence with several serious persons, he studiously concealed his previous character and his name.
in all its departments, and under every circumstance, it bears the impress, and exhibits, in the clearest manner, the sovereignty and the power, of the almighty, in regard alike to the time of its commencement, the circumstances of its progress, and the means of its accomplishment.
soon after breakfast, our captain landed with the saddle and  bridle, and other presents, which mr. birnie, of sydney, had sent out with the  horse.
raveae was armed with a short musket, which he had reloaded since wounding the chief; of this, it is supposed, the man who held him was unconscious.
whatever may be said of the  inutility of bells in churches or chapels in civilized countries, where public  clocks are numerous, and watches almost universal—the same objections will  not apply to a people destitute of these, and having no means of denoting the  hour of the day,– 384 – except by mentioning the situation of the sun  in the heavens.
those names are in the enclosed paper, which i have sent for your inspection.
numerous applications were also made for spelling-books, of which, with others of an elementary kind, a supply had been printed in eimeo.
the declarations of scripture on this momentous point, always  appeared satisfactory; and although the circumstances of the resurrection, and  the manner by which parts of the same body would be united, &c. were  inquiries pursued with deepest interest, we generally found them terminate in  expressions of desire that they might be prepared, rise with glorified bodies,  and come forth from their graves “to the resurrection of life.”
a priest was sent for, who implored  the assistance of his god; but, continuing his intercession for a long time,  without any apparent relief to the sufferer, he desisted, and left the family  in hopeless disappointment.
their  enemies at home became bold in denouncing the enterprise as the wild project of  extravagance and folly, and stamping upon its projectors and conductors the  impress of the blindest fanaticism.
the decision of those who left tahiti, may to some, perhaps, appear premature, but it is not easy to form a correct estimate of the dangers to which they were exposed.
the doctrine of divine benevolence, thus displayed, was altogether new to the tahitians; nothing analogous to it had ever entered into any part of their mythology.
it was made for our infant daughter, with leaflets of the fan-leaved palm, brought from the marquesas; and the first hat we ever saw that had been made 400 there, was one the same individual made for me at huahine, with the same kind of leaves, which were platted by a sailor in eimeo.
they chose rather to feed a number of pigs, or cultivate the vegetables in demand by the shipping, dispose of them when vessels might put in for refreshments, and receive at once in exchange, articles of cloth, &c. than wait till the crops should be gathered, and experience so much uncertainty, or meet with such annoying disappointments in the amount of their returns.
it has opened a new channel for commercial enterprise, and has actually created a market for british manufactures, the consumption of which, among the islands of the pacific that have received the gospel, is already considerable.
about this time, several of the chiefs of raiatea, &c. and many  of their adherents, who had come up in 1811 to assist pomare in the recovery of  his government and authority in tahiti, returned to their own islands; not,  however, without most earnestly requesting the missionaries to send them  teachers and books.
in walking along this aisle on my first visit, i was surprised to see a watercourse five or six feet wide, crossing, in an oblique direction, the floor of the chapel.
the coral  rock makes excellent lime, not perhaps so strong as that made from  rock-limestone, but fine, beautifully white, and durable.
the mountains are more stupendous and lofty than those of huahine, and in some parts equally broken and picturesque.
the people around were touched with a feeling of compassion; but although their commiseration was fully appreciated, there was not that reciprocity of feeling which could lessen, if any considerable degree, the burden of his grief.
the missionaries, considering the whole of the twelve years spent in tahiti as so much time lost, were commencing afresh their endeavours on another island, and could hardly expect that at this time, after such a protracted delay, god would at once prosper their enterprise.
the king found several chiefs favourably disposed; the missionaries also proposed it to others; and, as it met with general approbation, the approaching month of may was appointed for the establishment of the association.
others, actually building upon the sand, erected their dwelling upon the upper edge of the beach, within four or five yards of the rising tide.
although bowels is, perhaps, the best single word forobu or auu, in the signification of which we have not been able to discover any difference, it does not convey the full meaning of the wordaau.
the natives had watched the change in his mind with the most fearful apprehension, as to its results upon the minds of his subjects.
although the measures adopted by the directors of the missionary society, for encouraging industry among the south sea islanders, and furnishing them with a source of productive labour in the manufacture of sugar, had not accomplished all that was designed, and mr. gyles had returned to england before the expiration of the period for which he had been engaged, the directors still considered that it was their duty to endeavour to promote the temporal prosperity of the peoplethat the introduction of useful mechanic arts, and other means of advancing their civilization, though 294 objects of only secondary importance, were not to be overlooked.
a  piece of twisted bark was tied across it, and fastened to the tree.
when they approached the shores of this island, the idolatrous party appeared in considerable force on the beach, assumed a hostile attitude, prohibited their landing, and repeatedly fired upon the king's party.
his wishes were  complied with, and the multitude appeared highly delighted when they saw the  animal walking and running along the beach, with the captain on his back.
– 215 – heavy showers detained us at atimaha until ten o'clock in  the forenoon, when we pursued our voyage.
the principal person on this side is capt.
this was immediately spread upon the paper, imparting to the sheet, when dried in the sun, a rich glossy purple colour, which remained as long as the paper lasted.
mr. nott read again the verse, god so loved, &c. when the native rose from his seat, 188 and said, is that true?
by many of these the missionaries had been able to write to the directors and to their friends in england, and from several they had secured a small supply of such articles as they most needed.
this gave a peculiar interest to the nondescript sort of dwelling, half native hut, and half european cottage, which many of the people at this time inhabited.
shortly after this important event,  which may justly be considered as the dawning of that day, and the first ray of  that light, which has since shed such lustre, and beamed with such power, upon  these isles of the sea, two chiefs arrived from tahiti, inviting pomare to  return, and resume his government, promising an amicable adjustment of their  differences.
this individual appeared to  listen most attentively to what was said; and after the conclusion of the  service, he and mr. nott, proceeded together along the beach towards the  settlement.
i met them at  the door, and asked them their errand.
the natives are now convinced that  they can make cloth; others, besides those taught in the factory, we may expect  will desire to learn; and as they can prepare and spin the cotton at their own  dwellings, this employment, which is certainly adapted to their climate and  habits, as they can take it up and lay it down at their convenience, will  probably be very extensively followed through the islands.
in one of the visits  which mr. nott made to the residence of taaroarii, for the purpose of preaching  to this people, he was followed by patii, the priest of the temple in papetoai,  the district in which the missionaries resided.
several of the natives now came forward, and expressed their pity for the missionaries, gave them a few strips of cloth, and, at their request, 26 conducted them to pomare and idia, whose tent was at some distance.
for school the bell is rung, the shell sounded, or the bar  of iron beaten, only once; which is about a quarter of an hour before it  commences.
the king with his attendants passed by the printing-office every afternoon, on their way to his favourite bathing-place, and seldom omitted to call, and spend some time in watching the progress of the letters, and appeared surprised when he found that, in sixteen pages of the spelling-book, there were upwards of five thousand of the letter a. an edition of 2300 copies of the tahitian catechism, and a collection of texts, or extracts from scripture, were next printed; after which, st. luke's gospel, which had been translated by mr. nott, was put to press.
our mode of saluting by merely shaking hands, they consider remarkably cold and formal.
they brought back their 288 cotton, and hung it up in their houses till another ship arrived, when it was again presented for sale; but being again estimated by weight, little if any more was offered for it.
individuals, whose minds were deeply imbued with the subject, who had identified themselves with its progress and its results, and had embarked not only their influence, but much of their property, in the undertaking, might, and probably did, under the ardour of their feelings, indulge on some occasions in a splendour of imagery, and a richness of description, that exceeded the sober realities of fact: but they never imagined that they could subvert any system of idolatry by their own agency; or, that their efforts would be in any degree effectual for the conversion of the people, but as they were attended by the influence of the holy spirit.
the astonishing and gratifying change which has taken place among them, nothing but christian principles could have effected.
xiv voyage to raiatealanding at tipaemaudescription of the islandsarrival at vaóaarasingular receptionnative salutationsimprovement of the settlementgeneral state of societyformer modes of livingproposed improvement in the native dwellingsmethod of procuring lime from the coral-rockfirst plastered house in the south sea islandsprogress of improvementirregularity of the buildingspublic roadeffect on the surrounding countryduration of native habitationsbuilding for public worshipdivision of public labourmanner of fitting up the interiorsatisfaction of the peoplechapel in raiateanative chandeliersevening services.
patii tore  off the sacred cloth in which they were enveloped, to be safe from the gaze of  vulgar eyes; stripped them of their ornaments, which he cast into the fire; and  then one by one threw the idols themselves into the crackling  flames—sometimes pronouncing the name and pedigree of the idol, and  expressing his own regret at having worshipped it—at others, calling upon  the spectators to behold their inability even to help themselves.
the natives in the several islands were in want, not only of  teachers, but also of books.
early in 1808, mr. elder left this island for port jackson.
he then lived some time with a native female, as his wife, but was soon left by her; and, on the arrival of captain wilson, requested permission to leave the island in his ship.
the gentleman who had hitherto been his employer had proposed to make him his partner, had arranged for the advance of a very considerable sum of money; part of the materials for commencing the new establishment were procured, and the results in that line of business have since been such, as to warrant the inference, that every advantage the parties anticipated might have been realized.
a captain of a ship, at anchor in one of the  harbours, was once inquiring of a native something about his wife, who was  sitting by.
her disconsolate partner had scarcely received the sympathies of his companions in exile and labour, when the newly closed grave of the mother was opened again, to receive the remains of an infant daughter, who survived its parent but three short weeks.
several children and young persons, who have died, have left behind them the most consoling and satisfactory evidence, that they had departed to be with christ; and others have been at an early age admitted members of the christian church.
this led them generally to contend that the thoughts were in the body, and not in the brain; stating, in proof of the accuracy of their opinion, that the bowels or stomach were affected or agitated by desire, fear, joy, sorrow, surprise, and all strong affections or exercises of the mind.
he immediately called his companions, who joined not only in watching its receding progress, but in acknowledging the protection of the almighty in their preservation.
the necessities of the people were so obvious, the  prospects of usefulness so extensive, and the request– 263 – of the  chiefs so urgent, that, although unwilling to be deprived of the assistance of  their seniors, in the acquisition of the language, mr. williams and mr.  threlkeld felt it to be their duty to accompany tamatoa, and the chiefs who  were with him, to raiatea.
they appear a hardy and industrious  race, capable of enduring great privations.
the mission houses  were ransacked and burnt, and whatever the insurgents were unable to carry away  was destroyed.
a small quantity of cocoa-nut oil, the article they could most easily  procure, was therefore demanded for each book, and cheerfully paid by every  native.
it has been stated, that the best canes now cultivated in the west indies, are the kinds taken thither by captain bligh.
pomare sent privately to idia directions for his assassination.
it is not easy to estimate correctly the advantages already derived from this important engine of improvement.
when speaking of mental or moral exercises, they invariably employ terms for which the english word bowels is perhaps the best translation: hence they say, te manao
in these  embarrassments they had no elementary books to consult, no preceptors to whom  they could apply, but were frequently obliged, by gestures, signs, and other  contrivances, to seek the desired information from the natives; who often  misunderstood the purport of their questions, and whose answers must, as often,  have been unintelligible to the missionaries.
in addition to the  various portions of scripture, and numerous tracts that have been printed, a  system of arithmetic has been prepared by mr. davies, and a table of  chronology, which is extensively used; and, so soon as the entire volume of  scripture shall be completed, other useful works will be translated.
he then was threatened with all their weight of vengeance; and, still remaining firm to his determination, he was banished from his father's house, and forced to leave the neighbourhood.
those who had been at eimeo, and many of the inhabitants of huahine, appeared interested in the details that were given of the condition of other parts of the world, and the efforts that had been made by christians in england to send them the means of instruction.
as we approached the shore, crowds of the natives, who had recognized some of our party, came off to meet us, wading into the sea above their waist, in order to welcome our arrival.
they followed him with their compassionate regard and their  prayers, and, after a number of years, learned that he had been engaged in a  vessel trading in the indian seas; that he had at length made himself known to  the baptist missionaries at serampore, from whom they heard that he had  renounced his erroneous sentiments, and professed his belief in the truth of  the christian revelation.
they also indulged a hope of establishing a mission in raiatea, one of the leeward or society islands, when a series of domestic trials frustrated their plans of extended usefulness, and confined them for several years to this island.
it is now, however, very seldom heard.
under these  circumstances it was, that the christians, when not actually engaged with their  enemies, often kneeled down on the grass, either singly or two or three  together, and offered up an ejaculatory prayer to god—that he would cover  their heads in the day of battle, and, if agreeable to his will, preserve them,  but especially prepare them for the results of the day, whether victory or  defeat, life or death.
it  does not appear that there was any implement of husbandry, or useful tool,  included in the catalogue of his presents, though he landed with a coat of  mail, a suit of armour, musket, pistols, cartouche-box, cutlasses, powder, and  ball!
with equal transport, and with greater sympathy, those happy disembodied spirits of just men made perfect, who have more recently entered on their everlasting rest, if they have a knowledge of what passes on earth, must have viewed the change!
pomare also sent us a present.
the principal object attempted in the establishment of a  station at afareaitu having been accomplished, we left our houses and gardens,  and took a most affectionate leave of our friends, who evinced great regret at  our departure.
patii became a pupil of the missionaries, and a constant  worshipper of the true god, persevering amidst much ridicule and persecution.
having adjusted our public arrangements, we returned to  huahine on the haweis, in which messrs. barff, williams, and myself, proceeded  to tahiti.
when i go to bed, it is the last thing that recurs to my memory; if i  awake in the night, it is to meditate upon it alone; and in the morning, it is  generally the first thing that occupies my thoughts.”
let us also give of the produce of our islands,—pigs, or  arrow-root, or cocoa-nut oil.
when the food was ready, we were requested to seat ourselves on the dry grass that covered the floor of the house.
others, actually building upon the sand,  erected their dwelling upon the upper edge of the beach, within four or five  yards of the rising tide.
the commencement of the year 1815 is distinguished, in the annals of tahiti, by changes in society, affecting deeply, not only the religious, but the domestic condition of the people, especially of the females.
otu the king was at atehuru at the  time of his father's death.
when, however, it was considered, that perhaps this pair of canoes had cost him  nearly twelve months' labour, and that, before they were lost, he was  comparatively richer than many an english merchant is in the possession of a  five or six hundred ton vessel, it appears a remarkable instance of  conscientious regard for the sabbath-day.
the cessation of hostilities afforded the missionaries a respite from anxious watching, and allowed them to pursue their former avocations.
whether the melancholy reverses he had experienced, and the depression of spirits consequent upon the dissolution of his government, and the desolation of his family, led him to doubt the truth of that system of idol-worship to which he had been devoted, and on which he had invariably relied for success in every enterpriseor whether the leisure it afforded for contemplation and inquiry, under the influence of these feelings, inclined him to reflect more seriously on the truth of those declarations he had often heard respecting the true god, and to consider his present condition as the chastening of that being whom he had refused to acknowledgeit is impossible to determine; but these disastrous events had evidently subdued his spirit, and softened his heart.
the declaration was  astounding; it was too decisive and important in its nature, and promised  results almost too momentous to be true.
for a number of days no fires were allowed to be lighted, in order that these might be effectual: but all were unavailing; the young chief, who had scarcely arrived at the age of manhood, died in the district of pare on the 19th of june, 1803.
on inquiry of  the people who accompanied our party, they said it was a natural watercourse  from the mountains to the sea; and that, as they could not divert its channel  so as to avoid the building without great additional labour, and judged it best  to make a grating at each side under the wall, and allow it to pass in its  accustomed course.
at another time they inquired who were the scribes, so often  mentioned by the saviour; and asked if they were the secretaries of the  missionary societies in jerusalem?
not fewer than three thousand persons at this 166 time possessed a knowledge of the books in their native language, which were in daily use.
mr.  nott) remained with him; and when, in consequence of the state of perpetual  alarm and agitation in which the people were kept by the war, none could be  induced to attend preaching or instruction.
frames of buildings were seen rising, with astonishing  rapidity, in every part of the district; and houses of every size, from the  lowly snug little cottage with a single door and window in front, to the large  two-storied dwelling of the king or the chief.
we took down our large sails, leaving only a small one in the  forepart of the boat, merely to keep it steady.
at the same time assuring them, that whatever  crimes they might have to answer for, rejection of the gospel would not be one;  though this would, perhaps, involve the heaviest condemnation on their  descendants, if by them that gospel was neglected or despised.
we were detained  there about a fortnight; during which period we received from mr. gyles much  information on the culture of the plant, and the manufacture of sugar.
their parents attend, and witness the procedure  with great satisfaction.
if you think proper, you may burn them all in the fire;  or, if you like, send them to your country, for the inspection of the people of  europe, that they may satisfy their curiosity, and know tahiti's foolish gods!
the king, expecting that his camp, which was at matavai, would be immediately attacked, recommended that the wives and children of the missionaries should take shelter in the vessel.
a new station was also commenced by mr. crook and mr. bourne at papaoa, in the district of faa; and when the haweis was finished, mr. darling joined mr. wilson at matavai.
within three months after our arrival at afareaitu, every thing was in readiness, and, on the 10th of june, 1817, the operations preparatory to printing were commenced.
they proceeded to their destination, but had scarcely commenced their  pearl-fishing, when the natives attacked the crew, barbarously murdered the  first and second officers, who were men of fine stature and benevolent  dispositions; and killing one of the seamen, took possession of the ship.
they  had observed that the wives and daughters of the missionaries, however plain  their dress, wore a riband and strings to their bonnets, and they had often  observed a greater profusion of trimmings attached to those worn by the wives  of the captains, or the female passengers, in any of the vessels that touched  at the islands; they therefore imagined that in point of improvement they might  almost as well appear without a bonnet, as with one destitute of these  appendages.
when he had finished the sixteenth verse of the third chapter, a native, who had listened with avidity and joy to the words, interrupted him; and said, what words were those you read?
three of the missionaries had cleared,  enclosed, and cultivated it; and had rendered it, as far as the productions of  the island were available, subservient to their interests.
he had  formerly been a principal chief in raiatea, and still possessed great influence  over the natives, especially in the adjacent island of eimeo, where, with a  little assistance from the european workmen, he had built a schooner, in which  he came over to see his friend captain wilson, during the second visit of the  duff to tahiti.
messrs. scott and hayward made the tour  of tahiti, preaching to the people whenever they– 104 – could collect  a congregation, and then returned to eimeo with tuahine, oito, and their  companions,—who accompanied them, in order to attend the school, and  receive more ample instruction in those things, respecting which, though  formerly so indifferent, they were now most anxious to be informed.
nor is it easy for an individual, who has never beheld them  in such a situation, to realize the sensation produced, when the solitary  voyagers, from their light canoe, or deckless boat, dancing on every undulating  wave, descry them towering from the surface of the water, uniting the ocean and  the heavens, while the powerful agitation of the former indicates the mighty  process by which they are sustained.
the morning on which we sailed was fine; the sea gently rippled with the freshening breeze, which was fair and steady, without being violent.
all classes were alike insensible to  the gratification arising from mental improvement, and ignorant of the  enjoyments of social and domestic life, the comforts of home, and the  refinements and conveniences which arts and labour add to the bestowments of  providence.
“the people of africa,” said he, “have already done so; for  though, like us, they have no money, they have given of their sheep, and other  property.
but if, when dr. carpenter stated that in the south sea islands the simple principles of unitarianism are essentially taught, he meant that the missionaries instructed the natives in the belief of one god, to the exclusion or neglect of the other great doctrines of revelation above stated, viz.
highly  approving of whatever had a tendency to civilize the natives, or to furnish  them with useful employment, we rejoiced at their introduction, and endeavoured  to persuade the natives of huahine to follow the example of their raiatean  neighbours.
these acts of daring outrage and appalling crime, on  the one side, and of increasing and– 134 – decided attachment to the  principles of order, humanity, and religion, on the other, seemed to indicate  that matters in tahiti were fast verging to an important issue, and that,  before long, some violent convulsion in society must follow.
at distant points of the district, they stationed piquets; and when  divine service was about to commence, and the individual who was to officiate  stood up to read the first hymn, a firing of muskets was heard; and, looking  out of the building in which they were assembled, a large body of armed men,  preceded and attended by the flag of the gods, and the varied emblems of  idolatry, were seen marching round a distant point of land, and advancing  towards the place where they were assembled.
the astonishing and gratifying change which has taken place among them, nothing  but christian principles could have effected.
however much those who remained might have been affected by the departure of so many of their companions, they felt no disposition to abandon the field, or relax their endeavours for the benefit of the people.
that this was actually the case, appears from several letters which he wrote to the missionaries soon after his arrival in tahiti, as well as from the conversation they had with him on the subject.
the disconsolate partner of her days was thus left a widower and childless, far from all the alleviation which the sympathies and attentions of kindred and friends in such seasons impart.
mr. nott again read the verse, god so loved the world, &c. told him it was true, and that it was the message god had sent to them, and that whosoever believed in him, would not perish, but be happy after death.
this was the demise of pomare, the  father of otu the king.
they were, however, most anxious to direct his mind to the great physician of souls, and to lead him to apply for those remedies that would heal his spiritual maladies, and prepare him for his approaching dissolution.
their inquiries shew, if  evidence were wanting, that their mental capabilities are not contemptible, and  demonstrate the influence of the highest order of christian principles upon the  mind and the heart.
i had taken out a printing-press and types, and  having, at the request of the directors, learned the art of– 213 –
the sides and bottom of this bedstead were made 341 with the boards of the bread-fruit tree.
messengers  were sent by those who had hitherto been pagans, to the king and chiefs,  requesting that some of their men might be sent to teach them to read, and to  instruct them concerning the true god, and the order of his worship.
the king and chiefs met at papetoai, and it was a delightful and interesting day to all who were present.
in a few months after their arrival, therefore, they proposed that a society, upon the plan of that established in eimeo, should be formed in huahine, in aid of the parent society in london.
a visit which a number of chiefs and their wives, from raiatea, paid to huahine, increased their eagerness for this new article of dresswhich, when once adopted, was never laid aside.
it  was– 231 – quite amusing to see goats' dogs' and cats' skins  collected to be prepared for book-covers.
for their binding, the few sheep-skins brought from england were cut into slips for the backs and corners, and a large bundle of old newspapers dyed, for covers to the sides.
the king and his friends  were desirous on this occasion to prevent such an acknowledgment.
while,  however, the king refused to allow his men to pursue their conquered enemies,  or to take the spoils of victory, he called a chosen band, among which was  farefau, who had offered up the public thanksgiving at the festival in eimeo  and patini, a near relative of mahine, who had been– 152 – his  champion on that day, and sent them to tautia, where the temple stood in which  the great national idol, oro, was deposited.
new south wales;) and, those who shall return to england,  without first resorting to this place, will be reported to his majesty's  secretary of state for the colonies, and such documents transmitted, as will  warrant their being equally proceeded against and punished.”
many, no doubt, embarked in the enterprise, as subsequent events fully proved, with incorrect ideas of the work, or mistaken views of the qualifications necessary for its accomplishment.
the frequent eulogy pronounced by us on an oration or action, in which  understanding and right feeling are developed, viz.
our prepossessions in their favour continued to increase, and we  viewed them with no ordinary– 197 – interest, as those among whom we  were to spend the remainder of our days.
we could not perceive that much  effect was produced on the cloud attached to the upper part of the column, but  the water at its base was considerably agitated with a whirling motion; while  the spray, which was thrown off from the circle formed by the lower part of the  column, rose several feet above the level of the sea.
next to the direct  communication of the gospel by the living voice, the schools have been  considered– 318 – as the most important department of regular  instruction.
there are special meetings, held once a week, for the instruction of those  who desire to make a public profession of the christian faith by baptism, and  another for the candidates for communion.
the spaniards left hogs, goats, and dogs, on the island; and, so far as these have proved serviceable to the people, their mission was beneficial.
this meeting originated in that held on the 26th of july, 1813, for the purpose of writing the names of those who were desirous of publicly professing christianity; and was designed for the particular instruction of such individuals, though it has since assumed a more general character.
in this state of distressing anxiety, without any means of flying from the gathering storm, all the families continued till the 25th of october, when a vessel from port jackson providentially anchored in the bay, and, by ensuring a safe retreat in the event of sudden assault, afforded no small alleviation to their minds.
they were unanimous in opinion, that there was no prospect of safety or usefulness, even should the rebel chiefs prove their friends; and this, together with the consideration of the little success that had attended the labours of so many years, occasioned their determination to remove.
seventeen of the rebel warriors, including rua, one of  their leaders, were taken, and killed on the– 59 – spot by pomare;  whose followers, according to their savage rules of war, treated their bodies  with the most wanton brutality.
after urging these and  corresponding inquiries, which had exercised their minds, they would ask, after  all these processes of new combination, will the original parts of every human  body be reunited at the resurrection?
my joy, and excitement of feeling, was not less than theirs.
having left the mission and gone to sea, several alarming incidents,  particularly the breaking of a limb at madras, and a severe illness in  calcutta, tended to arouse him to a sense of his danger.
on the 2nd of december, in the same year, mui, one of the early scholars, and  one whose name had been written among the first that professed christianity,  departed to the world of spirits, under the consolation that pure religion  imparts in the hour of death.
their sabbaths must have presented spectacles on which angels might look down with joy.
afareaitu is on the eastern side of eimeo, opposite the district of atehuru in tahiti, and is certainly one of the finest districts in the island.
it would enable missionary institutions 295 to follow more energetically their simple and primary labours, in sending forth messengers to preach the gospel to the heathen.
they were  very urgent to be supplied with spelling-books, which i regretted my inability  to effect to and extent, as our edition was nearly expended.
at first the king and  chiefs, under the recollection of the reported design and tendency of the sugar  manufactory, expressed their wishes that the establishment should be formed  near their principal residence, that all proceedings connected with it might be  under their inspection.
while individuals and families were thus engaged in the erection of their domestic habitations, the people of the island were occupied in raising a spacious and substantial chapel.
in their native islands they grow remarkably fine.
they have also been taught to saw trees into a number of boards, instead of splitting them into two planks, which was their former practice.
granville sharp  became acquainted with mai, taught him the first principles of writing, and, so  far as his knowledge of our language allowed, endeavoured to pour the light of  divine truth into his ignorant and untutored mind.
convinced it is not in the  dress with which the person is invested, but in the feelings of the heart–  405 – with which that dress is regarded, that the evil exists—and  that pride does not consist in the wearing of apparel superior to that to which  an individual may have been accustomed, or to that worn by others, provided it  be suitable to his circumstances, and the society with which he  associates—they did not disapprove of the native dresses.
the two stations at eimeo being on opposite sides of the island, occasioned us  frequent journeys from afareaitu to papetoai.
the bure atua requested to form theviro or front line, advanced guard; and theapoa viri, or cheek of their forces; while the people of eimeo, immediately in the rear, formed what they called the tapono, or shoulder, of their army.
the building was  covered with the leaves of thepandanus, enclosed with a strong and neat,  low aumoa, or boarded fence; and the area within the enclosure was filled with  basaltic pebbles, or broken coral.
x from page 218 to page 237.
the wind being fair, we expected to reach the raiatean shore in three or four hours, and to arrive at the residence of our friends long before the close of day.
in the sabbath-schools of the south  sea islands,– 412 – the mechanical parts of instruction (namely,  learning to read, spell, &c.) are not attended to; the time is wholly  occupied in the religious improvement of the pupils, and is generally of a  catechetical kind.
his companions endeavoured to remove his scepticism; but failing in their efforts, he was separated from their communion, having on several occasions publicly declared his sentiments to be deistical.
a jealousy appeared to exist between him and pomare, the  father of otu, who was king of the island; and during the absence of the  former, on a visit to a neighbouring island, availing himself of the offence  pomare's orator and people had given to otu, he formed a league with the young  king, to deprive pomare of all authority in tahiti.
our assemblies now assumed quite a civilized  appearance, every one, whose means were sufficient to procure it, dressing in a  garment of european cloth.
soon after eight o'clock the children repair to the  sabbath-schools, those for the boys and girls being distinct.
pineapples and water melons, of 50 which the natives seemed remarkably fond, were preserved amidst the general devastation.
from the time of their landing, pomare had taken them under his protection; and when he came over to eimeo, they followed in his train.
to which it was answered,  that if god had not made that the peculiar test of their obedience, satan would  have found some other medium through which to tempt them to sin.
three hundred– 123 – scholars attended  the means of instruction in eimeo; besides which, there were a number in sir  charles sander's island, huahine, and raiatea; so that, at this time there is  reason to believe that between five and six hundred had renounced idolworship.
the children afterwards  walked in procession through the settlement, halted at each of the extremities,  sung a hymn, and then repaired to the chapel, where a suitable address was  delivered to them by the pastor.
once they observed—adam fell in paradise, and angels fell even in  heaven itself; how then can we be preserved from sinning against god?
when i last saw  the boy going his accustomed rounds, i perceived that, in consequence of  frequent and continued use, the side he struck had actually become concave, the  opposite exhibiting a corresponding convexity.
at other times they threatened mr. armitage with ruin, and announced their determination to oppose him.
the missionaries, aware of this, wrote a letter of precaution, which they gave to a native, to hand to the master of the first ship that might touch there.
many of the chiefs, and a  number of the people, followed his example.
notwithstanding the prophet's prediction of victory, pomare was defeated, and fled with precipitation to pare; leaving a number of muskets in the hands of his enemies, and several principal warriors among the slain.
the first instance of decisive and salutary effect from their teaching, was, we are informed, what would, in general, be termed accidental, and occasioned by their reading to some native visitors an account of the sufferings and death of the saviour, which they 180 were translating into the vernacular tongue.
i opened the leaves,  and found the fish nicely broiled; and, imitating the practice of those around  me, dipped several of the first pieces i took into the dish placed by my side:
we could not perceive that much effect was produced on the cloud attached to the upper part of the column, but the water at its base was considerably agitated with a whirling motion; while the spray, which was thrown off from the circle formed by the lower part of the column, rose several feet above the level of the sea.
the passage, in connexion with which these remarks are introduced, together with every other, in which the sentiments held or taught by the missionaries are stated, are sufficient to shew that they have not promulgated a mutilated gospelthe vast accession of enjoyment to all classes, shews that is not a melancholy systemwhile the opinions expressed by the converts themselves, shew that their faith is not what is usually denominated unitarian.
she was habited in a light loose and flowing dress of beautifully white native cloth, tastefully fastened on the left shoulder, and reaching to the ankle: her hair was rather lighter than that of the natives in general; and on her head she wore a light and elegant native bonnet, of green and yellow cocoa-nut leaves; each ear was perforated, and in the perforation two or three flowers of the fragrantcape jessamine were inserted.
the chiefs and people assembled from most of the districts of eimeo, and a number of strangers from tahiti, residing at papetoai, were also present.
they are substantially built, and though destitute of any thing very elegant in shape or execution, answer exceedingly well the purpose for which they were erected.
all who felt inclined to come were invited, but none were  urged.
the  disconsolate partner of her days was thus left a widower and childless, far  from all the alleviation which the sympathies and attentions of kindred and  friends in such seasons impart.
but o that we may all be saved, through jesus  christ.”
otu now assumed the name of pomare, which has ever since been the regal name in tahiti.
rude as thou art, (for we returned thee rude and ignorant, except of outward show,) i cannot think thee
discussions of this nature, though  adapted to interest the people, and encourage the exercise of intellect, were  probably more amusing than profitable; and, notwithstanding the diversified  subjects presented, their inquiries generally referred to the new order of  things which christianity had introduced.
often have i seen the mists and  clouds resting on its sides, or encircling its brow, while the sunbeams have  irradiated its summit; and it has appeared, especially when seen from a  distance, “as some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, swells from the  vale, and midway leaves the storm.”
from the time of their landing, pomare had taken them under his protection; and  when he came over to eimeo, they followed in his train.
some seizing his mane, others his tail, endeavoured to hold him, till the  terrified creature appeared in great danger of a watery grave.
in the month of october, the missionaries received a note from the king, informing them of the probability of war, recommending them to be upon their guard, and not to be deceived or taken by surprise.
he was accompanied by his wife, maihota, and twelve of his  people, equally anxious with himself, to know more respecting these important  matters.
in addition to the various portions of scripture, and numerous tracts that have been printed, a system of arithmetic has been prepared by mr. davies, and a table of chronology, which is extensively used; and, so soon as the entire volume of scripture shall be completed, other useful works will be translated.
they usually answered,teie,  “here,” and so proceeded– 337 – to the rendezvous  appointed, where a present was given to the king, and a similar offering to the  god.
this the king declined, and again  insisted that oro should be given up.
it was at this time a complete wilderness, overgrown with weeds and  brushwood.
then, said the king, think about it, and perhaps we can have a combination, or society, for this purpose.
a bread-fruit and a fish was handed to each individual, and, having implored a blessing, we began to eat, dipping every mouthful of bread-fruit or fish into the small vessel of salt water,without which, to the natives, it would have been unsavoury and tasteless.
when our goods, &c. were all brought under its cover, and the  boats had returned to the ship, we sat down to rest, and could not avoid gazing  on the scene around us, before we began to adjust our luggage.
under the influence of these encouraging prospects, although enfeebled by frequent indisposition, the missionaries prosecuted their work; their scholars increased in the same degree that the profession of christianity prevailed, and a supply of four hundred copies of their abridgment of the new testament, and a thousand copies of small elementary books, which had been printed in new south wales, arrived very opportunely about this time; spelling books they were still much in want of, as those formerly printed in england had long been expended.
they  were, however, most anxious to direct his mind to the great physician of souls,  and to lead him to apply for those remedies that would heal his spiritual  maladies, and prepare him for his approaching dissolution.
he was travelling,  with a number of his followers, in a mountainous part of tahiti, where it was  necessary to spend the night in a temporary encampment.
while the  affairs of the island remained in this unsettled state, the nautilus arrived,  and pomare prevailing on the captain to furnish him with a boat manned by  british seamen armed, went to atehuru to present a costly offering to oro,  whose favour he still considered to be the only means of restoring his  authority.
after a few hours of unbroken rest, we arose recruited the next morning, found our dried clothes comfortable, united with our host and his family in the morning devotions, and then, while they were preparing refreshments, took a view of the district.
i have frequently been delighted to see families of natives going on board the vessels, or repairing to the market-house on shore with the produce of their labour, and when they have arrived at the place of barter, and the captain or the merchant has spread before them his attractive goods, glossy and bright in all the shining colours of which they are so fond, the parent's eye has often glanced over them, in wonder when and how they were made.
when a ship arrived, they were eager to dispose of it, expecting far  more in return than the warmest encouragement in its culture had ever  warranted.
i never saw any, even the most irreligious, or those unfriendly to missions, who were not constrained to confess that it surpassed all they had heard or imagined could have been exhibited; while others, more favourably disposed, have publicly declared its effect on their own minds.
about a quarter before nine, the congregation begins to assemble, and  at nine the morning service commences.
at a former meeting held on the spot where the chapel stood, in which  the children were examined, he was present.
in this proceeding they were influenced by a desire that their domestics, and every member of their families, might have an opportunity of attending public worship.
this prudential reserve, on some accounts, cannot be too highly  commended; yet, it is possible to carry it too far; and, in the present  instance, however honourable to the individuals who maintained it, it cannot be  doubted that the world has been thereby deprived of a full record of events,  intimately connected with the destinies of the of the people among whom they  transpired, and with the propagation of the gospel in the most distant parts of  the world, during every future age of the christian church.
i was struck with his tall and almost gigantic appearance; he was upwards of six feet high, and seemed about forty years of age.
i cannot describe it; but it possessed charms independent of the beautiful scenery and rich vegetation.
they beheld, with deepest distress, their gardens destroyed, their trees cut down, the fences they had reared with so much care demolished, the country around a desolate wilderness, and the inhabitants reduced to a state of destitution and wretchedness; yet they could not contemplate the remarkable interposition of providence, in affording them the means of perfect security amidst the surrounding destruction, without mingled emotions of admiration and gratitude.
he was  originally only a chief of the district of pare, but his natural enterprise and  ambition, together with the attention shewn him by the commanders of british  vessels, their presents of fire-arms and ammunition, and the aid of european  seamen, especially the mutineers of the bounty, had enabled him to assume and  maintain the supreme authority in tahiti.
may you be saved, my friends, by  jehovah, and jesus christ, the only saviour by whom we sinners can be saved.
they purposed to attempt their civilization, the  establishment of schools, and, with the assistance of pious and intelligent  natives, their instruction in the use of letters, and the first principles of  religion; while they were cultivating such an acquaintance with the language as  would enable them more fully to unfold the great objects of their mission.
by this arrangement two stations would be formed in eimeo, and the whole of the inhabitants be brought more fully under religious instruction.
these remarks apply principally to the  commencement– 258 – of a mission among an unenlightened people, where  a school will be an essential part of such establishment; at subsequent  periods, rewards to those who have excelled, consisting of books, penknives,  inkstands, slates, or other articles connected with the pursuits of the school,  may be given with a good effect, tending rather to stimulate to diligent  enterprise, than to cherish a spirit of dependent indolence, or to excite  expectations that never can be gratified.
although divested of every thing like stateliness or grandeur, the first visit i paid to the chapel left a strong impression on my mind.
when the gospel by john, and the acts of the apostles, were finished, and mr. nott left huahine, in july 1819, he removed to raiatea, his native island, where he has since been not only a useful member of society, and an ornament to the religion he professes, but an officer in the christian church in raiatea.
the report of the departure of the missionaries soon spread through the island, and appeared to be regretted by many of the people.
although a work on geography has not yet been printed, many of the natives have a tolerably correct idea of the extent, population, and relative positions of the most important countries of the world.
this is not only manifested with regard to their sabbath-day services, but their lecture on wednesday evening, and their monthly missionary prayer-meetings.
we have sometimes been surprised at the readiness with which the children have recited the text, divisions, and leading thoughts in a discourse, without having written it down.
proposals of peace were sent by the king, but the  rebels, being reinforced from districts to the estward, refused to meet pomare,  or negociate with him; and war appeared inevitable.
its appearance was coarse, and inferior to the imported calicoes of british manufacture; it was nevertheless grateful to the chiefs, from the fact of its 299 being the first ever manufactured in their own islands.
for a considerable extent around the 360 pulpit, the seats were in the form of low boarded pews neatly finished.
it was, to urge those who were decided, and wished to become sincere disciples of jesus christ, to make their desires knownthat the missionaries might pay them special attention, and give them suitable instructions: they listened attentively, and many appeared deeply affected.
i have often heard the young man's mother-in-law, and other members of the household, speak of this discourse as having deeply impressed their minds.
tears of joy started from his gladdened eye, and  rolled in swift succession down his cheeks, while he could scarcely forbear  rushing to the spot, and clasping in his arms the unconscious author of his  ecstacy.
god, however, preserved them, and they returned, to render to him the thanks and the glory due unto his name.
on one occasion, they asked  what the heavy burdens were that our lord accused the scribes and pharisees of  binding on men's shoulders; and what was meant by “let the dead bury their  dead.”
knew how to make war.
the rocks rise nearly perpendicular in some places on both sides, and the smooth surface of the ocean extends a mile and a half, or two miles, towards the mountains.
they furnish a striking illustration of the sentiment, that to civilize a  people they must first be christianized; that to attempt the former without the  latter, is like rearing a superstructure without a foundation.
many of their relatives or countrymen had been devoured by sharks; a limb or large portion of the fleshy part of the body of others, had been destroyed by these voracious fish.
ii arrival of the first ship after the duff's departure—assault upon  the missionaries—its disastrous consequences—pomare's  revenge—death of oripaia—league against pomare—invasion of  matavai—description and character of haamanemane—his  assassination—murder of mr. lewis—pomare's offering for the mission  chapel—arrival of a king's ship—friendly communications from the  governor of new south wales—government orders—act of parliament for  the protection of the south sea islanders—arrival of the royal  admiral—landing of the missionaries—departure of mr.
the clear sky was reflected in the unruffled waters of the bay, which was bordered with a fine beach strewn with shells.
their private devotions are on this, as well as other mornings, usually concluded by sunrise, and shortly afterwards the greater part of the inhabitants assemble for their sabbath morning prayer-meeting.
the state of the people was at this time most affecting.
the struggle between 125 light and darkness, truth and error, order and anarchy, benevolence and barbarism, had never appeared more intense and conspicuous than at this time.
early in the same year, the number of pupils,  and of those who professed christianity in eimeo, was considerably increased,  and favourable intelligence continued to arrive from the adjacent island.
the office and the aim of every missionary require the exercise of this disposition in the highest degree; and he who would be successful, should by this identify himself, as far as possible, with the objects of his regard.
this was conspicuous in the conduct of many of the voyagers of the sixteenth century, and presents them in striking contrast with their successors.
we made no presents to those who were our scholars, more than to others from whom we had experienced an equal degree of hospitality; we offered no reward to any one for learning, and held out no prospect of personal or temporal advantage to our pupils and hearers; and studiously avoided presenting any other inducements to learn, than the advantages that would be secured to our scholars themselves, by the possession of that knowledge, which 256 we were not only willing but desirous to impart.
as the  natives experienced the convenience of the new dresses, their desire for them  increased, and the long loose dress soon became an every-day garment, while  others of a finer texture, made after the european fashion, were procured for  special occasions.
a number of his attendants rushed upon the canoes, other seized the god by force, tore him away from the people of atehuru, and bore him towards the sea.
we accepted his offer; he became a faithful servant, and continued with us till we removed from the islands.
after four  years, each tree bore about forty berries, which when perfectly ripe were  gathered, and sent to the several stations.
pomare, otu, haamanemane, paitia,  and other chiefs, continued to manifest the truest friendship, and liberally  supplied them with such articles as the island afforded.
the female school in huahine was under the management of mrs. barff and mrs. ellis; and those at several of the other stations were also superintended by the wives of the missionaries.
numbers of the areois early  embraced christianity, and some from the highest orders were among the first  converts.
iron tools they considered the most  valuable articles they could possess; and a circumstance that occurred during  the second visit of the duff, will decisively shew the comparative value they  placed upon gold and iron.
a tall man was sometimes seen with a hat  and shoes, without stockings, a longsurtout black-cloth coat, with the  collar turned up and buttoned close to his chin, and over his black coat a  white frilled shirt, the collar unbuttoned, and the bosom thrown open, the  sleeves drawn up towards the elbows, and the outline of the other parts  appearing in strong contrast with the black coat underneath, which reached to  his ankles.
large fragments of rock were scattered at the base of the mountains that rose on one side of our dwelling, the sea rolled within a few yards on the other, and in each direction along the shore 251 there was one wild and uncultivated wilderness.
it was, indeed, a joy unspeakable, the joy of  harvest.
i naturally inferred that the house was appropriated to purposes of secret devotion; and meeting 373 its proprietor, i asked its use.
it is, however, probable, that such was their  estimate of the advantages that would result from the residence of the mission  families among them, that, in order to afford every facility for the  accomplishment of an object so desirable, and impart confidence to the  missionaries, as to their support, they were sincere in thus ceding the  district.
we needed and sought repose,  but the incidents of the day had produced a degree of excitement that did not  speedily subside; in addition to which, the constant and loud roaring of the  surf kept us awake till nearly daybreak.
ix from page 193 to page 217.
while he was employed in dressing our bread-fruit, &c. we removed some of  the boxes, piled up our luggage as compactly as we could, and, when the food  was prepared, sat down to a pleasant repast of fried fish, bread-fruit, and  plantains, cocoa-nut milk, and tea.
the appearance of the females was equally interesting; most of them wore a neat and tasteful bonnet, made with the rich yellow-tinted cocoa-nut leaf.
as soon, therefore, as they had made the habitation furnished by the people for their accommodation in any degree comfortable, they commenced with energy their important work.
the most singular circumstance, however, connected with the interior of the royal mission chapel, is the number of pulpits.
she had accompanied her husband from her native country in the ship  duff, with the first missionaries who landed in tahiti.
while thus engaged, his seclusion was invaded, and his solitude disturbed, by the 128 appearance of a band, similar, in some respects, to that which broke in upon the saviour's retirement in gethsemane.
upufara, the late chief of papara, was an intelligent and interesting man; his death was deeply regretted by tati, his near relative, and successor in the government of the district.
others might be often seen employed in pulling down the houses of their idols, and erecting temples for the worship of the prince of peace, working in companionship and harmony with those whom they had met so recently upon the field of battle.
their whole moral conduct seemed changed; the things they once delighted in, they now abhorred, and found enjoyment in what had formerly been a source of ridicule or aversion.
they also prefer that which is attached to the main reef, and growing, or as they sometimes call it, live coral, to that which is broken off and hardened or dead.
in person he  was tall and thin, easy and engaging in his manners, and polite in his address;  but in symmetry of form, expression of countenance, general outline of feature,  and shade of complexion, inferior to the majority of his countrymen.
the only exception to the prevailing  opinion, which deprives the head or brain of all connexion with the exercise of  the mind, is the term for headache, which istahoa, and is also used to  signify confusion of noise, and perplexity from attention to a multitude of  objects at the same time.
proud of their triumph, insolent in crime, and impatient of control, the atehuruans and natives of papara quarrelled with the taiarabuans, who had joined them in destroying the porionu.
during their absence, pomare  had remained excluded from his hereditary dominions, and in exile on the island  of eimeo.
on  the 11th of may 1821, a large chapel was nearly filled with spectators.
in the course of the following year, a spelling-book, which mr. davies had composed and used, was sent to england.
we have been favoured, in most of the stations, with valuable native teachers, in both the male and female schools.
it was some time after the adoption of the  english dress.
among this class, also, as  might naturally be expected, have been experienced the most distressing  apprehensions of the consequences of sin, and the greatest compunction of mind  on account of it.
it was in vain that we endeavoured to shew the  reasonableness of this opinion, by pointing out and explaining the connexion  between the nerves pervading the several organs of sense, and the  brain—the cessation and interruption of mental sensation and exercise,  when the nerves of the brain were permanently injured—or when the line of  nerves extending from an organ to the brain was broken.
dress making and straw-bonnet making, now profitable employments to a number of females, were certainly the first regular female occupations from civilized society being introduced into the islands.
in striking contrast with them, he  placed the mild and benevolent motives and tendency of the gospel of jesus  christ, and the benefits its introduction had conferred: alluding to the very  fact of their being assembled for the purpose which had convened them, as a  powerful illustration of his remarks.
and when we consider the long and cheerless years, which he and some  of his associates had spent in fruitless, hopeless toil, on that unpromising  field, the reasonable prospect of an ultimate harvest, which these facts  certainly warranted, was adapted to produce unusual and exalted  joys,—emphatically a missionary's own,—joys “that a stranger  intermeddleth not with.”
their aim had always been to exhibit fully, and with the greatest possible simplicity, the grand doctrines and precepts taught in the bible, giving each that share of attention which it appeared to have obtained in the volume of revelation.
mahine on this occasion wore a curious helmet, covered on the outside with plates of the beautifully spotted cowrie, or tiger shell, so abundant in the islands; and ornamented with a plume of the tropic, or man-of-war bird's feathers.
the soil was good  throughout; and, as the people had chosen the most eligible places along the  shore, we fixed upon a small elevation near the junction of two clear and rapid  streamlets, about a quarter of a mile from the entrance of the valley of  mahamene.
this being done, he must  again repair to the woods for long branches of hibiscus for rafters, with which  he framed the roof.
the sense, however, of personal danger, and immediate destruction, if brought within the vortex of their influence, restrained in a great degree all curious, and what, in other circumstances, would have been interesting observation, on the wonderful phenomena around us, the mighty agitation of the elements, and the terrific sublimity of these wonders of the deep.
the singular fact of most of their  syllables consisting of a consonant and a vowel, and a vowel always terminating  both their syllables and their words, increased their embarrassment in this  respect.
this was the case with several on that  occasion.
these acts of daring outrage and appalling crime, on the one side, and of increasing and 134 decided attachment to the principles of order, humanity, and religion, on the other, seemed to indicate that matters in tahiti were fast verging to an important issue, and that, before long, some violent convulsion in society must follow.
the printing-office was converted into a tanyard; old canoes, filled with lime-water, were prepared; and all kinds of skins brought to have the hair extracted, and the oily matters dissipated.
after the conclusion of the usual school exercises, mr. barff appropriated  half an hour to the instruction of the natives in the art of singing.
towards the close of the year 1799, the missionaries were  called to the melancholy duty of conveying to the silent grave, under very  distressing circumstances, mr. lewis, one of their number, and the first  missionary who had terminated his life on the shores of tahiti.
about nine o'clock, i saw crowds of natives repairing towards the place where the horse had been tied up, in charge of one of pomare's favourite chiefs; and shortly afterwards he was led out, while the multitude gazed at him with great astonishment.
many  of their questions referred to the exercise of prayer, for punctual attendance  to which they have been uniformly distinguished.
in the  evening they were also visited in an amicable manner by otu and his queen.
a large quantity of every valuable kind of food was dressed and presented, together with several bundles of native cloth.
voyage to raiatea—landing at tipaemau—description of the  islands—arrival at vaóaara—singular reception—native  salutations—improvement of the settlement—general state of  society—former modes of living—proposed improvement in the native  dwellings—method of procuring lime from the coral-rock—first  plastered house in the south sea islands—progress of  improvement—irregularity of the buildings—public road—effect on  the surrounding country—duration of native habitations—building for  public worship—division of public labour—manner of fitting up the  interior—satisfaction of the people—chapel in raiatea—native  chandeliers—evening services.
in  order to encourage and direct them by our example, messrs. barff, orsmond, and  myself, having obtained permission from the owners of the valley in which we  resided, employed natives to clear away the trees and bushes with which it was  overgrown, for the purpose of planting it with coffee, sugar cane, or cotton.
a small and partially wooded island on the north side of the opening in the reefs opposite the harbour, distinctly points out the passage, and is very 334 serviceable to ships going to sea.
in addition to this, he had been nurtured amid the debasing and polluting immorality, for which his country, ever since its discovery, had been distinguished; and although his ideas of the moral perfections of the true god might be but indistinct, and his views of the purity required by the gospel but partial, yet it might naturally be expected, that the convictions of guilt in such an individual, when first awakened to a sense of the nature and consequence of sin, would be deep and severe.
still the massy pile of solid stonework, constituting one end of the area which themarae included, remained in a state of partial dilapidationan imposing monument of thehau riaria, reign of error, as they denominated idolatry.
in reference to their attempts to  acquire the knowledge of tahitian, they remarked, that they found all  europeans, who had visited tahiti, had mistaken the language as to spelling,  pronunciation, and ease of acquisition.
the most valuable books were either committed to the flames, or distributed among the warriors for the purpose of making cartridge papers, and the printing types were melted into musket balls.
there was so much rural beauty and secluded quietude in the scene, and so much that was novel and striking in the appearance of the people, momentous and delightful in the object for which they had been convened, that it was altogether an interesting meeting.
besides eight hundred copies of the abridgment of scripture, and many copies of part of the gospel of st. luke in manuscript, about two thousand seven hundred spelling-books had already been distributed among the pupils at eimeo, or sent over to tahiti; still they were unable to meet the daily increasing demands of the people.
the deputation and the  missionaries, however, considering that the island of eimeo afforded the  greatest facilities for carrying on the work, removed it thither, and with  great expense and labour messrs. armitage and blossom erected the machinery,  and commenced their work.
the directors of the missionary society were fully sensible of the necessity of introducing a regular system of industry among the islanders, in order to their assuming and maintaining a station amongst christian or civilized nations; and felt that the interesting and peculiar circumstances of the people at this time, required something beyond the inculcation of the principles of christianity, and instruction in the use of letters.
in many a family, the  husband was an idolater, and the wife a christian,—or the reverse; the  parents addicted to the gods of their ancestors, and the child a disciple of  jesus christ; and many a wife was beaten by her husband, and – 126 –  many a child driven from the parental roof, solely on account of their  attachment to the new religion.
to the natives of raiatea, this work of their own hands appeared a wonderful specimen of architecture; the manner in which its interior was finished perfectly astonished them, and appeared no less surprising to the natives of the other islands.
in all the trials of  the mission she had sustained her part; and, with unwavering devotedness to its  interests, had endeavoured to perform with efficiency and cheerfulness the  duties of her station, until her life fell a sacrifice to the privations and  toils of her eventful and perilous career.
the fire was kindled underneath; a hole was made in the wooden cap of the  still, into which a long, small, bamboo cane, placed in a trough of cold water,  was inserted at one end, and, when the process of distillation was commenced,  the spirit flowed from the other into a calabash, cocoa-nut shell, or other  vessel, placed underneath to receive it.
often, when standing at my door, which was but a short distance from the sea-beach, as i have gazed on the varied beauties of the rich and glowing landscape, and the truly picturesque appearance of the island of tahiti, fourteen or eighteen miles distant, the scene has been enlivened by the light and nautilus-like sail of the buoyant canoe, first seen in the distant horizon as a small white speck, sometimes scarcely distinguishable from the crest of the waters, at others brilliantly reflecting the last rays of the retiring sun, and appearing in bold and beautiful relief before the impassioned splendour of those clouds that wait upon the sun at his departure.
they were in general, hospitably entertained, and had many opportunities of speaking to the people, who frequently listened with attention, and often made inquiries, either while the preacher was speaking, or after the address was ended.
accordingly, on the 14th of may, in order to satisfy the king, and quiet the minds of the people, they advised mr. gyles to return to new south wales by the first conveyance.
there is not, and there has  not been, a single missionary there, since their first establishment, now  four-and-thirty years ago, who, had he inculcated what unitarians themselves  call unitarianism, would not have been regarded, by his companions, as having  renounced his faith, and forsaken his lord.
during our abode in huahine, a number of natives were on a voyage from the leeward to the windward islands, in a boat belonging to mr. williams, when a waterspout approached them.
dr. gilham having intimated to the captain his wish to return to  england, was taken on board, and the duff finally sailed from matavai on the  4th of august, 1797.
he was at first ridiculed in this undertaking; for many of the chiefs and landed proprietors in eimeo were not strongly attached to his family; they were, moreover, at that time the firm supporters of idolatry, and considered his neglect of the gods as the cause of his own troubles, and the war then desolating tahiti.
hence, the letters which conveyed to england the animating tidings of  the first dawning of a brighter day on tahiti, conveyed also the sad recital of  these inroads of death; and well might the missionaries on that occasion  “sing of mercy and of judgment.”
have they any thing to repent of?
he soon threw off his european dress, and adopted the costume,  uncivilized manners, and indolent life, of his countrymen.
having repaired the vessel and recruited his stores, the captain sailed from tahiti on the 14th of january, leaving on the island three of his seamen, whose influence among the inhabitants in general was soon found to be most unfavourable.
the press soon became a matter of universal 226 conversation; and the facility with which books could be multiplied, filled the minds of the people in general with wonderful delight.
to this cheerless humiliation, the female sex had been for ages subject, from the direct injunctions of their false system of religion; and as its cumbrous fabric began to give way, this barbarous and arbitrary imposition was proportionably disregarded.
he was afterwards associated– 202 –  with us at huahine, subsequently became my fellow-labourer in the sandwich  islands, and was, when i last heard from the islands, about to be ordained  pastor of a christian church in sir charles sander's island.
this rebellion,  called in the annals of tahiti, te tamai ia rua, the war of rua, (rua being the  name of the principal leader of the rebellion,) was the most powerful and  alarming that had yet taken place; and the circumstances by which god  providentially preserved the missionaries from its rage, and from inevitable  ruin, were remarkable.
the missionaries had every reason  to believe that the king was sincere in his desires to become a christian; but  as they then deemed only those who were true converts to christianity, proper  subjects for the rite of baptism, and feared that his mind might not be  sufficiently informed on the nature and design of that ordinance, and that he  was rather an earnest inquirer after divine truth, than an actual possessor of  its moral principle and spiritual influence, they proposed to him to defer his  baptism until he had received more ample instruction.
they advanced with deliberation and care; and though the tahitian dialect, as  written by them, is doubtless imperfect, and susceptible of great improvement,  the circumstance of its having formed the basis of those subsequently written,  the ease with which it is acquired, and the facility with which it is used by  the natives themselves, are evidences of its accuracy and its utility.
the carding engine, and some of the other parts of the machinery, were turned by a large waterwheel, but the work has often been retarded by the repairs that the wheel or its appendages have required.
under the influence of these encouraging prospects, although enfeebled by  frequent indisposition, the missionaries prosecuted their work; their scholars  increased in the same degree that the profession of christianity prevailed, and  a supply of four hundred copies of their abridgment of the new testament, and a  thousand copies of small elementary books, which had been printed in new south  wales, arrived very opportunely about this time; spelling books they were still  much in want of, as those formerly printed in england had long been expended.
at another time they inquired who were the scribes, so often mentioned by the saviour; and asked if they were the secretaries of the missionary societies in jerusalem?
the night, however, was cloudless, and “star after star, from some unseen abyss, came through the sky,  till all the firmament was thronged with constellations, and the sea strewn with their images.”
aged chiefs, and priests, and warriors, with their spelling-books in their hands, might be seen sitting, on the benches in the schools, by the side, perhaps, of some smiling little boy or girl, by whom they were now taught the use of letters.
his words at first seemed but as words of irony or jest; but the earnestness of his manner, the details he gave, and the intelligence he brought from the king and some of the chiefs, confirmed the declaration.
the king examined, with great minuteness and pleasure, the form as it lay on the press, and prepared to try to take off the first sheet ever printed in his dominions.
on the occasion above alluded to, when the examinations in the place of worship had terminated, the children walked, in the same order in which they were accustomed to proceed from the school to the chapel, to a rising ground in the vicinity of the governor's house.
those who  sent them expressed at the same time their determination to renounce every evil  practice connected with their former idolatrous life, and their desire to  become altogether a christian people.
after remaining about three weeks at tahiti, and assisting the  society in their regulations by his counsel, and in the preparation of their  houses by the carpenters of the ship,– 46 – captain wilson sailed  from matavai on the 31st of july.
when these had failed to move the parents' hearts, and they could obtain no  promise from either the father or mother, that they would spare the child, the  wives of the missionaries have, as a last resort, begged that the infant,  instead of being destroyed, might be committed to their care.
the natives, (the account says,) demonstrated much complaisance,  and, by acclamation, acknowledged the king of spain, king of otaheite and all  the islands.”
their gardens were again enclosed, and such seeds as they had preserved were committed to the ground.
by this  arrangement two stations would be formed in eimeo, and the whole of the  inhabitants be brought more fully under religious instruction.
the ship was in great distress, the crew in want of most of the necessaries of life, and the captain had nothing to barter with the natives for supplies, but muskets and powder.
in some instances, the natives appeared to listen with attention and interest to their message, but they frequently found great difficulty in inducing them to attend, and often observed with pain, that their instructions were received with indifference or with ridicule.
in the evening several of the missionaries met for social worship, and with this sacred exercise we closed our first sabbath in the society islands, under a deep impression of the advantages of christianity, and the pleasing effects, which we had that day witnessed, of divine influence over the hearts of the most profligate idolaters.
the floor  was boarded with thick sawn planks, or split trees; and, although it exhibited  great variety of timber and skill, was by no means contemptible.
on the right, the high land of the interior slopes down with gentle gradual  – 351 – descent, and terminates in an elevated point, which just out  into the harbour, forming two little bays.
i cannot imagine a more cheering and affecting scene, than must often have been presented, when a native sabbath-school teacher has seated herself on the grass, under the shade of a spreading tree, or by the side of a winding stream, and has there gathered her little class around her, for the purpose of unfolding, and impressing on their tender minds, the pure and sacred precepts of inspired truth; or has, under these circumstances, engaged with them in prayer to that god, who is not confined to temples made with hands, and who regards the sincerity of those who call upon him, rather than the circumstances under which their petitions are offered.
self-interest, or a desire for property, is the  principle upon which the intercourse uncivilized persons have with foreigners  visiting their country for purposes of commerce, &c. is regulated; the  estimation in which such individuals are usually held, and the influence they  exercise, is proportioned to the extent of their property, or the portions of  it which the natives receive.
many of the chiefs, and a number of the people, followed his example.
but as the subject was more  frequently brought under their notice in public discourse, or in reading the  scriptures, and their minds were more attentively exercised upon it in  connexion with their ancestry, themselves, and their descendants, it appeared  invested with more than ordinary difficulty; bordering, to their apprehension,  on impossibility.
he began by referring them to the ages that were past, and to the system of false religion by which they had been so long enslaved, reminding them very feelingly of the rigid exactions imposed in the name of their imaginary gods, for they were but pieces of wood, or cocoa-nut husk.
i te atua —peace to you from jesus, blessing on you from god—was  the general strain of their salutation.
one simultaneous cry, aue te pahi e, alas, the ship !
he represented himself as a hoa, friend or attendant, on the king.
the spelling-book being most  needed, was first put to press, and an edition of 2600 copies soon finished.
this  occurred in the course of the year; and on the 26th of october, 1809, they all  sailed from the islands, excepting mr. hayward, who remained in huahine, and  mr. nott, who still resided in eimeo with the king.
the 7th of  december, 1817, being the day fixed for the launch, crowds of the inhabitants  assembled to witness the spectacle: when the preparations were completed, the  wedges were removed; but as the vessel did not move, strong ropes were passed  round her stern, and a number of the islanders on each side began pulling her  towards the water.
early in the year 1819, the captain of a vessel, the  indus, whom purposes of commerce led to tahiti, informed the king that mr.  gyles's errand to tahiti was merely experimental; and that, should the attempt  to manufacture sugar succeed, individuals from the distant countries,  possessing influence– 284 – and large resources, would establish  themselves in the islands, and, with an armed force, which he would in vain  attempt to oppose, would either destroy the inhabitants, or reduce them to  slavery.
when done, it was quite a curiosity 354 among the natives of the leeward islands, and multitudes came on purpose to see it.
the natives followed the canoe for some miles, but mr. nott was mercifully preserved, and reached matavai in safety, indebted, under god, to the vigilance and promptitude of his tahitian friend, for his life.
of tea and sugar, and many other  comforts, they had long been destitute; and their apparel was scarcely such as  to enable them to appear respectable in the company of any of their countrymen  who might visit the island.
the rivers that flow along their rocky courses from the head of the ravines to the ocean belowand the distant mountains, that rise in the interiorcombine to form, though on a limited scale, rich, romantic, and beautiful landscapes.
the missionaries, by furnishing supplies to the vessel, had prevented
the sandwich islanders were among his attendants, and they had reason to suspect that he had favoured the concealment of the seamen.
here we found mr. crook and his family waiting our arrival, to join in partaking of the breakfast they had prepared.
what became of the organ and electrical machine, i never knew.
the warmth of the climate, the spontaneous abundance with which the earth and the sea furnished, not merely the necessaries of life, but what was to the inhabitants the means of luxurious indulgence, had, no doubt, strengthened their natural love of ease, and nurtured those habits of excessive indolence in which they passed the greater portion of their lives.
within the precincts of the missionary station, not far from the  place of worship, one of the great nationalmaraes formerly  stood,—where the image of oro had often– 324 – been kept, where  human sacrifices were offered, where the inauguration of the last heathen king  who reigned in tahiti took place, and where every cruelty and every abomination  connected with paganism had been practised for ages.
we reposed the most entire confidence in the people, and had no reason to regret even the exposure of our property.
when the number of scholars and worshippers of the true god increased, so as to render accommodation difficult, one of the ends had been taken down, a new piece of timber joined to the ridgepole, the building lengthened about twelve or fifteen feet, and the end then closed up.
a large body of armed and lawless warriors, belonging to different and rival chieftains, thus brought together under irritated feelings, and perhaps mutually accusing each other as the cause of their disappointment, were not long without a pretext for commencing the work of death among themselves.
patii on this occasion was not prompted by a spirit of daring bravado, but by the conviction of truth, deeply impressed upon his heart, and a desire to undeceive his deluded countrymen; probably considering, that as his conduct and instruction had heretofore done much to extend and propagate the influence of idolatry, so his thus publicly abandoning it, and exposing himself to all the consequences of their dreaded ire, would most effectually weaken their confidence in the gods, and lead them to desire instruction concerning 113 that being, who, he was convinced, was the only living and true god,who was a spirit, and was to be worshipped, not with human or other sacrifices, save those of a broken heart and a contrite spirit, or the sacrifices of thanksgiving and of praise.
his person was tall and  commanding, his hair black and curling, his eyes benignant, and his whole  countenance beamed with a joy that declared his tongue only obeyed the dictates  of his heart.
twilight in the  tropics is always short—it soon grew dark; i wished them good night, and  afterwards retired to rest, supposing they had gone to sleep at the house of  some friend; but, on looking out of my window about daybreak, i saw these five  men lying along on the ground on the outside of my house, their only bed being  some platted cocoa-nut leaves, and their only covering the large native cloth  they usually wear over their shoulders.
she tells me too, that duly ev'ry morn thou climb'st the mountain-top, with eager eye 375 exploring far and wide the wat'ry waste for sight of ship from england.
they no longer traded for ardent spirits, muskets, powder, &c. and were consequently enabled to procure larger quantities of british woven cloth.
while the missionaries admired the means by which god had thus shewn them that the work was his, and not theirs, and thus deprived them of attributing any thing to their own influence, they rejoiced in the opportunity now afforded of proclaiming the glad tidings of mercy from the most high.
and, although the scene  before me was now one of loveliness and quietude, cheerful, yet placid as the  smooth waters of the bay, that scarcely rippled by the vessel's side, it has  often worn a very different aspect.
the report of his intention had spread among the people of the district, and multitudes assembled to witness this daring act of impiety, or the sudden vengeance which they expected would fall upon the sacrilegious criminal.
he no sooner saw them advancing to  his retreat, than a sudden thought, like a flash of lightning, darted through  his mind, intimating that he was to be the victim.
the greater portion of the inhabitants were, however, under the necessity of exercising their ingenuity to provide a substitute.
the school contained four or five hundred children.
on one occasion, they asked what the heavy burdens were that our lord accused the scribes and pharisees of binding on men's shoulders; and what was meant by let the dead bury their dead.
the flames became extinct, and the sun cast his last beams, as he  sunk behind the western wave, upon the expiring embers of that fire, which had  already mingled with the earth upon which had been kindled, the ashes of some  of the once obeyed and dreaded idols of eimeo.
there are no fewer than three.
a chief of huahine once asked me, whether it would be right, supposing he were walking in his garden on that day, and saw ripe plantains hanging from the trees that grew by the side of the path, to gather and eat them?
this peculiarity appears to have accompanied them to the temples,  to have distinguished the homage and the service they rendered to their gods,  to have marked their affairs of state, and the carriage of the people towards  their rulers, to have pervaded the whole of their social intercourse, and to  have been mingled with their diversified amusements.
this is followed by singing a  second time; a sermon is then– 411 – preached, after which a short  hymn is sung, prayer presented, and the benediction given; with which the  service closes, between half past ten and eleven o'clock.
sometimes they have approached the shore,  and although i do not recollect any instance of their actually destroying  persons at sea, i am inclined to presume such a calamity must have occurred, or  they would not be such objects of terror to the people.
a number of his attendants rushed upon the canoes, other seized the  god by force, tore him away from the people of atehuru, and bore him towards  the sea.
in addition to these  sources of disturbance, they were sometimes charged with being the authors of  all the disasters and suffering of the people, in consequence of praying to  their god, whom the natives called a bad god when compared with oro.
in addition to these discouragements, the prejudices of many of the king's most warm and valuable friends were unusually strong, as they considered the continuance of his misfortunes to result, in part, from the countenance he gave, and the inclination he manifested towards, the religion of the foreigners.
but whenever the  missionaries had endeavoured to pour into his benighted mind the light of  truth, as revealed in the sacred volume, it was a circumstance deeply regretted  by them, that he had generally manifested indifference or insensibility.
the islanders in general are fond of singing, and always ready to learn.
objects of the greatest curiosity at all other times, they paid no sort of attention to, during the solemnity of their worship.
sometimes they endeavoured to  persuade him to abandon so hopeless a project, as that of attempting to train  the people to habits of industry.
when a present of food and cloth was brought  to the visitors by some of the chiefs of tahiti, the priests also attended,  and, observing the party disinclined to acknowledge or render the customary – 137 – homage to the gods, began to expatiate on the power of the  gods, and, pointing to some bunches ofuru, or red feathers, which were  always considered emblematical of their deities, employed insulting language,  and threatened with vengeance the queen's companions.
these chapels were formerly  numerous, and the inhabitants of each district had their ownfare bure,  or house of prayer, in which they were accustomed to assemble twice on the  sabbath, and once during the week, for reading the scriptures and prayer.
those among the natives who had earned to bind were now  overwhelmed with business, and derived no inconsiderable emolument from their  trade, as they required each person to bring the pasteboard necessary for his  own books, and also a piece of skin or leather for the back, or for the whole  cover.
on one of these occasions, mr. nott was reading the first portions of the  gospel of st. john to a number of the natives.
mr. davies selected a  spot between this place and the sea, on the same side; and mr. orsmond fixed  upon one near the southern border of the harbour, and on the opposite side of  the valley of mahamene, which was spacious, fertile, well watered, and  sufficiently high to be secure from dampness.
others nearer the shore, with their sails lowered, have been rowed by the men; while the women and children were sitting in the stern, screened from the sun by a temporary awning.
the presses were therefore fixed, and, having acquired some  knowledge of bookbinding as well as printing, before leaving england, i  proceeded, as soon as the printing was finished, to binding, though but  inadequately furnished with materials.
but we look forward, with pleasing anticipation, to the time when the natives themselves 237 shall become writers.
in order that as many as possible might hear, directions were  given to take down on of the ends of the house; this– 271 – was soon  done; so that those who could not gain admission, were enabled to hear.
the veranda in front of their dwelling was protected by chests, bedding, and other articles, so as to afford a secure defence from musket-balls; and the sides of the house, which were only boarded, were fortified with similar materials.
the missionaries have been charged with affectation in their orthography, &c. but so far from this, they have studied nothing with more attention than simplicity and perspicuity.
their answer surprised and delighted me: they said, we were afraid that, had we gone away, some one might have come before us this morning, and have taken what 234 books you had to spare, and then we should have been obliged to return without any; therefore, after you left us last night, we determined not to go away till we had procured the books.
the impression  produced by our first interview was, notwithstanding, far from being  unfavourable; we were at once gratified with their vivacity, and soon after  with the simple indications of the piety which several exhibited.
great numbers passing the night under the same roof, removed this fear, and inspired a confidence of security from the attacks their idolatrous absurdities led them to expect.
the pagan army now gave way before their opponents,  and soon fled precipitately from the field, seeking shelter in theirpari's , strong-holds, or hiding-places, in the mountains; leaving pomare, mahine,  and the princess from raiatea, in undisputed possession of the field.
it was,  however, thought desirable that no division of their numbers should take place  until the vessel, the building of which had been commenced soon after the  return from port jackson, should be finished, and the works prepared for the  press were printed.
after a few hours of unbroken rest, we arose recruited the next morning,  found our dried clothes comfortable, united with our host and his family in the  morning devotions, and then, while they were preparing refreshments, took a  view of the district.
in writing down the names of those who thus publicly professed christianity, the missionaries were influenced by a desire, not only to instruct them more fully, but to become personally acquainted with them, and to exercise over them a guardian care, which they could not do without knowing their names, places of abode, &c. to their number, eleven more were soon added; and with these they afterwards held frequent meetings, for the purpose of informing their minds, and encouraging them to faithfulness in their attachment to the redeemer.
no alteration, even of this kind, however, 181 appears to have taken place in the kind of doctrines inculcated by the missionaries among the tahitians.
several chiefs, of inferior influence, 254 collecting their dependents, encamped on the borders of the lake near maeva, and threatened to avenge the insult to the gods, by attacking the chiefs who had sanctioned their destruction.
the  sacred scriptures, and the codes of laws, are the only standard works of  importance yet printed.
they beheld with pleasure and surprise the daily progress in the building of a boat, upwards of twenty feet long, and six tons burden, which was ultimately finished; but when the blacksmith's shop was erected, and the forge and anvil were first employed on their shores, they were filled with astonishment.
from this distressing state of feeling, they were in a great measure relieved by the arrival of the hawkesbury, a colonial vessel, which anchored in matavai bay on the 25th of november, 1806.
the first crop,  however, was gathered, the seeds carefully picked out, and the cotton packed in  baskets.
methinks i see thee straying on the beach, and asking of the surge that bathes thy foot,
this change, although approved and effected  by the principal chiefs on the islands, in conjunction with the messenger of  the king, was nevertheless opposed.
probably,  gamaliel-like, they thought it best not to interfere at that time, as their  belief in the power of the gods had hitherto remained unshaken, and they  doubtless expected that, in their own way, the gods would take signal vengeance  on those by whom, in the sight of the nation, they had been thus dishonoured.
a variety of feelings led him  to approach the spot whence these sounds proceeded, in order to hear more  distinctly.
about a quarter before nine in  the morning, i accompanied mr. crook to the public worship of the natives, held  in the same house in which i had visited the school a day or two before.
whatever advantages the king or chiefs might expect to derive from this  settlement on the island, they were not influenced by any desire to receive  general or religious instruction.
under these auspicious appearances, 90 although prevented by the unsettled state of tahiti from resuming their station in matavai, the missionaries were enabled to commence their labours in the island of eimeo.
if the natives affirmed that the word or sentence was correctly pronounced by the missionary, it was left for more careful and deliberate investigation.
he had still thoughts of mercy towards its inhabitants, and was, by this distressing event, teaching those who had undertaken the workand instructing his church, in regard to all their future efforts to extend his gospelthat singleness of aim, purity of motive, and patient diligence in labour, were of themselves insufficient for the work; that it was by his spirit that the heathen were to be converted; and without his blessing, paul might plant, and apollos might water, in vain.
with few exceptions, they have been distinguished by ardour of zeal, and steady adherence to the religion of the bible.
here they drove out the inhabitants, burnt their habitations, and then returned to their own territory; not, however, 53 without threatening to enter the district of matavai, and assault and plunder the missionaries.
how striking the contrast which the evening of his days must have presented, to the early part of his life, spent among the impure, degraded, and wretched members of that infamous association to which he belonged!
they were exceedingly  anxious to obtain a supply of elementary books, as the spelling books from  england were expended, and the desire for instruction had increased to such a  degree, that upwards of two hundred scholars attended their school at papetoai.
they were well aware of many; but there were others, actually existing, of which they were then unconscious.
it is much to be regretted, that the missionaries on the spotwho were intimately acquainted with every indication of the moral and spiritual process that was going on, even in its incipient stages, and every event which marked its gradual development, until, in the language of the natives on another but similar occasion, it burst upon them like the light of the morningdid not, at the time, prepare a full and particular account of the work which, under god, they had been instrumental in effecting: but their motto always was, to say too little rather than too much, to persevere in labour, rather than employ their time in detailing their engagements; and to exercise the greatest caution and brevity in speaking of any thing connected 177 with themselves, or the people around them, lest subsequent events should disappoint the anticipations which existing favourable appearances might originate.
there were no  partitions; but by hanging up some mats and native cloth, we soon succeeded in  partitioning off a comfortable bed-room, sitting-room, and store-room.
one or two other natives appeared also favourably impressed in regard to the religion of the bible.
the entire dissolution of this association, and the abolition of its cruel and abominable practices, on the introduction of christianity, is one of the most powerful demonstrations god has given to his church and to the world, of the irresistible operation of those means which he has appointed for the complete demolition of the very strong holds of paganism, and the universal extension of virtue and of happiness among the most profligate and debased of mankind.
numbers of the  natives had indeed visited england, but their observation had been so limited,  or their accounts so contradictory and exaggerated that their countrymen knew  not what to believe, and not unfrequently, when any of these had returned, the  substance of their reports was brought to the questioning meeting, to receive  our confirmation or explanation.
i feel pleasure and satisfaction in my mind; i rejoice, i praise jehovah, that he hath made known his word unto me.
there were others also, who, whatever might be their opinion of the measure itself, and however they might approve or disapprove of the choice of those with whom it originated, in the selection of the most distant, isolated, and, as it regarded the moral character of its inhabitants, the most unpromising parts of the world, for the first field of their labours, considered its projectors as influenced in a great degree by self-confidence, and a desire of aggrandisement or applause.
in staining these papers, they were covered over  with the juice of the stems of the mountain plantain, orfei.
he was asked in what respect; when he answered  that, on the preceding day, which was the sabbath, when returning from public  worship, he observed– 414 – that the tide, having risen higher than  usual, had washed out to sea a large pair of double canoes, which he had left  on the beach.
as soon as they hoisted english colours, the natives were  thrown into the greatest consternation, and, packing up whatever they could  carry away, abandoned their houses, and were seen in every direction flying  towards the mountains.
about four hundred usually attend in fare: they are divided into classes, under native teachers.
the mountains are sufficiently elevated to intercept the clouds that are wafted by the trade-winds over the pacific; being clothed with verdure to their very summits, while they attract the moisture, they also prevent its evaporation.
the  seamen, who had deserted from the nautilus, were under the protection of the  king, and appeared among his attendants.
in a  letter to the directors of the london missionary society, under the date of  june 24, 1813, the rev. s. marsden thus wrote of mrs. henry—“no  woman, in my opinion, could be more sincere, and more devoted to the work, than  she was.
it was also truly affecting to see many of them, not with phylacteries, but with portions of scripture, or the texts they had heard preached from, written on scraps of paper, or fragments of cloth, preserved with care, and read till fixed in the memory of their possessors.
these sensations were often heightened by our beholding, in the neighbourhood of these half-finished houses, the lonely and comfortless hut they had abandoned, and the neatly finished cottage in which the inmates enjoyed a degree of comfort, that, to use their own powerful expression, made them sometimes ready to doubt whether they were the same people who had been contented to inhabit their former dwellings, surrounded by pigs and dogs, and swarms of vermin, while the wind blew over them, and the rain beat upon them.
the children are then conducted to the  chapel, each class led by its respective teacher, the girls walking first, two  abreast and hand-in-hand, clothed very generally in european dresses; wearing  bonnets made with a fine species of grass, or the bark of a tree; each carrying  in her hand a neat little basket, made with– 410 – similar materials,  and containing a catechism, hymn-book, and testament: the little boys following  in the same order; more frequently, however, arrayed in the native costume,  having a little finely-platted white mat, fringed at the edges, wound round  their loins; another of the same kind, or a light scarf, dyed with glowing  native colours, passed across their breasts, and thrown loosely over their  shoulders; their feet naked, and their hair often cut short, but sometimes  hanging in ringlets over their open countenances; and their heads covered with  a neat little grass or straw hat, made by their mothers or their sisters.
walker of the endeavour, who succeeded in retaking the vessel, and thus deprived them of their plunder.
on some occasions, two young plantain-trees and two pigs, or other articles of value, were first presented by the strangers, one forte atua, the god; the other for te hoa, the friend.
weakness and vanity, together with savage pride, appear to have been the most conspicuous traits of character he developed in subsequent life.
while engaged in these labours, the principal object besides, that occupied our attention, was the study of the language.
they accompanied us to huahine in 1818.
the conduct of the natives during his absence had been friendly and respectful; and supplies in abundance had been furnished.
others, however, occupy lands which are at  some distance; and even those who have erected their dwellings near the  residence of their teacher, having plantations situated in a remote district,  are often absent for several days together.
the singularity of their conduct, together with the report of the change in the sentiments of the king, soon 103 attracted observation: many derided them, but several young men and boys attached themselves to oito and tuahine, and this little band, without any missionary to teach them, or even before any one was acquainted with the circumstance, agreed to refrain from worshipping the idolsfrom the evil practices of their countryto observe the sabbath-day,and to worship jehovah alone.
he, with his friends, had collected a quantity of fuel near the sea-beach; and, in the afternoon, the wood was split, and piled on a point of land in the western part of papetoai, near the large nationalmarae, or temple, in which he had officiated.
the whole island was again involved in war, and the conquering party scoured the coast from atehuru to the eastern side of the isthmus, burning every house, destroying every plantation, plundering every article of property, and reducing the verdant and beautiful districts of pare, faaa, the romantic valleys of hautaua, matavai, and apaiano, and the whole of the north-eastern part of the island, to a state of barrenness and desolation.
otu, the king, suddenly left  matavai, and repaired to his dwelling in pare, incensed against some of the  missionaries, who, he was informed, had been endeavouring to prejudice the  captain against him, that he might not receive any presents, and had actually  prevented the captain from giving the natives the price they had asked for  their pigs.
how happy the christians in england must be, they would sometimes say.
translations of the most approved psalms and hymns, with a number that are original, have been prepared in the native language, in almost every variety of metre.
in this also we soon perceived the chiefs promptly following our example.
a number of the attendants on the queen's sister, soon after their reception of christianity, came to the meeting, and stated that one of their friends had died a few days before, and that they had buried the corpse according to their ancient manner, not laying it straight in a coffin, as christians were accustomed to do, but placing it in a sitting posture, with the face between the knees, 435 the hands under the thighs, and the whole body bound round with cords.
in the  preamble of the bill, it is stated— “that grievous murders and manslaughters had been committed in the  south pacific ocean, as well on the high seas, as on land, in the islands of  new zealand and otaheite, and in other islands, countries, and places, not  within his majesty's dominions, by the masters and crews of british ships, and  other persons, who have, for the most part, deserted from, or left their ships,  and have continued to live and reside amongst the inhabitants of these islands;  whereby great violence has been done, and a general scandal and prejudice  raised against the name and character of british and other european traders:  and whereas such crimes and offences do escape unpunished, by reason of the  difficulty of bringing to trial the persons guilty thereof: for remedy whereof,  be it enacted by the king's most excellent majesty, by and with the advice and  consent of the lords spiritual and temporal, and the commons, in this present  parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, that from and after the  passing of this act, all murders and manslaughters committed, or that shall be  committed, in the said islands of new zealand and otaheite, or within any other  islands, countries, or places, not within his majesty's dominions, nor subject  to any european state or power, nor within the territory of the united states  of america, by the master or crew of any british ship, or vessel, or any of  them, or by any person sailing in, or belonging thereto; or that shall have  sailed in, or belonged to, and have quitted any british ship, or vessel, to  live in any of the said islands, countries, or places, or either of them, or  that shall be there living; shall and may be tried, and adjudged, and punished,  in any of his majesty's islands, plantations, colonies, dominions, forts, or  factories, under or by virtue of the king's commission, or commissions, which  shall have been, or may hereafter be issued, under, and by virtue, and in  pursuance of, an act passed in the– 45 – forty-sixth year of his  present majesty, entitled, ‘an act for the more speedy trial of offences  committed in distant countries, or upon the sea.’”
haamanemane, the high-priest,  appears in a crouching– 8 – position, addressing captain wilson, and  surrendering the district.—haamanemane was also the taio, or friend, of  captain wilson; and rendered him considerable service, in procuring supplies,  facilitating the settlement of the mission, and accomplishing other objects of  his visit.
arrival of the first ship after the duff's departureassault upon the missionariesits disastrous consequencespomare's revengedeath of oripaialeague against pomareinvasion of matavaidescription and character of haamanemanehis assassinationmurder of mr. lewispomare's offering for the mission chapelarrival of a king's shipfriendly communications from the governor of new south walesgovernment ordersact of parliament for the protection of the south sea islandersarrival of the royal admirallanding of the missionariesdeparture of mr. broomhallnotice of his subsequent history.
but this is not the only advantage resulting therefrom.
in the forenoon of the 6th of october, 1818, mahine, and the  missionaries of huahine, tamatoa, and those of raiatea, mai, and numbers from  borabora, repaired to the chapel, followed by crowds of the people.
the public road, from six to twelve feet wide, which led through the district, extending in a line parallel with the coast, presented all its curvatures.
361 individuals in england, who have materially contributed by personal exertions or pecuniary aid to the erection or enlargement of a church or chapel, have, when the object of their solicitude and their toil has been accomplished, experienced emotions of satisfaction during the subsequent opportunities they have had of rendering divine homage there; but the satisfaction of the tahitians, though the same in kind, i am disposed to believe, is stronger in degree, when standing on the floor, the trees constituting which, they cut down in the forestwhen skreened from the wind by that portion of the wall their own hands reared, and covered by that section of the roof which they had thatched.
the lower extremities were ornamented with finely-woven variegated matting, or curiously braided cord, stained with brilliant red or black and yellow native colours, ingeniously wound round the polished wood, exhibiting a singularly neat and 359 chequered appearance.
had they exercised a little more  patience, the vine also might perhaps have been spared; for it is stated, that  as soon as the young grapes appeared, they eagerly plucked and tasted them,  but, finding them exceedingly sour, they became indignant, and, regarding the  plant as useless, destroyed it.
there might be, and perhaps was, a more  confident hope of the speedy accomplishment of the object than now prevails; – 86 – but the appeals and addresses, delivered at that period,  manifest a deep conviction of human insufficiency, and breathe a spirit of  entire dependence upon the blessing of god.
the chiefs had sent us a present of bread-fruit and fish.
may my sins be pardoned,– 98 – and my soul  saved, through jesus christ!
in addition to this, whenever a fresh supply of articles, for our own maintenance or use, might have arrived, if we had not been equally liberal in the distribution of our presents, we should have been unhesitatingly charged with keeping for ourselves that which was designed for them, and thus have been involved in unpleasant altercation.
the refugees in eimeo invited to return to tahiti—voyage of the  king and his adherents—opposition to their landing—public worship on  the sabbath disturbed by the idolatrous army—courage of the  king—circumstances of the battle of bunaauïua—death of the  idolatrous chieftain—victory of the christians—clemency of the king  and chiefs—destruction of the image, temple, and altars of oro—total  subversion of paganism—general reception of christianity—consequent  alteration in the circumstances of the people—pomare's prayer—tidings  of the victory conveyed to eimeo—visits to tahiti.
in the circumstances attending the formation of his character, and in the commencement, progress, and result of his public career, there was a striking resemblance between pomare, the first king of that name in tahiti, and his contemporary, tamehameha, the first king of the sandwich islands.
we have had our prayer-meeting the beginning of this month, february; it was at homai-au-vahi; the raatiras, and all the people of the district assembled, leaving their houses without people.
the missionaries had  but recently returned from their banishment, and the work of instruction had  scarcely been resumed; it was the beginning, and but the beginning, of a second  attempt to plant the gospel in those islands.
the intelligent and  enterprising chiefs of borabora, mai, and tefaaora, were remarkably active in  weakening the influence of the gods on the minds of the people under their  government, undermining and subverting every species of idol-worship that  prevailed in the islands.
form the distinctness 307 with which we saw them, notwithstanding the density of the atmosphere, the farthest could not have been many miles distant.
it is not easy, nor is it  material, to determine which of these two houses was finished first.
in connexion with this subject, and others of a similar  kind, the most important referred to what might be called their christian  experience—the effect of texts of scripture committed to memory, in  stimulating to duty, and restraining from sin.
a plantain-tree and a pig were brought by the residents for the king, a similar offering for the god; this was followed by a plantain and a pig, for thetoe moe, perhaps sleeping hatchet.
this rendered it expedient to examine the district, that we might select the most eligible place for the erection of our permanent dwelling, to which we purposed to attach the printing-office.
the natives prepared their lime by burning it in a large pit, in a manner resembling that in which they had prepared their ovens for opio.
—and strictly prohibited  any of his warriors from pursuing those who had fled from the field of battle;  forbidding them also to repair to the villages of the vanquished, to plunder  their property, or murder their helpless wives and children.
he burst into tears, and as these chased each other down his countenance, he retired to meditate in private on the amazing love of god, which had that day reached his soul; and there is every reason to believe he was afterwards raised to share the peace and happiness resulting from the love of god shed abroad in his heart.
the directors of the missionary society were not influenced by their own choice, but by the necessities of the people, in making these and other secular arrangements, which were not contemplated in the original constitution and object of their association, but have resulted from the changes effected by their agents in the circumstances of those communities among which they have resided; and have sometimes involved an expense which could not always be met without difficulty.
the scene was unusually impressive.
two native female attendants alternately  carried the child, while mrs. ellis and i walked on the shore, occasionally  climbing over the rocks, or sinking up to our ankles in fragments of coral and  sand.
a number of instances, strikingly illustrative of this fact, might be adduced: i will, however, only refer to one.
these, however, were soon afterwards amply supplied.
it must be in some way advantageous  to you, or you would not have been so anxious about it; and as i have done what  you wished me to do, you ought to pay me for it.
under these circumstances, it required no small degree of forbearance and self-possession, as well as patient toil, to persevere in preaching the gospel among a people whose spirit and conduct afforded so little encouragement to hope it would ver be by them received.
on the occasion above alluded to, when the examinations in the  place of worship had terminated, the children walked, in the same order in  which they were accustomed to proceed from the school to the chapel, to a  rising ground in the vicinity of the governor's house.
on this  occasion, three distinct sermons, from different texts, were preached at the  same time, to three distinct congregations.
it was, indeed, a joy unspeakable, the joy of harvest.
we visited the grave of the first labourer that had been called from our little band, and (with mingled feelings of regret at her early departure from the field we had unitedly cultivated, and sympathy with him whom she had left behind,) beheld the humble mound under which her mortal remains were reposing, and around which a number of indigenous and exotic flowers had been planted.
this is abundantly proved by the statements made in seasons when men are most likely to be sincerethe near approach to the unseen world, and the direct appeal to the most high in prayer.
early in the year 1820,  another important change took place in the dress of the society islanders;  affecting not only their appearance, but tending perhaps ultimately to alter  their physical structure.
we always endeavoured  to divest these meetings of all formality and reserve, and to render them  engaging, by accompanying our replies with suitable facts, &c. as  illustrations, and encouraging in the people the most unembarrassed confidence;  requesting them to present all their difficulties, and solicit explanations or  directions.
one or two other natives  appeared also favourably impressed in regard to the religion of the bible.
he stood transfixed as it were to the earth, till the native retired;  when he bowed his knees, and, screened from human observation by the verdant  shrubs, offered up, under the canopy of heaven, his grateful adoration to the  most high, under all the melting of soul, and the excitement of spirit, which  the unprecedented, unexpected, though long-desired events of the morning had  inspired.
he was evidently a shrewd and enterprising man; yet i should think sometimes  rather eccentric.
“don't be unbelieving,” replied patii, “wait till  tomorrow, and you shall see.”
some of the natives, however, were led to inquire how it was that cook, vancouver, bligh, and other early visitors, had never told them any of those things which they heard from the teachers now residing with them.
long orations were pronounced by both parties before the guests stepped on the soil: as soon as they were landed, a kind of circle was formed by the people; the king or chiefs on the one side, and the strangers on the other; the latter brought theirmarotai, or offering, to the king and the gods, and accompanied its presentation with an address, expressive of the friendship existing between them: the priest, or orators of the king, then brought the presents, ormanufaiti, bird of recognition.
it was known, that with but slight  attention the cotton-plant might be cultivated in the islands to almost any  extent; and it was supposed, that although the smallness of the returns it had  brought, when offered for sale in the raw state, together with the difficulties  attending their first attempt, had deterred the people from persevering in its  culture; yet that they might be induced to resume it, if taught on the spot to  manufacture cotton– 296 – cloth.
as it was not during the rainy season that we were– 380  – there, it was dry; the sides were walled, and the bottom neatly paved;  but in the rainy season, when the water is constantly flowing through, its  effect must be rather singular on the minds of those sitting near it during  public worship.
this influence is not to be obtained by presents; these, the most rude and untutored heathen know, are seldom given unless an equivalent is expected in return; but it is to be gained by a full, plain, and explicit statement of his objects in the commencement of his work, and a uniform reference, in all his subsequent conduct, to the advancement of these objects.
she  was boarded by three of the missionaries at the mouth of the harbour, and found  to be the nautilus from macao, commanded by captain bishop, and originally  bound to the north-west coast of america for furs.
they had arranged a number of words in sentences according to the english idiom, which they supposed would be serviceable on landing; but the use of which they soon found it necessary to discontinue.
the letters of each word constitute the word, so that a person pronouncing the letters used in spelling a word, would, in fact, pronounce the word itself.
424 in reply, we usually informed them, that we were accustomed to speak of the heart as the seat of the affections and moral principles, though by the heart we often meant nearly the same as they intended by the wordaau or obu , but that we considered our sensations and mental perceptions to be connected with the brain.
seats, usually native-made sofas or chairs, were arranged along the  sides of the tables, and all the children in the school, about two hundred and  forty, dined together.
the  duration of sufferings inflicted on the wicked in the future state, was  occasionally introduced; and more than once i have heard them ask, if none of  their ancestors, nor any of the former inhabitants of the islands, had gone to  heaven?
those were my own idols, belonging to our family from the time of taaroamanahune even to vairaatoa: and when he died he left them with me.
under cover of the darkness of night, they  sent spies from the retreats to their habitations, and to the places of  security in which they had left their aged and helpless relatives, their  children, and their wives.
i would, however, only offer it as a substitute for the more explicit statement which my predecessors in the islands might render; and if, by attracting their attention to the subject, i should induce them to furnish such a desideratum, my attempts will not have been altogether in vain.
others  supposed they were to preserve it from the flies and the mosquitoes.
the people stood aghast, and uttered exclamations of horror at the sacrilegious deed; and it is probable that this act increased the hatred already rankling in the bosoms of the idolatrous party.
a man once came and said, that while he was attending public worship, a pig broke into his garden; that on his return, he saw him devouring the sweet potatoes, sugar-cane, taro, and other productions, in which pine-apples were probably included, but that he did not drive it out, because he was convinced it would immediately return, unless he repaired the broken fence, and that he supposed was a kind of labour prohibited on the sabbath.
although the king was residing in matavai,  they landed in the district of pare, and, proceeding to the valley of hautaua,  they learned that the report was correct, and that in the neighbourhood there  were some who had renounced idolatry, and professed to believe in jehovah, the  true god.
let all these islands, tahiti with all the people of  moorea, and of huahine, and of raiatea, and of the little islands around,  partake of thy salvation.
the natives would answer by pointing to the fibrous roots of a tree, or the matted fibres round the cocoa-nut stalk, which are calledaa.
we were convinced that it was the parent of many of their crimes, infant-murder not excepted, and was also a perpetual source of misery.
with what superior skill we can abuse the gifts of providence, and squander life.
how may we know that we are not deceiving ourselves?
the impression which the intelligence of these events  produced upon their minds, was that of mingled admiration, gratitude, and hope,  to a degree that may be better imagined than expressed.
sometimes, however,– 35 – he spoke as if  he officiated, in these horrid rites, more from necessity than choice.
the stairs, reading-desk, and communion table, were all of deep umber-coloured bread-fruit; and the whole, as a specimen of workmanship, was such as the native carpenters were not ashamed of.
these remarks apply principally to the commencement 258 of a mission among an unenlightened people, where a school will be an essential part of such establishment; at subsequent periods, rewards to those who have excelled, consisting of books, penknives, inkstands, slates, or other articles connected with the pursuits of the school, may be given with a good effect, tending rather to stimulate to diligent enterprise, than to cherish a spirit of dependent indolence, or to excite expectations that never can be gratified.
“here might the hideous face of war be seen, stript of all pomp,  adornment, and disguise.”
committing their persons to the merciful and watchful  providence of god, and, under him, to the friendly chiefs who had manifested so  much concern for their safety; they had sent all the fire-arms, ammunition, and  other weapons, possessed by the society, on board the nautilus, excepting two  muskets, which they– 30 – presented to pomare and idia.
god, they had always endeavoured to represent as a powerful,  benevolent, and holy being, justly requiring the grateful homage, and willing  obedience, of his creatures.
i could not imagine its use, until, in answer to my inquiry, the native teacher said, it is the bell with which we call the people to prayers.
before the sun had set, we had nearly lost  sight of the island; and when the night gathered round us, we found ourselves  in the midst of the vast pacific, in a very small and fragile bark, without  compass or nautical instrument, or any other means of directing our way than  the luminaries of heaven.
sometimes they would ask, whether engaging in  conversation, and praying, with very wicked persons, such as had been  murderers, &c. would not appear in some degree sanctioning or extenuating  their crimes?
messengers were sent by those who had hitherto been pagans, to the king and chiefs, requesting that some of their men might be sent to teach them to read, and to instruct them concerning the true god, and the order of his worship.
they are fond of calculations, and make  themselves familiar with figures, so far as their books enable them to proceed.
we have lately seen the gracious hand of god stretched out in a most remarkable manner, in the recovery of a backsliding missionary, after nine years of wandering from god.
on some occasions, two young  plantain-trees and two pigs, or other articles of value, were first presented  by the strangers, one forte atua, the god; the other for te hoa,  the friend.
many of them have been its  most regular and laborious teachers in our schools, and the most efficient and  successful– 171 – native missionaries.
in the year 1809, mr. nott alone remained with the king and the people in the island of eimeo; the other missionaries, with the exception of mr. hayward, removed from huahine to port jackson.
the floor was composed of stones, sand, and clay.
after this period, it was only shewn by those who were actuated by a desire to obtain the favour of their superiors.
although the gospel had been faithfully and constantly preached, for  some years in tahiti, occasionally in most of the other islands, and many of  the people had imbibed a tolerably clear speculative knowledge of the leading  doctrines taught in the sacred volume, yet there was no individual on whom they  could look, as having been benefited by their instructions—no one whose  mind was savingly enlightened, or whose heart had experienced any moral change.
the services commenced with singing, in which many of the natives  joined.
well might one now engaged in this work exclaim, five hundred millions of souls 50 who are represented as being unenlightened!
a prayer was  then offered, during which the congregation remained standing; another hymn was  sung; the people then sat down, and listened attentively to a discourse,  delivered by the missionary standing on the ground behind the desk.
as it is a document important to the peace and security of the inhabitants of polynesia, i deem no apology necessary, for inserting it nearly entire.
there was no swamp or marshy land between the shore and the mountains; the ground was high, and the whole district not only remarkably beautiful, but apparently dry and healthy.
quantities of fine large bread-fruit, roasted on hot stones, were now peeled and brought in, and a number of fish that had been wrapped in plantain leaves, and broiled on the embers, were placed beside them.
the experiment has succeeded beyond what was anticipated, and the  natives now bring to the factory for sale the cotton-yarn spun at their own  dwellings, and ready for the loom.
this was the end of the principal idol of the  tahitians, on whom they had long been so deluded as to suppose their destinies  depended; whose favour, kings, and chiefs, and warriors, had sought; whose  anger all had deprecated; and who had been the occasion of more bloody and  desolating wars, for the preceding thirty years, than all other causes  combined.
its own members appear to have made no efforts to preserve, and no class of the community even solicited, its continuance.
i remember distinctly my  feelings as i stood, wearied with my walk, leaning on a light staff by the side  of the rock on which mrs. ellis with our infant was sitting, and behind which  our female attendants stood.
they were exceedingly anxious that some of our number should at once remove to their islands.
in the account the missionaries give of its opening, they say, the pulpits being at so great a distance from each other, no confusion ensued from the speakers preaching at once in the same house.
the hats and bonnets were at first made with the inner bark of the 402 slender branches of the purau, or the leaves of a fine species of rush.
their  situation was critical, but in a letter which they forwarded on this occasion  to the society, they express firm confidence in god, unabated attachment to  their work, and contentment with such means of support as the country afforded.
xiii renewed endeavours to promote industry among the people—arrival of  messrs. blossom and armitage—establishment of the cotton  factory—first cloth made in eimeo—prospects of success—death of  mrs. orsmond—voyage to raiatea—sudden approach of a  storm—conduct of the natives—appearance of waterspouts—emotions  awakened by the surrounding phenomena—effects of waterspouts on the minds  of the natives—conduct of a party overtaken by one at sea—deliverance  during a voyage from the sandwich islands—abatement of the  storm—arrival at raiatea—kindness of the inhabitants—district of  opoa—visit to the settlement–importance of education—methods of  instruction—sabbath schools—annual examination of the  scholars—public procession—contrast between the present and former  circumstances of the children.
since the year 1804, the society in england had authorized mr. marsden to expend annually, for the support of the missionaries, two hundred pounds, and had also sent out supplies.
tell us  how we may be safe from satan—how we may be safe for heaven, and secure of  admission there?”
48 soon after the above interview, mr. broomhall embarked on another voyage to some port in india, purposing, on his return, to dispose of his vessel, and devote the remainder of his days to the advancement of that cause which he had abandoned, but from that voyage he never returned: neither mr. broomhall nor his vessel was ever afterwards heard of,it is supposed that the vessel foundered, and all on board perished.
as soon as this was concluded, pomare addressed the multitude of his subjects around, proposing the formation of a society.
the impression made by one object, was obliterated by the exhibition of some new wonder, which prevented his paying particular regard to any.
the wilderness around was cleared to a  considerable extent; the inhabitants of other parts were repairing to  vaóaara, and erecting their habitations, that they– 338 –  might reap the advantage of instruction.
the dimensions and number of  our cathedrals, churches, and chapels, the size of the congregations, the  proportion of the population that attended public worship, and the order of the  services, were often topics of inquiry.
their determination was made known to their  friends; and, as no dissatisfaction appeared, they were led to hope that they  should be permitted peaceably to prosecute their labours, without any further  solicitation on the subject.
the duration of the  buildings was in general according to the nature of the thatch; the same house  frequently received two or three new roofs, and if the frame was well put  together, and the timber seasoned, a plastered cottage would probably– 358  – last ten or fifteen years.
the interior was at once singular and striking.
when the door was made, it was  necessary to hang it; but only a few of the chiefs were, for many years, able  to procure iron hinges.
having accomplished the object of our  visit, we left afareaitu, and returned to papetoai the same evening.
the long-winged and  interwoven leaves of the trees formed a spreading canopy, through which a  straggling– 267 – sunbeam occasionally found its way, and among whose  long and graceful leaflets the breeze from the ocean, sweeping softly, gave a  degree of animation to the whole.
the log of wood, called by the natives the body of oro, into which they imagined the god at times entered, and through which his influence was exerted, pomare's party bore away on their shoulders, and, on returning to the camp, laid in triumph at their sovereign's feet.
cook, and has since been grown by the natives merely for their own use.
we sometimes advised them  to build their houses and form their public roads in straight lines, and to  leave equal distances between the roads and the houses, and also between each  dwelling.
pomare arose, and requested them all to  remain quietly in their places; stating, that they were under the special  protection of jehovah, and had– 147 – met together for his worship,  which was not to be forsaken or disturbed even by the approach of an enemy.
institutions, the ornament and the glory of our country, had not arisen.
as we sailed into the harbour, we passed near the coral reef, on which captain wallis struck on the 19th of june, 1767, when he first entered the bay.
the religious character and observances of the english were usually matters of great interest.
we found it not very extensive, though the land is rich and good.
in order to  carry these plans into effect, we left papetoai on the 25th of march, with mr.  davies, mr. and mrs. crook, and family.
is it possible you can behold me without despising me?the effect which this discovery of divine mercy, displayed to a backslider, had on brother marshman's mind, can better be conceived than described.
on the following morning, according to the usual practice when travelling among the people, they retired to the bushes near their lodgings, for meditation and secret prayer.
what mind, under the influence of the unequivocal declarations of the  sacred volume, and an acquaintance with the true condition of the heathen, can  calmly entertain the thought of the millions who remain ignorant of the gospel?
xiii from page 293 to page 329.
it is impossible to describe the sensations experienced on seeing the poor natives of otaheite walking to a protestant church in the most orderly and decent manner, with their books in their hands, and most of them dressed in european clothes.
conduct of the leeward island chiefshostilities in the island of raiateasubversion of idolatry in huahine, raiatea, tahaa, and boraborageneral reception of christianity in the society islandsabolition of the areoi societyarrival of mr. crookpomare's family idols sent to englandtranslation of the king's letterconduct of the missionariesaccounts of their labours and successinquiries suggested by the changeremarks on the time, circumstances, means, and agents, connected with the establishment of christianitythe missionaries not unitarians. chap.
the aggregate of those whose names were written down as such, amounted at this period to nearly four hundred, and the pupils in the school were between six and seven hundred.
a narrow path covered with sand and anaana, or branches of coral, led to the entrance.
the sharks, that had eaten men, were perhaps afterwards caught, and became food for the natives, 436 who might themselves be devoured by other sharks.
this occurred in the course of the year; and on the 26th of october, 1809, they all sailed from the islands, excepting mr. hayward, who remained in huahine, and mr. nott, who still resided in eimeo with the king.
they beheld with pleasure and surprise the daily progress in the  building of a boat, upwards of twenty feet long, and six tons burden, which was  ultimately finished; but when the blacksmith's shop was erected, and the forge  and anvil were first employed on their shores, they were filled with  astonishment.
i have often heard mr. nott speak, with evident indications of strong feeling, of the emotions with which this letter was read.
the heat of the sun, and the oppressiveness of the atmosphere, with the labour of rowing with their paddles our heavily laden canoes every inch of the way, had so fatigued our men, that when we reached a-ti-ma-ha, fifteen miles from the place whence we started in the morning, we deemed in expedient to land for the night.
several valuable kinds of cotton having been at 281 different times introduced, were also growing remarkably well.
connected with the means employed in the accomplishment of this important work, a few remarks on the agents who, under god, were instrumental in effecting it, may not be inappropriate.
such an observer would often find  himself exposed to an influence that could be attributed only to satanic  agency; but that why he was permitted to exert this influence on man, was not  made known in the bible.
we took down our large sails, leaving only a small one in the forepart of the boat, merely to keep it steady.
luka, orte parau na luka, luke, or, the word of luke, was the simultaneous reply, accompanied with the exhibition of the bamboo-canes filled with cocoa-nut oil, which they held up in their hands, and had brought as payment for the copies required.
instead of being spread on the floor, the mats were sometimes spread on a low bedstead, raised nine or twelve inches above the floor.
he was asked in what respect; when he answered that, on the preceding day, which was the sabbath, when returning from public worship, he observed 414 that the tide, having risen higher than usual, had washed out to sea a large pair of double canoes, which he had left on the beach.
be merciful to us and bless us, for jesus christ's sake.
it was  not a few detached sentences that were spoken, but a continued address; not in  the lively tone of conversation, but solemn, as devotion; or pathetic, as the  voice of lamentation and supplication.
sometimes i have seen a canoe arrive with six or ten persons for books; who,  when they have landed, have brought a large bundle of letters, perhaps thirty  or forty, written on plantain leaves, and rolled up like a scroll.
the chief and his wife usually slept at one end of the house, without the least partition between them and the other inmates of their dwelling.
let it be at uaeva, near you.
when we arrived, they readily  made way for us to enter; when a scene,– 207 – destitute indeed of  magnificence and splendour as to the structure itself, or the richness in  personal adornment of its inmates, but certainly the most delightful and  affecting i had ever beheld, appeared before me.
the temples were demolished, and the gods committed to the flames.
the subjects  discussed are perhaps less miscellaneous now than they were some years ago,  when the people were totally uninformed in all the first principles of  christianity; and the nature of these meetings in some of the stations has,  perhaps, undergone a slight change.
he sent several messengers to pare, commanding the  body to be brought to him; but to this theraatiras, or resident chiefs,  objected.
many, however, from the rude and hurried  manner in which they were built, became dilapidated in a much shorter period.
with the study of the language, the  erection of a printing-office and a dwelling-house now demanded my attention.
the timber principally employed in their buildings, is the wood of the bread-fruit; and although they are careful of this valuable tree, it is necessary frequently to urge the duty of planting, in order to ensure a future supply not only of timber but of food, as the large trees are now comparatively few, and the population is evidently in creasing.
the anarchy, crime, and wretchedness, which now desolated tahiti, were increased by intemperance, which at this time prevailed to an awful and unprecedented degree.
four of the missionaries went on this errand to the district of pare, where the king and chiefs were residing.
he then stated the obligations they were  under to god for sending them his word, and the partial manifestation of  gratitude they had yet given.
when speaking of  mental or moral exercises, they invariably employ terms for which the english  word “bowels” is perhaps the best translation: hence they say, te  manao
their determination was made known to their friends; and, as no dissatisfaction appeared, they were led to hope that they should be permitted peaceably to prosecute their labours, without any further solicitation on the subject.
they had arranged a number of words in sentences  according to the english idiom, which they supposed would be serviceable on  landing; but the use of which they soon found it necessary to discontinue.
they were in general, hospitably entertained, and  had many opportunities of speaking to the people, who frequently listened with  attention, and often made inquiries, either while the preacher was speaking, or  after the address was ended.
in september, 1773, when captains cook and furneux left huahine, the  latter was accompanied by a native, who had intimated his desire to proceed in  the ship on a visit to britain.
recent accounts, however, convey  the intelligence, that the prospect of ultimately introducing this branch of  labour extensively among the people, is more encouraging than formerly.
the erection of a house upon the  improved plan, regulating its size by the rank or means of the family for whom  it was designed, became a kind of test of sincerity in professions of desire to  be instructed; for, to embrace christianity, with the precepts which it  inculcated, nothing could be more at variance than the habits of indolence and  unsightly filthiness of their former habitations.
when the whole of the missionaries reached huahine, it was proposed in the first instance to form only one station in the leeward islands; and that those of us who had but recently arrived from england, should unitedly prosecute the study of the language, with such assistance as messrs. davies and nott could render us, until we should be able to perform divine service among the people, and conduct the affairs of a distinct station.
tuahine has since rendered the most important services to the mission, by  aiding mr. nott in the translations.
a native youth, fourteen or fifteen years of  age, leaving the crowd, came forward, and asked if he should cook us some  bread-fruit.
“kindness is the key to  the human heart;” when the spirit is softened or subdued under the  influence of sufferings, it is often most susceptible of salutary impression;  and the exercise of christian sympathy and kindness, in such a season, will  seldom fail to produce, even among the most barbarous tribes, highly favourable  results.
he was a man of  decision and daring enterprise; and though, on the occasion in tahiti above  referred to, he may have acted with a degree of zeal somewhat imprudent, it was  a zeal resulting, not from ignorant rashness, but enlightened principle, and  holy indignation against the boasting threatening and lying vanities of the  priests of idolatry; to whose arts of deception he had formerly been no  stranger.
the lower part of the mountain appears  basaltic; the central strata are composed of a vesicular kind of volcanic rock,  while the upper parts are a large kind ofbreccia.
the tempest  increasing, the natives were alarmed, and during the occasional intervals in  which the wind abated its violence, the rain came down in tremendous torrents.
i could not but think how awful would my state have been, had i in that hour been ignorant of christ, or had i neglected and despised the offers of his mercy; and while this reflection induced thankfulness to him through whom alone we had been made to share a hope of immortality, it awakened a tender sympathy for our fellow-voyagers, who sat in mournful silence at the helm or in the bottom of the boat, and seemed averse to conversation.
he made such progress in the use of letters, that on his voyage to the south seas, while staying at the cape of good hope, he wrote a letter to his friend dr. solander.
bless all the inhabitants of these islands, all the  families thereof; let every one stretch out his hands unto god, and say, lord,  save me, lord, save me.
no native chapel is yet furnished with a public clock; and although it would be a valuable article, there is not such a thing in the south sea islands.
the first places of worship erected by the  natives, after the subversion of idolatry, were comparatively small in size,  and differed but little from the common native houses, excepting in the manner  in which the interior was fitted up.
the report of the increase of the christians, and their advancement in knowledge, &c. had already circulated throughout tahiti; the minds of many were unsettled, and numbers were halting between two opinions.
when these had failed to move the parents' hearts, and they could obtain no promise from either the father or mother, that they would spare the child, the wives of the missionaries have, as a last resort, begged that the infant, instead of being destroyed, might be committed to their care.
i never heard them  complain of the heat; and the cause of their apparent insensibility to its  oppressive influence is probably to be found in their being early exposed, and  constantly habituated, to the climate.
ii from page 23 to page 48.
arrivals in huahinesupport of the missionformation of the tahitian missionary societyplace of meetingspeech of the kingformation of a society in huahineestablishment of the mission in raiateadescription of the district of fareerection of dwellingspreaching in the native languageindolence of the south sea islandersmeans adopted for the encouragement of industrycotton plantationdisappointment in returnsarrival vii of mr. gylesintroduction of the art of making sugar, &c.visit to tahitisugar plantations and mills in the leeward islandsintroduction of coffee from norfolk islandculture of tobacco.
it appeared to them that both these ends might be answered most appropriately and effectually, by establishing among the natives a missionary society, auxiliary to the london society, rather than by calling upon them, immediately after their conversion, to support the teachers labouring among them.
in common with the missionaries in other parts of the world, they have been described, by the enemies of religion, as ignorant and dogmatical fanatics; more intent on the inculcation of the peculiarities of their sect or party, than promoting the wellbeing of the people; holding out no inducement, by precept or example, to industrious habits, &c.
as soon as they hoisted english colours, the natives were thrown into the greatest consternation, and, packing up whatever they could carry away, abandoned their houses, and were seen in every direction flying towards the mountains.
the extent of territory, number of inhabitants, colour, language, religion, of the different countries of whom they had heard from occasional visitors, were topics of conversation at these meetings, together with the efforts of christians to propagate the gospel among them.
the illness of the king terminated, for a time, the war  which he had commenced against the– 79 – people of atehuru, and  allowed the missionaries uninterruptedly to pursue their labours in tahiti.
the chiefs had sent us a  present of bread-fruit and fish.
it has always appeared preferable,  even to multiply the services, should that be necessary, than weary the  attention of the people by unduly protracting them.
when the object of affection has approached, a smile of pleasure has indicated the gratification of the child at the notice taken by the parent, and that smile has been reciprocated by the parent, who, in silent gladness, followed to the house of god.
a copy was brought to the society islands, and is here inserted.
the missionaries who had arrived in  the duff, had now acquired so much of the language as to be able to preach to  the natives in their own tongue, and to engage in the catechetical instruction  of the children.
he had been above five years on the island, having arrived in the duff in 1797.
in reference to this, while they were sometimes trivial, and perhaps ludicrous, they were often deeply interesting and important, and not unfrequently difficult and perplexing.
they then told him that the priest, or some of his friends,  wished to see him, and again invited him to descend.
the bananas and the  plantains, &c. ripen on the trees, and the pigs fatten on the fruits that  are strewed beneath them,– 279 – even while we sleep; these are all  we want, why therefore should we work?”
here otu once more demanded the body or image or the great god oro, which the chiefs agreed ultimately to give up to the custody of the king, but which they were not so ready at once to surrender.
the district is well watered and  wooded.
upaparu, a chief  of rank and influence– 116 – in the eastern part of tahiti, with his  wife, and twelve or thirteen of his people, came over to eimeo, in order to  receive instruction.
frequently, when we have been burdened with the lightest crape or nankeen dress, a native, by no means deficient in corpulency, would walk several miles with an ordinary great coat, 399 without seeming to experience more than usual inconvenience.
from the king they received assurances of pardon, and were not backward in unitedly tendering submission to his authority, and imploring his forgiveness for having appeared in arms against him.
this was certainly a great addition of labour; and hence many occupy their cottages as soon as they have finished the roof, the walls, and the doorlevelling the ground for the floor, and spreading 346 grass over itoccupying one part, while they board or plaster the other.
they usually formed the walls of their dwellings, either by mortising upright posts into large trees laid on the earth, or planting the posts in the ground about three feet apart.
requesting him to come down, and preach to the people at his place of abode.
considering the  islanders as an uncivilized people, they seem to have been remarkably  ceremonious.
in the latter, the inmates took their food,  and rested on their mats spread upon the floor, which, had it been simply of  earth, would have been comparatively clean and comfortable.
attached to pomare's camp, was a number of refugees, who had, during the late commotions in tahiti, taken shelter under his protection, but had not embraced christianity; on these the king and his adherents placed no reliance, but stationed them in the centre, or the rear.
mrs. ellis, and myself, with an infant and her nurse, set out in a native canoe, having most of our goods and luggage on board.
after this, he directed their attention to the  miserable situation of those whom god had not– 269 – thus visited,  and proposed that, from a sense of the value of the gospel, and a desire for  its dissemination, they should form a tahitian missionary society, to aid the  london society in sending the gospel to the heathen, especially those in the  islands of the surrounding ocean; explaining the kind of remuneration given to  the proprietors of ships, and the expensiveness even of sending missionaries.
this is probably the only plan that would render it profitable; but to the use of rum, the present chiefs, of the leeward or society islands, are averse; its introduction since embracing christianity, they have been able to prevent; and it will be matter of deepest regret, if either they or their successors should favour its distillation on the islands, or its importation from abroad.
the conversation is sometimes continued until a 421 late hour; and both the queries and the replies are usually listened to with attention.
it is somewhat singular, that my companions and myself,  though in each instance we have inculcated the same sentiments, should have  been represented by one class of readers as, “by my own account,”  usually choosing, for subjects of address, “the immaculate conception, the  trinity, and the holy ghost, and other mysterious doctrinal points;” and  by another class, as teaching “the simple principles of unitarianism.”
a pair of cattle, that we had brought from new south wales, with a young calf, all of which had been landed from the ship during the morning, were tied to an adjacent bread-fruit tree; two or three milch goats from eimeo, fastened together by bands of hibiscus bark tied round their horns, had already taken their station on the craggy projections at the foot of the mountain, and were cropping the herbage that grew in the fissures of the rocks.
the chiefs and people assembled  from most of the districts of eimeo, and a number of strangers from tahiti,  residing at papetoai, were also present.
during such seasons, it was not merely apprehension, but actual danger, to which all the europeans were exposed.
the events which have since transpired were but little anticipated by the distinguished navigator who conducted this simple-hearted native from one end of the globe to the other, spared no pains to promote his welfare and comfort, and who, although mistaken in the means he employed, undoubtedly aimed at the prosperity of the interesting people whom he had introduced to the notice of the civilized world.
defeat and death had, as several of them have more than once declared, appeared, during several periods of the engagement, almost certain; and, in connexion with the anticipated extirpation of the christian faith in their country, the captivity of those who might be allowed to live, the momentous realities of eternity, upon which, ere the close of the day, it appeared to themselves by no means improbable they would enter; had combined to produce a state of agitation, unknown in the ordinary course of human affairs, and seldom perhaps experienced even in the field of battle.
the interests of his kingdom appeared to require his concurrence  with their proposal; and, on the thirteenth of august, in less than a month  after the pleasing event referred to, he sailed with them from eimeo, followed  by the chiefs and people from the leeward islands, and most of the inhabitants  of papetoai and its vicinity.
places now used for worship in the islands, although not so numerous as formerly, are much more convenient and substantial.
schools erected in huahinehistorical facts connected with the sito of the former buildingaccount of mai, viii (omai)his visit to england with captain furneuxsociety to which he was introducedobjects of his attentiongranville sharphis return with captain cooksettlement in huahinehis subsequent conductpresent proprietors of the beritani in huahinehouse for hidden prayercowper's lines on omairoyal mission chapel in tahitiits dimensions, furniture, and appearancemotives of the king in its erectiondescription of native chapelsneed of clocks and bellsmeans resorted to for supplying their deficiencyattendance on public worship.
on the evening of the 29th of november, 1799, mr. nott, mr. jefferson, mr. eyre, and mr. bicknell, bore his remains to the grave, where mr. harris read the xcth psalm, and offered up an appropriate prayer to almighty god.
these were after submitted to the action of a powerful screw-press, and, when gradually dried, formed a good stiff pasteboard.
they usually answered, they would believe it because we said so, but that they did not understand it: nor was it to be expected that they should, as their knowledge of the anatomy of the human frame was exceedingly limited.
the difficulties we encountered resulted not less from the inveteracy of their idle habits, than from the absence of all inducements to labour, that were sufficiently powerful to call into action their dormant energies.
this report was most unfounded, and it was hoped the effects were soon removed.
the death of christ in the place of the sinner, and faith in this atonement, as the sinner's justification before god, were truths most frequently exhibited.
the indigenous productions of  the island were abundant in the neighbourhood, and were comparatively cheap, as  this part of the island had been but little visited by foreigners.
let me hear those words again.”
on their voyage, they had carefully studied it, but though they were thus put in possession of a number of words, in their proper collocation they discovered that they had every thing to learn.
there are two open bays on the  east side of the island, opoa and utumaoro.
the temporary roof  of thatch was often pervious to the rays of the sun, and the drops of the  frequently descending shower.
sometimes the child would smile and hang its head, and fall upon its mother's shoulder, as if it knew not which to choose.
his party reached  atehuru, without molestation, late at night; and, after a short concealment,  falling upon the unconscious and defenceless victims, under the cover of the  darkness of midnight, in two hours destroyed nearly two hundred men, women, and  children.
the next morning, the fleet sailed with the idol for tautira, and the missionaries returned to their companions, with the tidings of the threatening events, of which they had been the melancholy spectators.
a small bay was  formed by an elliptical indentation of the coast; an opening in the reef  opposite the bay admitted small vessels to enter, and a picturesque little  coral island, adorned with two or– 212 – three clumps of hibiscus and  cocoa-nut trees, added greatly to the beauty of its appearance.
mrs. nott and mrs. crook made one or two loose dressing-gowns for pomare,  after a pattern from us.
such  individuals did not always like to go back to the lowest classes; yet it was  necessary.
soon after we reached huahine, a  number of those who accompanied us from eimeo, with some of the chiefs of the  island, united in clearing and fencing a large piece of ground, which they  planted with the best seeds they could procure, and called aua vavae,  cotton-garden.
the chiefs are fond of  coffee as a beverage, and, with the people, will doubtless raise it for their  own use; and as it requires but comparatively little attention, probably it may  be furnished in a greater abundance than either sugar or cotton.
the missionaries, and many of the parents of the children, were presentdelighted to witness the cheerfulness of the boys and the girls, as they sat together, and unitedly partook of the bounties of providence.
late in the evening, the missionaries and people had some intimation of his intention: before daylight the next morning, the attack was commenced at one end of the district; the inhabitants fled before the assailants; and by sunrise, the warriors of otu had scoured the district from one end to the other, driving before them every inhabitant, excepting a few in the immediate vicinity of the missionary dwellings.
in less than a year, i was able to converse with the people on–  276 – common topics, and preached my first sermon in tahitian in the month  of november, 1818.
as they passed themarae, they saw a number of hogs on the altar, and several human sacrifices placed in the trees around; and when they reached the spot where the chiefs were assembled, they found pomare offering five or six large pigs to oro, on board a sacred canoe, in which the ark, or residence of the idol, was placed.
i beheld, with no common interest, a number of fine, healthy, and sprightly-looking children on that occasion assembled together, and saw a little boy, seven or eight years of age, with a little fringed mat wound round his waist, and a light scarf thrown over the shoulder, stand upon a form, and repeat aloud two or three chapters of one of 326 the gospels, answer a variety of questions, and pass through the whole of his examination with scarcely a single mistake.
when the canoes of the visitor approached the shore, the chiefs assembled on the beach.
the melancholy  aspect of affairs, their expulsion from tahiti, the total destruction of the  settlement, and the little probability of a restoration of peace, induced them  to determine on removing by the first opportunity to port jackson.
the report of the increase of the christians, and their advancement in  knowledge, &c. had already circulated throughout tahiti; the minds of many  were unsettled, and numbers were halting between two opinions.
mr. nott gladly complied with his request, and, accompanied by mr. hayward, repaired a few days afterwards to his encampment.
i called them into the  printing-office, and, as soon as i could put the sheets together, gave them  each a copy: they then requested two copies more, one for a mother, the other  for a sister; for which they had brought payment.
had they been spared, they would have been men and womenlearning and knowing the word of the true god.
although that idol was now in– 58 – the hands of his  enemies, yet, as his errand was of a sacred character, the atehuruans,  notwithstanding they would not admit him to the temple, allowed him to present  his offerings, which he deposited on a part of the beach near the temple, and  peaceably retired.
her person was about the middle stature; her complexion fairer than any other native i have seen; her form elegant, and her whole appearance prepossessing.
i early voyages to the pacificinterest in behalf of the people excited by the published accountsformation of the missionary societysailing of the duffarrival off tahitinotice of a roman catholic missionopinion of captain cook on the formation of a settlement in tahiticession of matavaideparture of the duffinfluence of the mechanic arts on the minds of the peoplecomparative estimate of iron and golddifficulties attending the acquisition of an unwritten languagemethods adopted by the missionariespropensity to theft among the nativesefforts to prevent human sacrifices and infant murderresolution of the missionaries relative to the use of fire-arms.
three weeks afterwards, he intimated to his companions his intention of uniting  in marriage with a native of the island, solemnly purposing to abide faithful  towards her until death.
such, also, was their state, without any other  alteration than a knowledge of the use of fire-arms produced, for a number of  years after the visits of wallis, cook, and bligh.
they were some time before they  would approach very near, and appeared at a loss whether to consider the press  as an animal or a machine.
when he returned, mr.  bicknell went over on the same errand; and observed every where the most  encouraging attention, on the part of the people, to the instructions he  communicated.
soon after eight o'clock the children repair to the sabbath-schools, those for the boys and girls being distinct.
– 187 – emotions of astonishment, admiration, and gratitude, involuntarily arise in  every mind in the least degree susceptible of humanity or religion; while  increasing convictions of the divine origin of revelation must fasten on the  understanding, and additional encouragement strengthen the hopes, of every  individual who, according to the promise of god, is anticipating the arrival of  a period, when a transformation, equally decisive and lovely, shall change the  moral deserts of the earth into regions of order and beauty, and the wilderness  shall become as the garden of the lord.
granville sharp became acquainted with mai, taught him the first principles of writing, and, so far as his knowledge of our language allowed, endeavoured to pour the light of divine truth into his ignorant and untutored mind.
the channels of comfort were dried up, and though they had free access to the fountain of all blessedness and consolation, and were enabled to say, he hath done all things well, yet their trial must have been peculiarly poignant and oppressive.
many boats, after our manner, were building, and lime burning  for cement and whitewashing.
it was friday when the vessel arrived; the  natives thronged the ship with fowls, fruit, vegetables, &c. for sale,  manifesting considerable earnestness and address in the disposal of their  goods.
no sooner did these deluded, polluted, and cruel people, receive the gospel of christ, the elevated sentiments, sacred purity, and humane tendency of which, convinced them that it must have originated in a source as opposite to that whence idolatry had sprung, as light is to darkness, than the spell in which they had been for ages bound was dissolved, and the chains of their captivity were burst asunder.
by this conveyance, the remaining missionaries wrote an account of their circumstances and their prospects to the directors in london, stating, that although they had not acquired a sufficient knowledge of the language to enable them publicly to preach the gospel, they had observed, whenever they had conversed with the natives, that though they could perceive the difference between christianity and paganism, their attachement to the abominations of the latter was too strong to be removed by any other influence than that of the spirit of the most high.
the inferior hills, on one side, were not only verdant, but to  a considerable extent clothed with shrubs or trees, while a degree of sterile  whiteness marked the basaltic and volcanic rocks on the other.
in huahine we found able assistants among  them, especially the teachers in the girls' school.
348 their invention and perseverance at length overcame the difficulty, and they constructed their doors by fastening together three upright boards, about six feet long, by means of three narrow pieces across, one at each end, the other in the middle.
to avoid this, they determined on the destruction, the  total annihilation, of every one in tahiti who was known to pray to jehovah.
i  te haere raa mai io nei, no te aroha o te atua ce i tae mai ai;'  “blessing on you from god, peace to you in coming here, on account of the  love of god are you come.”
so true it is, that the mind itself, untaught by the divine spirit, knows nothing of the awful and overwhelming importance of the eternal interests of the soul over the things of this short-lived scene.
although the justice and humanity of the governor of new south wales were  so distinctly manifested in the foregoing orders, these regulations were found  insufficient to prevent outrage upon the natives, from the masters and crews of  vessels visiting the islands: an act was therefore passed in the british  parliament, in the month of june, 1817, entitled, “an act of the 57th of  the king,– 44 – for the more effectual punishment of murders and  manslaughters committed in places not within his majesty's dominions.”
but although tahiti was,  by the departure of the missionaries, surrendered, for a season, as a prey to  the spoiler, and subjected to the rule of ignorance, barbarism, and idolatry,  it was not abandoned by him, in obedience, to whose command to “go and  teach all nations,” the mission had been undertaken.
the  impression made by one object, was obliterated by the exhibition of some new  wonder, which prevented his paying particular regard to any.
a sermon was preached in the forenoon, and in the  afternoon the people were addressed by mahine, taua, and other leading chiefs,  on the advantages they had derived from the gospel, the destitute state of  those who had not received it, and the obligation they were under to send it;  proposing, at the same time, that each person, so disposed, should annually  prepare a small quantity of cocoa-nut oil, which should be collected, sent to  england, and sold, to aid the society, which had sent teachers to tahiti, in  sending them to other nations.
one of these sentences, mity po tuaana, often afterwards amused the king, when he came to know what they intended by it.
in continuing my labours, i found it necessary, on account of the peculiarities of the native language, to write out most of my discourses, and commit them to memory, before i could venture to address them to the people.
committing their persons to the merciful and watchful providence of god, and, under him, to the friendly chiefs who had manifested so much concern for their safety; they had sent all the fire-arms, ammunition, and other weapons, possessed by the society, on board the nautilus, excepting two muskets, which they 30 presented to pomare and idia.
this was the state of the settlement in huahine when visited  by captain gambier, of h. m. ship dauntless, captain elliot, and other naval  officers, whom i had the pleasure of meeting there.
had the missionaries been the only englishmen residing on the island at the time, it is most probable the victors would not have been checked by them in their career of conquest.
the temples, altars, and idols, all round tahiti, were shortly after destroyed in the same way.
i am , who left his brethren nine years ago.
i could not imagine its use,  until, in answer to my inquiry, the native teacher said, “it is the bell  with which we call the people to prayers.”
it resembled the dismantling of some dark and gloomy fortress,  or the razing to its very foundation of some horrid prison of despotism and  cruelty, with the materials of which, when cut and polished and adorned, a fair  and noble structure was, on its very ruins, to be erected, rising in grandeur,  symmetry, and beauty, to the honour of its proprietor, and the admiration of  every beholder.
sometimes i have seen a canoe arrive with six or ten persons for books; who, when they have landed, have brought a large bundle of letters, perhaps thirty or forty, written on plantain leaves, and rolled up like a scroll.
a new order of architecture was  thus introduced to the nation, and the names of tamatoa, king of raiatea, and  of navenavehia, the more humble chief in huahine, ought not to be forgotten, in  connexion with the introduction of a style of building which has since  prevailed extensively among the people, augmenting their social and domestic  comforts, changing the appearance of their villages, and improving the  beautiful scenery of their islands.
on  reaching the shores of this island, from which five years before he had been  obliged to flee for his life, he found it was all true that had been told them,  that the people were in that interesting state described by the prophet, when,  enraptured by the visions of messiah's future glories, he exclaimed, “the  isles shall wait for his law.”
i cannot, if i would, give up  the idea of being a missionary, while i reflect upon this vast number of my  fellow-sinners, who are perishing for lack of knowledge.
the most profound silence  prevailed, and we might have fancied that we were the only beings in existence,  for no sound was heard, excepting the gentle rustling of the leaves of the  cocoa-nut tree, as the light breeze from the mountain swept through– 246  – them, or the hollow roar of the surf, and the rolling of the foaming  wave as it broke over the distant reef, and the splashing of the paddle of our  canoe as it approached the shore.
during the same year, the profession of christianity became general throughout the whole of the society islands.
the interior of the roof was remarkable for the neatness of its appearance, and the ingenuity of its structure.
the time when, the means by which, the attending circumstances, and the manner of the resurrection, the recognition of friends, the identity of the bodies of adults, and whether the souls of infants would be united to infant bodies, and whether they would be as inferior in the future state, as their powers and faculties appeared in this, often furnished matter for interesting conversation.
having a loaded musket in the boat, they at first thought of  firing at the advancing column; but as it approached, the agitation of the  water was so great, and the phenomenon so appalling, that their hearts failed;  and when it was, according to their own account, within a hundred yards of  their boat, and advancing directly upon them, they laid the musket down.
under the influence of these impressions, the 14th of july, 1815, was set apart 145 as a day of solemn fasting and prayer to god, whose guidance and protection was implored.
at huahine, during the greater part of my residence there, we had a square bar of iron, hanging by a cord ofparau bark, from a high cocoa-nut tree that grew near the chapel; and our only means of calling the inhabitants of the settlement together was, by appointing a person, at the proper hour, to strike it several minutes with a hard stone.
a religious service  in the chapel closed the exercises of the day, and all retired to their  respective homes, apparently delighted.
mr. nott's companion assured him, however, that if he landed, his life would certainly be taken, merely because he was a friend to the king.
by other hopes, and richer fruits, than yours.
by the porpoise, the missionaries received the agreeable intelligence that  a ship, with a reinforcement of their number, and necessary supplies from  england, was on her way to the islands.
this– 340 – by being repeatedly trodden under foot, became  dry, broken, and filled with dust, furnishing also a resort for vermin, which  generally swarmed the floors in such numbers, as to become intolerable.
he had been early initiated in all the mysteries of falsehood and abomination connected with the system, and had 97 engaged with avidity in the bloody and murderous rites of idol worship.
to increase their wants, or to make some of the comforts and decencies of society as desirable as the bare necessaries of life, appeared to us the most probable method of furnishing incitements to permanent industry.
i would, however, only  offer it as a substitute for the more explicit statement which my predecessors  in the islands might render; and if, by attracting their attention to the  subject, i should induce them to furnish such a desideratum, my attempts will  not have been altogether in vain.
towering above the plantains, papaws, &c., the shaddock planted by captain cook appeared, like an inhabitant of another country, in solitary exile; for though the climate is similar in point of temperature to that in which it is accustomed to thrive, its shoots are not so long and vigorous, its leaves are not so clear, dark, and glossy as those of the other plants, and the fruit, though large and abundant, falls prematurely to the ground.
from him, as an instructor, they derived no advantage; as he seldom came near them, excepting when he bore some message from the king, or the chief with whom he resided.
however large the building might be, there were no partitions or skreens.
it was naturally a matter of the deepest  interest to a missionary, important in all its bearings on the object nearest  to his heart, and first in the aims and the purposes of his life.
ioretea, the ulitea of captain cook, or, as it  is now more frequently called by the natives, raiatea, is the largest of the  society islands.
mr. nott's companion assured him, however, that if  he landed, his life would certainly be taken, merely because he was a friend to  the king.
it was always a matter of regret with the missionaries,  that the expenses of the establishment in the islands should be sustained  altogether by the parent society; and in order to diminish this, they had from  time to time disposed of the fruits of their own industry, to the captains of  vessels touching at tahiti; or they had sent small quantities to new south  wales, receiving, in return, such articles as they were most in need of.
whenever he alluded to that society, or to the crimes committed by its  members, it was always with evident feelings of the deepest distress.
upwards of 200 had given in their names, as professors of christianity.
it will  appear as clear as light to the spiritual mind, that the account of their  state, and the gratification experienced– 350 – in the contemplation  of it, was altogether of a temporal nature; that the progress made towards  civilization and earthly happiness, in consequence of the moral influence of  christianity, was the cause of that delight.
the wind was  contrary throughout the day, and it was near sunset before mrs. ellis and our  little girl, with her nurse, arrived in the canoe.
they were directed to let it remain undisturbed—that probably long before  the resurrection it would be so completely dissolved, and mingled with the  surrounding earth, that no trace would be left of the form in which it had been  deposited.
in searching for suitable stones, we pulled down the  remaining ruins of one or twomaraes in the neighbourhood, and, finding  among them a number of smooth and level-surfaced basaltic stones, we were happy  to remove them from the temple, and fix them in the pavement of the  printing-office floor; thus appropriating them to a purpose very different  indeed from that for which they were primarily designed, by those who had  evidently prepared them with considerable labour and care.
he received it as a premonition of his doom; and, in reply to the request, told them, calmly, that he did not think the king had arrived, and that, therefore, it was unnecessary for him to go down.
such were the views of the missionaries, and the circumstances of the people, when an event transpired which altogether altered the aspect of affairs in reference to the mission.
such a society, however, did not exist.
we had, however, occasion to  regret, that we were sometimes at as great a loss as the people themselves.
while the affairs of the island remained in this unsettled state, the nautilus arrived, and pomare prevailing on the captain to furnish him with a boat manned by british seamen armed, went to atehuru to present a costly offering to oro, whose favour he still considered to be the only means of restoring his authority.
i feel pleasure and satisfaction in my mind; i  rejoice, i praise jehovah, that he hath made known his word unto me.
many of the first missionaries to the south sea  islands were acquainted with the most useful of the mechanic arts, which were  adapted to produce a favourable impression upon the minds of the people.
the roof was covered withpandanus leaves, the windows closed with sliding shutters, and the doors hung with iron hinges of native workmanship.
they were  therefore taught to work at their needle, and soon made a pleasing proficiency.
to him, the missionaries had  frequent opportunities of speaking, though apparently with but little good  effect, against many of the sanguinary features of their idolatry, especially  the offering of human sacrifices, in which they knew he had been more than once  engaged since their arrival.
for some time we bound every book that was given to the natives; but our materials being expended long before they were supplied, and the people continuing impatient for the books, even in sheetsrather than keep them destitute of the scripture already printed, they were thus distributed.
although much recurred to memory that demanded deep regret  and most sincere repentance, yet i could – 309 – look back upon that  mercy that had first brought me to a knowledge of the saviour, with a gratitude  never perhaps exceeded.
a ridge of inferior hills divides the district in the centre, and greatly increases the picturesque appearance of its scenery.
after an absence of two  years, during which he had resided in tahiti, vainly expecting the restoration  of his government, and endeavouring to recover his authority in his hereditary  dominions, pomare returned to eimeo in the autumn of 1814, accompanied by a  large train of adherents and dependants, all professors, at least, of  christianity.
tamatoa and his brother, with other chiefs, had  been residing for some time at the missionary– 119 – station in  eimeo; they had attended the school and public instruction in the place of  worship; and several, among the most promising of whom was paumoana, at present  a valuable native missionary in the hervey islands, appeared to be under the  decisive influence of christian principles.
matters continued in this state until the  month of may, 1819, when a national assembly of the chiefs– 285 – and  people from tahiti and eimeo met a papaoa, in the district of pare.
the moon rose  soon after the light of the sun had departed, and although she shone not at  first in cloudless majesty through an untroubled sky, yet the night was a  perfect contrast to the day.
schools were built, and places for public worship erected; the sabbath was observed; divine service performed; child-murder, and the gross abominations of idolatry, were discontinued.
at first he thought of taking a smaller canoe, fetching back the larger ones, and fixing them in a place of security; but while he was deliberating, it occurred to his recollection that it was the sabbath, and that the scriptures prohibited any work.
the rain now ceased; the wind subsided;  and although the surface of the sea was considerably agitated, it was no longer  that quick dashing conflict of the waves to which we had been exposed, while  “a war of mountains raged upon its surface,” but a long and heavy  sluggish sort of motion.
his death was sudden; he had taken his dinner, and was proceeding with two of his attendants in a single canoe towards the dart, a vessel on the point of sailing from the bay.
while seeking this, about 101 the dawn of the day, on the morning after their arrival, mr. scott heard a voice at no great distance from his retreat.
they were also desirous to receive additional evidence of his sincerity, and of the uprightness and the purity of his conduct, during a longer period than they had yet observed it.
xvi from page 384 to page 417.
it was finished a week or two earlier than the chapel in huahine, and was opened on the 11th of april in the same year; when upwards of 2,400 inhabitants of that and the adjacent islands assembled within its walls.
but, although he held  a correspondence with several serious persons, he studiously concealed his  previous character and his name.
had our means been ample, and had we, on landing, or when inviting the attention of the chiefs and people to the objects of our proposed residence among them, liberally distributed presents of cloth, ironmongery, &c. or even engaged in part to support the children that would receive our lessons, the chapel would undoubtedly have been well attended, and the scholars proportionably multiplied; but it would have been only from the desire to receive a constant supply of presents; a motive highly prejudicial to the individuals by whom it would have been indulged, destructive of the comfort, and disastrous to the future labours of the missionary among them.
the missionaries resumed their  attempts to instruct the natives, but found the acquisition of the language so  difficult, and the insensibility of the people so great, that they were  exceedingly discouraged.
the sky was clear, the smooth surface of the ocean rippled with the cool and stirring breeze.
he accompanied captain cook to new zealand, the friendly islands, and tahiti, and, after an absence of rather more than four years, returned to huahine on the twelfth of october, 1777.
pomare was  distiguished by laborious and patient perseverance; tamehameha, by bold and  daring enterprise.
it is seven hundred and twelve feet in  length, and fifty-four wide.
assisted by two or three natives, mr. bicknell and mr. nott dug a grave in a spot near their dwelling on the north side of matavai bay, which had been selected as a place of interment.
for several years there was, in all  the islands, only one small hand-bell, not so large as that ordinarily used by  the bellman in an english market-town.
a most favourable opportunity was afforded for his  acquiring that knowledge of our agriculture, arts, and manufactures, our civil  and religious institutions, which would have enabled him to introduce the most  salutary improvements among his countrymen.
the natives followed the canoe for some miles, but mr. nott was  mercifully preserved, and reached matavai in safety, indebted, under god, to  the vigilance and promptitude of his tahitian friend, for his life.
wearied with our walk, we were obliged to rest before we reached the place where we expected to embark again.
when the juice of thefei was allowed to remain till the next day, the liquor became much thinner,  assumed a brownish red tinge, and imparted only a slight colour to the paper.
these numerous islands, like those of tetuaroa to the north, are of coralline formation, and the most elevated parts of many of them are seldom more than two or three feet above high-water mark.
when this was ended, a short prayer was offered, the benediction pronounced, and the service closed.
the  long flat neck of land which forms its northern boundary, was the spot on which  captain cook erected his tents, and fixed his instruments for observing the  transit of venus; on which account, it has ever since been called point venus.
on one occasion, mr. nott, returning from a visit to the king, was resting in a 83 native house, when a party of the rebels approached the spot; his native companion, one of pomare's warriors, observing them, touched him on the shoulder, and urged him to fly to the canoe lying on the beach: he and his fellow-traveller had scarcely pushed off from the shore, when the men came up, and, finding they had escaped, invited them to land, or requested the native to allow the foreigner to walk.
the unconscious earth had been saturated with his blood; and, when they placed his body on the rude altar, or suspended it from the sacred tree, in the presence of their god, they not only supposed they offered a sacrifice at once acceptable and efficacious, but, doubtless, viewed the immolation as one by which they had achieved for idolatry a triumph over humanity and christian principle.
many of the natives, especially those who have been native house-builders, are tolerably good carpenters, and handle tools with facility.
the spot on which the old chapel and subsequent school had  been erected, was connected with an important event in the modern history, – 365 – not only of huahine, but of the several adjacent clusters of  islands.
and, though he fell upon the field before he heard or uttered the shout of  victory, his end was peaceful, and his hopes were firm.
after spending some time in the cabin, the king went to see the cattle we had brought from new south wales, and particularly a horse, which the owners of the ship had sent him as a present.
the wounded warrior fell, and shortly afterwards expired.
the principal, and almost only edible vegetable they produce, is the fruit of the cocoa-nut: on these, with the numerous kinds of fishes resorting to their shores, or found among the coral reefs, the inhabitants entirely subsist.
he applied to the missionaries for assistance,  and, entering the room in which they were assembled, inquired how many of them
they no longer traded for ardent  spirits, muskets, powder, &c. and were consequently enabled to procure  larger quantities of british woven cloth.
187 emotions of astonishment, admiration, and gratitude, involuntarily arise in every mind in the least degree susceptible of humanity or religion; while increasing convictions of the divine origin of revelation must fasten on the understanding, and additional encouragement strengthen the hopes, of every individual who, according to the promise of god, is anticipating the arrival of a period, when a transformation, equally decisive and lovely, shall change the moral deserts of the earth into regions of order and beauty, and the wilderness shall become as the garden of the lord.
he died suddenly on the 5th of march, 1823; and, to use the language of the missionary who watched his progress and his end with the deepest interest, we doubt not that he is gone to be with that saviour, whom he loved with all his heart.
the feelings of the people on this subject were frequently so strong, and their language so violent, that the missionaries have been obliged to hasten from places where they had intended to address the people.
this often rendered their appearance to a european eye exceedingly ludicrous.
idolatry had  exerted all its withering and deadly influence, not only over every– 124  – moment of their earthly existence, but every department of life,  destroying, by its debasing and unsocial dictates, every tender feeling, and  all the enjoyments of domestic intercourse.
five days after the departure of the betsy, the  missionaries had the satisfaction to welcome again to their society, mr. and  mrs. henry; who returned from port jackson in the eliza, a south– 40 –  sea whaler.
a few copies of the spelling-book printed in england had been taken to the island in 1811.
nott's visit to the leeward islandsrebellion in matavaidefeat of the kingdeparture of the majority of the missionariesabandonment of the mission.
their ready and early attendance is a circumstance cheering to their  teachers, who often receive a message, informing them, that though it may not  be time to ring the second bell, the house is full, and the people are waiting.
his name was auna, a native of raiatea, formerly an areoi and a warrior, who had arrived, with numbers of his countrymen, to the support of pomare, after his expulsion from tahiti, but whose heart had been changed by the power of the gospel of christ.
it is also intimately connected with the most important matters in the traditionary history and ancient religion of the people.
hope and fear alternately pervaded the minds of the  missionaries and their pupils, with regard to the burning of the idols, and the  consequent tumult, devastation, and bloodshed that might follow.
my acquisition of the language was thus facilitated by attention to printing in the native tongue.
i have written to mahine for a house for the use of the missionaries, when they arrive; you will let mahine know where the house is to be, and he will get the people to remove it there.
they called himbuaa-horo-fenua and buaa-afai-taata; land-running pig, and man-carrying pig.
anxious to obtain direction and relief,  yet having no one to whom he could unburden his mind with hopes of suitable  guidance, he applied to tuahine, who had for a long time lived with the  missionaries; hence oito inferred he would be able to direct him aright.
the settlements in the leeward islands now began to assume a new aspect.
at hitoti's dwelling, which i visited on the second sabbath after my arrival, the household were about to kneel down for prayer when we entered; we joined them, and several of the petitions which the chief offered up to god, appeared, when interpreted by my companion, remarkably appropriate and expressive.
in our walks through the native settlements, we were often amused at the state in which we found 349 the houses occupied by their proprietors.
some of their houses were two hundred feet long; and on the floor, hundreds have, at times, lain down promiscuously to sleep.
they were,  however, followed by a numerous train of his attendants, &c. who had by  some means heard that the work was about to commence.
patii, the priest of the district,  was instantly sent for.
they usually answered,  they would believe it because we said so, but that they did not understand it:  nor was it to be expected that they should, as their knowledge of the anatomy  of the human frame was exceedingly limited.
at maatea i landed about twelve o'clock, and walked through the district of haume to afareaitu.
many of the natives,  especially those who have been native house-builders, are tolerably good  carpenters, and handle tools with facility.
early in the year 1820, another important change took place in the dress of the society islanders; affecting not only their appearance, but tending perhaps ultimately to alter their physical structure.
there  are no fewer than three.
it is not surprising that his own mind should have been so deeply affected; but from all the moral pollution and guilt then contracted, he was washed and renewed, and prepared for the society of the blessed in the abode of purity and happiness.
the true god jehovah, it was he that made us acquainted with these things.
the natives, (the account says,) demonstrated much complaisance, and, by acclamation, acknowledged the king of spain, king of otaheite and all the islands.
the english, therefore, acceded to  the first proposition.
they spent about two hours on board; and then,  followed by their numerous retinue, returned to the shore.
the other, which is small, has only a few housesbut so quiet, so retired, that it seems the abode of peace and perfect content.
he was remarkably venerable in his appearance, being tall and well made, his countenance open and mild, his forehead high, his hair blanched with age, and his beard as white as silver, hanging down upon his breast.32 he had led a quiet and peaceful life ever since the commencement of the mission, was probably the oldest man in the island, and, what is rather unusual, died apparently from the exhaustion of nature, or old age.
a female was  sent, as a herald, with a flag of truce to the warriors in the fortress,  informing them of the number slain, and proposing to them the king's terms of  peace.
the natives prepared their lime by burning it in a large  pit, in a manner resembling that in which they had prepared their ovens for  opio.
their first effort now is generally to purchase, and to learn to make light clothing for their children; and there are perhaps few parents in the islands who would think of purchasing a garment for themselves, while their little one was destitute.
upon various little elevations, beyond these, were  others, which gave extent and animation to the whole.
the use of hats increased so rapidly, that all the european thread in the islands was soon expended.
but, as forster, who accompanied him on his return,  laments, “no friendly mentor ever attempted to cherish and gratify this  wish, much less to improve his moral character, to teach him our exalted ideas  of virtue, and the sublime principles of revealed religion.”
while, however, the king refused to allow his men to pursue their conquered enemies, or to take the spoils of victory, he called a chosen band, among which was farefau, who had offered up the public thanksgiving at the festival in eimeo and patini, a near relative of mahine, who had been 152 his champion on that day, and sent them to tautia, where the temple stood in which the great national idol, oro, was deposited.
the gospel was preached, not only in the immediate neighbourhood of matavai, but in every district in tahiti and eimeo; yet the people seemed more than ever disposed to neglect or ridicule it.
after recovering from the struggle,  they were in a most pitiable state, deprived of their clothing, and some of  them severely bruised.
aged chiefs, and priests, and  warriors, with their spelling-books in their hands, might be seen sitting, on  the benches in the schools, by the side, perhaps, of some smiling little boy or  girl, by whom they were now taught the use of letters.
under the influence of these impressions, the 14th of july, 1815,  was set apart– 145 – as a day of solemn fasting and prayer to god,  whose guidance and protection was implored.
it was not a few detached sentences that were spoken, but a continued address; not in the lively tone of conversation, but solemn, as devotion; or pathetic, as the voice of lamentation and supplication.
the machinery, &c. were considered as belonging to the missionary society, but at a public meeting held in eimeo, in may 1824, for the purpose of arranging the principles upon which its future operations should be conducted, it was distinctly stated by the deputation, and recognized by the missionaries, that the society contemplates no other advantage in promoting the manufacture of cloth by this machinery, than the good of the inhabitants of these islands; that no charges by way of profit shall be made upon the cloth manufactured and sold to the inhabitants, more than is merely necessary to defray the expenses attending it, and that all the inhabitants of the islands connected with both the windward and leeward missions, shall be allowed to share alike in the advantages of this manufactory.
to this method of instruction we have looked for the perpetuity  of the work, of which we had been privileged to witness the commencement; and  from its influence on the rising generation, we have derived encouragement in  reference to the stability and increase of the christian church.
the improvement of native society, and, above all, the communication of the christian religion to the people, does not appear to have been thought of, either by those who directed or performed the early voyages to the south sea islands.
the idolaters had indeed joined with them in binding the wreath of amity and peace, while they were at the same time secretly and actively concerting measures for their destruction.
exploring  far and wide the wat'ry waste for sight of ship from england.
they were very urgent to be supplied with spelling-books, which i regretted my inability to effect to and extent, as our edition was nearly expended.
their regular and early attendance on the sabbath, ever has been, and still is, remarkably conspicuous; the day is to them a season of holy rest and devotional enjoyment.
he answered, yes; and the king said, do you think you could appropriate so much towards sending the world of god to the heathens?
the  attention of one of the party was arrested, his heart deeply affected, and  ultimately his character entirely changed.
the propriety of their using  fire-arms was, however, questioned by some, and discussed by the whole body;  who publicly agreed that it was not their duty even to inflict punishment upon  those that might be detected in stealing their property, but to complain to  their chiefs; and that they could take no part even with their friends, in any  of their wars.
– 407 – along the coast, many were unloading their canoes, or  drawing them upon the beach for security.
in order more fully to illustrate the kind of scripture truth that appears, in connexion with others, to have affected deeply the minds of the people, one single instance, among many that might be adduced, will shew, that in the mild and verdant islands of the south, as well as the frozen and barren regions of the north, in tahiti as well as in greenland, the attractions of the cross move and melt the human heart.
we had many difficulties to encounter, and were obliged to pick up the greater part of the language from the natives, who, unacquainted with our speech, could only explain to us the meaning of words and phrases by their own: thus their explanations often increased our perplexity.
when well filled with respectably dressed worshippers, as it generally was on the sabbath, the difference in the material or structure of the places they occupied, was not easily noticed.
x erection of a printing-office—increased demand for  books—establishment of the printing press—eager anticipations of the  people—first printing in the island done by the king—materials  employed in binding native books—printing the gospel of st.  luke—liberal aid from the british and foreign bible society—influence  of the process of printing, &c. on the minds of the people—visit of a  party of natives from the eastern archipelago—distribution of elementary  books—desire of the inhabitants for the scriptures—applicants from  different islands—estimation in which the scriptures are  held—influence of the press in the nation—number of works printed.
many of the  adults received instruction more readily than the children, and acquired a  knowledge of reading with much greater facility than persons of the same age  would do in england.
at other times it would point to one, upon which the merchant has been directed to cut off so much as would make a frock or gown: it has been folded up, and given to the child; and while the parents' eyes have 397 marked the pleasure of the child as it has held the new frock on its arm, the smile on their own countenances has declared the pleasure they experienced.
many, in tahiti especially,  were plundered of their property, banished from their homes and their  possessions; their houses were burnt, and they themselves hunted for sacrifices  to be offered to oro, merely because they were bure atua, prayers to god.
their persons  were cleanly, their apparel neat, their countenances either thoughtful, or  beaming with serenity and gladness.
when, however, it was considered, that perhaps this pair of canoes had cost him nearly twelve months' labour, and that, before they were lost, he was comparatively richer than many an english merchant is in the possession of a five or six hundred ton vessel, it appears a remarkable instance of conscientious regard for the sabbath-day.
many of them were arrayed in light european dresses, and all  evidently appeared to feel a high degree of satisfaction in assembling for the  public adoration of the almighty in a building, in many respects an object of  astonishment through the island, and which their own toil and perseverance had  enabled them to finish.
the importance and advantages of education appeared to be more extensively appreciated, and between forty and fifty, principally adults, regularly attended the mission school.
singleness of aim, and purity 260 of motive, imbodied, before such observers, in undeviating and disinterested efforts, will in general be appreciated, although they may not soon yield themselves up to the influence of those efforts.
from the few christians in the neighbourhood, they were happy to learn that the inhabitants of 136 large sections of pare, and the adjacent district of matavai, the former residence of their teachers, had renounced idolatry, and were desirous to receive christian instruction.
we did not, however, feel the air too cool; and our lodging was quite as good as that in which the missionaries to the sandwich islands passed their first night in honoruru; and much better than mr. marsden, and his companion, procured in new zealand.
the colour and the  kind of wood, used in the interior, was as diversified as the forms in which it  was employed; it was, nevertheless, only when empty, that its irregularity and  grotesque variety appeared.
within three months after our arrival at afareaitu, every  thing was in readiness, and, on the 10th of june, 1817, the operations  preparatory to printing were commenced.
the column was well defined, extending in an unbroken line from the sea to the clouds, which were neither dense nor lowering.
they were delivered to pomare, who requested that the saddle and bridle  might be put on the horse, and that the captain would ride him.
this was generally done by fixing benches from one end to the other, and erecting a kind of desk or table equally distant from both extremities, and near one of the sides.
the beauty of the wooded or rocky shores now appeared more rich and varied than before; the stillness of the smooth waters around was only occasionally disturbed by the passage of a light nautilus-like canoe, with its little sail of white native cloth, or the rapid flight of a shoal of flying-fish, which, when the dashing of our oars or the progress of our boat intercepted their course or awakened their alarm, sprang from their native element, and darted along, three or four feet above the water.
it was the hereditary  land of the reigning family, and the usual residence of the king and his  household.
the representations in the preceding page will convey some  idea of the shape and appearance of the former kind.
their threatenings to seek his  ruin, by opposing his efforts, are rather amusing.
no one said, the good word, the true word is coming, spare your children; and now my heart is repentingis weeping for them!
when, in the  course of conversation, the building was mentioned, or he was asked why he  reared one so large, he inquired whether solomon was not a good king, and  whether he did not erect a house for jehovah superior to every building in  judea, or the surrounding countries.
the colour and the kind of wood, used in the interior, was as diversified as the forms in which it was employed; it was, nevertheless, only when empty, that its irregularity and grotesque variety appeared.
this circumstance should never be lost sight of; it is a  wonderful manifestation of the faithfulness of god, who has declared– 184  – that his word shall not return unto him void, but shall be found even  after many days; and it is remarkably adapted to cheer the hearts of all who  are called to labour and wait patiently, sowing season after season in hope,  without reaping the wished-for harvest.
at eimeo, a  thick hoop of iron, resembling the tier of a small carriage-wheel, suspended by  a rope of twisted bark, and struck with an iron bolt, was substituted for a  bell.
a large number of pomare's adherents, who were  professors of christianity, and inhabitants of huahine, raiatea, borabora, and  eimeo, with pomare-vahine and mahine, the chief of eimeo and huahine,  accompanied the king and the refugees to tahiti.
the first crop, however, was gathered, the seeds carefully picked out, and the cotton packed in baskets.
they were not satisfied with attending during the hours of school, and merely imparting the ordinary instruction, or hearing the usual recitals, but identified themselves with the advancement of the children, and exercised an affectionate care over them during the intervals between the sabbaths.
pomare was not hasty in forming his decision on any matter of importance, and by no means precipitate in his measures; but on this occasion he appears to have been altogether uninfluenced by that temperate deliberation, and judicious policy, which he generally manifested in matters tending to improve the condition of the people, and increase the national resources.
the building, in which they were taught, stood near the sea-beach, under the shade of a clump of cocoa-nut trees.
in addition to the diseases resulting from their immorality, 66 there were others of a contagious and often fatal character, to which the natives were formerly strangers.
a  good-looking native, about forty years of age, who said his name was maine, and  who came on board as a pilot, we invited to our breakfast.
the rebels were no sooner masters  of the island, than they resolved to pursue the most efficacious methods of  establishing and perpetuating their power: arms and ammunition, they regarded  as the best means of accomplishing this; and in order to secure these, as well  as extend their conquests, they determined to murder the captain and officers,  and to seize the first vessel that should arrive.
they now enjoyed the unexpected but exhilarating satisfaction  resulting from the pleasure of the lord prospering in their hands, in a degree  and under circumstances that few are privileged to experience.
a ridge  of inferior hills divides the district in the centre, and greatly increases the  picturesque appearance of its scenery.
the king often attended in person, to welcome his guest, or, if  unable to do this himself, sent one of his principal chiefs.
i trust she is now resting from her  labours in abraham's bosom; and that some poor heathens, amongst whom she has  lived, have gone before, and that some will follow after, to glory.”
the night passed without any attack; several leading chiefs, whom the rebels expected, had not arrived, and the europeans were thus permitted to pack up a few articles for their use on board.
i should  have gone to destruction if jehovah had not interposed.
pomare erected some works on one-tree hill,  to arrest their progress, should they attempt the district in that direction;  and, hearing they were still ravaging the peninsula of tairabu, sent a strong  party totabu-te ohua, strike their encampment at home.
the numerous attendance and increasing earnestness of the people, induced  the missionaries to meet them for divine worship twice on the lord's day, and  once during the week.
he was often heard to say, while confined to his  couch, when he saw his former companions going to the school, or the place of  worship, “my feet cannot follow, but my heart goes with you.”
how can we be preserved from forsaking god and  committing– 438 – sin?
i  answered, ‘it is agreed.’
at such times, those who had stood round the missionary only to insult him by their insinuations, ridicule him by their vulgar wit, or afflict his mind by their death-like indifference to the important truths he had declared, have instantly formed a ring around the areois, and gazed on their exhibitions of folly and of vice with interest and pleasure.
in this respect, the first missionaries endured far greater privations than those who have since joined them.
the school during the week, and  chapel on the sabbath, though capable of containing 600 persons, were found too  small for those who sought admittance.
the king was sullen and taciturn; and, after remaining nearly half an hour expecting pomare, the missionaries departed, to wait on him personally, at his own dwelling.
a swivel mounted in the stern  of another canoe, which was commanded by an englishman, called joe by the  natives, and who came up from raiatea, did considerable execution during the  engagement.
the impression this unpleasant occurrence produced upon the society at matavai, was such, that eleven missionaries, including four who were married, judged a removal from the island to be necessary; and as the captain and supercargo of the nautilus offered a passage to any who were desirous of returning to port jackson, they prepared for their departure.
on such occasions, it was customary for a priest or priests to attend; and before any of it was eaten, to offer the whole to the gods, by taking parts of the animals, and particular kinds of the fruit, to the temple, and depositing them upon the altar.
after rowing some time, we heard the hoarse roaring of the surf, as it  broke upon the coral reef surrounding the shore.
from one of these ships, oripaia, a chief of papara, and a  rival of pomare, had received a large quantity of gunpowder as a present.
the  king's mind appears to have been first seriously exercised in reference to the  declaration which he subsequently made, after the dispersion of the  missionaries, and their departure from the islands, when only one (viz.
xv schools erected in huahinehistorical facts connected with the site of the former buildingaccount of mai, (omai)his visit to england with captain furneuxsociety to which he was introducedobjects of his attentiongranville sharphis return with captain cooksettlement in huahinehis subsequent conductpresent proprietors of the beritani in huahinehouse for hidden prayercowper's lines on omairoyal mission chapel in tahitiits dimensions, furniture, and appearancemotives of the king in its erectiondescription of native chapelsneed of clocks and bellsmeans resorted to for supplying their deficiencyattendance on public worship.
the morning service commences with singing, during which the congregations stand; a portion of scripture is then read, and prayer offered, the congregation kneeling or standing.
our assemblies now assumed quite a civilized appearance, every one, whose means were sufficient to procure it, dressing in a garment of european cloth.
their voyage, though protracted, was safe, and not unpleasant; and on the 4th of march, 1797, they had the satisfaction of beholding the high land of tahiti in the distant horizon.
the best boy in school carried the flag; which was not of silk  emblazoned with letters of gold, but of less costly materials.
such were not, however, at that time so ready,  as they have subsequently been, to engage in the enterprise; individuals of  this class do not appear to have understood that the highest attainments, and  noblest powers, are best employed, and their author most honoured, when they  are exerted in a cause which, of all others, presents the strongest claims, and  affords the most suitable sphere, for their successful operation.
as the evening approached, multitudes were met returning from the inland streams, whither they had repaired, to bathe after the occupations of the day; the men bringing home their calabashes of water for drinking, or theiraanos of water for washing the feet; while the females were carrying home bundles of the broad leaves of the hibiscus, which they had gathered, to serve instead of plates for sabbath meals.
we pulled in our bundle of masts and oars—the  natives manned the oars, and rowed towards the west.
if, however, they could by any means thrust their  large muscular arms through the sleeves, it was thought to fit very well.
moral character, and virtuous conduct, were never considered  requisite, even in those whose office was most sacred.
the seamen expressed their determination to remain; and one of 27 them said, if they take me on board again, they shall take me on board dead.
this was a kind of instruction which our wives were competent to impart, even before they had acquired a sufficient knowledge of the language to enable them to teach in the schools.
it will also tend to encourage the more extensive culture of the cotton, and,  in the raw state, the natives will never decline disposing of it to him who  offers the best price.
sometimes they wanted to know what was the colour of adam and eve's skin, or what language they spoke: with regard to the former, their opinions were in accordance with those of the late bishop heber; they said it was very likely they were brown or olive-coloured, and, as their descendants, or the descendants of noah, travelled to hotter climates, they became darker; while those, whose information had removed the belief that our colour was the effect of disease, acknowledged the plausibility of our ancestors having become white from the influence of cold, and a clouded atmosphere, whereby they were shaded from the sun.
as soon as the natives had recovered from the shock, perceiving the  powder adhering to their limbs, they attempted to rub it off, but found the  skin peel off with it; they then plunged into an adjacent river.
i took a ramble through the district a short time before sunset, and was delighted with the wild and romantic beauty of the surrounding scenery,the luxuriant groves of trees, and the shrubs, that now covered the fertile parts of this almost uninhabited district.
the attendants were proceeding with the turtle to themarae, when pomare  called them back, and told them to prepare an oven, to bake it in his own  kitchen, and serve it up, without offering it to the idol.
this disastrous war is called, in the tahitian traditions, the tamai rahi ia arahuraia, the great war of arahuraia.
at one time they assured them 300 that it would be injurious to their interest, and, if successful, prevent their being visited by shipping, &c., offering, at the same time, to give them for their raw cotton twice as much cloth as they could procure at the factory.
the people of afareaitu erected the  printing-office; and those of maatea, a neighbouring district, my dwelling.
the whole either smoothed with a carpenter's plane, or polished,  according to the practice of the natives, by rubbing the timber with smooth  coral and sand.
a venerable chief rose, and  addressed the assembly, with impressive action, and strongly excited feeling.
it is not necessary that i should offer any vindication of what mr. ward and his companions taught the hindoos.
as some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, swells from the vale, and midway leaves the storm.
in addition to the seeds and plants, a breed of horses, goats, and other useful animals, were brought on shore; but the greater part of the presents was comparatively useless, and many were bartered to the sailors for hatchests or iron tools.
it was at this time a complete wilderness, overgrown with weeds and brushwood.
after waiting in fearful suspense several minutes, the helmsman, hearing a rushing noise, involuntarily opened his eyes, and saw the column passing, with great velocity, at a distance from the stern of boat.
as  soon as pomare was acquainted with the accident, he begged mr. broomhall to  visit the house in which the accident had occurred, and endeavour to relieve  the sufferers.
gall and spurzheim ever obtained among them; and so far from being phrenologists, they did not imagine the brain to be even the seat of thought.
those were my own idols, belonging to our family from the time of  taaroamanahune even to vairaatoa: and when he died he left them with me.
pressed at the (paper or book) presser of the missionaries.—there  being no term in the native language answering to the word translated gospel,  the greek word euangelion was introduced, some of the consonants being omitted  in conforming it to the native idiom.
it had but one floor, excepting, that over the printing-office there was a kind of loft for drying the paper.
probably, gamaliel-like, they thought it best not to interfere at that time, as their belief in the power of the gods had hitherto remained unshaken, and they doubtless expected that, in their own way, the gods would take signal vengeance on those by whom, in the sight of the nation, they had been thus dishonoured.
he also requested  to be baptized, and to become one of the disciples of the lord jesus christ,  assuring the missionaries that his resolution to give himself up to god, was  the result of long and increasing conviction of the truth and superiority of  the religion of the bible, expressing at the same time his desire to be more  fully instructed in the matters to which it referred.
at the same time we  commenced the erection of permanent places of residence for ourselves, and  spared no pains to induce the people to do the same.
anxious to avoid unnecessary expenditure of those funds which british benevolence furnished, they had on a former occasion written, to prevent the society's incurring and further expense on their account, as their remaining on the island was uncertain; but now, as there was a prospect of peaceable continuance, and the liberal supply they had taken out in the duff, being, by plunder, presents, &c. nearly expended, they found it necessary to solicit a few articles for their own use, and others for presents to the chiefs, whom they described as daily visiting their dwellings, and treating them with kindness.
such an observer would often find himself exposed to an influence that could be attributed only to satanic agency; but that why he was permitted to exert this influence on man, was not made known in the bible.
the spinning-wheels and the loom now stood still, excepting that mrs. armitage and mrs. blossom, with the assistance of their own servants, spun the cotton, which mr. armitage wove into about fifty yards of cloth, for the use of the academy.
had cowper witnessed these 376 operations of christian benevolence, he would have cheered, with his own numbers, those who had gone out from britain, and other lands, not only to civilize, but to attempt the moral renovation of the heathen.
two new places, upon the same plan as the chapel, and built with similar materials, were afterwards erected, one for the boys' school, and the other for the girls'; these, when finished, greatly facilitated the instruction of the peoplethe accommodation they afforded, encouraging those to attend who had before been deterred.
the  carpenters of the vessels erected for him a house in the european style, and,  on the 26th of october, the presents with which he had been so liberally  supplied, were landed, and he took possession of his dwelling.
in the month of june, the flame of war was rekindled in taiarabu, and the district of atehuru, where the king's party suddenly attacked the inhabitants; and, after killing upwards of one hundred, including their principal chiefs, covered the country with all the murder and desolation that usually attended the march of the infuriated bands through the territories of those who were too weak to oppose their progress.
as they passed along, the natives tendered their usual  salutations, and about thirty accompanied them.
on the evening of the  day preceding that on which the ceremony was to take place, the young man, as  his custom was, had retired to the brow of a hill that overlooked the valley  where he dwelt; and there, seated beneath the embowering shade of an elegant  clump of trees, was absorbed in meditation, previous to offering up his evening  supplications to his god.
the party sent by the king to the national temple at tautira, in taiarabu, proceeded directly to their place of destination.
some hundred copies of a smaller spelling-book, and a brief summary of the old and new testament, the latter containing about seventy-five 12mo.
the people frequently said, we should like some of these things very well, but we cannot have them without working; that we do not like, and therefore would rather do without them.
multitudes arrived from every district of  eimeo, and even from other islands, to procure books, and to see this  astonishing machine.
the success of these individuals encouraged others, although we found great difficulty in persuading them to persevere in the labour this improvement required, particularly as they were now employed in the erection of a spacious chapel, and the frames of our dwellings.
at maatea, the district from which the king wrote, ninety-six renounced idolatry while he was there, in addition to others who had done so before.
the change that has taken place has not rendered the  people unsocial or melancholy, but has introduced to their families, and more  general intercourse, a degree of cheerfulness and reasonable enjoyment unknown  before, especially in reference to the rising generation.
when his canoe approached the shore of eimeo, the teachers and their pupils hastened to the beach, under the conflicting emotions of hope and fear.
after waiting, however, some days in their hiding-places, they ventured forth, and singly, or in small parties, returned to their dwellings; and when they found their plantations uninjured, their property secure, their wives and children safe, they were astonished.
this they plastered with the mortar,  forming a plain surface, and covering also the posts on the outside, but  leaving them projecting within.
they knew no higher, sought no happier state, had no fine instinct of superior joys.
the season occupied in the printing and binding of these books was one of incessant labour, which, in a tropical climate, and at a season when the sun was vertical, was often found exceedingly oppressive; 232 yet it was one of the happiest periods of my life.
the large island of raiatea lies immediately to the west of fare harbour, and, by the time we had finished our meal, the sun was partly hid behind the high and broken summits of its mountains.
hats and bonnets were, however, introduced among the natives by our friends in raiatea, with whom many valuable improvements have originated; and the first hats and bonnets ever made in the islands, and worn by the natives, were made by mrs. williams and mrs. threlkeld, in the spring of 1820.
the bonnets were in many instances scarcely finished, when another difficulty met their possessors.
he was an intelligent, active young man, 24 years of age, had been highly serviceable to the mission, and was respected by the natives, until about tweleve months prior to the arrival of the royal admiral, when he intimated his doubts as to the reality of divine influence on the mind, and the immortality of the soul.
few remained behind; all the inhabitants of the district or village, who were able, attended public worship.
mr. and mrs. threlkeld, who had sailed with us from england, but had been obliged by domestic affliction to remain at rio janeiro, and mr. and mrs. barff, who had originally left england with mr. orsmond, joined us by the same conveyance.
the way being thus opened for the  resumption of their work, and depending on the blessing of god, they again  embarked, in the autumn of 1811, for the islands.
a lucrative branch of industry and commerce now appeared open to the enterprising and industrious inhabitants, when a heavy duty, which, according to report, in order to favour its growth in new holland, was laid upon all taken into the port of sydney, prevented their continuing its culture with the least expectation of profit.
on the evening of the  29th of november, 1799, mr. nott, mr. jefferson, mr. eyre, and mr. bicknell,  bore his remains to the grave, where mr. harris read the xcth psalm, and  offered up an appropriate prayer to almighty god.
mr.  wilson, one of the missionaries who first landed from the royal admiral in  1801, resumed his labours here in the early part of 1818, within a quarter of a  mile of the spot from which he had been obliged to fly when the mission was  broken up in the close of the year 1809, and not far from the place where mr.  lewis was murdered.
on looking at that part of the pavement where he had fallen, one or two of the stones were stained with blood.
in one of these,  dated calcutta, may 8, 1809, the writer says— – 47 – “we have lately seen the gracious hand of god stretched out in a most  remarkable manner, in the recovery of a backsliding missionary, after nine  years of wandering from god.
it is only in comparatively recent times that individuals of this class  have, by embarking personally on the arduous and self-denying work of  propagating christianity amongst pagan nations, exhibited some noble examples  of christian devotedness.
pomare sent privately to idia directions for his  assassination.
the hats and bonnets were at first made with the inner bark of the– 402  – slender branches of the purau, or the leaves of a fine species of  rush.
the visitors from raiatea were supported in their application by a number of chiefs belonging to the same island; who, after residing some years in eimeo, had now removed to huahine, and were desirous of returning to their own possessions in raiatea and tahaa, yet did not wish to go unaccompanied by some of those, from whose instruction they had derived advantage.
it was therefore in a great degree abandoned.
i recollect a father and a mother asking with ardent solicitude, whether it would be right to take their little boy, or girl, with them to the bushes or the garden, talk with it in this retirement, and teach it there to pray to god?
some  spare machinery and boilers, sent out by the society, were also left at  huahine.
mahine, the king of huahine, was, we believe, the first native of the south sea islands, who finished a house with upper rooms.
the  column was well defined, extending in an unbroken line from the sea to the  clouds, which were neither dense nor lowering.
at mahapoto, about half way between opoa, the site of their principal temple, the ancient residence of the reigning family, and utumaoro at the north-east angle of the island, there is a deep indentation in the coast.
a stream rolled at the bottom of a steep bank, about twenty yards from our house.
he received it as a  premonition of his doom; and, in reply to the request, told them, calmly, that  he did not think the king had arrived, and that, therefore, it was unnecessary  for him to go down.
we were convinced that it  was the parent of many of their crimes, infant-murder not excepted, and was  also a perpetual source of misery.
in the month of september, 1821, they  reached tahiti.
the report of the  departure of the missionaries soon spread through the island, and appeared to  be regretted by many of the people.
the  powder being coarser in the grain than what the natives had been accustomed to  receive, they imagined either that it was not powder, or that it was a very  inferior kind.
the phraseology employed in speaking of the  seat of the intellect and the affections, presents another analogy between the  idiom of their language, and that of the ancient hebrews.
a shaddock tree, which the natives say was planted by captain cook himself while the vessels lay at anchor, is still growing on what was once part of his garden.
the improvement of native society, and, above all, the  communication of the christian religion to the people, does not appear to have  been thought of, either by those who directed or performed the early voyages to  the south sea islands.
brainard remarks, that while he was preaching,  the indians sometimes played with his dog: but the first teachers in tahiti  were often disturbed by a number of natives bringing their dogs, and setting  them to fight on the outside of the circle they were addressing; or they would  bring their fighting-cocks, and set them at each other, so as completely–  62 – to divert the audience, who would at once turn with a vidity from the  missionary, to the birds or the dogs.
hitherto, however, they had generally  worn the european cottons, &c. in the native manner, either as a light tehei, thrown over the shoulder, a pareu wound round the waist, or ahu  buu, a kind of large scarf or shawl, loosely covering the greater part of  the body.
her infatuation, as they conceived it to be in this respect, not only  encouraged her school-fellows, but, with other circumstances which occurred  about the same time, made a considerable impression on the minds of the  idolaters, and occasioned some of the priests publicly to declare their  conviction “that the religion of the foreigners would prevail, in spite of  all opposition.”
as he sat gasping on the sand, his friends gathered round, and endeavoured to stop the bleeding of the wound, and afford every assistance his circumstances appeared to require.
this appears to be the common mode of welcoming a friend, practised by all the  inhabitants of the pacific.
although the justice and humanity of the governor of new south wales were so distinctly manifested in the foregoing orders, these regulations were found insufficient to prevent outrage upon the natives, from the masters and crews of vessels visiting the islands: an act was therefore passed in the british parliament, in the month of june, 1817, entitled, an act of the 57th of the king, 44 for the more effectual punishment of murders and manslaughters committed in places not within his majesty's dominions.
matting was procured for sails, and the vessel, pursuing her homeward voyage, reached port jackson in safety.
the work commenced with cotton  belonging to the native missionary societies.
they have never  been ashamed, though considered as an epithet of contempt or opprobrium, and  applied in a manner similar to that in which the term saint or methodist is  used in the present day, or the designation of nazarene or christian was given  to the first disciples.
by universal consent the infamous areoi society was destroyed at the same time.
besides the deep commiseration, which their spiritual wretchedness will excite, he will often find their temporal afflictions and sorrows such as to claim his tenderest sympathy.
in the forenoon of the 6th of october, 1818, mahine, and the missionaries of huahine, tamatoa, and those of raiatea, mai, and numbers from borabora, repaired to the chapel, followed by crowds of the people.
in any situation, bereavements such as those which befel the little band at eimeo at this time, would have been distressing: to the missionaries they were peculiarly so.
defeat and death had, as  several of them have more than once declared, appeared, during several periods  of the engagement, almost certain; and, in connexion with the anticipated  extirpation of the christian faith in their country, the captivity of those who  might be allowed to live, the momentous realities of eternity, upon which, ere  the close of the day, it appeared to themselves by no means improbable they  would enter; had combined to produce a state of agitation, unknown in the  ordinary course of human affairs, and seldom perhaps experienced even in the  field of battle.
but as their numbers were few, their influence small, and as the great body of the people were doubtless favourable to the new order of things, hopes of success were comparatively faint, and no further attempt was made.
in a few months  after their arrival, therefore, they proposed that a society, upon the plan of  that established in eimeo, should be formed in huahine, in aid of the parent  society in london.
notwithstanding the novelty of our situation,  the exposure to the air from the mountains, the roaring of the heavy surf on  the reefs, the inroads of dogs, pigs, and natives, with no other shelter than a  pile– 253 – of boxes; we passed a comfortable night, and rose  refreshed in the morning, thankful for the kind protection we had experienced,  gratified also to find that no article of our property had been stolen, though  all was unavoidably exposed.
the  missionaries who had been expelled from tahiti in 1808, had remained here some  months prior to their final departure for port jackson; but at these periods  only a temporary impression had been made upon the minds of the people, which  had in a great degree, if not altogether, subsided.
“the  sound of industry was music to my ears.
the interval between the close of the evening and the dawn of the following day was pleasantly spent; and soon after sun-rise, on the morning of the 13th, we were gladdened by the sight of the lofty mountains in huahine, which were seen 287 above the line of clouds that rested on the western horizon.
mrs. ellis said, why should i pay you ?
the sound of industry was music to my ears.
this  immense building was opened for divine service on the 11th of may, 1819, when  the encampment– 378 – of the multitudes assembled stretched along the  sea-beach, on both sides of the chapel, to the extent of four miles.
most of the chiefs wore the native costume, and the females were arrayed  in white native cloth, and yellow cocoa-nut-leaf shades, or bonnets with  wreaths of sweet-scented flowers round their necks, or garlands of the same in  their hair.
self-interest, or a desire for property, is the principle upon which the intercourse uncivilized persons have with foreigners visiting their country for purposes of commerce, &c. is regulated; the estimation in which such individuals are usually held, and the influence they exercise, is proportioned to the extent of their property, or the portions of it which the natives receive.
in searching for suitable stones, we pulled down the remaining ruins of one or twomaraes in the neighbourhood, and, finding among them a number of smooth and level-surfaced basaltic stones, we were happy to remove them from the temple, and fix them in the pavement of the printing-office floor; thus appropriating them to a purpose very different indeed from that for which they were primarily designed, by those who had evidently prepared them with considerable labour and care.
often, as the little boy has walked back to the seat with his  prize—perhaps a copy of one of the gospels—i have seen the mother's  eye follow the child with all a parent's emotion beaming in her eye, while the  tear of pleasure has sparkled there; and, in striking contrast with this, the  childless mother might be seen weeping at the recollection of the infants,  which, under the influence of idolatry, she had destroyed – and which, but  for her own murderous hands, might have mingled in the throng she then beheld  before her.
on the following sabbath, taaroarii attended; his father also became, a few months afterwards, a sincere convert.
by this time the shades of the evening began to gather round us, and the sun was just hidden by the distant wave of the horizon, when the king rose from his chair, and the chiefs and people retired to their dwellings, under feelings of excitement and satisfaction.
our friends in raiatea were perhaps more urgent  than ourselves, in their recommendation of improved dwellings.
“how happy the christians in  england must be,” they would sometimes say.—“so many teachers,  so many books, the whole of the bible in their language, and no idolatry, they  must have little else to do but to praise god.
his actions attracted the notice of the officer on deck, who instantly sent an able seaman to the helm, and called the 312 captain.
they were powerfully affected on one occasion when a present was brought him of a turtle, which had always been held sacred, and dressed with sacred fire within the precincts of the temple, part of it being invariably offered to the idol.
on reaching the habitations of the missionaries, we were cordially welcomed to their society, and were rejoiced to behold them cheered by the intelligence we had brought, and the prospect of receiving a still greater accession to their numbers.
on the outside of this, they wore the pareu round the waist, and reaching below the knees.
mr. darling, the indefatigable missionary of the station, remarks, this was on 325 the very spot where satan's throne stood, and where, a few years ago, if a female had eaten but a mouthful, so sacred was the place considered, that she would have been put to death.
the natives, however, persevered  in their depredations on the little remaining property of the mission; and, in  order to deter others, one of them, who had been detected, was publicly flogged  by the king's order.
on the following morning, according to the usual practice  when travelling among the people, they retired to the bushes near their  lodgings, for meditation and secret prayer.
may jehovah give me his good spirit to  sanctify my heart, that i may love what is good, and that i may be enabled to  put away all my evil customs, and become one of his people, and be saved  through jesus christ, our only saviour!
it is not surprising that his own  mind should have been so deeply affected; but from all the moral pollution and  guilt then contracted, he was washed and renewed, and prepared for the society  of the blessed in the abode of purity and happiness.
one piece of cloth, however, fifty yards in  length, was finished, and presented to the king.
on our– 321 –  arrival in the islands in 1817, it was in general use; and whenever we walked  among the habitations of the people, some parts of it broken upon the ear.
while the spelling-book was in hand, mr. and mrs. orsmond arrived in the islands, and took up 224 their residence at afareaitu; increasing thereby the enjoyment of our social hours.
the chief was  pleased with the sound of the words thus associated, adopted them as his name,  and was ever afterwards called po-ma-re.
it was held on a kind of pier or quay built in the  sea.
whether they were more anxious than the other sex to obtain foreign articles of dress, and the conveniences and the comforts of domestic lifeor whether, feeling more peculiarly their obligations to christianity, and desiring to take the lead in the introduction of those habits which they had been taught to consider as the necessary result of its principles, and the accompaniments of a christian professionit is unnecessary to determine; but they laboured diligently and perseveringly, cutting down in the mountains wood for the fencing, employing their own servants to transport it to the shore, clearing away the brushwood, enclosing the ground, digging the soil, planting the seed, watching with constancy its growth, and carefully gathering the cotton.
yet it must be voluntary, let it not be by compulsion.
to instruct them in useful arts, teach them reading and writing, and make known to them the only true god, and the way to happiness in a future state; urging the discontinuance of human sacrifices, and the abolition of infanticide.
a short time before sun-set, patii appeared, and ordered his attendants to apply fire to the pile.
the first places of worship erected by the natives, after the subversion of idolatry, were comparatively small in size, and differed but little from the common native houses, excepting in the manner in which the interior was fitted up.
the lower part of the mountain appears basaltic; the central strata are composed of a vesicular kind of volcanic rock, while the upper parts are a large kind ofbreccia.
the houses of the natives, however  large they might be, never contained more than one room; and were generally so  crowded with people, that retirement was altogether unattainable.
their chapel was also pulled down, lest the enemy should occupy it or burn it, and from it set fire to their own dwelling.
in order to ascertain the nature and extent of the desire which had been excited, and to confer with the individuals under its influence, messrs. scott and hayward, having been deputed by their companions to visit tahiti, sailed over from eimeo, on the 15th of june, 1813.
the soul enlarged, devout, sincere, with equal piety draws near the holy house of god, that rudely rears its rustic head, scarce higher than the indian's shed; by indians only trod.
the whole congregation now stood, and many of them joined in the singing.
this island the missionaries considered  only as a temporary residence, till they should be able to resume their labours  in tahiti, or establish a mission in the leeward islands, and therefore  recommended him to defer it.
a few copies of the spelling-book printed in england had been taken  to the island in 1811.
under these  circumstances we acted upon the principles by which our predecessors had  invariably regulated their endeavours to teach the inhabitants of tahiti and  eimeo; and respecting which, after careful observation, i believe we are  unanimous in our conviction that they are the true principles upon which any  attempts to instruct a rude untutored people can be prosecuted with a prospect  of the greatest ultimate success.
teu, his father, was a tahitian prince; his mother was a  native of raiatea; he was born in the district of pare; and at the time of his  death, which took place on the 3d of september, 1803, was between fifty and  sixty years of age.
a native, who was a worshipper of jehovah, was among the attending friends.
it has also long been a place of celebrity, not only in  raiatea, but throughout the whole of the society islands.
a native, who was a worshipper of jehovah, was  among the attending friends.
this universal observance of the sabbath-day appears to an englishman in  humiliating contrast with its profanation in many favoured sections of his own  country.
without officiously interfering with their individual or family affairs, he  should interest himself in their welfare, and strive to share and alleviate  their distress.
notwithstanding the inferior appearance of the cloth manufactured in eimeo, it was soon found to be more durable than that procured from the ships.
he soon threw off his european dress, and adopted the costume, uncivilized manners, and indolent life, of his countrymen.
on the other hand was  the illimitable sea, rolling in solemn majesty its swelling waves over the  rocks which defended the spot on which we stood.
what an astonishing and happy change must have taken place in the views,  feelings, and pursuits of the inhabitants of tahiti, in the course of a few  weeks, from the battle of narii, or bunaauïa!
portions of scripture history and biography were among the most engaging subjects of inquiry, especially those contained in the old testament.
he was immediately told that he would have done right, had he fetched the canoes to the shore on the sabbath.
clothing and iron tools appeared to be most earnestly sought; and, not-withstanding the measures of security which they adopted, their blacksmith's shop was robbed by a native, who dug two or three feet into the ground on the outside, and, burrowing his way under the wall or side of the house, came up through the earthen floor within, and stole several valuable articles.
the next morning we examined the  district, and were delighted with its fertility, extent, and resource.
on their arrival, they found two swedes,  peter hagersteine, and andrew cornelius lind; the former had been wrecked in  the matilda, and the latter had been left by captain new of the dædalus,  only a few years before the missionaries arrived.
in the month of october, the  missionaries received a note from the king, informing them of the probability  of war, recommending them to be upon their guard, and not to be deceived or  taken by surprise.
i shall not go  around tahiti before the month of march.
these were the only kind of  lamps we had for some years, and, though rude in appearance, they gave a good  light, when kept steady, and sheltered from the wind.
his implements of war, and especially the fire-arms, rendered his aid and co-operation a desideratum with the king of the island, who, in order more effectually to secure the advantage of his influence and arms, gave him one of his daughters in marriage, and honoured him with the name of paari, (wise or instructed,) by which name he is now always spoken of among the natives; several of whom still remember him.
they did not scruple to tell them that he was killing the people; but that by and by, when oro gained the ascendancy, they should feel the effects of his vengeance.
brainard remarks, that while he was preaching, the indians sometimes played with his dog: but the first teachers in tahiti were often disturbed by a number of natives bringing their dogs, and setting them to fight on the outside of the circle they were addressing; or they would bring their fighting-cocks, and set them at each other, so as completely 62 to divert the audience, who would at once turn with a vidity from the missionary, to the birds or the dogs.
here they dry and repair their nets while watching the approach  of the shoals, and find them remarkably advantageous in prosecuting the most  important of their fisheries.
the conditions on which they were instructed were  almost such as they or their friends chose to propose, both as to– 301  – the time they should continue, and the hours they should labour; and  instead of receiving a premium for teaching them, mr. armitage agreed to pay  them for every ounce of cotton they should spin.
i told them i had none ready that night, but that if they would come on the morrow, i would give them as many as they needed; recommending them, in the mean time, to go and lodge with some friend in the village.
it is satisfactory to know, that not a few have enjoyed a sense  of the pardoning mercy of god, and though some have been distressed in the  prospect of death, others have been happy in the cheering hope, not of a pagan  elysium, or a sensual sort of turkish paradise, but of a holy and peaceful rest  in the regions of blessedness.
when the number of scholars and worshippers of  the true god increased, so as to render accommodation difficult, one of the  ends had been taken down, a new piece of timber joined to the ridgepole, the  building lengthened about twelve or fifteen feet, and the end then closed up.
among those whose regards for the people were  awakened, the late excellent.
it was, however, a sacrifice  cheerfully offered on her part.
the evils necessarily resulting from these habits were too palpable to allow us to delay attempting an alteration.
upaparu, a principal chief in the eastern part of tahiti, came over to eimeo for the express purpose of seeking christian instruction, and attending the assemblies for public worship.
this event was truly cheering to their predecessors, as it conveyed the strongest evidence 239 of the desire, on the part of the society at home, to relieve them from every distressing anxiety as to their successors, and to afford every aid in the prosecution of their important and extending work.
otu, called pomare since his father's death, has often, during the latter years of his life, told mr. nott, that after the departure of the duff, frequently, when he has been carried on men's shoulders round the 29 residence of the missionaries, peter the swede, who has been with him, has said, when the missionaries were kneeling down in prayer, at their morning or evening family worship,
we had been acquainted with  mr. and mrs. orsmond before leaving england.
the betsy of london, a letter of marque, arrived with a spanish brig her  prize, – 39 – with which she was proceeding from south america to  port jackson.
pomare had not only sent  an atonement and a peace-offering, but, even before the missionaries sailed,  had made war upon the district, and had killed two of the men who had been  engaged in assaulting them.
when we were prepared to remove, the haweis came round, took our goods, and the articles belonging 248 to the printing-office, &c., on board, and proceeded to papetoai, where we shipped our cattle.
the sense, however, of personal danger, and immediate destruction, if  brought within the vortex of their influence, restrained in a great degree all  curious, and what, in other circumstances, would have been interesting  observation, on the wonderful phenomena around us, the mighty agitation of the  elements, and the terrific sublimity of these wonders of the deep.
the arrival  of the evening of the following day was awaited with an unusual agitation and  excitement of feeling.
this led them generally to contend that the  thoughts were in the body, and not in the brain; stating, in proof of the  accuracy of their opinion, that the bowels or stomach were affected or agitated  by desire, fear, joy, sorrow, surprise, and all strong affections or exercises  of the mind.
he then was threatened with all their weight of vengeance; and, still  remaining firm to his determination, he was banished from his father's house,  and forced to leave the neighbourhood.
several broad cascades  flowed in silvery streams down the sides of the mountain, and, broken  occasionally by a jutting rock, presented their sparkling waters in beautiful  contrast with the rich and dark foliage of the stately trees, and the flowering  shrubs that bordered their progress.
– 266 – at sunrise we held a prayer-meeting in the english  language.
while gazing on the motley group that surrounded our boat,  or thronged the adjacent shore, and exchanging our salutations with those  nearest us, before we were aware of their design, upwards of twenty stout men  actually lifted our boat out of the water, and raised it on their shoulders,  carrying us, thus elevated in the air, amid the shouts of the bearers, and the  acclamations of the multitude on the shore, first to the beach, and then to the  large court-yard in front of the king's house, where, after experiencing no  small apprehension from this unusual mode of conveyance, we were set down safe  and dry upon the pavement.
in the month of december, 1818, when the haweis sailed from huahine, on her first voyage to new south wales, mr. and mrs. orsmond left us, as we mutually supposed, on a visit of a few months to the island of raiatea, for the purpose of receiving mr. threlkeld's attentions at a season of domestic anxiety.
this being done, he must again repair to the woods for long branches of hibiscus for rafters, with which he framed the roof.
its assumption by his father was, as  many names are among the tahitians, perfectly accidental.
iii from page 49 to page 86.
we have had our  prayer-meeting the beginning of this month, february; it was at homai-au-vahi;  the raatiras, and all the people of the district assembled, leaving their  houses without people.
by the queen, or her sister, the king sent over a new  book to aimata, his infant daughter, which being considered as an indication of  his purpose that she should be trained up in the new religion, was a source of  great encouragement to the converts, and of corresponding dissatisfaction to  the idolaters, who already began to meditate on the means of effecting the  destruction of the christians.
this was peculiarly desirable in reference to  the rising generation, who were to be the future population, and who would  arrive at years of maturity under circumstances and principles as opposite as  light and darkness to those under which their parents had– 339 – been  reared.
the house was finished  early in 1819, became our residence shortly afterwards, and continued so until  we embarked for the sandwich islands.
regardless of other things, i am concerned only that my soul may be saved by jesus christ!
ten days after, they heard that the inhabitants of atehuru  had invaded the district of faa, murdered those who had not escaped by flight,  burnt the houses, and continued their murderous and desolating course into the  district of pare, which joins matavai on the south.
this  was the first building ever erected on the south sea islands, for the worship  of the living god.
notwithstanding the total absence of every thing resembling accommodation in our lodging, where we spread our bed upon the ground, we should probably have enjoyed a night of refreshing sleep, but for the mosquitoes.
they then proceeded within the reefs along the channel between the islands, to the harbour.
one saturday night she presented herself with our native domestics, and begged to be paid her wages for learning 390 to sew!
their countenances  were open and lively; many had a small bunch of the fragrant and delicately  white gradenia, orcape jessamine flowers, in their hair; in addition to  which, several of their chief women wore two or three fine native pearls  fastened together with finely braided human hair, and hanging pendent from one  of their ears, while the other was adorned with a native flower.
afareaitu is on the eastern side of eimeo, opposite the district of atehuru in  tahiti, and is certainly one of the finest districts in the island.
counter-ceremonies were performed; prayers, calledfaatere, were offered,  to drive the evil spirits from him, and these, it was imagined, would all be  unavailing, should the europeans direct his mind to any other source, or offer  on his behalf prayers to any other god, and hence in part might have proceeded  the aversion of his friends to the presence and efforts of the missionaries.
the extension of the redeemer's kingdom had been the topic of discourses in the native congregation on the preceding sabbath, and had in some degree prepared the minds of the people for entering more fully into the subject.
the captain, therefore, took in none of the sails, but called all hands on  deck, ordered them to stand by the halyards, or ropes by which the sails are  pulled up, so that, if necessary, they might let them go in an instant, and  thus lower down the sails.
a man once came and said, that while he  was attending public worship, a pig broke into his garden; that on his return,  he saw him devouring the sweet potatoes, sugar-cane, taro, and other  productions, in which pine-apples were probably included, but that he did not  drive it out, because he was convinced it would immediately return, unless he  repaired the broken fence, and that he supposed was a kind of labour prohibited  on the sabbath.
under these circumstances it was, that the christians, when not actually engaged with their enemies, often kneeled down on the grass, either singly or two or three together, and offered up an ejaculatory prayer to godthat he would cover their heads in the day of battle, and, if agreeable to his will, preserve them, but especially prepare them for the results of the day, whether victory or defeat, life or death.
having a loaded musket in the boat, they at first thought of firing at the advancing column; but as it approached, the agitation of the water was so great, and the phenomenon so appalling, that their hearts failed; and when it was, according to their own account, within a hundred yards of their boat, and advancing directly upon them, they laid the musket down.
the use of the press in the different islands, we naturally regard as one of the most powerful human agencies that can be employed in forming the mental and moral character of the inhabitants, imparting to their pursuits a salutary direction, and promoting knowledge, virtue, and happiness.
in the course of my first week on shore, i made several excursions in different parts of the district.
they are principally, if not entirely, the skulls of those who have been slain in battle.
on this account, much as they suffered by its destruction, they deemed it inexpedient to complain to the king.
to maintain the christian faith, and enjoy a continuance of their present peace and comfort, they foresaw would be impossible.
in person he was tall and thin, easy and engaging in his manners, and polite in his address; but in symmetry of form, expression of countenance, general outline of feature, and shade of complexion, inferior to the majority of his countrymen.
the governors of the colony of new south wales have uniformly manifested the most friendly concern for the safety of the missionaries, and the success of the several missions in the south seas.
in 1801, when the royal admiral 9 arrived, pomare was asked, when the missionaries were introduced to him, if they were still to consider the district as theirs; and though he replied in the affirmative, and even asked if they wished the inhabitants to remove, it afterwards appeared that the natives considered them only as tenants at will.
this was evident, from a speech once made by haamanemane, who said that they gave the people plenty of the parau (word) talk and prayer, but very few knives, axes, scissors, or cloth.
his conduct, from this period, has been uniformly moral and upright, his mind humble, his disposition affectionate and mild, and his habits of life reformed and industrious.
the canoe at length reached the shore; we  seated ourselves in its stern, and, advancing pleasantly along for seven or  eight miles, reached our habitation about midnight.
this was not done with a view of deriving any profit from the sale of  the books, but merely to teach the people their value; as no higher price was  required than what it was supposed would cover the expense of paper and  printing materials,—and
intoxication, infant murder, and some of  the more degrading vices, fostered under the sanction of their superstition,  were also discontinued.
the king had been unable to withstand the temptation with which he  had been assailed at tahiti, to use ardent spirits; and although not addicted  to entire intoxication, yet it induced the missionaries to fear that he, like  agrippa, was but almost a christian.
the soil, in all the level part of the valley, was a rich vegetable mould, with a small portion of alluvial, washed down from the surrounding hills, which are generally covered with a stiff kind of loam or brownish-red ochre.
the plans of procedure, in the commencement  of a new mission, must necessarily be regulated in a great degree by the  circumstances of the people among whom it may be established; and the extreme  poverty, or fugitive habits, of the parents, may render it desirable for the  teachers either wholly or in part to maintain the scholars, in order to secure  attendance.
they had established among themselves a meeting for prayer,  which they held on the sabbath, and often assembled at other times for social  worship.
this is not only manifested with regard to their sabbath-day services, but  their lecture on wednesday evening, and their monthly missionary  prayer-meetings.
we therefore availed ourselves of the return  of mr. orsmond's boat, to visit the station.
this feeling, on their parts, also, has been  at times– 430 – almost overpowering, and has either suspended our  conversation, or induced an abrupt transition to some other topic.
borabora—general reception of christianity in the society  islands—abolition of the areoi society—arrival of mr.  crook—pomare's family idols sent to england—translation of the king's  letter—conduct of the missionaries—accounts of their labours and  success—inquiries suggested by the change—remarks on the time,  circumstances, means, and agents, connected with the establishment of  christianity—the missionaries not unitarians.
in the afternoon of the 4th of february we sailed from tubuai; but, in  consequence of unfavourable winds, did not reach tahiti till the 10th.
at hitoti's dwelling, which i visited on the second sabbath after my  arrival, the household were about to kneel down for prayer when we entered; we  joined them, and several of the petitions which the chief offered up to god,  appeared, when interpreted by my companion, remarkably appropriate and  expressive.
the  females were able to spin strong and regular thread, or yarn; one or two of the  boys had been taught to make, all things considered, very good cloth.
the missionaries frequently visited him after his arrival in pare, and, as far as their scanty means would allow, administered cordials suited to his languid state.
soon after sunrise the next morning, our vessel was surrounded with canoes, and provisions in abundance were offered for barter.
pomare was  not hasty in forming his decision on any matter of importance, and by no means  precipitate in his measures; but on this occasion he appears to have been  altogether uninfluenced by that temperate deliberation, and judicious policy,  which he generally manifested in matters tending to improve the condition of  the people, and increase the national resources.
often they would ask, how can we attain true repentance, and a change of heart?
by this means they gained the confidence and love of many of their pupils, and were resorted to for guidance and counsel in every engagement of importance or difficulty.
“they knew no higher, sought no happier state, had no fine  instinct of superior joys.
another source of perplexity resulted from the injudicious methods of the  native teachers, who at first, in their zeal to encourage their scholars,  repeated to them every word in the columns of spelling, and lessons, so  frequently, that many of their pupils could repeat from memory, perhaps, the  whole of the book, without being able to read a single line.
some were well defined, extending in an unbroken line  from the sea to the sky, like pillars resting on the ocean as their basis, and  supporting the clouds; others assuming the shape of a funnel or inverted cone,  attached to the clouds, and extending towards the waters beneath.
when the gospel by john, and the acts of  the apostles, were finished, and mr. nott left huahine, in july 1819, he  removed to raiatea, his native island, where he has since been not only a  useful member of society, and an ornament to the religion he professes, but an  officer in the christian church in raiatea.
they have  not such sweet melodious voices as the natives of africa have, yet learn to  sing, considering their circumstances, remarkably well.
while the missionaries admired the  means by which god had thus shewn them that the work was his, and not theirs,  and thus deprived them of attributing any thing to their own influence, they  rejoiced in the opportunity now afforded of proclaiming the glad tidings of  mercy from the most high.
after walking between two and three hours, they reached the residence of otu, the young king.
they attended public worship in the forenoon;  and when they saw the congregation stand up, and heard them sing the praises of  jehovah in their native tongue, they were for some time mute with astonishment,  and some of them so deeply affected, as to be unable to refrain from tears.
when the materials were prepared, the man and boys of the district assembled in a kind of temporary house, erected over the still, in order to drink theava, as they called the spirit.
our prayers were offered to him who is a present help in every time of dangerfor ourselvesand those who sailed with us; and under these, or similar exercises, several hours passed away.
there were no haberdashers' shops at hand, whence a supply could be procured; recourse was therefore had to native productions.
– 54 – on the day of the engagement, captain bishop, with a strong party, occupied  the pass on the top of one-tree hill, arrested the progress of the victors, and  favoured the retreat of the vanquished, whose courage appeared to have forsaken  them, under the conviction that the god oro, fighting with their enemies,  rendered them invincible.
in the morning we arose somewhat refreshed; and, in the course of the day, landed our goods from the vessel.
not satisfied with this, that rage and malignant hatred of christianity, which is gendered by ignorance and idolatry, and cherished by satanic infatuation, pursued him still.
a captain of a ship, at anchor in one of the harbours, was once inquiring of a native something about his wife, who was sitting by.
when they approached a village or district, the inhabitants came out of their doors, and, greeting them, shouted manava, manava, long before they reached the place.
the district of fa-re, bordering the harbour of the same name, is about a mile and a half, or two miles, in length, and reaches from the shore to the centre of the island.
such was the interesting state of pomare's mind, at the  close of the year 1812, and the commencement of 1813.
the departure of the duff did not occasion any diminution in the attention of  the natives to the missionaries in tahiti.
at three o'clock we  walked to the grove, and on entering it beheld one of the most imposing and  delightful spectacles i think i ever witnessed in the islands.
as a priest, he  practised every species of extortion and cruelty; neither was he less familiar  with intrigue, nor free from ambition, as a politician.
the wind died away, and a perfect  calm succeeded.
even the changes which the body naturally  undergoes in its present mortal state, militate against the supposition, that  every atom once vitally united to the common mass will be included in the body  that shall be hereafter, and direct us to admit that the resurrection must be  consistent with innumerable mutations.
in order to convince them of the propriety of this, they were told we should only distribute copies of the scriptures to those who could read any part on looking at it.
what the state of morals must necessarily have been among such a community, it  is unnecessary to shew; yet such were the modes of life that prevailed among  many, even after they had renounced idolatry.
the matter of the lessons, they also thought was the great thing to be remembered; and this, together with a desire to facilitate the advancement of those under their care, led them to adopt the method of teaching the scholars to repeat lessons without due attention to the words of the book.
long orations were pronounced by both parties before the guests stepped on the  soil: as soon as they were landed, a kind of circle was formed by the people;  the king or chiefs on the one side, and the strangers on the other; the latter  brought theirmarotai, or offering, to the king and the gods, and  accompanied its presentation with an address, expressive of the friendship  existing between them: the priest, or orators of the king, then brought the  presents, ormanufaiti, bird of recognition.
the language was altogether oral; consequently, neither alphabet, spelling-book, grammar, nor dictionary existed, and its acquisition was a most laborious and tedious undertaking.
let all these islands, tahiti with all the people of moorea, and of huahine, and of raiatea, and of the little islands around, partake of thy salvation.
the ornament on the rafter terminated in a graceful fringe or bunch of tassels.
their dress thus indicated,  equally with their half-native and half-foreign dwellings, the peculiar  plastic, forming state of the nation, and the advancement of that process which  was then constantly imparting to it some fresh impression, and developing new  traits of character with rapid and delightful progression.
these comforts they prize exceedingly; and such is the desire for them, that a great many cottages, after the same plan, are rising up every where in the village.
the situations selected were either parts of their own ground, or such places as accorded with their taste and habits.
the refugees in eimeo invited to return to tahitivoyage of the king and his adherentsopposition to their landingpublic worship on the sabbath disturbed by the idolatrous armycourage of the kingcircumstances of the battle of bunaauïuadeath of the idolatrous chieftainvictory of the christiansclemency of the king and chiefsdestruction of the image, temple, and altars of orototal subversion of paganismgeneral reception of christianityconsequent alteration in the circumstances of the peoplepomare's prayertidings of the victory conveyed to eimeovisits to tahiti.
here it was printed, and afterwards transmitted to the islands, for the use of the schools.
the delay in the arrival of some of these,  afforded the only hope of deliverance.
the majority of those whom i have heard speak of him, generally mentioned his name with execration rather than respect; and though some of the 370 chiefs consider him as a man who had seen much of the world, and who possessed, according to their ideas, an amazing mass of information, his memory is certainly very lightly esteemed by his countrymen.
we did not, however, feel the air too cool; and our lodging was  quite as good as that in which the missionaries to the sandwich islands passed  their first night in honoruru; and much better than mr. marsden, and his  companion, procured in new zealand.
one of the most  curious and interesting topics of conversation, frequently introduced by the  more thinking or inquisitive among them, was, the seat of the affections, and  the locality of intellect.
we sometimes advised them to build their houses and form their public roads in straight lines, and to leave equal distances between the roads and the houses, and also between each dwelling.
a house had been prepared, by the king, for  the expected missionaries; but, as it was damp, and our residence at papetoai  was not likely to be permanent, we took up our abode in a dwelling already  occupied in part by mr. crook and his family.
our first effort was to prepare some refreshment.
the  nautilus had touched at the sandwich islands, and had brought away some of the  natives: while the vessel remained, five of these absconded; one was brought  back, but escaped again.
a swivel mounted in the stern of another canoe, which was commanded by an englishman, called joe by the natives, and who came up from raiatea, did considerable execution during the engagement.
do they ever repent?
excepting its lengthened vista, and the singular appearance of the ornamented roof, there is nothing very prepossessing in the interior of the 382 royal mission chapel; and its length is so very disproportioned to its width and elevation, that the exterior is neither elegant nor imposing; and although it breaks the uniformity and loneliness of the landscape, it can hardly be said that its introduction has been an improvement.
as he sat gasping on the sand, his friends gathered round, and  endeavoured to stop the bleeding of the wound, and afford every assistance his  circumstances appeared to require.
on account of their food being dressed for the  sabbath on the saturday, that day is calledmahana maa, food-day.
the missionaries paid a visit to the king, soon after his return; and, as he had become remarkably fond of using his pen, he intimated his wish that they should build him a small plastered house, near their own, in which he could attend to his writing without the interruptions he experienced in his own dwelling.
a retrospect of life, now perhaps about to close, presented all the scenes through which i had passed, in rapid succession and in varied colours, each 308 exhibiting the lights and shades by which it has been distinguished.
soon after this event, the pagan chiefs of tahiti sent messengers to the refugees in eimeo, inviting them to return, and re-occupy the lands they had deserted.
after recovering from the struggle, they were in a most pitiable state, deprived of their clothing, and some of them severely bruised.
if, in addition to those already in existence, there was also an institution for the promotion of agriculture, mechanic arts, social order, and the general civilization of rude and barbarous tribes, such a society would exert a beneficial and powerful influence, and furnish an important agency, in conjunction with those now engaged.
two native female attendants alternately carried the child, while mrs. ellis and i walked on the shore, occasionally climbing over the rocks, or sinking up to our ankles in fragments of coral and sand.
in the mean time, two natives were instructed to perform the most laborious parts; and, before the books were finished, they were able, under proper superintendence, to relieve us from the mechanical labour of press-work,a department in which, they with others have been ever since employed; receiving regular payment for the same.
the inhabitants of  matavai left their places of retreat, and, having presented their  peace-offering, re-occupied their lands.
formerly they were accustomed to sleep, but we believe this practice is by many discontinued.
towards the middle of the year 1804, the king went over to eimeo, talking with him the great idol oro, to propitiate whom, so many of the inhabitants had been sacrificed.
the struggle and the gasp, as the wearied arm should attempt to resist the  impetuous waves, the straining vision that should linger on the last ray of  retiring light, as the deepening veil of water would gradually conceal it for  ever, and the rolling billows heaving over the sinking and dying body, which,  perhaps ere life should be extinct, might become the prey of voracious  inhabitants of the deep, caused scarcely a thought, compared with the  appearance of the disembodied spirit in the appearance of its maker, the  account to be rendered, and the awful and unalterable density that would await  it there.
when a chieftain from another island, or from any distant part, arrived, he seldom proceeded at once to the shore, but usually landed, in the first instance, on some of the small 336 islands near.
on such occasions, the truth of  the doctrine of the resurrection was exhibited, as demonstrated by the  resurrection of lazarus and of christ; the identity of our lord's body, by his  subsequent intercourse with the disciples, especially with thomas; and the  certainty of the general resurrection presented, as deduced from the numerous  and explicit declarations of scripture, and the reasoning of the inspired  writers.
their  astonishment was probably greater than would be experienced by an english  peasant from a retired village, on beholding, for the first time, a spacious  public building splendidly lighted up with gas.
no small portion of our time was occupied in directing and encouraging them in their labours.
the crackling fire or the light column of smoke might be seen rising through the district, and the natives busily engaged in cooking their victuals for the sabbath.
it was in vain that we endeavoured to shew the reasonableness of this opinion, by pointing out and explaining the connexion between the nerves pervading the several organs of sense, and the brainthe cessation and interruption of mental sensation and exercise, when the nerves of the brain were permanently injuredor when the line of nerves extending from an organ to the brain was broken.
circumstances, unforeseen and uncontrollable by their enemies, had  prevented the different parties from arriving punctually at their respective  points of rendezvous; otherwise, even now escape would have been impracticable,  and destruction inevitable, as the porionu, inhabitants of pare, matavai, and
various were the expedients resorted to for supplying the deficiency  thus occasioned, and i have often been amused at beholding the singular  substitutes employed.
were the resources of those societies formed for the universal diffusion of education, and the means of the british and foreign bible society such as to enable them to undertake entirely the instruction of the heathen, and the translation and circulation of the scriptures, it would greatly facilitate the extension of christianity.
the declarations of scripture on this momentous point, always appeared satisfactory; and although the circumstances of the resurrection, and the manner by which parts of the same body would be united, &c. were inquiries pursued with deepest interest, we generally found them terminate in expressions of desire that they might be prepared, rise with glorified bodies, and come forth from their graves to the resurrection of life.
when we arrived, we found, not only  that the reports we had heard were correct, but that the change had  progressively advanced, becoming daily more extensive in its influence and  decisive in its character, and that the whole of the inhabitants were no longer  idolaters, but either professors of christianity, or desirous to receive  religious instruction.
that they taught what those whom he  addressed considered as the essential principles of unitarianism—then the  assertion appears entirely gratuitous.
after passing the reef of coral which forms the harbour, astonishment and delight kept us silent for some moments, and was succeeded by a burst of unqualified approbation at the scene before us.
he was a man of decision and daring enterprise; and though, on the occasion in tahiti above referred to, he may have acted with a degree of zeal somewhat imprudent, it was a zeal resulting, not from ignorant rashness, but enlightened principle, and holy indignation against the boasting threatening and lying vanities of the priests of idolatry; to whose arts of deception he had formerly been no stranger.
renewed endeavours to promote industry among the people—arrival of  messrs. blossom and armitage—establishment of cotton factory—first  cloth made in eimeo—prospects of success—death of mrs.  orsmond—voyage to raiatea—sudden approach of a storm—conduct of  the natives—appearance of waterspouts—emotions awakened by the  surrounding phenomena—effects of waterspouts on the minds of the  natives—conduct of a party overtaken by one at sea—deliverance during  a voyage from the sandwich islands—abatement of the storm—arrival at  raiatea—kindness of the inhabitants—district of opoa—visit to  the settlement—importance of education—methods of  instruction—sabbath schools—annual examination of the  scholars—public procession—contrast between the present and former  circumstances of the children.
a jealousy appeared to exist between him and pomare, the father of otu, who was king of the island; and during the absence of the former, on a visit to a neighbouring island, availing himself of the offence pomare's orator and people had given to otu, he formed a league with the young king, to deprive pomare of all authority in tahiti.
the front was boarded with materials brought from port jackson.
the king had not been long on board, when the queen arrived, and was ushered into the cabin.
we delivered the few presents we had brought for them, regretting that we could not enter into conversation.
notwithstanding this, the assailants were, in their first onset, repulsed; but, renewing their attack in the night, although; pomare's party had forty muskets, and those in the hands of the rebels were not more than fourteen, they threw the king's forces into confusion, killed a chief of influence, a near relative of pomare's, and, driving his warriors to their canoes, retook the object of their murderous contention, the image of oro, and remained masters of the whole of tairabu, as well as of the south and western side of the large peninsula.
god so loved the  world as to give his son to die, that man might not die!
he spared no efforts, favourably to impress them in regard  to christianity; but to no purpose for a long time.
in confirmation of this, it is unnecessary to do more than refer to the work itself.
in this sacred act they were joined by numbers, who  heretofore had worshipped only the idols of their country, but who now desired  to acknowledge jehovah as god alone.
their conversation deepened their impressions; they frequently met afterwards for this purpose, and often retired to the privacy of the sequestered valleys or verdant shrubberies adjacent to their dwellings, for conversion and prayer.
there are two open bays on the east side of the island, opoa and utumaoro.
the luxuriant  convolvulus, presenting its broad and shining leaves in striking contrast with  the white coral and sand, spread its vines across the beach, even to the margin  of the water, over which the slender shrub or the flowering tree often extended  their verdant branches, while the groves of stately breadfruit, and the clumps  ofumbrageous callophyllum, or tamanu trees, and the tall and  graceful waving cocoa-nuts, shaded the different parts of the shore.
they then proceeded within the  reefs along the channel between the islands, to the harbour.
may jehovah also pardon my foolishness,  unbelief, and rejection of the truth!
on the day  following, however, the trade was as brisk as it had been on that of their  arrival.
the natives where, however,  determined to remove even this vestige of the system of which they so long had  been the vassals, and therefore levelled, for this occasion, the extensive  pile, and with the materials formed a spacious solid platform, measuring three  feet high, one hundred and ninety-four feet long, and one hundred and  fifty-seven feet wide; the whole surrounded with a stone wall cemented with  lime.
on entering the dwellings on the saturday evening, every thing would appear remarkably neat, orderly, and cleantheir food in basketstheir calabashes filled with fresh watertheir fruit gatheredand broad hibiscus leaves plucked and carefully piled up for usetheir clean garments were also laid out ready for the next day.
bligh, whom the natives expected to return.
and if angels, who have none of those sympathies which the  redeemed must feel, experience an addition to their joy, in every sinner that  by penitence returns to god, it seems an inference not unwarranted by  revelation, that the spirits of departed believers may have a knowledge of  events and moral changes, which transpire in our world, especially with those  relating to the progress of the messiah's reign among mankind.
she was habited in a light loose and flowing dress of beautifully  white native cloth, tastefully fastened on the left shoulder, and reaching to  the ankle: her hair was rather lighter than that of the natives in general; and  on her head she wore a light and elegant native bonnet, of green and yellow  cocoa-nut leaves; each ear was perforated, and in the perforation two or three  flowers of the fragrantcape jessamine were inserted.
we still continued to distribute elementary books  gratuitously.
god so loved the world as to give his son to die, that man might not die!
the inhabitants of the dwelling  which we entered soon rose from their beds, kindled a large fire in the centre  of the floor, cooked us some provisions, and furnished us with warm and clean  native cloth, to wear while our own clothes were dried.
as we had no shelter for our lamp, we found it difficult to keep it burning, and at an early hour retired to rest, tying our screen down with strips of bark, to prevent its being blown aside by the wind.
the chiefs' tent was  pitched in an exposed situation; a heavy dew fell among the mountains; he took  cold, and the next morning was affected with a cough; this led some of his  companions to designate the preceding night by the appellation ofpo-mare , night of cough, frompo, night, and mare, cough.
at first the king and chiefs, under the recollection of the reported design and tendency of the sugar manufactory, expressed their wishes that the establishment should be formed near their principal residence, that all proceedings connected with it might be under their inspection.
this view of the enterprise  led pomare to decline rendering that assistance which was expected, and the  want to which retarded the progress of the work.
mr. nott  delivered a short, animated, and suitable discourse, from the eunuch's answer  to philip, acts viii.
extending his  arms forward, raveae passed the muzzle of his musket under his own arm,  suddenly turned his body on one side, and, pulling the trigger of his piece at  the same instant, shot his antagonist through the body, who immediately lost  hold of his prey, and fell dying to the ground.
every man had, in the first place, to go  to the woods or the mountains, and cut down trees for timber, shape them into  posts, &c. and remove them to the spot where his house was to be built,  then to erect the frame, with the doorway and windows.
towards the close of the year 1802, mr. jefferson 61 and mr. scott made the tour of tahiti, for the purpose of preaching to the people.
the morning  on which we sailed was fine; the sea gently rippled with the freshening breeze,  which was fair and steady, without being violent.
tuahine's mind, on the subject of the christian religion, was at this period in a state resembling that of oito's.
to us this was a most welcome sound, indicating our approach to the land.
the prayer is excellent, and the translation, which i also received from mr. nott, will require from the christian reader no apology for its insertion, as a specimen of the style and sentiments employed by the natives of tahiti in their devotional services.
the dissatisfaction of the farmers, inferior chiefs, and lower orders of the people, with pomare's conduct, was daily increasing, and his recent massacre of the atehuruans had greatly strengthened their determination to destroy his authority, and revive the ancient aristocratical form of government.
several children and young persons, who have  died, have left behind them the most consoling and satisfactory evidence, that  they had departed to be with christ; and others have been at an early age  admitted members of the christian church.
a constant attendant on these meetings at afareaitu had, while we resided there, one side of his face torn off, and eaten by one.
the idolatrous army continued to fight with obstinate fury, but were unable to advance, or make any impression on mahine and pomarevahine's 151 forces.
on account of their food being dressed for the sabbath on the saturday, that day is calledmahana maa, food-day.
this unprovoked act of cruelty, on  the part of pomare, heightened to such a degree the rage of the rebels, that  they vowed the entire destruction of the reigning family.
although the measures adopted by  the directors of the missionary society, for encouraging industry among the  south sea islanders, and furnishing them with a source of productive labour in  the manufacture of sugar, had not accomplished all that was designed, and mr.  gyles had returned to england before the expiration of the period for which he  had been engaged, the directors still considered that it was their duty to  endeavour to promote the temporal prosperity of the people—that the  introduction of useful mechanic arts, and other means of advancing their  civilization, though– 294 – objects of only secondary importance,  were not to be overlooked.
a native palm-leaf mat  covered the earthen floor,—a rustic seat, a table standing by a little  open window, with a portion of the scripture, and a hymn-book in the native  language, constituted its only furniture.
it was circumstance highly advantageous to the missionaries,  that the tahitians were remarkably loquacious, often spending hours in  conversation, however trivial its topics, patiently listening – 17 –  to inquiries, and anxious to make themselves intelligible.
uncivilized communities are often  most shrewd observers of the conduct of those who enter their society, and pay  far more regard to the actions and dispositions, than the mere declarations, of  strangers.
the inhabitants of the  islands knew that many of the supplies which the families from time to time  received, were sent by their friends in england, and procured by the voluntary  contributions of those there, who had first sent, and subsequently maintained,  the mission; and it was thought that it would be better that their  contributions towards the support of christianity, should be combined with  those of the contributors to the missionary society; that the supplies for the  teachers might still be drawn from this source, while at the same time the  natives would be contributing towards the support of their own instructors, and  yet identifying themselves with british christians in their efforts to  propagate christianity throughout the world.
the  school contained four or five hundred children.
the change which had taken place in tahiti and eimeo, in  consequence of the abolition of idol worship, had been exceedingly gratifying,  as it regarded the general conduct of the people, their professed belief in the  truth of revelation, and their desire to regulate their lives by its  injunctions; but the visible change which resulted from the establishment of  the missions in huahine and raiatea, was more striking, and did not fail to  attract the notice, and command the approbation, of the most superficial  observer.
v first record of the names of the professors of  christianity—taaroarii's rejection of idolatrous  ceremonies—determination of patii, the priest of papetoai—idols  publicly burnt at uaeva, in eimeo—increase of the scholars—contempt  and persecution on account of the profession of christianity—baneful  influence of idolatry on social intercourse—humiliating circumstances to  which its institutes reduced the female sex—happy change in domestic  society, attending the introduction of christianity—persecution of the  christians—worshippers of the true god sought as victims for sacrifice to  the pagan idols—notice of aberahama—martyrdom in tahiti.
hammers, saws, and adzes, were heard in  every direction.
the missionaries sought an early opportunity to unfold to the rulers of the nation the objects of their mission, and, after several disappointments, held a public interview with pomare, otu, and other principal chiefs, in which they stated, as distinctly as possible, through the medium of peter hagerstien, as interpreter, their design in coming to reside amongst them;viz.
they had the delightful satisfaction of hearing some of the new converts engage in prayer, and were surprised and gratified, in a high degree, with their fluency and fervour, as well as the appropriateness of their language, when officiating in this sacred duty.
by some of the natives, this journey has been regarded as a measure of policy adopted by the king, to prevent the chiefs of the eastern part of eimeo joining his enemies in tahiti, and to attach them to his own interest.
a few cocoa-nuts which i had planted near the printing-office  appeared to thrive, as they were protected by a light fence round each of the  trees.
sometimes they would ask, whether engaging in conversation, and praying, with very wicked persons, such as had been murderers, &c. would not appear in some degree sanctioning or extenuating their crimes?
building houses, and avocations  of a similar kind, were regarded as secondary objects; our main efforts were  directed to the acquisition of the language.
this intelligence was like life from the dead to the missionaries; they thanked god, and took courage; but, before commencing their journey round tahiti, they wrote to their brethren in eimeo an account of what they had seen and heard: declaring all that they had heard was true, that god had also granted to the gentiles repentance unto life, that some had cast away their idols, and were stretching out their hands in prayer to god, &c.
it is bounded on the south by a range of mountains separating it from the district of haapape, and on the north by the small district of buaoa, whence a long, bleak point of land, called the faaao, extending a considerable distance into the sea, and covered with tall cocoanut 249 trees, adds much to the beauty of the shore, and the security of the harbour.
how may we know that we  are not deceiving ourselves?
the conduct of the victors, on the memorable  12th of november, had an astonishing effect on the minds of the vanquished, who  had sought shelter in the mountains.
from the time of my arrival in the islands, i had always a great desire to know whether any change had been made by the early preachers in their discourses, and other means employed at this period: but i have not been able to learn that there was any thing extraordinary; they do not appear in any respect to have varied the manner, or the matter, of their instructions.
by other hopes, and richer fruits, than yours.”
to have kindled a fire, or to  have failed in the observance of any rite enjoined, or restriction imposed,  during their tabu, or sacred seasons, would have been sufficient, not only to  have neutralized all the advantages expected from the most costly offerings or  tedious services, but would have exposed the offenders to the anger of the god,  and perhaps to death, as its consequence.
the invaders torch reduced the native hut to ashes, while the lurid flame seared the green foliage of the trees, and clouds of smoke, rising up among their groves, darkened for a time surrounding objects.
he frequently observed, that the heaviest labour and the most spacious and enduring buildings ever erected, were in connexion with the worship of their former deities, illustrating his remarks by allusion to the nationalmaraes at atehuru, tautira, and other parts; declaring, at the same time, his conviction that the religion of the bible was so much superior to that under which they formerly lived, and the service of the true god so happy and beneficial in its influence, that they ought to erect a much better place for the homage of jehovah than had ever been reared for the worship of their idols.
since the interment, (they added,) they had been thinking about the resurrection, and wished to know how the body would then appear, whether, if left in that manner, it would not rise deformed, and whether they had not better disinter the corpse, and deposit it in a straight or horizontal position.
fifty had now given in their names, as having renounced  idolatry, desiring to acknowledge jehovah alone as god, and to be instructed in  the obedience his word required.
the principal object attempted in the establishment of a station at afareaitu having been accomplished, we left our houses and gardens, and took a most affectionate leave of our friends, who evinced great regret at our departure.
in that one year they reaped the harvest of sixteen laborious  seed-times, sixteen dreary and anxious winters, and sixteen unproductive  summers.
they are substantially  built, and though destitute of any thing very elegant in shape or execution,  answer exceedingly well the purpose for which they were erected.
her voice, however, was by no  means soft, and her manners were less engaging than those of several of her
naturally quick  in his perceptions, and lively in his conversation, although the structure and  idiom of his own language effectually prevented his speaking english with ease  or fluency, he was soon able to make himself understood; and the embarrassment  he occasionally felt, in giving utterance to his thoughts, perhaps added to the  interest of those who were watching the effect which every object in a world so  new to him must naturally occasion.
the circumstances which follow relative to  the penitence of this unhappy man, are taken from the ‘circular  letters’ published by the baptist missionary society.
where, said they, can the king and the bure atua have imbibed these new principles of humanity and forbearance?
this the king declined, and again insisted that oro should be given up.
that principal idol, that has the red fathers of the otuu, is temeharo, that is his name, look you; you may know it by the red feathers; that was vairaatoa's own god, and those feathers were from the ship of lieutenant watts;42 it was vairaatoa that set them himself about the idol.
the mountains of the interior sheltered the bay  from the strong eastern and southerly winds; and the wide opening in the reef,  opposite the mouth of the valley forming the head of the bay, favoured the  departure of vessels with the ordinary winds.
with this material we had made the floors of our own temporary dwellings, in which we had erected slight partitions of poles, covered with thick native cloth, to separate the different apartments from each other.
often it has been most cheering to see them thus employed; exhibiting all the native simplicity of childhood, mingled with the indications of no careless exercise of mind on the important matters of religion.
my intimate acquaintance with all that had been printed, afforded me great facility in prosecuting the study of tahitian.
at first he thought of taking a smaller canoe, fetching back the  larger ones, and fixing them in a place of security; but while he was  deliberating, it occurred to his recollection that it was the sabbath, and that  the scriptures prohibited any work.
to him, the missionaries had frequent opportunities of speaking, though apparently with but little good effect, against many of the sanguinary features of their idolatry, especially the offering of human sacrifices, in which they knew he had been more than once engaged since their arrival.
our  kitchen was the open yard behind the dwelling; and its only fixtures were a  couple of a large stones placed in the ground, parallel to each other, and  about six inches apart.
this article is common to all the south sea islanders, and resembles  in every respect, excepting the material of which it is fabricated, the poncho  worn by the aborigines of south america, inhabiting the countries adjacent to  the pacific.
instead of a single mat, three or  four, or even ten, were sometimes spread one upon the other, to give elevation  and softness; and this, with the finer texture of the mats, was the only  difference between the bed of the chief, and that on which the meanest of his  dependents slept.
the meeting at raiatea in the year 1824 was deeply affecting.
a number of the servants of the priests and chiefs approached the  young man, and told him that the king had arrived, and, wishing to see him, had  sent them to invite him down.
axes, hatchets, planes, chisels,  gimlets, and saws, were, next to their books, the articles in greatest demand  and highest esteem.
those they furnished were various, and such perhaps as few english females would have thought of.
but, he added, though he did not work on the sabbath, his mind was troubled on account of the loss he had sustained, and that he thought was wrong.
notwithstanding all the care that had been exercised in selecting the printing materials and the accompanying apparatus, many things were either deficient or spoiled; here we could procure no proper supply, and the edition was not completed until the beginning of 1818.
they could not conceive,  notwithstanding the frequent explanations given, why the missionaries should be  so desirous for their learning to read, &c. if they were not, in some way  or other, benefited thereby: hence, many of the early scholars expected to be  paid for learning, and i believe some for appearing at the chapel.
we now directed them to  the improvement of their dwellings, which, generally speaking, were temporary  sheds, or wide unpartitioned buildings, by no means favourable to domestic  comfort or christian decency.
pomare, with his vanquished forces, pursued their voyage to matavai, where  he and his son were received with respect by captain bishop and his companions.
mr. davies, in his journey round tahiti, in 1816, met with the murderer of the young man who was offered in sacrifice by the people of taiarabu, to insure success in their last attack upon the people of atehuru and papara, and whose tragical death, he justly considered, ought to be recorded, because it is hoped it was the last human sacrifice offered in tahiti, and because the victim was selected on account of his attachment to christianity.
xi arrival of missionaries from england—building and launching of the  haweis—re-occupation of matavai—new stations in tahiti—journeys  across the interior of eimeo—village of tamai—retrospect of labour at  afareaitu—honesty of the people—departure from eimeo—voyage to  the society islands—appearance of huahine—fa-re harbour and  surrounding country—accommodations on shore—state of the inhabitants  of huahine—commencement of missionary labours—influence of presents  on the people.
one of pomare-vahine's men, the individual who had offered their acknowledgments to god, on the presentation of food in eimeo, hearing this, and pointing to the feathers, said, are those the mighty things you so extol, and with whose anger you threaten us?
the  bread-fruit ripened, while they lay beneath its shadows in luxurious  indolence; the cocoa filled its nuts with milk and kernels; and  while they slumbered from their heavy meals, in dead forgetfulness of life  itself, the fish were spawning in unsounded depths: unplanted roots  were thriving under ground, to spread the tables of their future  banquets!”
the missionaries  were accustomed to meet for prayer at sunrise, on the morning of the sabbath.
the report of his intention had spread among the people of the  district, and multitudes assembled to witness this daring act of impiety, or  the sudden vengeance which they expected would fall upon the sacrilegious  criminal.
the history of our first parents was  frequently brought forward.
the  13th of may, 1818, being the anniversary of the parent institution in england,  was fixed for the establishment and organization of the native society.
on the 28th of july, 1812, mrs. henry finished her earthly  career.
the handle was taken out, a string passed through the eye, and when the inhabitants were to 386 assemble, a native boy went through the settlement, holding it up by the string with one hand, and striking it with a stone which he held in the other.
when the missionaries met at the house in which– 102 – they  had lodged, the good tidings were communicated; the individual was sought out;  and they were cheered with the simple yet affecting account he gave of what god  had done for his own soul, and of the serious impressions then operating on the  minds of several of his countrymen.
the bonnets are either sewn together, or woven throughout, after  the manner of leghorns, and are made not only with the leaves of themau,  and the bark of thepurau, but of the fine white layers of the inside of  the plantain stalk, the leaf of the sugar-cane, and a strong and beautiful  species of fine grass.
a number of pillars in the centre supported the ridge-pole,  or rather the different ridge-poles, which unitedly sustained the roof.
if, in addition to those already in existence, there  was also an institution for the promotion of agriculture, mechanic arts, social  order, and the general civilization of rude and barbarous tribes, such a  society would exert a beneficial and powerful influence, and furnish an  important agency, in conjunction with those now engaged.
the northern and western  sides are romantic; several pyramidal and conical mountains rising above the  elevated and broken range, that stretches along in a direction nearly parallel  with the– 332 – coast, and from one to three miles distant from the  sea.
on the following day, the missionaries nott and scott, as messengers of peace, went alone, unarmed, to the rebel camp at apaiano, and invited the leaders to an interview with pomare.
in every undertaking  of this kind, the greatest embarrassments attend its outset, and the same  difficulties that had suspended the instruction of the two former parties, were  again to be overcome.
after waiting, however, some days in their hiding-places, they  ventured forth, and singly, or in small parties, returned to their dwellings;  and when they found their plantations uninjured, their property secure, their  wives and children safe, they were astonished.
there might be, and perhaps was, a more confident hope of the speedy accomplishment of the object than now prevails; 86 but the appeals and addresses, delivered at that period, manifest a deep conviction of human insufficiency, and breathe a spirit of entire dependence upon the blessing of god.
a number of streams originating in these  water-falls pursued their course through the valley, and one, receiving in its  way the tributary waters of a number of sequestered streamlets, swelled at  times into what in these islands might be called a river, and flowed along the  most fertile portions of the district to the sea.
in order to satisfy themselves, oripaia proposed to one of his  attendants to try it.
he printed two more; and, while he was so engaged, the first sheet was shewn to the crowd without, who, when they saw it, raised one general shout of astonishment and joy.
on this we also bestowed personally many an hour, desirous not only to afford those who were inclined to follow our advice, and cultivate the earth for articles of commerce, the encouragement of our counsel and 282 direction, but to demonstrate the practicability of accomplishing, by means within their power, what had been proposed.
the watchful providence of god, over his infant cause in these islands, was remarkably conspicuous in preserving patii and his friends, and allowing them, after the events of the evening, safely and peacefully to retire.
or taloo harbourlanding at eimeowelcome vi from the nativesfirst night on shorepresent from the chiefsvisit to the schoolsfirst sabbath in the islandsdescription of the native chapelappearance and behaviour of native congregationsvoyage to afareaitunative mealdescription of afareaituremovalconveyancearrival.
notwithstanding the novelty of our situation, the exposure to the air from the mountains, the roaring of the heavy surf on the reefs, the inroads of dogs, pigs, and natives, with no other shelter than a pile 253 of boxes; we passed a comfortable night, and rose refreshed in the morning, thankful for the kind protection we had experienced, gratified also to find that no article of our property had been stolen, though all was unavoidably exposed.
my soul you cannot hurt; that is safe in the  hands of jesus christ, by whom it will be kept beyond your power.”
in order to  prevent their dropping out when the wood shrunk by the heat, they drove small  wedges into the ends of the pegs, which frequently kept them secure.
i had taken the books down into the cabin, and was putting them  by, when i heard the officer, in a tone of unusual earnestness, ask the captain  to come on deck.
near the chapel they erected a low frame, consisting of two upright posts, and a cross-piece at the top, resembling a gallows, from the centre of which the pig of iron was suspended; and when used, struck with a stone.
he directed his servants to clear out all the grass from the floor of the house he occupied; they then levelled the earth, procured lime, and plastered it over nearly an inch thick with mortar; this hardened, and formed an excellent, solid, durable, and clean floor.
voyage to raiatealanding at tipaemaudescription of the islandsarrival at vaóaarasingular receptionnative salutationsimprovement of the settlementgeneral state of societyformer modes of livingproposed improvement in the native dwellingsmethod of procuring lime from the coral-rockfirst plastered house in the south sea islandsprogress of improvementirregularity of the buildingspublic roadeffect on the surrounding countryduration of native habitationsbuilding for public worshipdivision of public labourmanner of fitting up the interiorsatisfaction of the peoplechapel in raiateanative chandeliersevening services.
the repeated trials with which the missionaries were exercised, the privations they endured, and the painful and protracted discouragements by which, at this period, they were depressed, were of no ordinary character.
the circumstances of the south sea islanders, their habits, institutions,  ceremonies, &c., described in the preceding volume, represent the state of  the inhabitants of tahiti and the adjacent isles at the time of their  discovery, and during a period antecedent to this, the extent of which it is  not easy to ascertain.
the letter and presents pomare received by this conveyance from  the governor of new south wales, and the attentions paid to him by the  commander of the vessel, tended, in no small degree, to confirm otu in his  government, and to intimidate his enemies.
xvii public assemblies during the week—questional and conversational  meetings—topics discussed—the seat of the thoughts and  affections—duty of prayer—scripture biography and history—the  first parents of mankind—paradise—origin of moral evil—satanic  influence—a future state—condition of those who had died  idolaters—the sabbath—inquiries respecting england—the doctrine  of the resurrection—anxiety to possess genuine christian experience.
in the minds of the  missionaries their circumstances awakened compassion, and they readily offered  to furnish the captain, so far as their means admitted, with such supplies as  the island afforded, and to assist him in procuring water.
friends, may you be saved by jehovah, and jesus christ our saviour.
a  house of wood was erected for these missionaries, near the shore of vaitapeha  bay, in taiarapu.
i can scarcely– 110 – allow myself to believe what you  say.”
the identity of the body was stated as being consistent with the  character and moral government of god, which appeared to require that the same  body which had suffered for or in his cause on earth, should be glorified in  heaven; and that the same body which in union with the soul had been employed  in rebellion and vice, should suffer the just consequences in a– 437 –  future state.
at raiatea, a sun-dial was erected, by which the natives, when the sun shone, were informed of the proper time for ringing their bell: at the other stations they usually applied to the missionaries, by whose watches the meetings were regulated, but here they had neither dial nor watch: they therefore regulated their time of assembling in the school or the chapel by the situation of the sun.
the female  school in huahine was under the management of mrs. barff and mrs. ellis; and  those at several of the other stations were also superintended by the wives of  the missionaries.
according to the directions of the king, and the arrangements among themselves, the work was divided between several parties.
these encouraging appearances, in regard to the affairs of the christians, only appeared to arouse the anger of their idolatrous enemies, who were no longer satisfied with simply ridiculing, and treating with contempt, the objects of their hatred, but proceeded to more alarming plans of resistance against the progress of the new principles which were daily gaining ground among the people.
while some of the missionaries were employed in the exercise of those arts  which were adapted to make the most powerful impression upon the– 13 – minds of the natives, others were equally diligent in exploring the adjacent  country, planting the seeds they had brought with them from europe and brazil,  and studiously endeavouring to gain an acquaintance with the native language,  which they considered essential to the accomplishment of their objects.
the doctrine of the resurrection of the body has ever appeared to them, as it did when announced by the apostle to the civilized philosophers of athens, or the august rulers in the roman hall of judgment, as a fact astounding or incredible.
the king, determined in his purpose, levied a requisition for materials and labour on the chiefs and people of tahiti and eimeo, by whose combined efforts it was ultimately finished.
its assumption by his father was, as many names are among the tahitians, perfectly accidental.
during their residence here, some had made the tour of the island, and endeavoured, with but little prospect of success, to instruct the inhabitants.
what sounds were those i heard?
weary and  famished, drenched with the rain, and suffering much from the cold occasioned  by the wetness of our clothes, we were truly thankful, after the incidents of  the day, to find ourselves once again on shore.
hitherto, however, they had generally worn the european cottons, &c. in the native manner, either as a light tehei, thrown over the shoulder, a pareu wound round the waist, or ahu buu, a kind of large scarf or shawl, loosely covering the greater part of the body.
but although the missionaries were cheered with the hope of often beholding it filled with attentive hearers or christian worshippers, they were obliged to pull it down early in the year 1802, to prevent its affording shelter to their enemies, or being set on fire by the rebels, by which their own dwelling might have been destroyed.
after four years, each tree bore about forty berries, which when perfectly ripe were gathered, and sent to the several stations.
a strong paling, or stockade, was planted round the house; boards, covered with nails, were sunk in the paths leading to it; and thither the missionaries, captain bishop, captain house, commander of the vessel that had been wrecked, and the seamen under their orders, now retired, as they daily received the most alarming accounts of the intention of the rebels to make their next attack upon them.
before the king's friends had properly formed themselves  for regular defence, the idolatrous army arrived, and the battle commenced.
nor do i think we are to conclude, that, after the change in their instruction, the doctrine of the saviour's advent, sufferings, and death, were insisted on, to the exclusion of the former; this mode of exhibiting scripture truth would have been almost as defective as the other: but i suppose that, during the earliest years of their labours, the first principles of religion were more frequent and prominent in their instructions, than the doctrines peculiar to the gospel, and that, subsequently, these points received that more frequent attention, which the character, being, and law of god, had formerly obtained.
he accompanied captain cook to new zealand,  the friendly islands, and tahiti, and, after an absence of rather more than  four years, returned to huahine on the twelfth of october, 1777.
the school during the week, and chapel on the sabbath, though capable of containing 600 persons, were found too small for those who sought admittance.
in order that as many as possible might hear, directions were given to take down on of the ends of the house; this 271 was soon done; so that those who could not gain admission, were enabled to hear.
4 countess dowager of huntingdon was exceedingly solicitous that efforts should be made to convey to them a knowledge of the christian religion.
the state of affairs in tahiti was such, as to  prevent the queen and her sister from proceeding on their intended tour of the  island; but while they remained at pare, a circumstance occurred similar to  that which had transpired in eimeo, though probably more decisive and important  in its immediate result.
at the close of the examination, the children were rewarded by mr.  barff, who, on delivering the presents, which were different books in the  native language, accompanied each by a suitable remark to the favoured  proprietor.
the next morning a letter was addressed to the  captain, requesting him to delay his departure forty-eight hours, that they  might deliberate on the steps necessary to be taken.
about this time, several of the chiefs of raiatea, &c. and many of their adherents, who had come up in 1811 to assist pomare in the recovery of his government and authority in tahiti, returned to their own islands; not, however, without most earnestly requesting the missionaries to send them teachers and books.
the three-one, he it is that can make the love of sin to cease; we cannot effect it; it is the work of god to cause evil things to be cast off, and the love of them to cease.
he presented to tapioi, the marquesan youth who accompanied mr. bicknell to  england, the articles with which the natives were hired to build this first  school and chapel in eimeo.
such, without much alteration, in all probability, was the  appearance of this beautiful bay, when discovered by captain wallis, in 1767;
i have frequently seen thirty or forty canoes from distant parts of  eimeo, or from some other island, lying along the beach; in each of which, five  or six persons had arrived, whose only errand was to procure copies of the  scriptures.
messrs. scott and hayward made the tour of tahiti, preaching to the people whenever they 104 could collect a congregation, and then returned to eimeo with tuahine, oito, and their companions,who accompanied them, in order to attend the school, and receive more ample instruction in those things, respecting which, though formerly so indifferent, they were now most anxious to be informed.
let us seeif you go this week, and bring home a good bundle of cloth, or scissors, or knives, or any thing else worth having, then we will go too; if not, we will have nothing to do with such profitless work.
it is reported here, that there is a ship at morea, and i was thinking it might be the ship with the missionaries; but it may be that it is only an idle report.
idleness has been a most  fruitful source of many of their vices and sufferings; and when we have seen  the females working with their needle, or with the straw for their bonnets,  &c. we could not but deem it an occupation far more conducive to their  enjoyment, than indolence, or their former unprofitable and often injurious  pastimes.
it was not a time of peace and leisure, but  of protracted, obstinate, and barbarous war—the king and his adherents  were in exile, alternately agitated by the entreaties of their auxiliaries to  attempt to retrieve their affairs by a descent upon tahiti, or expecting their  retreat to be invaded by their audacious and rebellious– 179 –  conquerors.
the removal of oro,  the national idol, from pare to atehuru, was the cause of the threatened  conflict: ammunition was prepared; a large assembly of chiefs and warriors met  at pare; and it was daily– 42 – expected that the long concealed  elements of war would there explode, and plunge the nation in anarchy and  bloodshed.
but the advantageous and expensive arrangements of the  directors, for the purpose of introducing these important branches of commerce  and productive labour, although not entirely frustrated, were in the first  instance rendered to a great degree unavailing, by the unfounded reports of  unprincipled and interested individuals, who beheld the advancement of the  people in knowledge and civilization with any other feelings than those of  satisfaction.
the uncultivated sides of the mountains, and the low flat sandy parts of the shore, seldom tilled by the natives, were reclaimed by his industry; and many extensive groves of cocoa-nut trees in tahiti and eimeo, which the inhabitants say were planted by pomare, remain as monuments of his patriotism, and yield no small emolument to their present proprietors.
the hand of the almighty was  strikingly exhibited,– 108 – in the door thus effectually opened for  the preaching of the gospel.
their estimate of its value had been formed according to its bulk; and when it was weighed, and they saw a large basket-full weigh only two or three pounds, and a proportionate price offered, they were greatly disappointed.
the house had been enclosed with a fence five or six feet  high; but this, instead of presenting an obstacle to the gratification of their  curiosity, was converted into the means of facilitating it: numbers were  constantly seen sitting on the top of the railing; whereby they were able to  look over the heads of their companions who were round the windows.
next to idolatry, and the diseases introduced by foreigners, it is the greatest scourge that has ever spread its desolations through their country, and we cannot deprecate in terms too strong; the 291 conduct of those who now visit these shores, and who, insensible to any other consideration than that of avarice or vice, spare no pains to introduce ardent spirits among the people, and promote its use.
the evening passed pleasantly and rapidly away; many of the pious inhabitants and chiefs, in the neighbourhood, came to greet our arrival, with evident emotions of delight; among them was one, whose salutation i shall never forget:
i was much affected on giving up myself to missionary pursuits, on leaving england, and on reaching the islands, but i had never so deeply felt the responsibility of my situation, and my insufficiency for the work, as i did on the day when i delivered my first native discourse.
their sabbaths must have presented spectacles on which angels might look down  with joy.
although the gospel had been faithfully and constantly preached, for some years in tahiti, occasionally in most of the other islands, and many of the people had imbibed a tolerably clear speculative knowledge of the leading doctrines taught in the sacred volume, yet there was no individual on whom they could look, as having been benefited by their instructionsno one whose mind was savingly enlightened, or whose heart had experienced any moral change.
here i looked abroad with new and mingled emotions on the scene in which i was to commence my labours, and probably to spend the remainder of my life.
there was a degree of propriety usually manifested by all classes of the females in their dress: they either paid more attention to their appearance than the other sex, or were better informed; and the only inconsistency we ever observed was that of a woman's sometimes wearing a coat or jacket belonging to her husband or brother.
several of them were some years with only one pair  of shoes; and often, in their journeys undertaken for the purpose of preaching,  and instructing the natives, they had travelled barefoot.
there is no date affixed to it, but from the evident frequency with which it has been used, and the portion of scripture written on the preceding pages of the same sheet of paper, i am inclined to think it was written about this period.
the whole either smoothed with a carpenter's plane, or polished, according to the practice of the natives, by rubbing the timber with smooth coral and sand.
many of them were arrayed in light european dresses, and all evidently appeared to feel a high degree of satisfaction in assembling for the public adoration of the almighty in a building, in many respects an object of astonishment through the island, and which their own toil and perseverance had enabled them to finish.
no remonstrance was made, no opposition offered they entered the depository of tahiti's former god; the priests and people stood round in silent expectation; even the soldiers paused a moment; and a scene was exhibited, probably strikingly analogous to that which was witnessed in the temple of serapis in alexandria, when the tutelar deity of that city was destroyed by the roman soldiers.
in the mean time, two  natives were instructed to perform the most laborious parts; and, before the  books were finished, they were able, under proper superintendence, to relieve  us from the mechanical labour of press-work,—a department in which, they  with others have been ever since employed; receiving regular payment for the  same.
a change so important in its character, so rapid in its progress, so decisive in its influence, sublime almost in proportion to the feebleness of the agency by which it was, under god, accomplished, although effected on but a small tribe or people, is perhaps not exceeded in the history of nations, or the revolutions of empires, that have so often altered the moral and 186 civil aspect of our world.
this induced in several of the chief women, who had at least one complete english dress, a desire to learn to make them, and ultimately to substitute the european bonnet for the nativetaumata.
during their absence, pomare had remained excluded from his hereditary dominions, and in exile on the island of eimeo.
as soon as possible after the battle, a canoe was despatched by mahine, king of eimeo and huahine, with the tidings of its result.
unless thou save us, unless we are  prepared and made meet for thy habitation in heaven, we are banished to the  fire, we die; but let us not be banished to that unknown world of fire.
at length,  they concluded that it must be from the new religion, as they termed  christianity; and hence they unanimously declared their determination to  embrace it, and to place themselves and their families under the direction of  its precepts.
the late pomare and his queen, with otoo his father, and idia his mother, and his most influential persons in the nation, were present, and haamanemane, an aged chief of raiatea, and high priest of tahiti, was the principal agent for the natives on the occasion.
amidst all these unfavourable circumstances, he continued bold and  uncompromising in his renunciation of the idols, and every rite of idolatry;  observing the sabbath, and, on every suitable occasion, exhibiting the truth  and excellency of the religion of jesus christ.
unable to throw him on the sand, he cast  his arms around his neck, and en devoured to strangle, or at least to secure  his prey, until some of his companions should arrive, and despatch him.
her infatuation, as they conceived it to be in this respect, not only encouraged her school-fellows, but, with other circumstances which occurred about the same time, made a considerable impression on the minds of the idolaters, and occasioned some of the priests publicly to declare their conviction that the religion of the foreigners would prevail, in spite of all opposition.
an expensive and sumptuous entertainment of this kind was furnished by the chiefs of eimeo for the queen's sister.
the rafters were bound with braided cord, coloured in native dyes, or covered nearly to the top of the roof with finely woven matting, made of the white bark of the purau, or hibiscus, and often presenting a chequered mixture of opposite colours, by no means unpleasing to the eye.
but i now declare, their accounts  were beyond measure modest, and, far from colouring their success, they had not  described it equal to what i found it.
the  foreigners themselves die, their pupils die, or suffer the same pain that we  do; and what good have you derived from going to their schools?
the king took up the sheet, and having looked first at the paper and then at the types with attentive admiration, handed it to one of his chiefs, and expressed a wish to take another.
the rapidity with which the natives appeared to speak, and the  want of divisions between the words.
the  exercises of the day were highly interesting both to the missionaries and their  little band of followers.
although finishing the vessel, and printing, required the greater number of the missionaries to continue in eimeo, these duties did not detain the whole, but left several at liberty to extend, in some degree, their efforts.
messrs. williams and threlkeld had availed themselves of the visit of the active, in the month of september, to remove with their families to raiatea, and form a new station in that large and important island.
its form is somewhat triangular, and its circumference about fifty miles.
the frame was of light tough wood, and the lamps,  instead of being coloured and transparent, were opaque cocoa-nut shells.
the hull was destroyed,  but all the stores were preserved.
hitherto, the public  worship of god had been performed in one of the apartments of the  mission-house, but as it appeared expedient to erect a place for this specific  object, to which also the natives might have access for the purpose of  religious instruction, a spot was selected near the grave of mr. lewis; and on  the 5th of march 1797, with the assistance of a number of pomare's men, they  commenced the erection of their chapel.
what the natives thought of it i do not know, but to those who were accustomed to associate with a gallows, and any object so attached to it, only ideas of an execution, or of a criminal hung in irons, its appearance was not adapted to awaken very gratifying feelings.
under these circumstances we acted upon the principles by which our predecessors had invariably regulated their endeavours to teach the inhabitants of tahiti and eimeo; and respecting which, after careful observation, i believe we are unanimous in our conviction that they are the true principles upon which any attempts to instruct a rude untutored people can be prosecuted with a prospect of the greatest ultimate success.
he also  delivered from mr. harris, who was settled in norfolk island, a letter  acquainting them with the murder of three of the missionaries in the friendly  islands, the departure of one, the flight of the rest to port jackson, and the  total destruction of the tonga mission.
his departure, in his critical state of mind, was much to be regretted, as it deprived him of the instructions of his teachers, exposed him to many temptations, and much persecution.
there was a degree of openness in their countenances, and vivacity in their manners, which was not unpleasing.
the family at matavai were exposed to trials not only from the evils of war, and the opposition of the heathen to their instructions, but also from the false reports which were circulated against them.
pomare on this occasion seemed anxious to impress the minds of  the people with his desire that they should act according to the dictates of  their own judgment, and not form themselves into a society, simply because he  had recommended it.
i am a wicked man, and my sins are great and accumulated.
in the  course of the following year, the loss sustained by the death of mr. scott was  repaired by the arrival of mr. crook from new south wales; he reached the  islands in the month of may, and rendered important service in the prosecution  of the common enterprise.
it was a rude, uncarved log of aito wood, casuarina equisatifolia, about six feet long.
the combination of these with some parts of the men's apparel worn in europe, produced an effect less pleasing than the apparel of the females.
in order to  preserve the books, it was deemed inexpedient to give them into the hands of  the natives, either unbound, or merely covered as pamphlets.
large fragments  of rock were scattered at the base of the mountains that rose on one side of  our dwelling, the sea rolled within a few yards on the other, and in each  direction along the shore– 251 – there was one wild and uncultivated  wilderness.
her voice, however, was by no means soft, and her manners were less engaging than those of several of her companions.
i have received the first number, and most earnestly hope they will be able to carry it on.
while he was thus engaged, relief was afforded, and the  weeping and forebodings of the family turned into grateful wonder, and joyous  gratulations.32a
the overwhelming feelings of the wondering native were too powerful for expression or restraint.
he did not confine his efforts to private conversation, but in public council  urged upon tamatoa and mahine, the chiefs of raiatea and huahine, the adoption  of the christian religion; hereby publicly evincing his own determination to  adhere to the choice he had made.
the wind became  unsteady and boisterous, the sea rose, and in long heavy billows, but in short,  cross, and broken waves.
these sensations were often heightened by our  beholding, in the neighbourhood of these half-finished houses, the lonely and  comfortless hut they had abandoned, and the neatly finished cottage in which  the inmates enjoyed a degree of comfort, that, to use their own powerful  expression, made them sometimes ready to doubt whether they were the same  people who had been contented to inhabit their former dwellings, surrounded by  pigs and dogs, and swarms of vermin, while the wind blew over them, and the  rain beat upon them.
the east and west pulpits are about a hundred feet from the corresponding extremities of the chapel.
they are usually held in the chapel, in order to afford accommodation to a greater number of persons than could gain admittance to the schools.
this article is common to all the south sea islanders, and resembles in every respect, excepting the material of which it is fabricated, the poncho worn by the aborigines of south america, inhabiting the countries adjacent to the pacific.
in the month of april, 1820, it was finished, and on the 3d of may opened for divine service.
the  press soon became a matter of universal– 226 – conversation; and the  facility with which books could be multiplied, filled the minds of the people  in general with wonderful delight.
most of the chiefs wore the native costume, and the females were arrayed in white native cloth, and yellow cocoa-nut-leaf shades, or bonnets with wreaths of sweet-scented flowers round their necks, or garlands of the same in their hair.
the bonnets were in many  instances scarcely finished, when another difficulty met their possessors.
each class is under the care of a native instructor, 322
like her husband, she had been uniformly  friendly to the missionaries, but continued to the last an enemy to the  christian faith.
when he approached 112 the burning pile, he laid them down on the ground.
shells might  be procured in tolerable abundance; but the white coral rock, of which the  extensive reefs surrounding these islands are composed, and which appears  inexhaustible, is used in the manufacture of lime.
mr. armitage was therefore sent to attempt to teach the natives to spin and weave the cotton grown in their own gardens.
he was remarkably active and vigorous, and, though far advanced in years and  nearly blind, indulged, without restraint, in all the degrading vices of his  country.
he was travelling, with a number of his followers, in a mountainous part of tahiti, where it was necessary to spend the night in a temporary encampment.
in the course of my first week on shore, i made several  excursions in different parts of the district.
the circumstance of the king's throwing the wine at the ship, the breaking of the bottle, the red wine spreading abroad, and the pieces of glass flying in every direction, startled the natives who were pulling the ropes on that side of the vessel.
one saturday night she  presented herself with our native domestics, and begged to be paid her wages  for learning– 390 – to sew!
winding vale, woodland, and stream, and lake, and rolling seas,” that they are seldom surpassed, even in the fairest portions of the world.
o te hau nei e ati paa toai te  ao nei ia ite te mau fenua atoa, was the motto.
it exhibits, not only the rich luxuriance of the scenery, but the complexion,  expression, dress, and tautauing of the natives, with remarkable fidelity and  spirit.
it was not in words only, but also in their application, that the most ludicrous mistakes were made by the people.
when the juice of thefei was allowed to remain till the next day, the liquor became much thinner, assumed a brownish red tinge, and imparted only a slight colour to the paper.
a tall man was sometimes seen with a hat and shoes, without stockings, a longsurtout black-cloth coat, with the collar turned up and buttoned close to his chin, and over his black coat a white frilled shirt, the collar unbuttoned, and the bosom thrown open, the sleeves drawn up towards the elbows, and the outline of the other parts appearing in strong contrast with the black coat underneath, which reached to his ankles.
the composition and press-work of the elementary books, and of the greater portion of the edition of nearly 3000 copies of st. luke's gospel, was performed almost entirely by mr. crook and myself.
there were many present, who were indignant at the insult, and filled  with rage at the impiety of the act, as well as convinced, that if this conduct  should be imitated by others, not only would their craft and their emoluments  be endangered, but they would no longer be able to exercise that unquestioned  influence over the people, to which they had hitherto been accustomed; nor to  indulge their– 114 – base propensities, and live in the luxurious  ease they then enjoyed.
notwithstanding his being  thus engaged, they told him jehovah alone was god, that pigs were not  acceptable to him as offerings, that jesus christ was the true atonement for  sin, and that god was offended with them for killing men.
shells might be procured in tolerable abundance; but the white coral rock, of which the extensive reefs surrounding these islands are composed, and which appears inexhaustible, is used in the manufacture of lime.
see they are all down on their knees, quite defenceless; how easily your people might rush upon them, and kill them all, and then their property would be yours.
i  wrote many of them down at the time; others have been recorded by my  companions: a selection will convey a more correct idea of their mode of–  425 –thinking and expression, than any general description.
from this circumstance his favourite wife assumed the name of tane rurua, from tane, a husband, and rurua, bound round, or bound repeatedly.
the attendants were proceeding with the turtle to themarae, when pomare called them back, and told them to prepare an oven, to bake it in his own kitchen, and serve it up, without offering it to the idol.
by the latter, the natives of the pearl islands were formerly regarded with the greatest contempt, astaehae and maua, savages and barbarians.
at eimeo, a thick hoop of iron, resembling the tier of a small carriage-wheel, suspended by a rope of twisted bark, and struck with an iron bolt, was substituted for a bell.
the frame was of light tough wood, and the lamps, instead of being coloured and transparent, were opaque cocoa-nut shells.
form the  distinctness– 307 – with which we saw them, notwithstanding the  density of the atmosphere, the farthest could not have been many miles distant.
the natives of afareaitu, and the neighbouring districts, were rejoiced at our coming among them; they seemed a people predisposed to receive instruction.
when,  therefore, the food was presented to pomare-vahine, before any article was  touched by the attendants, and while the spectators were expecting the priests  to select the customary offerings to the idols, one of her principal men, who  was a christian, came forward, uncovered his head, and, looking up to heaven,  offered in an audible voice their acknowledgments and thanksgivings to jehovah,  who liberally gave them food and raiment and every earthly blessing.
as  we approached the shore, crowds of the natives, who had recognized some of our  party, came off to meet us, wading into the sea above their waist, in order to  welcome our arrival.
on the 5th of october, 1813, the native christians engaged for the first time with their teachers, in the monthly meetings for prayer for the spreading of the gospel.
the bananas and the plantains, &c. ripen on the trees, and the pigs fatten on the fruits that are strewed beneath them, 279 even while we sleep; these are all we want, why therefore should we work?
in a walk through the village, on the afternoon of the day preceding the sabbath, looking along the shore, we have often beheld the light canoe doubling a distant point of land, and, with its native cloth or matting sail, wafted towards the station.
travellers among the natives experienced  greater inconvenience from these district stills than from any other cause, for  when the people were either preparing one, or engaged in drinking, it was  impossible to obtain either their attention, or the common offices of  hospitality.
after the subversion of idolatry, thismarae was divested of its glory, stripped of all its idolatrous appendages, and robbed of its gods, while the houses they occupied were committed to the flames.
temporary verandas or coverings of cocoa-nut leaves had been attached to the side of the house next the sea, widening it five or six feet, and on the other side it was also thrown open.
a remarkably ingenious and durable low fence called by the nativesaumoa, was erected round it, and the area within the enclosure was covered with small fragments of white branching coral, calledanaana, and found on the northern shores of the day.
one simultaneous cry, aue te  pahi e, alas, the ship ! or oh, the ship !
xvii public assemblies during the weekquestional and conversational meetingstopics discussedthe seat of the thoughts and affectionsduty of prayerscripture biography and historythe first parents of mankindparadiseorigin of moral evilsatanic influencea future statecondition of those who had died idolatersthe sabbathinquiries respecting englandthe doctrine of the resurrectionanxiety to possess genuine christian experience.
on the 28th of july, 1812, mrs. henry finished her earthly career.
a naval officer, who was at tahiti in 1822, stated, that he visited the islands under a considerable degree of prejudice against the missionaries, and suspicion respecting the reported change among the people,but that his visit had entirely removed both.
taaroarii died rather suddenly 109 in 1821.
the grass that grew underneath appeared like a rich carpet, spread by nature for the ceremony; pendulous plants, some verdant in foliage, others rich and variegated in blossom, hung from the projections of the rocks, while several species of convolvulus and climbing plants were twined round the trunks of the trees, ornamenting the whole with their large and splendid pink blossoms.
the sail ropes were again fastened, and we pursued our way under the influence of thankfulness for the deliverance we had experienced.
several of them were some years with only one pair of shoes; and often, in their journeys undertaken for the purpose of preaching, and instructing the natives, they had travelled barefoot.
it was shortly after these events had transpired, that we reached the islands.
i teie nei po, may you have peace or life this night.
but although these circumstances have hitherto operated against the general culture of the cane, the chiefs and some of the people make sugar for their own consumption, and have occasionally supplied captains of ships, who have wished to replenish their sea-stock.
this has been one of the most important and efficient means of promoting general and religious improvement in the islands.
early in the following year, the district of matavai was  surrendered to pomare, but he was justly doubtful of the sincerity of the  surrender.
he kneeled down, and offered up a fervent prayer  to the true god.
several hours every day were devoted to its  acquisition, and twice a week we met, when we were assisted by the instructions  of mr. davies, who favoured us with the use of his manuscript vocabulary, and  the outlines of a grammar, which he had prepared several years before.
from these it was his mercy to find relief, through faith in the atonement of christ.
although the light hats, made with a fine sort of grass, or the bark of a tree, are, in our estimation, remarkably well adapted to the climate, most of the men, making any pretensions to respectability, strive to possess an english hat.
though the inconsistency of this statement with the defenceless manner in which the missionaries had come amongst them, would have been self-evident to an enlightened mind,being supported by an incontrovertible historical fact, it was remarkably adapted to operate powerfully upon an individual but partially informed, and exceedingly suspicious of every measure that might permanently alienate the smallest portion of territory, or lead to the establishment of foreign proprietorship, and consequent influence, in the islands.
this was still refused; and, having asked for some time without effect, he rose in anger, and ordered his party to withdraw.
it is a privilege to visit a country, and a happiness  to live in a community, where the sabbaths are thus spent, and prove to  multitudes— “foretastes of heaven on earth—pledges of joy surpassing  fancy's flights and fiction's story, the preludes of a feast that cannot  cloy, and the bright out-courts of immortal glory!”
all classes were alike insensible to the gratification arising from mental improvement, and ignorant of the enjoyments of social and domestic life, the comforts of home, and the refinements and conveniences which arts and labour add to the bestowments of providence.
by the side of these vegetable plates, a small cocoa-nut shell of salt water was placed for each person.
in  this address it is singular to notice the application of the term satan to the  god patii invoked.
the chiefs, priests, and people, publicly committed their idols to the  flames, and attended public worship.
this report was most unfounded, and it was hoped the effects were  soon removed.
the tahitian, like the indian  weaver, may, perhaps, at some future day, be seen fixing his rude and simple  loom under the shadow of the cocoanut or the banana tree, whilst the objects  that often give such a charm to rural village scenery, and awaken so many ideas  of contentment and happy simplicity in connexion with the peasantry of england,  may be witnessed throughout the south sea islands.
a stream rolled at the bottom  of a steep bank, about twenty yards from our house.
with many, the influence of a system so inflexible has probably operated powerfully in producing this uniform attention, at least to the outward duties of the sabbath, the only sacred day now recognized amongst them; with others, there is reason to believe it arises from the influence of example, and the respectability it was at this time supposed to impart to individual character; but with many it originates in far higher motives, and is the result of christian principle in regard to what they consider a duty.
this circumstance shews the  difficulties they had to contend with, even when they had acquired the meaning  of many of the substantives and adjectives in the language.
from making plain, straight-forward garments, the more expert were anxious to advance still higher; and in process of time, frills appeared round the neck; and, ultimately, caps covered the heads, and shoes and stockings clothed the feet.
it is also intimately connected with  the most important matters in the traditionary history and ancient religion of  the people.
the albion had scarcely sailed, when large fleets of canoes, filled with fighting men, arrived, and the island was agitated with the apprehension of hostilities between the king and chiefs.
it was circumstance highly advantageous to the missionaries, that the tahitians were remarkably loquacious, often spending hours in conversation, however trivial its topics, patiently listening 17 to inquiries, and anxious to make themselves intelligible.
this circumstance led to a complete alteration in the instructions they gave.
this individual appeared to listen most attentively to what was said; and after the conclusion of the service, he and mr. nott, proceeded together along the beach towards the settlement.
during the first years of our establishment in huahine, frequent voyages to the adjacent islands were necessary; and, early in 1819, circumstances rendered it expedient that we should revisit raiatea.
it had been so long in use, that the bar of iron was considerably battered by the blows.
the events which have  since transpired were but little anticipated by the distinguished navigator who  conducted this simple-hearted native from one end of the globe to the other,  spared no pains to promote his welfare and comfort, and who, although mistaken  in the means he employed, undoubtedly aimed at the prosperity of the  interesting people whom he had introduced to the notice of the civilized world.
this intelligence, when conveyed to those who had taken refuge in the mountains, appeared to them incredible.
our boat being but small, not above eighteen  feet long, and her edge, when the sea had been smooth, not more than a foot or  eighteen inches above its surface; every wave that broke near, threw its spray  over us, and each billow, in striking our little bark, forced part of its  foaming waters over the bow or the sides.
the most pleasing results continued also to attend the efforts of the new converts in tahiti.
they are sublime objects of unusual interest, when viewed from the shore; but when beheld at sea, especially if near, and from a small and fragile bark, as we had seen them, it is almost impossible so to divest the mind of a sense of personal danger, as to contemplate with composure their stately movement, or the rapid internal circular eddy of the waters.
the first that issued from the still being the strongest, they called theao; it was carefully received, and given to the chief: that subsequently procured, was drunk by 132 the people in general.
a simultaneous  movement appears to have taken place among the rulers of the people, to throw  off the yoke of pagan priestcraft, to rend asunder their fetters, and remove  from the eyes of the nation, in its remote extremities, the veil of delusion by  which they had so long been blinded.
on a visit to matavai, in the early part of 1821, conducted by mr. nott, i made a pilgrimage to his grave.
patii on this occasion  was not prompted by a spirit of daring bravado, but by the conviction of truth,  deeply impressed upon his heart, and a desire to undeceive his deluded  countrymen; probably considering, that as his conduct and instruction had  heretofore done much to extend and propagate the influence of idolatry, so his  thus publicly abandoning it, and exposing himself to all the consequences of  their dreaded ire, would most effectually weaken their confidence in the gods,  and lead them to desire instruction concerning– 113 – that being,  who, he was convinced, was the only living and true god,—who was a spirit,  and was to be worshipped, not with human or other sacrifices, save those of a  broken heart and a contrite spirit, or the sacrifices of thanksgiving and of  praise.
they had gone to tahiti many years before, for the purpose of assisting pomare in the resumption of his authority, had witnessed and participated the change that had taken place, and had afterwards prolonged their residence, in order to enjoy the advantages of instruction, until a mission should be established in their native islands.
after many assurances to the  contrary, their fears seemed to be removed.
– 4 – countess dowager of huntingdon was exceedingly solicitous that efforts  should be made to convey to them a knowledge of the christian religion.
when pomare returned, he solicited from the  captains, men and arms to go against the insurgents; and on the 3d of july,  captain bishop and the mate of the nautilus, with twenty-three europeans, well  supplied with ammunition, arms, and a four-pound cannon, accompanied pomare's  forces to the attack.
the people of huahine and their chief were certainly among the  most superstitious and idolatrous tribes of the pacific.
uncivilized communities are often most shrewd observers of the conduct of those who enter their society, and pay far more regard to the actions and dispositions, than the mere declarations, of strangers.
the tiputa was generally worn by the chiefs and all persons of respectability.
his inducement to undertake  a voyage, of the incidents and exposures of which he could form no idea, does  not appear to have resulted so much from a wish to gratify a restless and  ardent curiosity, as from the desire to obtain the means of avenging his  country, and regaining the hereditary possessions of his family, which were now  occupied by the victors.
of another world, and the existence of the soul in that world after the dissolution of the body, they appear at all times to have entertained some indistinct ideas; but the reanimation of the mouldering bodies of the dead, never seems, even in their wildest flights of imagination, to have occurred to them.
the annual examinations of  these schools are among the most exhilarating and interesting festivities now  observed in the islands.
aimata, the young princess, only daughter of  pomare and the queen, who appeared about six years of age, was brought by her  nurse, and followed– 200 – by her attendants into the cabin.
the stone in the northern parts of the island is a kind of compact ancient lava, and, though rather hard, is, we think, adapted for buildings.
others attended in such numbers, that it was  found necessary to enlarge the first place of worship they had ever used in the  islands.
this being done, he hastened to the sacred depository of his gods, brought them out, not indeed as he had been on some occasions accustomed to do, that they might receive the blind homage of the waiting populace,but to convince the deluded multitude of the impotency and the vanity of the objects of their adoration and their dread.
until he has effected this, he can  expect but little success; and when once, under the blessing of god, it is  attained, one of the greatest difficulties in his way will be removed.
patii, the priest of the district, was instantly sent for.
from this island the captain brought away a number of young coffee plants, which, on his arrival in the islands, were distributed among the different stations.
whatever may be said of the inutility of bells in churches or chapels in civilized countries, where public clocks are numerous, and watches almost universalthe same objections will not apply to a people destitute of these, and having no means of denoting the hour of the day, 384 except by mentioning the situation of the sun in the heavens.
the survivors, jealous of the missionaries, viewed  them as the murderers of their countrymen, under the supposition that these  multiplied evils were brought upon them by the influence of the foreigners with  their god.
at length their fears were removed by one of the party, who had been there  before, observing, that it was the sabbath, and that on that day the natives  did not launch their canoes, or light their fires, &c.
such vessels usually entered the  reefs that surround the two islands, either at the opening called teavapiti, a  little to the southward of utumaora, or at that denominated tomahahotu,  opposite the south end of the island of tahaa.
when death enters a family, and removes a wife and a mother from the domestic circle, though every alleviation which society, friendship, and religion can impart are available, there is a chasm left, and a wound inflicted on the survivors, which must be felt in order to be understood: when death repeatedly enters in this way a family connexion, the distress is proportionably augmented; but it is impossible to form an adequate idea of the desolateness of the mission family, (for such it might be called,) at this time, and the cheerless solitude of those thus bereft of the partners of their days, and the mothers of their children.
the king had not been long on board, when the  queen arrived, and was ushered into the cabin.
the persons and the habitations of the missionaries had  hitherto been secure, excepting from petty thefts; they were, however,  occasionally alarmed by rumours of war.
we have been favoured, in  most of the stations, with valuable native teachers, in both the male and  female schools.
when well filled with respectably dressed  worshippers, as it generally was on the sabbath, the difference in the material  or structure of the places they occupied, was not easily noticed.
by this means it was hoped they might be enabled to instil into the minds of the natives a spirit of enterprise, and induce them to build ships for themselves.
these  circumstances appear trivial, but they serve to shew the expedients resorted to  in a state of society so peculiar as that now prevailing in the south sea  islands.
in speaking of their progress, shortly after they had commenced 18 this department of labour, they observe, we have already joined some thousands of words together, and believe some thousands yet remain.
the survivors of such as were carried off by these means, feeling the incipient effects of disease themselves, and beholding their relatives languishing under maladies of foreign origin, inflicted, as they supposed, by the god of the foreigners, were led to view the missionaries as in some degree the cause of their suffering; and frequently, not only rejected their message, but charged them with being the authors of their misery, by praying against them to their god.
we were in an excellent harbour, upon whose shores industry and comfort were plainly perceptible; for, in every direction, white cottages, precisely english, were seen peeping from amongst the rich foliage, which every where clothes the lowland in these islands.
soon after my arrival, i  visited the school, and was greatly delighted to behold numbers of adults, as  well as children, under the direction of messrs. davies and tessier, learning  their alphabet and their spelling, or reading with distinctness their lessons,  which were principally extracts from scripture.
more than once we had to take  our little boy, even before he was three months old, from afareaitu, where he  was born, to papetoai, for medical advice.
it was, however, a long time before any, among the native inhabitants of tahiti could be induced to learn the letters of the alphabet; yet the missionaries continued their labours in preaching to the people, and teaching the catechism to the children.
the chief and his  wife usually slept at one end of the house, without the least partition between  them and the other inmates of their dwelling.
there were,  however, other points of inquiry, peculiarly affecting to themselves.
having landed ten missionaries at tongatabu, in the friendly  islands, captain wilson visited and– 10 – surveyed several of the  marquesan islands, and left mr. crook a missionary there; he then returned to  tahiti, and on the 6th of july the duff again anchored in matavai bay.
assisted by the natives, we subsequently erected a rustic mill; and,  when the cane in our plantation was ripe, commenced our endeavours to convert  it into sugar.
the east and west pulpits are about a hundred  feet from the corresponding extremities of the chapel.
in the evening the missionaries  arrived at their dwelling, having been furnished by pomare with a double canoe,  for their conveyance.
the sailor  kept at the helm, mr. barff sat on one side of the stern, and i on the other,  watching the alarming object before us!
we were happy to perceive on their part a willingness to  follow our advice.
the usages and customs  prevailing among the ancient jews were often topics of conversation, and more  than once they have, with evident sincerity, inquired if their repentance would  not be more acceptable to god, were they to rend their garments, and cover  their heads with ashes, or gird themselves with sackcloth, than simply  expressing their penitence.
thus, wearing a hat and bonnet was the first  advance they made towards a more civilized appearance and dress.
– 391 – european cloths, cottons in particular, had long been favourite articles of  barter with the natives, on account of their durability compared with native  manufacture, their adaptation to the climate, variegated and showy colours, and  the trifling injury they sustained from wet.
early in 1819, circumstances rendered it desirable for us to visit raiatea.
and when we consider the long and cheerless years, which he and some of his associates had spent in fruitless, hopeless toil, on that unpromising field, the reasonable prospect of an ultimate harvest, which these facts certainly warranted, was adapted to produce unusual and exalted joys,emphatically a missionary's own,joys that a stranger intermeddleth not with.
they might wish them to reside in it, exercise the office of chiefs  over the whole, cultivate as much of it as they desired, and receive tribute  from those who might occupy the remaining parts; but by no means perpetually to  alienate it from the king, or chief, to whom it originally belonged.
towards the latter part of his life, his pastor had the pleasure of observing the greatest circumspection and moral purity in his whole conduct, with a high and increasing degree of spirituality of mind and tranquil joy.
the ravages of  diseases originating in licentiousness, or nurtured by the vicious habits of  the people, and those first brought among them by european vessels, appeared to  be fast hastening the total desolation of tahiti.
and with what ecstatic songs  of gratitude and praise, must they have welcomed, to the realms of happiness,  the first arrivals from those clustering isles, of redeemed and purified  spirits, who had been made partakers of the grace of life, and heirs with them  of immortality.
all that the settlers ever desired was, the permanent occupation of the ground on which their dwellings and gardens were situated; yet, in writing to the society, in 1804, they remark, in reference to the district, the inhabitants do not consider the district, nor any part of it, as belonging to us, except the small sandy spot we occupy with our dwellings and gardens; and even as to that, there are persons who claim the ground as theirs.
the place was soon filled, and a far greater number remained outside than were assembled under the roof.
the persecuted party was already formidable in point of numbers and rank, and the idolaters, in order to ensure success in their murderous design, invited the chiefs of atchuru and papara to join them.
the work commenced with cotton belonging to the native missionary societies.
the king endeavoured to convince his companions that their idea of the power of the gods was altogether imaginary, and that they had been the subjects of complete delusion; but the people could not believe him: and although the meal was finished without any evil result, they carried away the dishes with many expressions of astonishment, confidently expecting some judgment would overtake him before the morrow, for they could not believe that an act of sacrilege, such as he had been guilty of, could be committed with impunity.
his triumph, however, was but short.
the  missionaries from the several stations assembled at the same period, for the  purpose of commemorating the anniversary of the tahitian auxiliary missionary  society.
how can we be preserved from forsaking god and committing 438 sin?
the warrior was seen standing on the  prow of his light skiff, that seemed impatiently dashing through the spray, and  rushing along the tops of the waves towards the shore, which its keel scarcely  touched, when, with his light mat around his loins, his scarf hanging loosely  over his shoulder, and his spear in his hand, he leaped upon the sandy beach.
they resolved that their arms should be used for defence only, in the event of an attack being made upon their habitations; and not even then, until every means of avoiding it had been employed.
they also learned with pleasure, that they were accustomed  to retire morning and evening for secret prayer.
a long aisle or passage,  between the forms, extends from one end to the other.
the total overthrow of idolatry, splendid and important as it appeared, was but the beginning of the amazing work that has since advanced progressively in those islands.
in addition to this, and any latent conviction that still might linger in his mind, of 155 the power of oro, and the result of his anger should he draw back, he stood pledged to the cause of the gods, and probably might feel a degree of pride influencing his adherence to their interest, lest he should be charged with cowardice in wishing to avoid the war, on which the chiefs, who were united to suppress christianity, had determined.
mr.  armitage has also succeeded in dying the cloth, and thus furnishing different  patterns and colours, which has greatly increased its value in their  estimation.
one or two vessels arrived, but brought no letters or supplies; and, towards the close of the year, they experienced a heavy loss, in the destruction of a large and flourishing plantation.
he died suddenly on the  5th of march, 1823; and, to use the language of the missionary who watched his  progress and his end with the deepest interest, we doubt not that he is gone to  be with that saviour, “whom he loved with all his heart.”
a number of the attendants on the queen's  sister, soon after their reception of christianity, came to the meeting, and  stated that one of their friends had died a few days before, and that they had  buried the corpse according to their ancient manner, not laying it straight in  a coffin, as christians were accustomed to do, but placing it in a sitting  posture, with the face between the knees,– 435 – the hands under the  thighs, and the whole body bound round with cords.
and thou  hast found again
her memory was greatly esteemed by those who had borne with her the burden of the day, and survived her in the field.
after it was over, crowds, as usual, gathered round, to look at our uniforms, to them so new and uncommon.
they were some time before they would approach very near, and appeared at a loss whether to consider the press as an animal or a machine.
in the beginning of 1816, pomare sent most of his own family idols to the missionaries, that, as he observed in a letter accompanying them, dated february 19th, they might either commit them to the flames, or send them to england.
pomare approached, and exclaimed, atira!
the number  of natives by whom we were always surrounded, afforded the best opportunities  for learning the meaning of those words which we did not understand.
the work was but commenced, and the abolition of idolatry was  but one of the great preliminaries in those designs of mercy which were daily  unfolded, with increasing interest and importance, in their influence on the  destiny of the people.
the king, and those attached to his interest, were not however without suspicion, that it was only an apparent satisfaction; and they were not mistaken.
this was, indeed, a matter of regret to the  missionaries; but it was also an evidence of his displeasure at the treatment  they had received.
so great was the influx of strangers, that for several weeks before the first portion of the scriptures was finished, the district of afareaitu resembled a public fair.
it was upwards of sixty feet long, but rather narrow.
they were equally remote from all the  kind attentions of tenderest friendship, the rich consolations of christian – 92 – intercourse, and the public ordinances of that religion, which  is alone adapted to impart effectual consolation.
such was the rapidity 383 with which places for public worship were erected, that at the close of 1818, twelve months only after the battle of narii, near bunaauïa, there were sixty-six in the island of tahiti alone.
the mai who accompanied captain furneux does not appear to have been connected by birth or rank with the regal or sacerdotal class, although, among other accounts circulated respecting him while in england, it was stated that he was a priest of the sun, an office and title unknown in his native islands.
while advancing towards the ship,  he felt a pain in his back, which occasioned him involuntarily to start in his  seat; and, placing his hand on the part affected, he fell forward in the canoe,  and instantly expired.
six of the natives were severely injured, and oripaia with one of his attendants died.
this vessel, considering it as their first effort at  ship-building, was an astonishing performance.
these collateral exertions often occasion embarrassment, and it would be highly  gratifying, if other institutions were able to prosecute those departments of  effort, which are rather appendages than proper parts of missionary labour.
the greater part of the inhabitants of the settlement in which it is  held, and many from remote districts, having assembled in the place of worship;  we usually took our seats near a table at one end of the building.
we recommended him to persevere in completing it, and, in order to  encourage him, promised him nails to make doors, and whatever else was wanting.
he reached tahiti in august, 1818, and shortly afterwards removed to eimeo, where the began to erect the machinery, and enclosed a considerable tract of ground in the fertile and extensive valley at the head of the beautiful bay of opunohu, usually called taloo harbour.
the promotion of  industry and civil improvement were important objects, and, in order to  accomplish them, especially in reference to the rising generation, two  artisans, messrs. blossom and armitage, were sent out with the deputation who  visited the south seas in 1821.
early in january, 1805, the missionaries prepared a larger catechism; and, on the 6th of march, they adopted their tahitian alphabet.
we had all left our native land  about the same period, and had spent the greater part of our time, since  arriving in the islands, either at the same station or under one roof, and felt  deeply the first breach now made by death, in the little circle with which we  were more immediately connected.
be not angry, restore, restore; this is the sin, deceived by the foreigners (she) has forsaken you.
mr. armitage taught them to card the cotton, and mrs. armitage instructed them in spinning.
though not possessed of the greatest personal courage, he was a good politician, and a man of unusual activity and perseverance.
happily for us, the evening was fair, the moon shone  brightly, and her mild beams, silvering the foliage of the shrubs that grew  near the shore, and playing on the rippled and undulating wave of the ocean,  added a charm to the singularity of the prospect, and enlivened the loneliness  of our situation.
having adjusted our public arrangements, we returned to huahine on the haweis, in which messrs. barff, williams, and myself, proceeded to tahiti.
they are nearly two hundred and sixty feet apart, but without any partition between.
in answer, he was told that the facts of satan's dependence on, or subjection to the almighty, and his yet being permitted to tempt men to evil, were undeniable from the declarations of scripture, and the experience of every one accustomed to observe the operations of his own mind.
from making plain, straight-forward garments, the more  expert were anxious to advance still higher; and in process of time, frills  appeared round the neck; and, ultimately, caps covered the heads, and shoes and  stockings clothed the feet.
crowds of the natives  were already collected around the door, but they made way for him, and, after  he and his two companions had been admitted, the door was closed, and the small  window next the sea darkened, as he did not wish to be overlooked by the people  on the outside.
mr. bicknell, accompanied by mr. tessier, formed a station under the auspices of tati, in the populous district of papara.
these, together with captain bishop and his men, exposed to one common enemy, united with the missionaries for mutual defence; and to them, under god, the missionaries owed their preservation.
at the same time that the king thus publicly desired to profess  christianity, he proposed to erect a large and substantial building for the  worship of the true god.
when they arrived at tiataebua, puru, the king of huahine, and the chief of eimeo, received them cordially; said his son taaroarii wished to be instructed in the word of god, to learn about jehovah and jesus christ, of whom he had so frequently heard pomare speak.
their interior, however, was but little adapted to promote domestic comfort.
had our means been ample, and had we, on landing, or  when inviting the attention of the chiefs and people to the objects of our  proposed residence among them, liberally distributed presents of cloth,  ironmongery, &c. or even engaged in part to support the children that would  receive our lessons, the chapel would undoubtedly have been well attended, and  the scholars proportionably multiplied; but it would have been only from the  desire to receive a constant supply of presents; a motive highly prejudicial to  the individuals by whom it would have been indulged, destructive of the  comfort, and disastrous to the future labours of the missionary among them.
the conversation  is sometimes continued until a– 421 – late hour; and both the queries  and the replies are usually listened to with attention.
in this they found great difficulty, from what generally proves a source of perplexity to a learner, in his first attempt at understanding a foreign tongue, viz.
they were left to sustain alone the toils, sorrows, and privations of their remote and isolated station, and privations of their remote and isolated station, and to pursue in solitary pilgrimage the arduous and rugged track in which the providence of god had called them to walk, far from the sympathy of the kindred and friends of the departed.
improved circumstances of the females—instruction in  needle-work—introduction of european clothing—its influence upon the  people—frequent singularity of their appearance—development of  parental affection—increased demand for british manufactures—native  hats and bonnets—reasons for encouraging a desire for european dress,  &c.—sabbath in the south sea islands—occupations of the preceding  day—early morning prayermeetings—sabbath schools—order of divine  service—school exercises—contrast with idolatrous worship.
on the outside of this, the pieces of coral are placed, twelve or eighteen inches thick.
this often rendered their appearance to a european eye  exceedingly ludicrous.
during the two years he spent in this country, 368 he was inoculated for the smallpox, from which he happily recovered; and, loaded with presents profusely furnished by his friends, he embarked for his native island at plymouth, in the summer of 1776.
the rebels did not attempt to enter the district, but  sent a messenger with proposals of alliance, offering the english the  government of matavai, and the two districts to the southward, which they had  already ravaged.
mr. and mrs. orsmond occupied one end, and we took up our abode in the other.
it is  with you—you are our teachers, and you are to direct us.
the warmth of the climate, the spontaneous  abundance with which the earth and the sea furnished, not merely the  necessaries of life, but what was to the inhabitants the means of luxurious  indulgence, had, no doubt, strengthened their natural love of ease, and  nurtured those habits of excessive indolence in which they passed the greater  portion of their lives.
this strict observance of the sabbath, especially in regard to the latter points, whereby the tahitian 408 resembled the jewish more perhaps than the christian sabbath, was not directly inculcated by the missionaries, but resulted from the desire of the natives themselves to suspend, during this day, their ordinary avocations, and also from their imitation of the conduct of the missionaries in this respect.
on the 15th of april they reached the missionary station.
from the peaceful exercise of sacred worship, they had been that  morning hurried into all the confusion and turmoil of murderous conflict with  enemies, whose numbers, equipment, implacable hatred, and superstitious  infatuation from the prediction of their prophets, had rendered them unusually  formidable in appearance, and terrible in combat.
they  had obtained a creditable english, if not a classical, education, a due  knowledge of the scriptures, and an experimental acquaintance with the  principles of christianity; while some, with great mental vigour combined no  small degree of intellectual culture.
the importance and advantages of education appeared to be more extensively  appreciated, and between forty and fifty, principally adults, regularly  attended the mission school.
a day or two after our return to huahine, we were delighted to see one in the district of fare actually finished.
the  king wrote a letter to the chief of the district, hastening him in the  undertaking, and in a few weeks came over himself, in order to encourage the  parties engaged in the work, which advanced with celerity, and was in a short  time completed.
the whole of the new, and detached portions of the old testament, have been finished, and the remaining parts are in progress.
the principal island bougainville called taiti, and his designations of other islands greatly resemble those given them by the people.
they marked the steps, and developed the process, by which they were rising from the rude and cheerless degradation of the one, to the elevation and enjoyment of the other.
when captain cook visited taiarapu, in 1777, he saw the house which they had  left; it was divided into two rooms; loop-holes “were cut all around,  which served as air-holes, and, perhaps, might be meant to fire from with  muskets.”30
however much those who remained might have been affected by the departure of so  many of their companions, they felt no disposition to abandon the field, or  relax their endeavours for the benefit of the people.
all confessed that the new kind of houses were better than the old; that when the weather was warm, they could have as much air as was agreeable; and when the night was cold and the wind high, or the rain drifting, they had not, as formerly, to rise and move their beds, or secure their clothing from wet, but could sleep on, sheltered from the elements without.
whatever besides we had been able  to do, we considered ourselves wholly inefficient, until we were capable of  delivering our message to the inhabitants in their own tongue.
a few native houses were visible: there were not probably more than ten or twelve in the district, and the inhabitants might be occasionally seen guiding the light canoe across the bay, or leisurely walking beneath the shade of the spreading trees.
four brass cannon, which had been saved from the wreck of the  norfolk, were fixed in two of the upper rooms, and the inmates of the dwelling  were placed under arms, as far as the number of muskets would admit.
each class is under the care of a native instructor,– 322 – and we  have in several of the stations been highly favoured in the co-operation of  valuable sabbath-school teachers.
as we expected to be absent for several weeks, mrs. barff and mrs. ellis accompanied us; mr. orsmond, who had visited huahine, was returning to his station, and we embarked in his boat, although it was scarcely large enough to contain our party and half a dozen native rowers.
more than once,  individuals were selected to be offered in sacrifice to the gods, only because  they were christians.
the moon rose soon after the light of the sun had departed, and although she shone not at first in cloudless majesty through an untroubled sky, yet the night was a perfect contrast to the day.
in the autumn of the same year, mr. wilson went on board a  vessel at eimeo, which was driven– 118 – to the leeward islands,  where contrary winds detained him and his companions for three months.
when the missionaries paid a visit of condolence, idia requested them  to tell her son it was her wish that the body should remain at pare; and to  this the king consented.
mr. nott came over to afareaitu for the purpose of completing the plan.
we always told those who inquired, that it was not for us to say, what was the actual state of the departed; that of those who died in infancy, we were permitted to cherish the consolatory hope of their felicity; that those who survived 431 infancy, had not been without the admonitions of conscience, which had borne a faithful testimony to the character of all their actions; and that on the evidence of that witness they would be acquitted or convicted at the bar of god.
to have kindled a fire, or to have failed in the observance of any rite enjoined, or restriction imposed, during their tabu, or sacred seasons, would have been sufficient, not only to have neutralized all the advantages expected from the most costly offerings or tedious services, but would have exposed the offenders to the anger of the god, and perhaps to death, as its consequence.
industry, however, soon languishes, unless  nurtured by more powerful motives than the effects of abstract principles upon  partially enlightened and ill-regulated minds.
they are in general firm and muscular, but of a more spare habit of body than the tahitians.
these were scenes witnessed immediately after the general adoption  of european clothing.
in some places, the persecutions were so inveterate as to produce remonstrances, even from several of the inferior chiefs, who were themselves idolaters.
those names are in the enclosed paper,  which i have sent for your inspection.
i entered from the west; and the perspective of a vista, extending 379 upwards of seven hundred feet, partially illuminated by the bright glow of strong noon-day light entering through the windows, which were opened at distant intervals, along the lengthened line of pillars that support the raftersthe clean rustic appearance of the grass-spread floorthe uniformity of the simple and rude forms extending throughout the whole buildingthe pulpits raised above themheightened the effect of their perspective.
but as the subject was more frequently brought under their notice in public discourse, or in reading the scriptures, and their minds were more attentively exercised upon it in connexion with their ancestry, themselves, and their descendants, it appeared invested with more than ordinary difficulty; bordering, to their apprehension, on impossibility.
in our walks through the  native settlements, we were often amused at the state in which we found–  349 – the houses occupied by their proprietors.
their  early associations and strongest predilections were all in favour of otaheite,  ulitea, otahaa, &c. names which english voyagers had given to the scenes  and persons they describe, and it was only from the firm conviction that such  were not their native designations, that they adopted others.
a short time before sun-set, patii  appeared, and ordered his attendants to apply fire to the pile.
– 127 – an immolation, equally affecting, was related to me by mr. nott.
a chastened and dependent frame of  mind was very generally experienced at this period by the christians, which led  them to be prepared for whatever in the course of divine providence might  transpire.
the island of huahine had, in common  with the others forming the leeward group, been visited by mr. nott, who had  travelled round it, preaching to the inhabitants of the principal villages.
i have occasionally preached in  the royal mission chapel, but never when any other person besides was engaged;  consequently, i cannot say what effect is produced on the ear by the delivery  of more than one discourse at the same time.
this resulted from the king's sister being taken ill at afareaitu, while we  were residing there; and the natives wishing to send word to her relations, but  hesitating because it was the sabbath.
the command of christ to teach all  nations, in obedience to which the missionary had devoted his life to the  labour of preaching the gospel, directed him to baptize every proselyte in the  name of the father, and of the son, and of the holy ghost, and thus explicitly  enjoined the exhibition of the doctrine of the trinity, which every unitarian  professes to deny: and, so far as polynesian researches is concerned, the  affirmation appears without the least foundation.
when the missionaries heard the natives make use of a word or sentence with which they were not already acquainted, they wrote it down, and repeated distinctly several times what they had written.
no connected and regular account has, however, yet  been furnished; but in reviewing all that has been recorded, it may be  confidently affirmed, in the language of the deputation sent by the society to  the south seas, that “god has indeed done great things here.”
they are, however, productive of important  benefit.
he 78 maintained an arduous post among the pioneers of the little army of christian missionaries, who, unarmed with bow and sword, had ventured to attack idolatry in its strongest holds among these distant islands; and, high on the pagan hills, where satan sat encamped, and o'er the subject kingdoms threw perpetual night, to plant immanuel's cross, the ensign of the gospel, blazing round immortal truth.
soon after my arrival, i visited the school, and was greatly delighted to behold numbers of adults, as well as children, under the direction of messrs. davies and tessier, learning their alphabet and their spelling, or reading with distinctness their lessons, which were principally extracts from scripture.
the extension of the redeemer's  kingdom had been the topic of discourses in the native congregation on the  preceding sabbath, and had in some degree prepared the minds of the people for  entering more fully into the subject.
the duration of the buildings was in general according to the nature of the thatch; the same house frequently received two or three new roofs, and if the frame was well put together, and the timber seasoned, a plastered cottage would probably 358 last ten or fifteen years.
they slept on mats manufactured with palm-leaves, spread on the ground.
we planted, as memorials of our visit, the seeds of some large oranges, which  we had brought with us; then launched our boat, and prosecuted our voyage  within the reef towards the settlement on the other side of the island.
it for the moment took away the anguish occasioned by a note that instant received from serampore, saying, that brother carey was at the point of death!
they sung a hymn; a portion of their scripture history, which was  entirely composed of scripture extracts, was read; and prayer, in simplicity of  language but sincerity of heart, was offered up to god.
pomare subsequently made war upon the inhabitants of pare, where the europeans had been plundered: the people were defeated, fourteen of them killed, and forty or fifty of their houses burnt.
when he had finished the  sixteenth verse of the third chapter, a native, who had listened with avidity  and joy to the words, interrupted him; and said, “what words were those  you read?
notwithstanding all the care that had been  exercised in selecting the printing materials and the accompanying apparatus,  many things were either deficient or spoiled; here we could procure no proper  supply, and the edition was not completed until the beginning of 1818.
the arrival of so large a reinforcement enabled the missionaries to make arrangements for re-occupying their original station in tahiti, and establishing a mission in the society, or, as they are usually termed, when spoken of in connexion with tahiti and eimeo, the leeward islands.
some substituted tough pieces of fish-skin, pieces of the skin of other animals, or leather procured from the ships; but these soon broke, and many of the natives set to work to make wooden hinges.
in 1821, captain grimes was surprised at the regularity and good order observed; the children of the sabbath-school were ushered in by their teachers in their different classes, with as much uniformity as we see in public schools in london.
with some who had  now arrived, we had parted nearly two years before in our native land; others  we had left among strangers on a foreign shore; but we were now, in the  providence of god, brought together under circumstances peculiarly encouraging;  and not only permitted to enjoy each others' society, but to combine our  energies for the advancement of that cause to which our lives were devoted.
discussions of this nature, though adapted to interest the people, and encourage the exercise of intellect, were probably more amusing than profitable; and, notwithstanding the diversified subjects presented, their inquiries generally referred to the new order of things which christianity had introduced.
imperat, 1774, stood in front of the house, and near it was the grave of the commander of one of the ships, who died in 1774.
the abundance of natural productions, the apparent salubrity of the air, the convenience of the stream of water, the facility of the harbour, combined to recommend it as an eligible spot for at least the temporary residence of a part of the missionaries.
regardless of other things, i am  concerned only that my soul may be saved by jesus christ!
the missionaries, as well as the seamen, stood sentinels in turn, night and day, in order to prevent surprise.
some of the missionaries  carried their principles of forbearance so far, as to declare that, but for the  exposure of the females even then it would not be right to have recourse to  arms.
when the materials were prepared, the man and boys of the district  assembled in a kind of temporary house, erected over the still, in order to  drink theava, as they called the spirit.
– 310 – they occur more frequently in the south than in the north  pacific, and although often seen among the society islands, are more rarely met  with in the sandwich group.
the old hundredth psalm, denmark.
we were not unconscious of our peril, and, as a last resort, took down our little sail and our mast, tied the masts, bowsprit, and oars together in a bundle, with one end of a strong rope, and, fastening the other end to the bow of our boat, threw them into the sea.
in  the island of huahine, we had, during the latter part of our residence there,  two district schools, one for the males and the other for the females, which we  found more conducive to their improvement, than the method of instructing both  sexes in the same school.
since the establishment of the stations in huahine and the other  islands, the number has been greatly diminished; the people in many parts have  resorted to the missionary settlement, particularly on the sabbath; and the  places formerly used as chapels have been converted into schools.
soon after the abolition of idolatry by the inhabitants of huahine, raiatea, and the adjacent islands, several of the chiefs and the people of borabora and raiatea visited maurua, the most westerly of 173 the leeward islands, and succeeded in persuading the chiefs and people to demolish their temples and idols, and receive christian instruction.
more than once having received intimation of the  murderous purpose of the parents, they had, when the period of childbirth drew  nigh, used all their influence to dissuade them from its execution, offering,  as a reward for this act of common humanity, articles highly valued by them.
we have always superintended the schools, and generally taught the higher classes.
i have not heard that glass windows have been introduced into the chapels of any of the stations.
the  assembled multitude were confounded and astonished; and the food being, by this  act, offered as they considered to jehovah, no one dared to take any part of it  to the idol temple.
pomare and his english allies marched  the next morning to the strong-hold of the natives, and were much disappointed  at finding it filled with men determined to defend it to the last.
they now felt that they were cut off from  all but divine guidance, protection, and support, and had parted with those by  whose counsels and presence they had been assisted in entering upon their  labours, but whom on earth they did not expect to meet again.
aberahama, an interesting and  intelligent young man, who was a pupil in our school at eimeo, was marked out  as a victim; and, when the servants of the priests came to take him, being  obliged to fly for his life, he was pursued by the murderers, shot at, wounded,  and but narrowly escaped.
the  return, however, is distant, and the crops are less productive than many other  articles that might be cultivated in the islands, especially unconnected with  the distillation of rum from the refuse of the juice, or the molasses of the  sugar.
others could repeat correctly, from memory, the  whole of the books, and were anxious for fresh ones.
they appear a hardy and industrious race, capable of enduring great privations.
still the massy pile of solid stonework,  constituting one end of the area which themarae included, remained in a  state of partial dilapidation—an imposing monument of thehau riaria, reign of error, as they denominated idolatry.
we pulled in our bundle of masts and oarsthe natives manned the oars, and rowed towards the west.
it was you that taught us; but the words, the knowledge, was from jehovah.
the following is a translation of the letter which he sent with them.
this district  had formerly been distinguished for the turbulent and warlike dispositions of  its inhabitants, and the ardour of their zeal in the service of their  idols—the magnitude of the idol temples—the sanguinary character of  their worship—and the presence of oro, the war-god of the south sea  islanders.
though  i could not understand their language, i was pleased with the large attendance,  and the serious and– 209 – earnest manner in which the people  listened to an animated discourse delivered by mr. nott.
what the pegs wanted in strength, they determined to supply by numbers, and i think i have seen upwards of fifty or sixty hard pegs driven through one of these cross-pieces into the boards forming the door.
he reached  england when the interest of captain cook's first voyage, and the deep  impression produced by his discoveries, were still vivid and universal, and  anticipation was raised to the highest pitch, in reference to the developments  expected from his second visit to that distant part of the world.
with the name he also associated the  title of majesty, styling himself, and receiving the appellation of, “his  majesty pomare.”
their canoes were lying on the beach.
the chief appeared in a most affecting state, dreadfully  scorched with the powder; mr. broomhall employed such applications as he  supposed likely to alleviate his sufferings; these, however, increased, and  both the chief and his wife attributed his pains, not to the effects of the  explosion, but to the remedies applied, or rather to the poison imagined to be  infused into the application by the– 33 –god of the foreigners.
the vessel was but imperfectly manned, and a number of natives, of raiatea and tahiti, were taken on board, to dive among the lagoon 133 islands for the pearl oyster.
an impression at this time fixed itself on his mind, that perhaps this suffering was designed to shew the intensity of the torments which the wicked would endure in the place of punishment.
they had, however, scarcely proceeded a mile on their way, when, on approaching the margin of a river, they were each suddenly seized by a number of natives, who stripped them, dragged two of them through the river, attempted to drown them, and, after other ill-treatment, threatened them with murder.
mai being the  first native of the islands of the south sea, brought to england, produced an  excitement as unprecedented, in connexion with an untutored islander, as it was  powerful and extensive, even in the most polished circles of society.
numbers excused themselves from attending, on account of the wearisomeness of learning their 255 letters, when there was every reason to believe that unwillingness to conform to the precepts inculcated, was the true cause of disinclination.
the natives crowded  the ship; and pomare, who was on board, beheld with expressions of contempt the  poverty of the vessel, and the distress of her crew.
let  thy word grow with speed in the world, so as to exceed the progress of evil.
in this there was not much difficulty, the whole district was before us, and but few places, except in the vicinity of the shore, had been selected by the people, who were waiting till we had made our choice, that they might build as near our dwelling as would be convenient.
this invitation they accepted; and, as the presence of  the king was necessary in several of the usages and ceremonies observed on such  occasions, pomare went over about the same time, formally to reinstate them in  their hereditary possessions.
map of the georgian and society islands page 1.
specimens of fibrous limestone, and small fragments of calcareous rock, have been occasionally 343 found in some of the islands, but not in quantity or kind to be available in the preparation of lime for building.
this being  done, he hastened to the sacred depository of his gods, brought them out, not  indeed as he had been on some occasions accustomed to do, that they might  receive the blind homage of the waiting populace,—but to convince the  deluded multitude of the impotency and the vanity of the objects of their  adoration and their dread.
a chapel has been built with this material in the island of  eimeo, and it will probably last longer than any other yet erected.
between five and six hundred  native christians were there assembled, to worship the true god.
a more acceptable sacrifice they thought they could not offer, as the revenge they should thereby wreak upon him, would not only gratify their own insatiate malice, but be so acceptable to the gods whom he had rejected, as certainly to render them propitious.
on the  13th of july, 1801, captain wilson, and the eight missionaries from england,  landed near point venus, and were introduced to otu, pomare, and other  principal chiefs, by whom they were welcomed to tahiti.
the  female with whom he had lived as his wife, informed them that he went out of  the house on the preceding evening, and that hearing a noise shortly  afterwards, she hastened to the spot whence it proceeded, and saw him on the  pavement in front of the house, beating his head against the stones.
the body of the deceased chief was embalmed by a process peculiar to the inhabitants of the south sea islands, and already described.
we usually found them either reading together, conversing on the contents of their books, or some other religious subject.
the missionaries had often, with mingled feelings of horror and pity, heard their songs of licentiousness or of war, as well as the cantillations of their heathen worship, and their songs in honour of their idols; and it is scarcely possible to form an adequate idea of the delightful transport with which, at first, they must have heard the high praises of the almighty preferred by native voices.
we followed, amid the multitude of their parents and friends; and, on reaching the place of assemblage, beheld about three hundred boys sitting in classes on the grass on the right-hand side of the rising ground, each teacher presiding at the head of his class.
perceiving there was but little prospect of inducing him, by falsehood, to accompany them towards the beach, and irritated, probably, by his heroical reply, they rushed upon him, wounded, and murdered him, and then, in a long basket made with the leaves of the overshadowing cocoanut 129 tree, bore his body to the temple, where, with exultation, it was offered in sacrifice to their god they had, perhaps, beheld, with fiend-like joy, his writhing agonies in death, and listened with equal delight to his expiring groans.
by representations such as  these, we endeavoured to excite in their minds a desire to hear the scriptures  read, and the gospel preached, in the chapels, and to attend our instructions  in the schools.
when the heated iron was hammered on the anvil, and  the sparks flew among them, they fancied it was spitting at them, and were  frightened, as they also were with the hissing occasioned by immersing it in  water; yet they were delighted to see the facility with which a bar of iron was  thus converted into hatchets, adzes, fish-spears, and fish-hooks, &c.
the public service in the evening commences, in most of the stations, about a quarter before four, and is performed in the same manner as that in the forenoon.
a small quantity of cocoa-nut oil, the article they could most easily procure, was therefore demanded for each book, and cheerfully paid by every native.
by  universal consent the infamous areoi society was destroyed at the same time.
the state of affairs in tahiti was such, as to prevent the queen and her sister from proceeding on their intended tour of the island; but while they remained at pare, a circumstance occurred similar to that which had transpired in eimeo, though probably more decisive and important in its immediate result.
that they had not died so soon: great are my crimes; i am the father of  nineteen children; all of them i have murdered—now my heart longs for  them.
they  were deeply affected, even unto tears.
their own circumstances were by no  means prosperous: they had heard but once from england; they were expecting  every day the arrival of the duff with cheering tidings and additional aid; but  the intelligence now received, not only disappointed their hopes, but depressed  their spirits, and darkened their prospects.
previous to our embarkation from england, we had heard that a  favourable change, in regard to christianity, had taken place in the minds of  the king of tahiti, and a few of the people.
a solemn prayer was offered, after which 268 mr. nott delivered a short, animated, and suitable discourse, from the eunuch's answer to philip, acts viii.
we planted, as memorials of our visit, the seeds of some large oranges, which we had brought with us; then launched our boat, and prosecuted our voyage within the reef towards the settlement on the other side of the island.
the chiefs treated them with every mark of friendship, regretted that their  establishment should suffer from the quarrel between them and the king, and  requested them not to leave the island.
his father pomare, and his mother idia, were probably more infatuated with idolatry, and more uniformly attached to the idols, and every institution connected with their worship, than even the priests, or perhaps any other individuals in the islands.
this great and important event, confirmed in its results, and strengthened in its character, by the extension of its influence, and the increasing power of the principles it implanted, during the last fourteen years, already occupies no inferior place among the modern evidences of christianity, and the demonstrations of its legitimate tendency to ameliorate the condition, and elevate the moral and intellectual character, of the most wretched and depraved among mankind.
the men who remained at home, in times of war, were generally either  aged or sick, and incapable of bearing arms.
it was upwards of sixty feet long,  but rather narrow.
we were desirous of securing the advantages of garden-ground and water;  but in seeking these, we avoided obliging the natives to remove from any of  those spots which they had already appropriated– 273 – to their own  use.
independently  of the desolation that surrounded them, and the confusion and disquietude that  must necessarily have attended their being all confined in one house, together  with the two captains and their seamen, they were daily expecting an attack.
the chiefs take a pride in building their own houses, which are now all after the european manner; and think meanly of themselves, if they do not excel the lower classes in the arts necessary for the construction.
otu now assumed the name of pomare, which has  ever since been the regal name in tahiti.
when this  was ended, a short prayer was offered, the benediction pronounced, and the  service closed.
we were for a long time surprised at the partiality of the natives  for woollen cloth, and hardly knew how to account for it, as it does not  altogether arise from its being more durable.
the advanced ranks 150 of these united bands met, and arrested the progress of the hitherto victorious idolaters.
the mighty  workings of the spirit of god, in producing this remarkable change, were not  confined to tahiti, eimeo, and the adjacent islands, forming the georgian  group, it extended also to the leeward or society islands.
while these delightful changes were advancing in tahiti, the king and his friends were not unmindful 164 of those who had been left behind in a state of painful uncertainty at eimeo.
this we filled with the oil, and thus our lamp and oil were entirely the production of the cocoa-nut tree; the small piece of cotton-wick gathered from the garden in eimeo, being the only article it had not supplied.
the different parties, as they arrived towards midnight, learned,  with no ordinary remorse and disappointment, that their prey had been alarmed,  and had escaped.
but the people  were so much under the slavish influence of custom, that, with one or two  exceptions, their efforts were unavailing, and the guilty murderers have in a  few days presented themselves at the missionary dwellings, not only with most  affecting insensibility, but apparently with all the impudence of guilty  exultation.
some have neat and commodious galleries; and in the island of  eimeo, on the site of the temple in which patii was priest, a neat and  substantial chapel has been built with white hewn coral.
the king, who was on board the ship at the time,  hastened on shore, and was only restrained from commencing an immediate attack  by the counsel of his– 80 – uncle, who urged the necessity of  invoking the favour of the gods before commencing hostilities.
these offerings were not only brought from the districts of raiatea and the adjacent islands, but also from the windward group, and even from the more distant islands to the south and south-east.
two or three thousand naked arms were simultaneously elevated from  the multitude assembled under the cocoa-nut grove, presenting a spectacle no  less imposing and affecting, than it was picturesque and new.
the surrounding hills are clothed with shrubs  or grass, and the lofty and romantic mountains, forming the central boundary,  are adorned with trees or bushes even to their summits.
before they returned, the king informed them, that,  apprehensive of unfavourable results from the reports already in circulation  among the chiefs and people, he could not consent to the prosecution of the  manufacture of sugar, &c., excepting on a very limited scale.
after the victory of the 22d of december 1808, the rebels plundered the district of matavai and pare, and, devoting to destruction every house and plantation, reduced the whole country to a state of the wildest desolation and ruin.
a few cocoa-nuts which i had planted near the printing-office appeared to thrive, as they were protected by a light fence round each of the trees.
the sacred day was not only distinguished by a total  cessation from labour, trade or barter, amusements, and worldly  pleasure—but no visits were made, no parties of company entertained, no  fire lighted, nor food cooked, except in cases of illness.
while some of the missionaries were employed in the exercise of those arts which were adapted to make the most powerful impression upon the 13 minds of the natives, others were equally diligent in exploring the adjacent country, planting the seeds they had brought with them from europe and brazil, and studiously endeavouring to gain an acquaintance with the native language, which they considered essential to the accomplishment of their objects.
they are punctual in repairing to the house of prayer after the first intimation, and are usually all assembled before the period for the service to commence has arrived.
the pilfering habits of the people rendered it necessary for them to watch their property during the night; and the unsettled state of political affairs in the island indicating their exposure to the consequences of actual war, led them to consider the line of conduct it would be their duty under such circumstances to pursue.
after many assurances to the contrary, their fears seemed to be removed.
– 252 – the large island of raiatea lies immediately to the west  of fare harbour, and, by the time we had finished our meal, the sun was partly  hid behind the high and broken summits of its mountains.
tamaota the king, and his brother, accompanied them, while  the rest of the chiefs and people of that island followed in their boats and  canoes.
when they took the  book, it was only necessary for them to be told the first word or sentence in a  chapter, in order to their repeating the whole correctly, even though the book  should be open at some other part, or the page be placed bottom upwards.
we now found ourselves near the ava moa,– 314 –  sacred passage, leading to opoa, the southernmost harbour in the island of  raiatea; and after rowing two or three miles, landed about midnight.
before mr nott visited the society islands, he finished the translation of the gospel of luke; and, in the course of the same year, the missionaries sent a copy of their catechism to new south wales, to be printed there.
the most showy  english dress they ever saw, would probably, in the estimation of every  beholder, appear comparatively plain, when placed by the side of those the  natives formerly wore.
the greater number of houses, already erected, contain only two or three  rooms on one floor, but several of the chiefs have built spacious, and,  considering the materials with which they are constructed, substantial  habitations, with two stories, and a number of rooms in each, having also some  of the windows glazed.
at length he reached the beach in safety; and, as he rose out of the  water, the natives on the shore fled with precipitation, climbing the trees, or  crouching behind the rocks and the bushes for security.
the temples were demolished, and the gods  committed to the flames.
let him not be reproved;  neither let the chiefs in general, nor his superiors, be angry with him on that  account.”
but oh! should i die with my sins unpardoned, it will be ill indeed with me.
the building was covered with the leaves of thepandanus, enclosed with a strong and neat, low aumoa, or boarded fence; and the area within the enclosure was filled with basaltic pebbles, or broken coral.
the passage,  in connexion with which these remarks are introduced, together with every  other, in which the sentiments held or taught by the missionaries are stated,  are sufficient to shew that they have not promulgated a mutilated  gospel—the vast accession of enjoyment to all classes, shews that is not a  melancholy system—while the opinions expressed by the converts themselves,  shew that their faith is not what is usually denominated unitarian.
215 heavy showers detained us at atimaha until ten o'clock in the forenoon, when we pursued our voyage.
on the 10th of august, 1796, they embarked in the thames on board the duff, a vessel which had been purchased to convey them to their destinations.
to the latter it was said he appeared, above the waters of the sea, having the  upper part of his person bound with many folds of finely braided cinet.
the enterprise in which they had embarked, had at its commencement united, in bonds of disinterested philanthropy, parties before but seldom 84 associated; and had, by a vigorous and combined movement, in force and magnitude surpassing any thing that had been hitherto attempted by british christians, introduced a new era in the missionary efforts of modern times.
on such occasions, and they  were not infrequent, the contrast between the country and the inhabitants must  have been most affecting, appearing as if the demons of darkness had lighted up  infernal fires, even in the bowers of paradise.
these were the only kind of lamps we had for some years, and, though rude in appearance, they gave a good light, when kept steady, and sheltered from the wind.
some observed, they were  perhaps designed to keep the head cool; others, to keep it warm; and
– 335 – the sun had nearly set when we reached the settlement at vaóaara.
on the 16th of january, 1814, idia, the king's mother, died.
their own dress was remarkably simple in its form and appearance, and was generally more or less suited to their vocation.
they had stocked it with cocoa-nuts, oranges, limes, and citrons, of which, not fewer than six hundred plants, with other productions, were growing remarkably well.
it will also tend to encourage the more extensive culture of the cotton, and, in the raw state, the natives will never decline disposing of it to him who offers the best price.
the excitement manifested frequently resembled that with which the people of england would hasten to witness, for the first time, the ascent of a balloon, or the movement of a steam-carriage.
each appeared to have possessed natural endowments  of a high order, and both were probably influenced by ambition.
we were glad to furnish the chiefs and others  with these most valuable articles, so far as our stock would allow, but it was  useless to think of supplying the wants of the entire population; we only  regretted that we could not have more ready access to our friends in england,  many of whom, we had no doubt, would readily have supplied them with an article  easily procured in abundance there, but here exceedingly scarce.
these  numerous islands, like those of tetuaroa to the north, are of coralline  formation, and the most elevated parts of many of them are seldom more than two  or three feet above high-water mark.
it has been stated, that the best canes now cultivated in the west  indies, are the kinds taken thither by captain bligh.
his affairs appeared desperate, and he entertained no thoughts of security, but  by flight to eimeo.
an impression at  this time fixed itself on his mind, that perhaps this suffering was designed to  shew the intensity of the torments which the wicked would endure in the place  of punishment.
the survivors, jealous of the missionaries, viewed them as the murderers of their countrymen, under the supposition that these multiplied evils were brought upon them by the influence of the foreigners with their god.
others said they  intended to cast away their idols, but did not wish to have their names written  down at that time.
here we found mr. crook and his family  waiting our arrival, to join in partaking of the breakfast they had prepared.
this, however, has not been general.
i procured a  trumpet-shell– 385 – actually used for these purposes in oahu, during  my residence there, and consider it one of the most interesting curiosities  which i was enabled to deposit in the missionary museum.
mr. williams encouraged its cultivation to a considerable extent  in the island of raiatea, and the natives were taught to prepare it for the  market of new south wales, in a manner that rendered the raiatean tobacco equal  to any brought into sydney.
the islands in  general are well supplied with water.
the effect of a present on the mind  of a rude or partially civilized chieftain is instantaneous, but it requires  constant repetition, or increase, to prevent its decline.
while gazing on the motley group that surrounded our boat, or thronged the adjacent shore, and exchanging our salutations with those nearest us, before we were aware of their design, upwards of twenty stout men actually lifted our boat out of the water, and raised it on their shoulders, carrying us, thus elevated in the air, amid the shouts of the bearers, and the acclamations of the multitude on the shore, first to the beach, and then to the large court-yard in front of the king's house, where, after experiencing no small apprehension from this unusual mode of conveyance, we were set down safe and dry upon the pavement.
a large number of pomare's adherents, who were professors of christianity, and inhabitants of huahine, raiatea, borabora, and eimeo, with pomare-vahine and mahine, the chief of eimeo and huahine, accompanied the king and the refugees to tahiti.
in this state we found them when we landed;  they had, with the exception of one or two individuals, forsaken idolatry, and,  in profession at least, had become christians; probably without understanding  the nature of christianity, or feeling in any great degree its moral restraints  or its sacred influence.
under these impressions, those who were stationed in the leeward islands, next to religious instruction, directed their attention to the promotion of industry among the people and the improvement of their temporal condition.
broomhall—notice of his subsequent history.
he then alluded to the  toil they endured, and the zeal and diligence so often manifested, in the  service of these idols.
while individuals and families were thus engaged in the erection of  their domestic habitations, the people of the island were occupied in raising a  spacious and substantial chapel.
when  done, it was quite a curiosity– 354 – among the natives of the  leeward islands, and multitudes came on purpose to see it.
the first sheet of st. luke's gospel was nearly printed, when the active, with six missionaries from england, arrived.
on his arrival, a small pig and a young plantain were procured, and handed to patii; who, in offering them to his god, thus addressed him:o
this was generally done by fixing benches  from one end to the other, and erecting a kind of desk or table equally distant  from both extremities, and near one of the sides.
it is my earnest desire, that i may become one of jehovah's people; and that god may turn away his anger from me, which i deserve, for my wickedness, my ignorance of him, and my accumulated crimes!
the word of god does grow in tahiti, and the raatiras are diligent about setting up houses for worship, they are also diligent in seeking instruction, and now it is well with tahiti.
the water within the reefs is as smooth as the surface of a lake in a pleasure-ground, though often from eighteen to thirty fathoms deep.
this unprovoked act of cruelty, on the part of pomare, heightened to such a degree the rage of the rebels, that they vowed the entire destruction of the reigning family.
on the 11th of may 1821, a large chapel was nearly filled with spectators.
man, they had represented as the scripture described him, and their own observation represented him to be, a sinner against his maker, and exposed to the consequences of his guilt;the love of god, in the gift of his only begotten son, as a propitiation for sin, and the only medium and ground of reconciliation with god, 182 restoration to the enjoyment of his favour, and the blessing of immortality.
the handle was taken out, a string passed  through the eye, and when the inhabitants were to– 386 – assemble, a  native boy went through the settlement, holding it up by the string with one  hand, and striking it with a stone which he held in the other.
the assembly dispersed with the utmost propriety and order;  many of them, as they passed by, cordially shook me by the hand, and expressed  their joy at seeing me among them.
they were, probably, confirmed in this definition by the fact of  such being the belief of their ancestors.
the interval between the close of the evening and the dawn of the following  day was pleasantly spent; and soon after sun-rise, on the morning of the 13th,  we were gladdened by the sight of the lofty mountains in huahine, which were  seen– 287 – above the line of clouds that rested on the western  horizon.
speaking of the departure of the spanish missionaries, and the  prospect of any future european establishment in the islands, he observes,  “it is very unlikely that any measure of this kind should ever be  seriously thought of, as it can neither serve the purpose of public ambition,  nor private avarice; and without such inducements, i may pronounce that it will  never be undertaken.
at the same time that the king thus publicly desired to profess christianity, he proposed to erect a large and substantial building for the worship of the true god.
here we experienced a hearty welcome from the chiefs and people.
—had they been spared, they would have been men and  women—learning and knowing the word of the true god.
the name of this individual was mai, usually called omai, from the circumstance of the o being prefixed in the native language to nouns in the nominative case.
he answered, yes; and the king said, “do you think you could  appropriate so much towards sending the world of god to the heathens?”
besides a service in english, the missionaries  preach twice in the native language, and visit the sabbath school; these  services are as many as they are able to undertake: the service at the morning  prayer-meeting is therefore performed by the natives.
it must be in some way advantageous to you, or you would not have been so anxious about it; and as i have done what you wished me to do, you ought to pay me for it.
on some occasions, while they have been  preaching, a number of areois, or strolling players, passing by, have commenced  their pantomime or their dance, and drawn away every one of the hearers.
we had only a  small quantity of mill-boards, and it was necessary to increase them on the  spot; a large quantity of native cloth, made with the bark of a tree, was  therefore purchased, and females employed to beat a number of layers or folds  together, usually from seven to ten.
when the vessel arrived at tahiti, pomare  succeeded in securing to mr. shelly its restoration, though most of the  property had been plundered.
under the unrestrained influence of their intoxicating draught, in their appearance and actions they resembled demons more than human beings.
as  soon as the natives had seen how they were prepared, which was simply by  extracting the hair and the oil, they did this at their own houses; and in  walking through the district at this period, no object was more common than a  skin stretched on a frame, and suspended on the branch of a tree, to dry in the  sun.
these latter were fastened to the long boards by strong wooden pegs.
our first effort was to  build a lime-kiln, on which we bestowed considerable labour, though it did not  ultimately answer.
i stood beside the rustic hillock on which the tall grass waved in the  breeze, and gazed upon the plain stone that marks the spot where his head  reposes, with feelings of veneration for his character.
the bible has  been the basis of the greater part of the instruction given in the schools, but  not to the exclusion of other departments of knowledge.
in this state matters remained some timeseveral of the finer parts of the iron-work were destroyed by the rust, and the whole greatly injured.
“leave me,” said the dying  warrior; “mark yonder man, in front of mahine's ranks; he inflicted this  wound; on him revenge my death.”
although dangerously ill at the time these efforts were made, the woman recovered, and, notwithstanding all the fearful representation of consequences, made by her friends, attended the school again, so soon as her strength admitted.
besides these regular periods of instructions and times of  public worship, the missionaries frequently held special meetings with those  whose names they had written down, for the purpose of unfolding more fully the  sublime doctrines of revelation, and uniting with them in social worship.
the facility with which the manufacture of sugar might be carried on by the people, and the certain market it would always find in port jackson should they be able to furnish more than their own necessities required, induced us not only to recommend it to the natives, but also to plant with sugarcane the ground already cleared and enclosed.
when the queen went over to tahiti, pomare undertook a journey round eimeo, purposing, by conversation with the chiefs of the different districts, to inform them of the nature of christianity, endeavour to induce them to receive it, and recommend it to the people.
mr. gyles, on his way to the colony of new south wales in the month of august 1819, spent some time at huahine and raiatea; and we gladly availed ourselves of his visit, to make further inquiries relative to the object for which he had come to the islands.
in some, we imagined we could trace the spiral motion of the water as it was  drawn to the clouds, which were every moment augmenting their portentous  darkness.
we had nearly  finished, when he took his seat at the table; yet, before tasting his food, he  modestly bent his head, and, shading his brow with his hand, implored the  divine blessing on the provision before him.
the fire was kindled underneath; a hole was made in the wooden cap of the still, into which a long, small, bamboo cane, placed in a trough of cold water, was inserted at one end, and, when the process of distillation was commenced, the spirit flowed from the other into a calabash, cocoa-nut shell, or other vessel, placed underneath to receive it.
i had taken out a printing-press and types, and having, at the request of the directors, learned the art of 213 printing in england, it was proposed, that, as a temporary measure, to supply the existing demand for books, the press should be set up at afareaitu.
this was still refused; and, having asked  for some time without effect, he rose in anger, and ordered his party to  withdraw.
matavai is rather an open bay, and although screened from the prevailing trade winds, is exposed to the southern and westerly gales, and also to a considerable swell from the sea.
and i cannot but regret, that by dr. carpenter, towards whom i entertain no other feelings than those of respect, and desire to use no other language than that which courtesy would dictate, any statement in these volumes should have been so misunderstood as to have occasioned the declaration to which i have felt it needful to refer.
the supply now procured is, however, more regular, and the introduction of goats furnishing milk, and the flesh of the kid, the feeding of cattle, by which means the residents are able to make butter, and occasionally to kill an ox, has greatly improved their circumstances.
it was a large oval building, standing  within ten or twelve yards of the sea, without either partitions or even sides,  consisting simply of a large roof, supported by three pillars along the centre,  and a number round the sides.
tamatoa, the king of raiatea, shortly  after his return from tahiti, publicly renounced idol-worship, and declared  himself a believer in jehovah and jesus christ.
the greater part of the body is tataued,  sometimes in broad stripes, or large masses of black, and always without any of  the taste and elegance frequently exhibited in the figures marked on the  persons of the tahitians.
the king repeated his direction; a fire was made, the turtle baked, and served up at the next repast.
when i go to bed, it is the last thing that recurs to my memory; if i awake in the night, it is to meditate upon it alone; and in the morning, it is generally the first thing that occupies my thoughts.
i have often been overtaken with storms when at sea in european vessels, boats, and native canoes, but, to whatever real danger i may have been exposed, i never was surrounded by so much that was apparent, as during this voyage.
thirty-four or thirty-six, in one district, had, to use his own expression, laid hold of the word of god.
on one occasion, a family in eimeo were plunged into great distress, on account of the sufferings of one of its members, and the prospect of a fatal issue.
mr. williams encouraged its cultivation to a considerable extent in the island of raiatea, and the natives were taught to prepare it for the market of new south wales, in a manner that rendered the raiatean tobacco equal to any brought into sydney.
they were the rude untutored tenants of the place; their appearance and their actions were in perfect keeping with the scenes of wildness by which they were surrounded.
i hastily followed, and my attention was instantly directed to the waterspout.
mahine, and the leeward or society island chiefs, who had been present at the formation of the tahitian missionary society, were desirous that huahine, although it had not been equally favoured with facilities for receiving the gospel, should not be behind any of the windward group in the efforts of its inhabitants to sustain and to propagate it.
portions of scripture history and biography were among the most  engaging subjects of inquiry, especially those contained in the old testament.
individuals professing to understand making bricks have once or twice offered to teach the natives; but much as we have wished to possess permanent brick houses for ourselves, or to recommend the natives to prepare such, we are convinced that the labour would be too great, and the failures in burning them too frequent, to allow at present of their being made with advantage,yet we hope they will follow the plastered cottage, just as that now occupies the place of the native hut.
as soon as the natives had seen how they were prepared, which was simply by extracting the hair and the oil, they did this at their own houses; and in walking through the district at this period, no object was more common than a skin stretched on a frame, and suspended on the branch of a tree, to dry in the sun.
in the leeward of society islands the remembrance of these exercises are among the most pleasing recollections i retain of my intercourse with the people.
whether they were  more anxious than the other sex to obtain foreign articles of dress, and the  conveniences and the comforts of domestic life—or whether, feeling more  peculiarly their obligations to christianity, and desiring to take the lead in  the introduction of those habits which they had been taught to consider as the  necessary result of its principles, and the accompaniments of a christian  profession—it is unnecessary to determine; but they laboured diligently  and perseveringly, cutting down in the mountains wood for the fencing,  employing their own servants to transport it to the shore, clearing away the  brushwood, enclosing the ground, digging the soil, planting the seed, watching  with constancy its growth, and carefully gathering the cotton.
the wounded warrior fell, and shortly afterwards  expired.
the kindness and the sympathy of his fellow-labourers mitigated, however, in a great degree, the poignancy of his distress; and the consolations of religion supported his mind under a bereavement, which he had sustained in circumstances unusually distressing.
it is probable, also, that considering the tahitians as a christian people, he had some desire to emulate the conduct of solomon in building a temple, as well as surpassing in knowledge the kings and chieftains of the islands.
activity was now the order of the day.
it appeared more desirable, in the partially organized state of society then prevailing in the islands, to conclude all our public meetings by daylight, rather than call the people from home after sunset.
the state of feeling,  also, that prevailed among the inhabitants at this time, predisposed them  readily to attend to any recommendations of the kind; and the great deference  they now paid to the counsel of their teachers, presented an opportunity more  favourable than had ever occurred before, or was likely to occur again.
in 1801, when the royal admiral– 9 – arrived,  pomare was asked, when the missionaries were introduced to him, if they were  still to consider the district as theirs; and though he replied in the  affirmative, and even asked if they wished the inhabitants to remove, it  afterwards appeared that the natives considered them only as tenants at will.
the  roughness of the sea forbade our attempting to hoist a sail in order to avoid  it; and as we had no other means of safety at command, we endeavoured calmly to  wait its approach.
auna, formerly an areoi and a warrior, now a christian teacher, who was my informant on these points, then read the hymn, and the congregation sang it.
he was originally only a chief of the district of pare, but his natural enterprise and ambition, together with the attention shewn him by the commanders of british vessels, their presents of fire-arms and ammunition, and the aid of european seamen, especially the mutineers of the bounty, had enabled him to assume and maintain the supreme authority in tahiti.
the change appeared to be general  here.
the most perfect  order reigned the whole time of the service.
although the demand has  increased, and larger editions of the subsequent books have been necessary, the  british and foreign bible society has generously furnished the paper for every  subsequent portion of the scriptures that has been printed in the islands.
he was justly considered as the principal support of the idolatry of his country.
so  long as our distributions had been frequent and increasingly valuable, the  expressions of attachment would– 257 – have been ardent, and the  attendance regular; but when these had failed, their zeal, &c. would have  declined, and the chapel and the school would have been deserted.
early in the year 1806, the mission  was again weakened by the departure of mr. shelly, with his family.
this was his only ground of hope for pardon from the most high; and  when, by thus looking to the great means of purity and peace, he was enabled to  rest in hope, and his mind became calm and peaceful, tears of contrition were  often seen, while he gratefully remembered the amazing love of god.
the haweis, in returning to the islands in the spring of 1819, touched at norfolk islands, formerly an appendage to the colony of new south wales, and i believe re-occupied since that period.
the plate which forms the frontispiece to the third volume of this work,  exhibits an accurate representation of the outline and character of the scenery  in the north-eastern parts of the district and harbour, though taken at a  period subsequent to our arrival, when the landscape had been improved by  partially clearing the ground near the shore, and erecting a number of houses.
in october, mr. davies proposed to begin with the boys  attached to their own houses, and met them three nights in the week for the  purpose of instructing them in the catechism, and teaching them to read those  few specimens of writing they had been able to prepare.
the labour of keeping so large a place in  repair would be very great; and the occasions for its use so seldom occur, that  no repairs have been made since the king's death; and the exposure being  constant, it will not probably last many years longer.
on one occasion, a family in eimeo  were plunged into great distress, on account of the sufferings of one of its  members, and the prospect of a fatal issue.
a  remarkably ingenious and durable low fence called by the nativesaumoa,  was erected round it, and the area within the enclosure was covered with small  fragments of white branching coral, calledanaana, and found on the  northern shores of the day.
this was strikingly evinced on several occasions, when they beheld them use their carpenters' tools, cut with a saw a number of boards out of a tree, which they had never thought it possible to split into more than two, and make, with these, chests, and articles of furniture.
the prince of darkness,  the author of paganism, whose sway had been unrivalled, and whose seat–  168 –and stronghold had long been here, as well as in the other islands,  did not tamely surrender his dominions.
flushed with success, in the moment of victory, the king's warriors were,  according to former usage, preparing to pursue the flying enemy.
a man would sometimes be a fortnight in making a single pair of  hinges.
as the number of stations  increased, bells were sent from england, but they were either too small,
the size of the  building was regulated by the number in the family, the rank or the means of  its proprietor, and the shape by his fancy.
three or four hundred yards  distant from the chapel, there was a beautiful and extensive grove.
mr. davies selected a spot between this place and the sea, on the same side; and mr. orsmond fixed upon one near the southern border of the harbour, and on the opposite side of the valley of mahamene, which was spacious, fertile, well watered, and sufficiently high to be secure from dampness.
the sides or walls around are composed of planks of the bread-fruit tree, fixed perpendicularly in square sleepers.
he remained attentively watching the press, and admiring the  facility with which, by its mechanism, so many pages were printed at one time,  until it was near sunset, when he left us; taking with him the sheets he had – 223 – printed, to his encampment on the opposite side of the bay.
few in number, compared with what they had been when they maintained their former station in matavai, and suffering under the heaviest domestic bereavements; prevented by personal indisposition, and other circumstances, from engaging, either very frequently or extensively, in the main work of instructing the people; their exertions, greatly to their own regret, were exceedingly circumscribed.
while advancing towards the ship, he felt a pain in his back, which occasioned him involuntarily to start in his seat; and, placing his hand on the part affected, he fell forward in the canoe, and instantly expired.
many of the female voices are clear and soft, without being weak; and they usually perform parts appropriated to the female voice better than the men do theirs.
this, however, at the time to  which i now refer, 1819, was a rare occurrence; although, in the earlier  periods of the mission, it had been frequently manifested, not only in regard  to needlework, but every department of instruction.
the first native improvement was made by mai, the chief of  borabora, residing at that time at fare in huahine; and we believe this was at  the request of his daughter.
it originated entirely  with the king, and in its erection the misionaries took no part.
illustration of this remark may be found in pomare's  prayer, recorded in page 163; his letter, page 173; the experience of the dying  areoi, page 172; the conduct of the astonished native, on hearing the 3d  chapter of st. john's gospel, as given in page 187 of the present volume; and  other places, which it is needless to enumerate.
jesus christ is my keeper,  without his permission you cannot harm me; you may be permitted to kill my  body, but i am not afraid to die!
it was intended to employ the vessel in the pearl-fishery, among the paumotu islands 240 to the eastward; to work her with native seamen, to take the pearls, and mother-of-pearl shell, to port jackson; bringing from that settlement tools, cutlery, and manufactured goods for the natives, and supplies for the mission; thus providing a means of stimulating the people to habits of industry, and defraying to a certain degree the expenses of the mission.
in the court-yard of the  king we were met by our friends messrs. williams and threlkeld, in whose  society we spent about fourteen days, and who, considering the short time they  had been among the people, had been the means of producing an astonishing  change, not only in their habits and appearance, but even in the natural face  of the district.
the religious services of a general kind, among the natives, during  the week, are not numerous.
he was a native of huahine, where he had been chief priest since the death of his elder brother, who had sustained that office before him.
it appeared to have remained in the state in which we saw it  for some months past.
this was probably done from motives of jealousy, lest, by cultivating the land, and reaping the fruits of it, the foreigners should suppose it had become theirs, and the natives cease to be its proprietors.
the next morning a letter was addressed to the captain, requesting him to delay his departure forty-eight hours, that they might deliberate on the steps necessary to be taken.
captain wilson was, however, happy to find the king,  chiefs, and people, so willing to receive the missionaries, and so friendly  towards them; and the latter being now settled with seeming comfort in their  new sphere of labour, the duff sailed for the friendly islands on the 26th of  march.
he was esteemed by the natives, and supposed to be a favourite with the gods.
when pomare returned, he solicited from the captains, men and arms to go against the insurgents; and on the 3d of july, captain bishop and the mate of the nautilus, with twenty-three europeans, well supplied with ammunition, arms, and a four-pound cannon, accompanied pomare's forces to the attack.
before mr nott  visited the society islands, he finished the translation of the gospel of luke;  and, in the course of the same year, the missionaries sent a copy of their  catechism to new south wales, to be printed there.
questions, similar to those started by these untutored islanders, have  frequently been agitated among the learned, in the ethical schools of europe;  and our most subtle casuists have found no easy task in obviating the  difficulties which they involve.
they accompanied us to huahine in  1818.
the difficulties we encountered resulted not less from the  inveteracy of their idle habits, than from the absence of all inducements to  labour, that were sufficiently powerful to call into action their dormant  energies.
here, the fresh water used in washing their hands, the cocoanut water which was their frequent beverage, and the sea-water in which they dipped their food, was often spilt.
thus fancy paints thee, and, though apt to err, perhaps errs little when  she paints thee thus.
in the year 1809, mr. nott alone  remained with the king and the people in the island of eimeo; the other  missionaries, with the exception of mr. hayward, removed from huahine to port  jackson.
writing, reading, and spelling are not taught, but the time is devoted to the religious instruction of the children.
habits of application were also  essential to the cultivation of intellect, the increase of knowledge, and  enjoyment in the present life.
in tahiti, the idolaters proceeded to the greatest acts of lawless violence and horrid murder.
it was not only furnished with a pulpit,–  362 – a desk, a boarded floor throughout, constructed of the tough planks  of the reva, and filled with pews and seats, but, by the invention and  ingenuity of the missionaries, it was subsequently furnished with a rustic set  of chandeliers.
the rebels were now masters of the greater part of the island; and, as the missionaries had every reason to believe they would attempt the conquest of the remainder, and knew that their establishment was the only point where they were likely to meet with the slightest resistance, they neglected no means of defence.
it is probable they also expected, by this summary  vengeance, to deter others from following his example.
there is no date affixed to it, but from  the evident frequency with which it has been used, and the portion of scripture  written on the preceding pages of the same sheet of paper, i am inclined to  think it was written about this period.
as it respects the spiritual improvement of the rising generation, the  understanding of the scriptures, and the extension of christianity,  sabbath-schools are the most interesting and encouraging sections of this  department.
xvii from page 418 to page 438.
a portion of the scriptures, in the native language, is then read; and the thanksgivings and petitions of the assembly are offered to almighty god, with a degree of fervour, appropriate use of scripture language, and chastened devotional feeling, that is astonishing, when it is considered that, but a few years before, they were ignorant and barbarous idolaters.
him, and him alone, i found to be a refuge, a rock in  the storm of contending feelings, on which my soul could cast the anchor of its  hope for pardon and acceptance before god; and although not visibly present, as  with his disciples on the sea of tiberias, we could not but hope that he was  spiritually present, and that, should our bodies rest till the morning of the  resurrection in the unfathomed caverns of the ocean, our souls would be by him  admitted to the abodes of blessedness and rest.
he fixed two large stones in the  ground for a fire-place, and, bringing a bundle of dry sticks from the adjacent  bushes, lighted a fire between the stones, upon which he placed the tea-kettle.
maitai is good, po is night, andtuaana brother.
these attributed all his reverses to the respect he had shewn the missionaries, and the inclination he had indulged towards their god; and declared that he need not expect his affairs to be retrieved, since he had forsaken the gods of his ancestors, and insulted those to whom his family was indebted for the elevated distinction to which it had been raised in tahiti, and the neighbouring islands.
some openly avowed their attachment to the new order of things, maintaining, in the midst of the heathen around them, daily worship in their families, and morning and evening devotion in private; others, for fear of giving offence to their chiefs or neighbours, maintained secretly their profession, and at the hour of midnight met together, as the persecuted christians in england have often formerly done, in the depths of the woods, or the retired glens of the valleys, for conference or social prayer.
when the place became again too small, a similar enlargement had been made;  and, as the new piece which supported the roof, was laid upon the former  ridge-pole, it distinctly marked the increase of christian worshippers at the  place within the last four or five years.
should this be elicited, they will confer no  ordinary benefit on the cause of missions, and afford great satisfaction to the  christian world.
a sermon was preached in the forenoon, and in the afternoon the people were addressed by mahine, taua, and other leading chiefs, on the advantages they had derived from the gospel, the destitute state of those who had not received it, and the obligation they were under to send it; proposing, at the same time, that each person, so disposed, should annually prepare a small quantity of cocoa-nut oil, which should be collected, sent to england, and sold, to aid the society, which had sent teachers to tahiti, in sending them to other nations.
they hastened to his house, and found the corpse lying on a bed; the forehead and face considerably disfigured with wounds, apparently inflicted with a stone and a sharp instrument.
in many instances i have seen a garment for the mother next selected; and then the father, with the remainder of their native produce, has purchased some articles for himself.
after this, he directed their attention to the miserable situation of those whom god had not 269 thus visited, and proposed that, from a sense of the value of the gospel, and a desire for its dissemination, they should form a tahitian missionary society, to aid the london society in sending the gospel to the heathen, especially those in the islands of the surrounding ocean; explaining the kind of remuneration given to the proprietors of ships, and the expensiveness even of sending missionaries.
this introduced the fashion, and many of the women made others for their husbands.
it was held on a kind of pier or quay built in the sea.
soon after the return of  captain bishop, the nautilus sailed; and the venus having revisited tahiti, on  the 19th of the following month capt.
the atehuruans fled to the valley, and the king and pomare set sail with their fleet to the place of rendezvous; and, lest oro should feel indignant at the treatment he had received, a human sacrifice was ordered; but as they had no captives with them, one of pomare's own servants was murdered, and offered, as soon as the king reached the shore.
the propriety of their using fire-arms was, however, questioned by some, and discussed by the whole body; who publicly agreed that it was not their duty even to inflict punishment upon those that might be detected in stealing their property, but to complain to their chiefs; and that they could take no part even with their friends, in any of their wars.
connected with the means employed in  the accomplishment of this important work, a few remarks on the agents who,  under god, were instrumental in effecting it, may not be inappropriate.
this admonished us to prepare our sleeping-place, as the twilight is short, and we were not sure of procuring lights for the evening.
shortly after our arrival in huahine, a large boat belonging to mahine, the chief of the island, two others belonging to messrs. orsmond and williams, and a fleet of canoes, brought down from eimeo a number of chiefs and people belonging to huahine, raiatea, &c.
it was headed by taute, – 81 – who had long been the king's prime-minister, and who was one  of the most powerful chiefs and successful warriors on the islands.
on their return home, they travelled through the district of atehuru, and found  the king, pomare, and all the chiefs and warriors of the land, assembled at the  greatmarae, where a number of ceremonies were performing in honour of  oro, the great national idol.
a house had been prepared, by the king, for the expected missionaries; but, as it was damp, and our residence at papetoai was not likely to be permanent, we took up our abode in a dwelling already occupied in part by mr. crook and his family.
they had erected a number of dwelling-houses, and a building for divine service, larger than that at huahine, but inferior in elevation and breadth; being forty-two feet wide, and at the sides about ten feet high.
at maatea, the district  from which the king wrote, ninety-six renounced idolatry while he was there, in  addition to others who had done so before.
a number of pillars in the centre supported the ridge-pole, or rather the different ridge-poles, which unitedly sustained the roof.
an excitement, highly beneficial in 262 its tendency, was awakened in the minds of the people; who, influenced by the example and advice of their friends from eimeo, attended in great numbers daily at the schools, and were seen in the chapel, not only on the sabbath, but whenever it was open for public worship.
we now found ourselves near the ava moa, 314 sacred passage, leading to opoa, the southernmost harbour in the island of raiatea; and after rowing two or three miles, landed about midnight.
a long aisle or passage, between the forms, extends from one end to the other.
the  beach was lined with canoes from distant parts of eimeo and other islands; the  houses of the inhabitants were thronged, and small parties had erected their  temporary encampments in every direction.
the bottom was covered, in the native fashion, with long grass, and, with the exception of a small space around each pulpit, was filled with plain, but substantial forms or benches.
at the same time,  messrs. nott and davies were requested to draw up a brief summary of the–  74 –leading events, and a short account of the principal persons mentioned  in the old testament, in the form of a scripture history, for the use of these  scholars.
by “other great doctrines of revelation,” i refer, in  addition to the existence, perfections, and character of the true god, to the  doctrine of the fall of man from his original state of rectitude and happiness;  and, in consequence of this, to an inherent disposition to prefer and practise  evil, and an exposedness to its penalty; to the messiah, the divinely appointed  and only means of deliverance; to the divinity of christ; to the atonement by  his death; to faith in him as the sinner's justification before god; and to the  divinity of the holy spirit, and the necessity of his influence to render the  declaration of the gospel effectual to those to whom it was proclaimed.
in the investigation and illustration of many things connected with the peculiar genius and character of their own countrymen, they will have advantages which no individual, who is a foreigner, can ever possess; and we may hope that the time is not far distant, when they will not only have standard works by native authors, but that their periodical literature will circulate widely, and spread knowledge and piety among all classes of the people.
while we remained, we visited the different parts of the district, and called upon the king,whom we were delighted to find in a neat plastered house,and, after spending two or three days with them at vaóaara, we returned to huahine.
the  necessity also of divine influences, to make the declaration of these truths  effectual to conversion, and to meeten those who believed, for the heavenly  state, had ever been inculcated in the catechetical and other exercises of the  school, in the meetings for reading the scriptures and conversation, and in the  discourses delivered in their assemblies for public worship.43 it is not, however, my object now to remark on the toasts, nor even the  speech of dr. carpenter, excepting so far as the speech regards the  instructions given to the tahitians.
our  business at tahiti being finished, messrs. barff, williams, and myself, with a  number of natives, sailed from eimeo about noon, on the 12th of august, in an  open boat belonging to mr. hayward.
nor is it easy for an individual, who has never beheld them in such a situation, to realize the sensation produced, when the solitary voyagers, from their light canoe, or deckless boat, dancing on every undulating wave, descry them towering from the surface of the water, uniting the ocean and the heavens, while the powerful agitation of the former indicates the mighty process by which they are sustained.
theirimotu , a large yellow cane, and theto-ura, of a dark red colour, grow very  large, and yield an abundance of juice, but thepatu, a small light-red,  long-jointed cane, with a thin husk or skin, contains the greatest quantity of  saccharine matter.
they were instantly launched; and, hurrying 140 away what few things they could take, they embarked soon after sunset, and reached eimeo in safety on the following morning, grateful for the happy and surprising deliverance they had experienced.
otu, the king, suddenly left matavai, and repaired to his dwelling in pare, incensed against some of the missionaries, who, he was informed, had been endeavouring to prejudice the captain against him, that he might not receive any presents, and had actually prevented the captain from giving the natives the price they had asked for their pigs.
on the 6th of march 1798, exactly twelve months from the day on which the duff first anchored in matavai bay, a vessel arrived at tahiti; which, being the first they had seen since the departure of captain wilson, excited considerable interest.
the agents of vice, idolatry, and cruelty, were not inactive.
i venture with my guilt,  (or evil deeds) to jesus christ, though i am not equalled in wickedness, not  equalled in guilt, not equalled in obstinate disobedience, and rejection of the  truth, hoping that this very wicked man may be saved by jehovah jesus  christ.”
the men rejoiced at the idea of making hats; and yet, notwithstanding this, and the repeated offers of mrs. barff and mrs. ellis to teach the females to plat, and to make the plat into bonnets and hats, they were exceedingly averse to learn.
the most singular circumstance, however, connected  with the interior of the royal mission chapel, is the number of pulpits.
the presence of the chiefs of the different islands, with numbers of their people, the former devotees of their respective national idols, and the adherents of the different political parties, who had often within the last twenty years met for battle on the shores of huahine or raiatea, together with the novelty of the object, and the excitement of feeling which such a concourse of people necessarily produced, rendered the meeting exceedingly interesting, though to us it was less so than one subsequently held in fare, and that which we had attended in eimeo.
his  body was stout, but not disproportioned to his height; and his limbs, though  well formed, were not firm and muscular.
ia ora na oe e haweis, prosperity to you, o  haweis.
“children,” he adds, “are seen bringing their aged parents to  the church, that they may partake of the pleasure they derive from the  explanation of the bible.”
on such occasions, it was customary for a  priest or priests to attend; and before any of it was eaten, to offer the whole  to the gods, by taking parts of the animals, and particular kinds of the fruit,  to the temple, and depositing them upon the altar.
in assuming the posture of defence, the  king's friends formed themselves into two or three columns, one on the  sea-beach, and the other at a short distance towards the mountains.
scarcely were the remains of mr. lewis consigned to the silent grave, when  an event occurred, which again reduced the number of this already weakened  band.
i looked round very often during the  sermon, and saw not one of the congregation flag in their attention to it.
a female was sent, as a herald, with a flag of truce to the warriors in the fortress, informing them of the number slain, and proposing to them the king's terms of peace.
having driven to the mountains such as had escaped the  slaughter in the assault, plundered their houses, and afterwards reduced them  to ashes, the king took the bodies of the slain on board his fleet; and,  sailing to taurtira, offered them in sacrifice to oro.
the change appeared to be general here.
this question, with those frequently asked relative to the consequences of mistakes or interruption in prayer, probably arose from the impression left by the system of idolatry 427 they had so recently abandoned, whose only excellency consisted in the correctness of mere external form and ceremony.
a spacious chapel was erected prior to our  arrival, and a large school was subsequently built; multitudes from other parts  of the island took up their abode in the settlement, the school was filled with  scholars, and the chapel well attended.
i had taken the books down into the cabin, and was putting them by, when i heard the officer, in a tone of unusual earnestness, ask the captain to come on deck.
thus fancy paints thee, and, though apt to err, perhaps errs little when she paints thee thus.
it has sometimes been unwarrantably– 85 – insinuated,  that the founders of the missionary society expected to convert the heathen to  christianity by their own energy; and the allegation has been occasionally  repeated since those days,—perhaps, in some instances, to increase the  impression produced by the accounts of the recent changes which have taken  place in those islands, contrasting the former and latter results of missionary  labours, and representing them as demonstrations of the impotency of man, and  the power of the most high.
a chastened and dependent frame of mind was very generally experienced at this period by the christians, which led them to be prepared for whatever in the course of divine providence might transpire.
– 139 – the persecuted party was already formidable in point of  numbers and rank, and the idolaters, in order to ensure success in their  murderous design, invited the chiefs of atchuru and papara to join them.
in this state we found them when we landed; they had, with the exception of one or two individuals, forsaken idolatry, and, in profession at least, had become christians; probably without understanding the nature of christianity, or feeling in any great degree its moral restraints or its sacred influence.
they were not altogether so prepossessing in person, as, from  the different accounts i had read, i had been led to anticipate.
– 265 – the plan was proposed to the king, and at once approved  by him; it was also mentioned to several of the leading chiefs, by whom it was  favourably received.
mr. bicknell went over in a vessel bound to the pearl islands, and in a few  days returned, with the pleasing report that a spirit of inquiry had been  awakened among some of the inhabitants of that island, and that two of those  they had formerly instructed, had occasionally met to pray to god.
it closed in general about eight, after which the people repaired to  their daily employments.
in the sabbath-schools of the south sea islands, 412 the mechanical parts of instruction (namely, learning to read, spell, &c.) are not attended to; the time is wholly occupied in the religious improvement of the pupils, and is generally of a catechetical kind.
this was done with greater facility than they could burn it in the kiln  they had built, though with less economy in fuel.
their first  attempts, as might be expected, were exceedingly awkward, and the warp they  furnished was difficult to weave.
these letters had been written by individuals, who were unable to come, and apply personally for a book, and had therefore thus sent, in order to procure a copy.
after the subversion of  idolatry, thismarae was divested of its glory, stripped of all its  idolatrous appendages, and robbed of its gods, while the houses they occupied  were committed to the flames.
great attention had, during the  last year, been paid to the instruction of the children in the short catechism,  in which the first principles of christianity were familiarly exhibited to the  minds of the young people.
suffer us not to come to  thine house with carelessness, and return to our own houses and commit sin.
another once proposed the following query: you say god is a holy and a powerful being, that satan is the cause of a vast increase of moral evil or wickedness in the world, by exciting or disposing men to sin.
the refugees from the conquered districts had already sheltered themselves under the protection of the missionaries and their companions, and they would have fallen a sacrifice to the cruelty of their enemies, had these been allowed to pass through the district.
such  was the rapidity– 383 – with which places for public worship were  erected, that at the close of 1818, twelve months only after the battle of  narii, near bunaauïa, there were sixty-six in the island of tahiti alone.
a lucrative branch of industry and commerce now  appeared open to the enterprising and industrious inhabitants, when a heavy  duty, which, according to report, in order to favour its growth in new holland,  was laid upon all taken into the port of sydney, prevented their continuing its  culture with the least expectation of profit.
the vessel remained five days at tahiti, procured such supplies as the crew were most in need of, and ultimately sailed, leaving the five sandwich islanders on shore.
as we expected to be absent for several weeks, mrs.  barff and mrs. ellis accompanied us; mr. orsmond, who had visited huahine, was  returning to his station, and we embarked in his boat, although it was scarcely  large enough to contain our party and half a dozen native rowers.
all the books, hitherto in circulation among the people, had been gratuitously distributed; but when the first portion of scripture was finished, as it was a larger book than had yet been published, it was thought best to require a small equivalent for it, lest the people should expect that books afterwards printed would be given also, and lest, from the circumstance of their receiving them without payment, they should be induced to undervalue them.
they were not only anxious to instruct the people in  religion, but to improve their present condition by encouraging them to build  comfortable houses after our example, and to bring under cultivation a larger  portion of the soil than they had hitherto been accustomed to enclose.
from meditation on these, he derived the highest consolation and  support.
i  was struck with his tall and almost gigantic appearance; he was upwards of six  feet high, and seemed about forty years of age.
they were now desirous to assimilate their dresses in some degree to ours.
but considering the danger to arise from substituting external adornment for internal worth, and imaging that distinction in dress confers an advantage on its wearer, or entitles him to that which he would not otherwise assumethe missionaries were led to conclude, that a tahitian, arrayed in a scarlet and yellowtiputa , or invested in the rich fold of his ahu puu, was perhaps as humble in mind as those who appeared desirous to divest themselves of every exterior ornament.
in the course of the following year, a spelling-book, which mr.  davies had composed and used, was sent to england.
the schools are important appendages o every missionary station, and are considered such by the most intelligent and influential of the people.
to the organ which in the language of anatomy would be called the heart, they attributed no other susceptibilities than those which are common to other parts of the body.
why should they toil to make the earth bring  forth, when without toil she gave them all they wanted?
appeared to listen with earnestness, and desired to be more fully instructed.
he then directed the native servants of the  house to take care of it, and departed.
after the abolition of  idolatry in tahiti and eimeo, and the subsequent adoption of christianity by  their inhabitants, mahine, the king of huahine, had sent down vahaivi, one of  his principal men, with directions to the chiefs to burn the idols, demolish  the temples, and discontinue the ceremonies and worship connected therewith.
their delightful labours in this department of instruction– 323  – have not been in vain.
they are nearly two hundred and sixty feet apart, but  without any partition between.
the canoe at length reached the shore; we seated ourselves in its stern, and, advancing pleasantly along for seven or eight miles, reached our habitation about midnight.
whatever besides we had been able to do, we considered ourselves wholly inefficient, until we were capable of delivering our message to the inhabitants in their own tongue.
the inhabitants of the neighbouring islands were in still greater need.
if, however, they could by any means thrust their large muscular arms through the sleeves, it was thought to fit very well.
about nine o'clock, i saw crowds of natives repairing towards the place where  the horse had been tied up, in charge of one of pomare's favourite chiefs; and  shortly afterwards he was led out, while the multitude gazed at him with great  astonishment.
the gentleman who had hitherto  been his employer had proposed to make him his partner, had arranged for the  advance of a very considerable sum of money; part of the materials for  commencing the new establishment were procured, and the results in that line of  business have since been such, as to warrant the inference, that every  advantage the parties anticipated might have been realized.
the coral reefs form natural and beautiful breakwaters,  preserving the lowland and the yielding soil of the adjacent shore from the  force and encroachment of the heavy billows of the ocean.
the forenoon  was appropriated to worship, in english; at which time a sermon was preached by  mr. henry, one of the senior missionaries; and in the afternoon the services  were entirely in the native language.
i never saw any, even the most irreligious, or those unfriendly  to missions, who were not constrained to confess that it surpassed all they had  heard or imagined could have been exhibited; while others, more favourably  disposed, have publicly declared its effect on their own minds.
in our country it is customary for those instructed to pay their teachers.
they also offered pomare their private property, but he refused to take it; informing them, that so long as they remained, every thing in the store-room should be at their command; but that, in the event of their leaving the island, he should consider whatever remained as his own.
as soon as the printing was finished, we prepared to remove to the island of huahine, the most windward of the group properly called the society islands.
this is a most distressing consideration, and is a subject often brought before a missionary's mind, from the circumstances into which his engagements lead him, and the intimate connexion of his every effort with the future and eternal destinies of those around him; while it furnishes, next to the love of christ, one of the most powerful incentives to devotedness and unabated effort.
a few of the chief women  were furnished with an english riband, which was considered as valuable as an – 403 – embroidery of gold would be in some circles of society.
their diet and modes of living are, however, still very different from  those to which a european has been accustomed, and which he finds, even in  their altered climate, most conducive to his health.
early in 1819,  circumstances rendered it desirable for us to visit raiatea.
it was no easy task for them to build houses of this kind; there  were no regular carpenters and masons.
iii first preaching in the native language—national council in  atehuru—seizure of the idol oro—rebellion of the  oropa—introduction of useful foreign fruits and  vegetables—providential arrival of two vessels—battle of  pare—king's camp attacked, oro retaken—mission house garrisoned with  seamen, &c.—desolation of the war—death of the king's  brother—ravages of foreign diseases—death of pomare—sketch of  his character— otu assumes the name of his late father—origin of the  regal name—efforts to instruct the children—death of the  queen—compilation of the first spelling-book—first school for  teaching reading and writing—arrival of the hawkesbury—death of mr.  jefferson—mr. nott's visit to the leeward islands—rebellion in  matavai—defeat of the king—departure of the majority of the  missionaries—abandonment of the mission.
in the– 327 – centre, tables were  spread for the chiefs, and the parents and friends of the children: we sat down  with them, gratified with their hospitality, but deriving far more pleasure  from gazing on the spectacle on either side, than in partaking of the  provision.
o, what hallowed music must have broken on his listening ear, and  what rapture must have thrilled his soul, when he distinctly recognized the  voice of prayer, and heard a native, in the accents of his mother-tongue, with  an ardour that proved his sincerity, addressing petitions and thanksgivings to  the throne of mercy.
they were not perhaps distinguished  by brilliancy of genius, or loftiness of intellect; but in uncompromising  sternness of principle, unaffected piety, ardour of devotedness, uncomplaining  endurance of privations, (not easily comprehended by those who have always  remained at home, or visited only civilized portions of foreign climes,) in  undeviating perseverance, in exertion under discouragements the most protracted  and depressing, and in plain and honest detail of their endeavours and success,  they have been inferior to few who have been honoured to labour in the  missionary field.
the carding machine, looms, &c. were landed, and placed under the care of paiti, a chief residing near the harbour of taone; and in the adjacent village of pirae, messrs. armitage and blossom took up their abode.
these mats were generally rolled up like a  sailor's hammock in the morning, and spread out at night.
when the missionaries spoke to them on the subject of religion, the deformed and diseased were sometimes brought out and ranged before them, as evidences of the efficacy of their prayers, and the destructive power of their god.
the principal families in most of the islands have removed to the settlement, for the benefit of regular instruction.
i  told them i had none ready that night, but that if they would come on the  morrow, i would give them as many as they needed; recommending them, in the  mean time, to go and lodge with some friend in the village.
european articles of dress are in the greatest demand; this method of clothing being adopted by all whose means enable them to procure either cotton or woollen cloth; and there are few, who, by preparing arrow-root, feeding pigs, manufacturing cocoa-nut oil, or other labour, cannot purchase from the shipping a suit of foreign clothing.
the attention of one of the party was arrested, his heart deeply affected, and ultimately his character entirely changed.
we recommended him to persevere in completing it, and, in order to encourage him, promised him nails to make doors, and whatever else was wanting.
god, however, preserved them, and they returned, to render to  him the thanks and the glory due unto his name.
the intended victims of this treachery were unconscious of their danger, until the evening of the 7th of july; when, a few hours only before the horrid massacre was to have commenced, they received secret intelligence of the ruin that was ready to burst upon them.
the missionaries recovered the boat on the following day; and, anxious to afford the captain and supercargo of the nautilus every assistance in their power, agreed to use their influence with the king, and two of the principal chiefs, to induce them to send the seamen on board.
private prayer has long been almost universal, as well as the practice of imploring a blessing on their food; and although they at first asked whether they must not learn to pray in the english language?
she was supported on one side by farefau, her steady and courageous friend, who acted as her squire or champion; while mahine was supported on the other by patini, a fine, tall, manly chief, a relative of mahine's family; and one who, with his wife and two children, has long enjoyed the parental and domestic happiness resulting from christianity,but whose wife, prior to their renunciation of idolatry, had murdered twelve or fourteen children.
this great and important event, confirmed in its results, and  strengthened in its character, by the extension of its influence, and the  increasing power of the principles it implanted, during the last fourteen  years, already occupies no inferior place among the modern evidences of  christianity, and the demonstrations of its legitimate tendency to ameliorate  the condition, and elevate the moral and intellectual character, of the most  wretched and depraved among mankind.
perhaps we are wrong: let us send a message to the king and tati, and ask for peace; and also for books, that we may know what this new word, or this new religion, is.
what a spectacle of loveliness and peace must the platform have on this day  exhibited, when compared with the scenes of abomination, absurdity, and  cruelty, that had often been presented, when the very materials of which it was  composed had formed part of an idolatrous temple.
pomare had offered his prayers to the gods of his family, and many  ceremonies had been performed, but to no purpose.
european articles of dress are in the greatest  demand; this method of clothing being adopted by all whose means enable them to  procure either cotton or woollen cloth; and there are few, who, by preparing  arrow-root, feeding pigs, manufacturing cocoa-nut oil, or other labour, cannot  purchase from the shipping a suit of foreign clothing.
it was smaller than tamatoa's, and differently shaped, his being oval, and this being nearly square, with high gable-ends.
most of them, however, repair to  the settlement for the sabbath; and it is a spectacle that has often gladdened  our hearts, when, on the saturday afternoon, we have seen parties from every  direction approaching, by land or by water, the bay, at the head of which our  settlement was formed.
in the afternoon of the succeeding sabbaths, i visited a number of  christian chiefs at their own houses.
this vocabulary he left with the worthy clergyman who attended him in his confinement, and by him it was kindly given to the missionaries; who found it more useful than every aid besides.
the bed-rooms  were up stairs, and were perfectly clean and neat.
mr. bicknell, accompanied by mr. tessier, formed  a station under the auspices of tati, in the populous district of papara.
shoes and hats  are not much less in demand than cottons or woollens; and these also must, for  the present, and probably for many years to come, be supplied from england or  america.
on entering the dwellings on the saturday evening,  every thing would appear remarkably neat, orderly, and clean—their food in  baskets—their calabashes filled with fresh water—their fruit  gathered—and broad hibiscus leaves plucked and carefully piled up for  use—their clean garments were also laid out ready for the next day.
they were conducted to a large, oval-shaped native house, which had been but recently finished for capt.
the  missionaries, as well as the seamen, stood sentinels in turn, night and day, in  order to prevent surprise.
he put together the small letters in the same manner; and the few monosyllables, composing the first page of the small spelling-book, were afterwards added.
one of mahine's men, raveae,34  pierced the body of upufara, the chief of papara, and the commander-in-chief of  the idolatrous forces.
they were calledtaupoo or taumata, and, as the latter name signifies, were designed to skreen the face or eyes; it being composed oftau, to hang upon or cover, and mata, face or eyes.
the surrounding hills are clothed with shrubs or grass, and the lofty and romantic mountains, forming the central boundary, are adorned with trees or bushes even to their summits.
the idolaters had indeed joined with them in binding the wreath of  amity and peace, while they were at the same time secretly and actively  concerting measures for their destruction.
during this period he was much among the people, preached to attentive congregations on the sabbath and other days, and was happy to find that those whose names had been written down at tahiti continued stedfast.
with rain, sometimes in larger quantities than was quite agreeable.
his influence must be of a higher order, if he desires to succeed.
lead us to  jesus christ, and let our sins be cleansed in his blood.
– 162 – crowds, who never had before attended any worship but that of their demon  gods, might now be seen repairing to the rustic and lowly temple erected for  jehovah's praise; amidst their throng, mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters,  who never were before allowed to join the other sex in any acts of worship.
on reaching the habitations of the missionaries, we were cordially  welcomed to their society, and were rejoiced to behold them cheered by the  intelligence we had brought, and the prospect of receiving a still greater  accession to their numbers.
circumstances detained the king at tahiti for many months after mr. gyles's arrival in eimeo, and retarded very materially the progress of the undertaking.
the place was thronged with people, and numbers were standing or sitting  round the doors and the outside of the building.
it was then much more compact, and the width better  proportioned than it now appeared.
by the same conveyance mr. and mrs. nott removed to tahiti, where mr. nott has  since laboured in matavai, or the adjacent district of pare.
there were curtains to the windows, made of white cloth, with dark leaves stained upon it for a border, which gave a cheerful and comfortable air to the rooms.
– 348 – their invention and perseverance at length overcame the difficulty, and  they constructed their doors by fastening together three upright boards, about  six feet long, by means of three narrow pieces across, one at each end, the  other in the middle.
when mr. crook arrived in 1816, the ship reaching tahiti on the sabbath, no canoe put off, no native was seen on the beach, no smoke in any 415 part of the districtand they began to apprehend either that the population had been swept off by some contagious disease, or that they had all gone to battle.
when  mr. crook arrived in 1816, the ship reaching tahiti on the sabbath, no canoe  put off, no native was seen on the beach, no smoke in any– 415 – part  of the district—and they began to apprehend either that the population had  been swept off by some contagious disease, or that they had all gone to battle.
in the minds of the missionaries their circumstances awakened compassion, and they readily offered to furnish the captain, so far as their means admitted, with such supplies as the island afforded, and to assist him in procuring water.
their threatenings to seek his ruin, by opposing his efforts, are rather amusing.
in these exercises they did not confine themselves to the inhabitants of their own vicinity, but visited the adjacent districts; and, in the month of march, 1802, mr. nott, accompanied by mr. elder, made the first missionary tour of tahiti.
this was our stove, or fire-place, and, during the dry season, answered tolerably well.
the houses of the natives, however large they might be, never contained more than one room; and were generally so crowded with people, that retirement was altogether unattainable.
all the varied passions and the mental exercises of which they were sensible, they spoke of as connected with theaau or obu , a term literally signifying the whole of the ibdominal viscerafor each separate organ in which, they have a distinct name.
in  these houses the people took their meals, sitting in circles on the  grass-spread floor.
mr. darling, the indefatigable missionary of the station,  remarks, “this was on– 325 – the very spot where satan's throne  stood, and where, a few years ago, if a female had eaten but a mouthful, so  sacred was the place considered, that she would have been put to death.”
while thus employed, we saw two other waterspouts, and subsequently a third, if not more, so that we seemed almost surrounded with them.
pomare arose, and requested them all to remain quietly in their places; stating, that they were under the special protection of jehovah, and had 147 met together for his worship, which was not to be forsaken or disturbed even by the approach of an enemy.
those on the opposite side continued pulling with all their might, and soon drew the vessel on one side till she fell.
not only were the sacred materials with which the altars, and the  appendages of the temple, had been constructed, converted into fuel; but the  food, considered sacred, was esteemed so no longer, the invidious and debasing  distinctions attached to the females were removed, and both sexes, among those  who professed christianity, sat down together to their cheerful meal.
gall and spurzheim ever obtained among them; and so far from being  phrenologists, they did not imagine the brain to be even the seat of thought.
on the north-west is a small but very secure  harbour, called hamaniino.
he appeared to understand, in some degree, the english  language, although unable to speak it.
the information, however, which the inhabitants received from  the individual whom mr. williams employed to instruct them, not only in its  growth, but in the methods of preparing it in the different forms under which  it is offered in the markets, was valuable; and though no very advantageous  results have hitherto followed, it may hereafter be productive of good.
apaiano, would have been on the one side, and in their rear, and the party from  atehuru and papara on the other.
mr. davies, in particular, had devoted much of his time to this work; and although it had hitherto been found impracticable to teach the children letters, a number had committed the 71 catechism to memory.
the  worship of oro, in themarae here, appears to have been of the most  sanguinary kind; human immolation was frequent, and, in addition to the bones  and other relics of the former sacrifices, now scattered among the ruins of the  temple, there is still a large enclosure, the walls of which are formed  entirely of human skulls.
the  most valuable books were either committed to the flames, or distributed among  the warriors for the purpose of making cartridge papers, and the printing types  were melted into musket balls.
this rendered it expedient to examine  the district, that we might select the most eligible place for the erection of  our permanent dwelling, to which we purposed to attach the printing-office.
this is my speech to you, my friends.
under the unrestrained influence of their intoxicating draught, in  their appearance and actions they resembled demons more than human beings.
the parties,  who for a long time had been inveterate enemies to each other, readily agreeing  to the proposed confederation, were made friends on the occasion, and cordially  united in the plan of destroying the christians.
this island the missionaries considered only as a temporary residence, till they should be able to resume their labours in tahiti, or establish a mission in the leeward islands, and therefore recommended him to defer it.
the promotion of industry and civil improvement were important objects, and, in order to accomplish them, especially in reference to the rising generation, two artisans, messrs. blossom and armitage, were sent out with the deputation who visited the south seas in 1821.
flushed with success, and animated with the belief that the god  fought with them, the rebels,– 55 – having offered in sacrifice the  bodies of the slain, and united in their confederacy the districts of papara,  and the whole of the south-west side of the larger peninsula, crossed the  isthmus, marched at once to tautira, and attacked the king and pomare; who,  ever since their arrival with the idol they had seized in atehuru, had been  engaged in offering human sacrificed, and by other acts of worship,  propitiating the favour of oro.
the invaders 36 divided the district, and the priest, taking possession of the eastern side, revelled in all the profligacy and insolence of plunder and destruction.
by the side of these vegetable plates, a small cocoa-nut shell of  salt water was placed for each person.
the king found  several chiefs favourably disposed; the missionaries also proposed it to  others; and, as it met with general approbation, the approaching month of may  was appointed for the establishment of the association.
the communications between tahiti and eimeo were now frequent, and the  repeated accounts of pomare's persevering and laudable endeavours to enlighten  the minds of his subjects, were not the only cheering tidings they received.
xv from page 363 to page 383.
he is a valuable and steady  friend, and an assistant, in– 115 – whom the missionaries can repose  confidence.
these changes in the exterior of the  people were sometimes attended with rather humorous circumstances.
many, agreeably to the precautions of the  missionaries, had met for worship under arms; others, who had not, were  preparing to return to their tents, and arm for the battle.
64 about this time the margaret, in which captain byers and mr. turnbull had visited the islands for purposes of commerce, was wrecked on a reef about 200 miles distant; mr. turnbull had remained in tahiti; captain byers, his officers, and crew, consisting of sixteen individuals, with the mate's wife and child, safely reached that island in a long kind of chest, or boat, which they had built with the fragments of the wreck.
the more intelligent  among the natives, who had been longest under instruction at eimeo, usually  presided.
the haweis was afterwards rigged,  and employed in conveying the missionary families to their respective stations;  after which she made one or two very profitless voyages to new south wales.
in order to protect the inhabitants of new zealand and the south sea islands from the oppression, violence, and murder, of unprincipled and lawless europeans, he issued, in december, 1813, an order, alike creditable to the enlightened policy of his administration, and the benevolence of his heart.
at three o'clock we walked to the grove, and on entering it beheld one of the most imposing and delightful spectacles i think i ever witnessed in the islands.
a small river rises on the northern side of this ridge, and, flowing along the boundary between the two districts, meets the sea exactly opposite the northern entrance.
within the limits of the grant  made to captain cook for his friend mai, some of the missionaries, who in 1809  took shelter in huahine, after their expulsion from tahiti in 1808, erected  their temporary habitations.
the state of the people  was at this time most affecting.
by 143 whatever political considerations he may have been actuated, and whatever may have been the influence of christian principles on his own mind, in this or subsequent periods of his life, pomare certainly was convinced of the excellency of christianity, and desirous to introduce it among his people, and was employed by the almighty as an instrument most effectually to promote the important process, which was at this time changing altogether the moral and religious aspect of the nation.
her commander,  captain bunker, brought them no letters from england, but conveyed the  melancholy tidings of the capture of the duff by a french privateer.
pomare was now, by the unanimous will of the people, reinstated on the throne of his father, and raised to the supreme authority in his dominions.
but oh! should i die with my sins unpardoned, it will  be ill indeed with me.
some of the natives built their houses facing the sea; others, turning their fronts towards the mountain, reared them within five or six feet of the road; while several, of a more retiring disposition, built in the centre of their plantations, or under the embowering shade of a grove of bread-fruit trees, enclosing them within the fence that surrounded their dwelling.
good-night, brother, was the sentiment  intended; but if the natives understood the english word mighty, it would mean,  mighty night, brother; or, if they understoodmity as their word maitai , the phrase would be an assertion to this effect, good (is the) night,
he had for this purpose visited afareaitu, and, on his return to the other side of the island, requested that he might be sent for whenever we should begin.
they could perceive nothing that was either desirable or advantageous in a straight road, or regularity in the site, or uniformity in the size or shape, of their habitations.
we arrived at huahine late on the evening of the following day, and some of our party went on shore, but it was not till the morning of the 20th that we reached the anchorage in fare harbour.
here, the fresh water used in washing their hands, the  cocoanut water which was their frequent beverage, and the sea-water in which  they dipped their food, was often spilt.
and it is a melancholy fact, that the influence of unprincipled and profligate foreigners has been more fatal to the missionaries, more demoralizing to the natives, more inimical to the introduction of christianity, and more opposed to its establishment, than all the prejudices of the people in favour of idolatry, and all the attachment of the priests to the interests of their gods.
the circumstances of the inhabitants of the windward and leeward islands, most  of whom had renounced idolatry, and their earnest desire to receive religious  instruction, rendered it exceedingly desirable that the missionaries should no  longer remain altogether at papetoai, but establish themselves in the different  islands; but the vessel which they had commenced building in 1813, being still  unfinished, and the anticipation of a considerable accession to their numbers,  induced them to defer forming any new station, until such reinforcement should  arrive.
the spot where mai's house stood  is still called beritani, or britain, by the inhabitants of huahine.
they would have prosecuted their march of destruction; and, as the missionaries remark, they must have retreated, or fallen a sacrifice to their fury.
in the  commencement of the year 1815, the affairs of tahiti and eimeo, in reference to  the supremacy of christianity or idolatry, were evidently tending to a crisis;  and although the converts had carefully avoided all interference in the late  wars which had desolated the larger island, they were convinced that the time  was not very remote, when their faith and principles must rise pre-eminent  above the power and influence of that system of delusion and crime, of which  they had so long been the slaves, or plunge them in the deepest distress, and  perhaps inevitable ruin.
it was therefore recommended to them to erect for themselves more comfortable dwellings, and cultivate a larger quantity of ground, to meet the 280 exigencies of those seasons of scarcity which they often experienced during the intervals between the bread-fruit crops.
the king often attended in person, to welcome his guest, or, if unable to do this himself, sent one of his principal chiefs.
diseases, introduced by europeans, were  spreading, unmitigated, their destructive ravages, and some members of almost  every family were languishing under the influence of foreign maladies, or dying  in the midst of their days.
it was placed on a kind of platform; and a number of superstitious ceremonies were observed.
hence, we are taught to infer, that,  while the identity of personality is preserved, the fluctuations which take  place in the numerical particles, and in the modification of them, in our  present bodies, can offer no impediment to the credibility of this momentous  doctrine.
on the following day, the  missionaries nott and scott, as messengers of peace, went alone, unarmed, to  the rebel camp at apaiano, and invited the leaders to an interview with pomare.
the delay in the arrival of some of these, afforded the only hope of deliverance.
this not only required a considerable addition of personal labour, but a variety of articles that could not be supplied on the islands, and must be obtained through the medium of commerce with port jackson and england; and they could only procure these articles, in a degree equal to that in which they multiplied the productions of the soil, so as to be able to exchange them for the manufactured goods of civilized countries.
a few, whose dwellings were completely finished, inhabited them with all the conscious satisfaction attending the enjoyment of what had cost them great and persevering labour.
this was probably done from motives of jealousy, lest, by  cultivating the land, and reaping the fruits of it, the foreigners should  suppose it had become theirs, and the natives cease to be its proprietors.
upon various little elevations, beyond these, were others, which gave extent and animation to the whole.
although we were pleased with the effect produced on the minds of the natives, and a thousand delightful associations revived in our bosoms the first time we mingled with a crowded evening congregation, we did not recommend our people to follow the example their ingenious neighbours had 363 set them.
she had accompanied her husband from her native country in the ship duff, with the first missionaries who landed in tahiti.
some said they desired to pray to the true god, but were afraid the gods of tahiti would 51 destroy them if they did: others remarked, that the duff came last among the ships, but that, if the gospel had been conveyed by the first ship, the gods of feathers, as they denominated their idols, would long ago have been destroyed: and one of the principal chiefs, at whose residence they spent the night, observed to the natives around, that he believed the missionaries possessed the true foundation of knowledge.
weary and famished, drenched with the rain, and suffering much from the cold occasioned by the wetness of our clothes, we were truly thankful, after the incidents of the day, to find ourselves once again on shore.
i had once before, when seized with the cramp while bathing  at a distance from my companions, been, as i supposed, on the verge of  eternity.
it  was worn on the forehead immediately below the hair, and fastened by a narrow  leaflet passing round the back of the head above each of the ears, leaving the  whole of the back and upper part of the head entirely exposed.
a rustic sort of table, or  desk, between three and four feet high, stood on one side, equally distant from  each end, and the whole of the building was filled with low forms, on which the  natives were sitting; while on one side i saw one or two forms longer and–  205 – broader than the rest, with small ledges on the sides, filled with  sand, for the purpose of teaching writing after the manner of the national  schools in england.
in  common with the missionaries in other parts of the world, they have been  described, by the enemies of religion, as ignorant and dogmatical fanatics;  more intent on the inculcation of the peculiarities of their sect or party,  than promoting the wellbeing of the people; holding out no inducement, by  precept or example, to industrious habits, &c.
its arrival was most providential.
when he looks upon me, i will hide me at the feet of jesus christ the saviour, that i may escape.
discouraging as these circumstances were, the missionaries would not have  abandoned their station, but for the destruction with which the civil war, and  the defeat of the king, seriously threatened them; and, in addition to this  darkened aspect of affairs, as it regarded the success of their enterprise, the  state of feeling, bordering on hopeless despair, under which they departed from  the islands, greatly augmented their distress.
as we  approached its southern shore, a canoe came off with some natives, who brought  a pig and vegetables for sale; but the wind blowing fresh, we soon passed by,  and had little more than a glance at the people.
‘five hundred  millions!’ intrudes itself upon my mind wherever i go, and however i am  employed.
before they had time to ask a single question, he exclaimed, “ua pau!
the shore presented a scene  of activity.
these thirty-one requested to have their names written down, as those who desired to worship god, and to become disciples of christ.
two or three aged and stately chestnut-trees growing on the margin of this bank, extended their branches over the steam and the bank, casting around a grateful and an inviting shelter from the noontide sun.
the public services on this occasion were to commence at three o'clock in the afternoon; but long before the appointed hour, the chapel was crowded, and a far greater number than had gained admission, still remained on the outside.
the chief at first seemed unwilling to listen, but at last said he would attend to their religion.
they were, probably, confirmed in this definition by the fact of such being the belief of their ancestors.
there is something peculiarly pleasing in watching the process which periodically changes the face of the natural world.
in order more fully to  illustrate the kind of scripture truth that appears, in connexion with others,  to have affected deeply the minds of the people, one single instance, among  many that might be adduced, will shew, that in the mild and verdant islands of  the south, as well as the frozen and barren regions of the north, in tahiti as  well as in greenland, the attractions of the cross move and melt the human  heart.
the king,  expecting that his camp, which was at matavai, would be immediately attacked,  recommended that the wives and children of the missionaries should take shelter  in the vessel.
the state of things resembled greatly that described by the saviour, when speaking of the results that should follow the promulgation of his gospel.
conduct of the rebels—discouraging impressions under which the  missionaries abandoned the islands—invitation from pomare to  return—state of the king's mind during his exile in eimeo—his  reception of the missionaries—death of three of their  number—influence of domestic bereavement on the missionary  life—pomare's profession of christianity—application for  baptism—demonstration of the impotency of their idols—proposal to  erect a place of worship—extracts from his correspondence—influence  of his steady adherence to christianity—ridicule and persecution to which  he was exposed—visit of missionaries to tahiti—valley of  hautaua—oitu and tuahine.
the service,  therefore, necessarily devolved on those who were willing, under every  accompanying disadvantage, to undertake it.
this method of saluting is called  by the new zealanders ho-goi, honi by the sandwich islanders, and hoi by the  tahitians.
after spending the day in almost harmless firing at the enemy,  the english and the natives were on the point of embarking to return, when the  rebels having been decoyed from their encampment by the daring and challenges  of an active and courageous young man, who had assumed the name of to-morrow  morning, chased him and his companions down to the sea-side.
houses, plantations, districts, and even whole islands, were sometimes presented; still, those who thus received them, never thought of appropriating them to their own use, and excluding their original proprietors, any more than a visitor in england, who should be told by his host to make himself perfectly at home, and to do as he would if he were in his own house, would, from this declaration, think of altering the apartments of the house, or removing from it any part of its furniture.
many  of their inquiries related to the proper observance of the sabbath, and under  what circumstances it would be proper to launch a canoe or undertake a voyage?
building houses, and avocations of a similar kind, were regarded as secondary objects; our main efforts were directed to the acquisition of the language.
pomare was now, by the unanimous will of the people,  reinstated on the throne of his father, and raised to the supreme authority in  his dominions.
this  afflictive bereavement was followed by another equally painful, namely, the  death of– 91 – mrs. davies,—which took place on the fourth of  the following september.
a change in  their views and feelings had now taken place, and, learning from the  scriptures, that idleness, and irregular and debasing habits of life, were as  opposed to the principles of christianity, as to their own personal comfort;  they were disposed to attend to the recommendations of their teachers in this,  as well as other matters.
pomare, his mother, idia, his brother and  sister, and the chiefs, paid him every attention; human sacrifices were  offered; and both pomare and otu frequently invoked their gods in his favour,  and presented the most costly offerings.
they said they were ashamed to invite us into their huts,  but that their other house was building, and then they would be happy to see us  there.
on being asked what he thought of it, he said it was very surprising; but that he had supposed, notwithstanding all the descriptions which had been given of its operation, that the paper was laid down, and the letters by some means pressed upon it, instead of the paper being pressed upon the types.
the crackling fire or the light column of smoke might be seen  rising through the district, and the natives busily engaged in cooking their  victuals for the sabbath.
the effect of their letter was scarcely less on the minds of the missionaries in eimeo, than the recital had been to themselves in tahiti.
both rose from a comparatively humble station in society, to the supreme authority; both owed their 69 elevation principally to their own energies, and the aid they derived from their intercourse with foreigners; both appeared the main pillars of the idolatry of their respective countries; and both left to their heirs the undisputed government of the islands they had conquered.
it was by no means an uncontested triumph, nor an undisputed  possession, that christianity acquired in those islands; every inch was  reluctantly surrendered; and, at several periods, persecution raged, amid the  elysian bowers of tahiti and eimeo, as much as ever it had done in the valleys  of piedmont, or the metropolis of the roman empire.
those they furnished  were various, and such perhaps as few english females would have thought of.
the ship's cook had lost his axe, and captain wilson gave him ten guineas to try to purchase one from the natives, supposing that the intercourse already had with europeans, would enable them to form some estimate of the value of a guinea, and the number of articles they could procure with it from any other ship that might visit the island; but, although the cook kept the guineas more than a week, he could meet with no individual among the natives who would part with an axe, or even a hatchet, in exchange for them.
a  strong paling, or stockade, was planted round the house; boards, covered with  nails, were sunk in the paths leading to it; and thither the missionaries,  captain bishop, captain house, commander of the vessel that had been wrecked,  and the seamen under their orders, now retired, as they daily received the most  alarming accounts of the intention of the rebels to make their next attack upon  them.
the illness of the king terminated, for a time, the war which he had commenced against the 79 people of atehuru, and allowed the missionaries uninterruptedly to pursue their labours in tahiti.
this was done with greater facility than they could burn it in the kiln they had built, though with less economy in fuel.
the soil of the bottom of the valley is rich and fertile, well stocked with cocoa-nuts and breadfruit trees.
a small river rises on the northern side  of this ridge, and, flowing along the boundary between the two districts, meets  the sea exactly opposite the northern entrance.
the foreigners themselves die, their pupils die, or suffer the same pain that we do; and what good have you derived from going to their schools?
when, however, he beheld the manner in which the english  had prepared to defend themselves, if attacked; and was assured by captain  bishop and his companions, that if he was conquered, they were not; and that  they would support him in the present critical state of the nation, and assist  in the restoration of his government, his prospects brightened, and he again – 56 –indulged a hope that his affairs might be retrieved.
it was begun with a hymn; then mr. nott, who did duty, prayed extempore for some length, and then read a passage from the scripture, upon which he preached with great 419 fluency in the otaheitan language.
he spent much of his time in reading and  writing, in conversation, and in earnest inquiry about god, and the way of  acceptance with him, through jesus christ,—and sometimes spoke in terms  astonishing even to the missionaries themselves.
being asked their reasons for such a proceeding, they answered, that seeing two large english ships, they apprehended they were come to revenge the assault upon the missionaries.
mahine, the king of huahine, and pomare-vahine, the heroic daughter of the king of raiatea, with those of their people who had professed christianity, arranged themselves in battle-array immediately behind the people of eimeo, forming the main body of 148 the army.
but although tahiti was, by the departure of the missionaries, surrendered, for a season, as a prey to the spoiler, and subjected to the rule of ignorance, barbarism, and idolatry, it was not abandoned by him, in obedience, to whose command to go and teach all nations, the mission had been undertaken.
if dr. carpenter meant that, with these doctrines as parts of a revelation, to  the completeness of which they were essential, and in the full declaration of  which their own fidelity was to be proved, the missionaries inculcated a belief  in one god; he must have known, that the term unitarianism, when used as  descriptive of such teaching, was inapplicable to the sentiments of those who  have designated themselves unitarians.
in this respect, although the attempt of the directors to  introduce extensively its cultivation, has failed in the first instance; the  natives have, nevertheless, acquired, from mr. gyles's residence among them, an  acquaintance with the process of manufacturing this valuable article of  commerce, which, it is presumed, will prove to the nation an important and a  permanent advantage.
their interior, however, was but little adapted to  promote domestic comfort.
their appearance on the heads of the natives  of raiatea produced no slight sensation there; and the report of their use, as  it spread through the islands, occasioned a considerable stir.
it is true, their occupations at home are seldom very urgent,  and they have not much to neglect; it is nevertheless encouraging to notice,  that they do not wish to avoid a place of worship, when a public service is  held.
the spot on which the old chapel and subsequent school had been erected, was connected with an important event in the modern history, 365 not only of huahine, but of the several adjacent clusters of islands.
the characters of their immediate descendants were in some  respects similar to each other, though both were very different persons from  their respective predecessors.
i simply state the fact, as it is recorded by the missionary  in the island at the time, without making any comment; which, indeed, it  neither requires nor admits.
we had not been long at anchor, before pomare sent us a large albicore, and a variety of provisions, and shortly after came on board.
the natives cut down four stout sticks from  the neighbouring trees; these we fixed in the earthen floor, and fastening  sheets and native cloth from one to the other, enclosed our bed-room; a couple  of chests were carried into it, upon which we spread our bed, making up one for  the children by the side of our own, on some packages that lay on the floor.
the chiefs' tent was pitched in an exposed situation; a heavy dew fell among the mountains; he took cold, and the next morning was affected with a cough; this led some of his companions to designate the preceding night by the appellation ofpo-mare , night of cough, frompo, night, and mare, cough.
mr. armitage was therefore sent to  attempt to teach the natives to spin and weave the cotton grown in their own  gardens.
happily, we had a bucket on board, by  means of which we were able to bale out the water.
in a letter, dated tahiti,  september 25, 1812, he thus expresses himself: “may the anger of jehovah  be appeased towards me, who am a wicked man, guilty of accumulated  crimes,—of regardlessness and ignorance of the true god, and of an  obstinate perseverance in wickedness!
when the loose european dress was  white, thepareu, worn round the waist on the outside of it, was of dark  blue; one end of it was sometimes thrown carelessly over the shoulder, or hung  loosely on the arm, heightening the novel and not– 392 – unpleasing  effect produced by their blending, in the apparel of the same individual, the  ancient native with the modern european costume.
the rain calmed in a degree the broken and agitated surface of the ocean, that raged with threatening violence.
i te bure anae;” vanquished !
a  part of a black coat, or a soldier's red jacket, cut into strips about two  inches wide, was greatly esteemed.
but, he added, though he  did not work on the sabbath, his mind was troubled on account of the loss he  had sustained, and that he thought was wrong.
the circumstances of the nation, and of the mission, were by no  means favourable to such a change.
his countenance was open and prepossessing, his conversation affable, though his manner was grave and dignified.
183 the wonderful change that now seemed to be wrought in the minds and hearts of many, did not appear to be more the immediate result of instructions given at the time, than the remote but certain effect of truth imparted, and precious seed, which, having been scattered years before, was now revived with a power, that the individuals themselves could not comprehend, nor on ordinary principles explain.
this question, with those frequently asked relative  to the consequences of mistakes or interruption in prayer, probably arose from  the impression left by the system of idolatry– 427 – they had so  recently abandoned, whose only excellency consisted in the correctness of mere  external form and ceremony.
– 413 – the scrupulous attention to the outward observance of the sabbath, may  perhaps in some degree be the result of the impression left on the minds of the  people by the distinguishing features of their former system, in which all the  efficacy of their services consisted in the rigid exactness with which sacred  days were kept, and religious ceremonies performed, without the least regard to  the motives and dispositions of the devotees.
– 230 – the process of binding appeared to the natives much more simple than that  of printing; yet, in addition to those whom we were endeavouring to instruct,  each of the principal chiefs sent one of his most clever men, to learn how to  put a book together.
but while i was thus  destroying them, no one, not even my own cousin, (pointing to tamatoa the king,  who presided at the meeting,) stayed my hand, or said, spare them.
mr. stewart estimates that the– 398 –  trade of four american merchants in the sandwich islands amounts to one  hundred thousand dollars a year; this, however, is a far greater amount than  that of all the other islands of polynesia.
the 13th of may, 1818, being the anniversary of the parent institution in england, was fixed for the establishment and organization of the native society.
those patient labourers also, who had toiled in the field, but had been called away before the first waive-sheaf was gathered in, must have felt their joy increased, as the enlarged spiritual perceptions which they possess enabled them to look not only on the outward change in circumstances and in conduct, but on that more delightful transformation of character, which every day unfolded some new and lovely features.
in  acceding to the proposal of the directors, and engaging in this enterprise, he  manifested a degree of devotedness seldom excelled.
this was not a groundless  opinion, but an inference authorized by the most melancholy but unquestionable  facts.
on the 10th of august,  1796, they embarked in the thames on board the duff, a vessel which had been  purchased to convey them to their destinations.
those on the opposite side continued pulling with all their might, and  soon drew the vessel on one side till she fell.
a retrospect of  life, now perhaps about to close, presented all the scenes through which i had  passed, in rapid succession and in varied colours, each– 308 –  exhibiting the lights and shades by which it has been distinguished.
the partitions separating  the different apartments were framed, wattled with thin sticks, and plastered;  and although we found the labour of building oppressive, we were amply  compensated by the comfort we subsequently enjoyed.
the other, which is small, has only a few houses—but  so quiet, so retired, that it seems the abode of peace and perfect content.
we had suffered much from  exposure to the sun, and from the fatigue of our tedious voyage; we were,  however, thankful to have reached our destination in safety.
puru and his adherents had not been much with the  missionaries.
when the missionaries from england, who had now arrived, landed from the duff, the chiefs and people were not satisfied with giving them the large and commodious fare beritani (british house,) as they called the one they had built for bligh, but readily and cheerfully ceded to captain wilson and the missionaries, in an official and formal manner, the whole district of matavai, in which their habitation was situated.
in addition to these, there is a public meeting for general conversation, or rather for answering the questions of the people, held every monday afternoon or evening.
they sent us a present of food; or, as they call  it, “faaamua,” a feeding; consisting of two or three large pigs,  which were dragged along by force, squalling all the way, and tied to a stick  near the door; a number of bunches of plantains, bananas, cocoa-nuts, and  bread-fruit, were also brought, and piled up in three heaps on the sand, near  the pigs.
the party sent by the king to the national temple at tautira, in  taiarabu, proceeded directly to their place of destination.
the missionaries, aware of  this, wrote a letter of precaution, which they gave to a native, to hand to the  master of the first ship that might touch there.
many of them wore some article of  european dress, and all were attired in native cloth, though several had only a maro, or broad girdle, round the waist.
in the island of huahine, we had, during the latter part of our residence there, two district schools, one for the males and the other for the females, which we found more conducive to their improvement, than the method of instructing both sexes in the same school.
we now directed them to the improvement of their dwellings, which, generally speaking, were temporary sheds, or wide unpartitioned buildings, by no means favourable to domestic comfort or christian decency.
after an absence of two years, during which he had resided in tahiti, vainly expecting the restoration of his government, and endeavouring to recover his authority in his hereditary dominions, pomare returned to eimeo in the autumn of 1814, accompanied by a large train of adherents and dependants, all professors, at least, of christianity.
children, he adds, are seen bringing their aged parents to the church, that they may partake of the pleasure they derive from the explanation of the bible.
the family and district temples and altars, as well as  those that were national, were demolished, the idols destroyed by the very  individuals who had but recently been so zealous for their preservation, and in  a very short time there was not one professed idolater remaining.
it was, indeed, a rude and perishable building, totally destitute of every thing imposing in effect, or exquisite in workmanship; yet i beheld it with emotions of pleasure, as the first roof under which the natives of tahiti had assembled, in any number, to receive the elements of useful knowledge, to listen with attention and satisfaction to the word of god, and to render publicly unto him their grateful praise; for, though gilded domes, and splendid fanes, and costly robes, and choral strains, and altars richly dress'd; and sculptur'd saints, and sparkling gems, and mitred priests, and diadems, inspire with awe the breast: 'tis not the pageantry of show that can impart devotion's glow, nor sanctify a prayer.
the process which effects the changes marking the progress from birth to maturity in the animal creation, is not less curious; and at this time we beheld a work advancing, which was rapidly transforming the character and habits of a nation, and materially altering even the aspect of the habitable portions of their country.
it may be obtained in  any quantity, but the labour of procuring the fuel necessary for preparing it  on the present plan, is exceedingly irksome.
while the inhabitants continued heathens, their endeavours were  altogether unavailing.
the 30th of june, 1817, was, on this account, an important  day in the annals of tahiti; and there is no act of pomare's life, excepting  his abolition of idolatry, his clemency after the battle of bunaauïaa, and  his devotedness in visiting every district in the island, inducing the chiefs  and people to embrace christianity, that will be remembered with more grateful  feeling than the circumstance of his printing the first page of the first book  published in the south sea islands.
by him they also unexpectedly received the  pleasing intelligence of the duff's second destination to tahiti, and were led  to hope, on her arrival, a reinforcement of labourers, and the various supplies  of which they stood so much in need.
the first was the queen charlotte, of port jackson, the vessel by which we arrived in the islands.
the lord  of hosts had been with them, the god of jacob was their helper, and to him
he therefore allowed the pig to remain till he was satisfied,  and did not mend the fence till the following morning.
“this good word (or  gospel) of the kingdom shall be published in all the world,” matt. xxiv.
on inquiry of the people who accompanied our party, they said it was a natural watercourse from the mountains to the sea; and
next to the chief, the members of his own family spread their mats on the floor, and then the friends and attendantsthe females nearest the chief, the men towards the opposite end of the building.
tuahine was born in the island of raiatea, but had been some time residing in the inland parts of the district of pare.
early in the year 1806, the mission was again weakened by the departure of mr. shelly, with his family.
the conduct of pomare, the king's father, with that of his queen, idia, was  highly commendable; several of the articles of dress, which had been taken from  the missionaries, were restored, and the people in general appeared to  compassionate them; though two of them heard the natives, who were stripping  them, remark, that, as they had four of them in their possession, they would go  and take the fourteen remaining at matavai.
335 the sun had nearly set when we reached the settlement at vaóaara.
for a number of sabbaths after our arrival, but few of the inhabitants assembled for public worship, and the schools were very thinly attended.
the king examined, with great minuteness and pleasure, the form  as it lay on the press, and prepared to try to take off the first sheet ever  printed in his dominions.
mrs. ellis had engaged in it ever since our arrival in eimeo; and, as soon as we were settled in the leeward islands, some were daily occupied in teaching the native females to sew.
in general their inquiries were exceedingly interesting.
the general attention to the public worship of  god, and the exemplary christian deportment of many of the people, have proved  not only delightful, but beneficial, to their visitors; and we are grateful to  know, that occasional and transient visits to the christian islands of the  pacific, have been the means of advantage to the visitors; and there are  probably many instances of good, which the revelations of the last day alone  will disclose.
at the time appointed, he called on brother marshman, at brother carey's house, and, after a little conversation on the state of his soul, he added, you now behold an apostate missionary.
the rebels did not attempt to enter the district, but sent a messenger with proposals of alliance, offering the english the government of matavai, and the two districts to the southward, which they had already ravaged.
by this means it was hoped they might be enabled to instil into the  minds of the natives a spirit of enterprise, and induce them to build ships for  themselves.
after spending some time in the cabin,  the king went to see the cattle we had brought from new south wales, and  particularly a horse, which the owners of the ship had sent him as a present.
notwithstanding the bure atua had escaped the machinations of their enemies, and the murderous counsel of the idolaters had issued in their own defeat, yet it was impossible, that, amidst the agitation which prevailed in tahiti, the adjacent island of eimeo should remain free from apprehension and disquiet; and although the king had sent repeated messages of a peaceable tendency to the conquerors, and had received assurances that 142 there was no feeling of hostility towards him and his adherents, yet they knew, by past experience, that no reliance was to be placed on such professions.
this circumstance led to a complete  alteration in the instructions they gave.
none of the spontaneous productions of the islands were available for purposes of barter or exportation.
my soul you cannot hurt; that is safe in the hands of jesus christ, by whom it will be kept beyond your power.
for some years after our arrival in the islands, the supply of this last article was very inadequate and uncertain; we have been months at a time without tasting it, either in the form of bread or any other preparation.
the northern and western sides are romantic; several pyramidal and conical mountains rising above the elevated and broken range, that stretches along in a direction nearly parallel with the 332 coast, and from one to three miles distant from the sea.
as  we sailed into the harbour, we passed near the coral reef, on which captain  wallis struck on the 19th of june, 1767, when he first entered the bay.
– 320 – in order to convince them of the propriety of this, they  were told we should only distribute copies of the scriptures to those who could  read any part on looking at it.
besides these, however, he was furnished with a portable organ, an  electrical machine, fireworks, and numerous trinkets.
the forenoon was appropriated to worship, in english; at which time a sermon was preached by mr. henry, one of the senior missionaries; and in the afternoon the services were entirely in the native language.
the man readily answered his question, and concluded by saying, oli mani hoi, she is also an old man.
they  rendered the glory and the praise for the protection he had bestowed, and the  victory they had obtained.
the coral reefs form natural and beautiful breakwaters, preserving the lowland and the yielding soil of the adjacent shore from the force and encroachment of the heavy billows of the ocean.
singleness of aim, and purity– 260 – of motive, imbodied,  before such observers, in undeviating and disinterested efforts, will in  general be appreciated, although they may not soon yield themselves up to the  influence of those efforts.
the tahitian, like the indian weaver, may, perhaps, at some future day, be seen fixing his rude and simple loom under the shadow of the cocoanut or the banana tree, whilst the objects that often give such a charm to rural village scenery, and awaken so many ideas of contentment and happy simplicity in connexion with the peasantry of england, may be witnessed throughout the south sea islands.
in all works subsequently published,– 225 – the missionaries,  on whom the management of printing has devolved, have been in a great measure  relieved by the aid of those instructed in that department of this useful art.
i was told it belonged to paari, or mai, and hope it was given him  among the presents from england, although no mention whatever is made of a  bible, or any other book, among the various articles enumerated by those who  conveyed him to his native shores.
it was not only among themselves that their unbridled passions led to such enormities.
the roof was too low, and the width and  elevation of the building too disproportioned to its length, to allow of its  appearing either stupendous or magnificent.
about the 30th of march the norfolk was wrecked in matavai bay,  having been driven on shore by a heavy gale of wind.
the haweis, in returning to the islands in the  spring of 1819, touched at norfolk islands, formerly an appendage to the colony  of new south wales, and i believe re-occupied since that period.
every face was directed to the preacher, and each countenance strongly marked with sincerity and pleasure.
and having seen our state, our palaces, our ladies, and our pomp
he was delighted when he saw the first page complete, and  appeared desirous to have it struck off at once; but when informed that it  would not be printed till as many were composed as would fill a sheet, he  requested that he might be sent for whenever it was ready.
the phraseology employed in speaking of the seat of the intellect and the affections, presents another analogy between the idiom of their language, and that of the ancient hebrews.
i was desirous of speaking to them in return, and expressing the grateful satisfaction with which i had beheld their worship; but the scene before me had taken such a powerful hold of my feelings, that i returned home in silence, filled with astonishment at the change that had taken place, and deeply impressed with the evidence it afforded of the efficacy of the gospel, and the power of the almighty.
the haweis, in honour of the late dr. haweis who was the steady friend of the south sea mission, and in some respects may be said to have been its founder.
his countenance was lighted up with evident satisfaction, as he answered in the affirmative.
while referring to these dark and distressing features of their idolatry, the general seriousness of the assembly, and the indications of remorse or horror in the recollection of these cruelties, appeared to accompany and respond confirmation to his statements.
we were for a long time surprised at the partiality of the natives for woollen cloth, and hardly knew how to account for it, as it does not altogether arise from its being more durable.
his name was auna, a native of raiatea, formerly an areoi and a  warrior, who had arrived, with numbers of his countrymen, to the support of  pomare, after his expulsion from tahiti, but whose heart had been changed by  the power of the gospel of christ.
schools erected in huahine—historical facts connected with the sito  of the former building—account of mai,– viii – (omai)—his  visit to england with captain furneux—society to which he was  introduced—objects of his attention—granville sharp—his return  with captain cook—settlement in huahine—his subsequent  conduct—present proprietors of the beritani in huahine—house for  hidden prayer—cowper's lines on omai—royal mission chapel in  tahiti—its dimensions, furniture, and appearance—motives of the king  in its erection—description of native chapels—need of clocks and  bells—means resorted to for supplying their deficiency—attendance on  public worship.
the vessel, in the building of which the  missionaries were engaged when we arrived, had been undertaken jointly by them  and the king, at the recommendation of the governor of new south wales, and of  the rev. s. marsden.
with few exceptions, they have been distinguished by ardour of zeal,  and steady adherence to the religion of the bible.
mahine, the king of huahine, and  pomare-vahine, the heroic daughter of the king of raiatea, with those of their  people who had professed christianity, arranged themselves in battle-array  immediately behind the people of eimeo, forming the main body of– 148  – the army.
the general attention to the public worship of god, and the exemplary christian deportment of many of the people, have proved not only delightful, but beneficial, to their visitors; and we are grateful to know, that occasional and transient visits to the christian islands of the pacific, have been the means of advantage to the visitors; and there are probably many instances of good, which the revelations of the last day alone will disclose.
such, without much alteration, in all probability, was the appearance of this beautiful bay, when discovered by captain wallis, in 1767; and two years after, when first visited by captain cook; or when captain bligh, in the bounty, spent six 196 months at anchor here in 1788 and 1789; when captain vancouver arrived in 1792; captain new, of the dædalus, in 1793; and captain wilson, in the duff, who anchored in the same bay on the 6th of march, 1797.
we also persuaded them to use such articles of our clothing  as were adapted to their climate and habits, and to adopt our social and  domestic habits of life.
it generally consisted of a large fragment of rock, hollowed in a rough manner, and fixed firmly upon a solid pile of stones, leaving a space underneath for a fire-place.
i had once before, when seized with the cramp while bathing at a distance from my companions, been, as i supposed, on the verge of eternity.
their dress was remarkably modest and becoming, being generally what they termahu bu , which consists of large quantities of beautifully white native cloth, wound round the body, then passed under one arm, and fastened on the other shoulder, leaving uncovered only the neck and face, and part of one arm.
his age and bodily  infirmities were such as to prevent his learning to read, yet he constantly  attended the school, and, from listening to others, was able to repeat with  correctness large portions of the scriptures, which were regularly read by the  pupils.
every  attention which kindness and attachment could bestow.
some seizing his mane, others his tail, endeavoured to hold him, till the terrified creature appeared in great danger of a watery grave.
in many a family, the husband was an idolater, and the wife a christian,or the reverse; the parents addicted to the gods of their ancestors, and the child a disciple of jesus christ; and many a wife was beaten by her husband, and 126 many a child driven from the parental roof, solely on account of their attachment to the new religion.
a shaddock  tree, which the natives say was planted by captain cook himself while the  vessels lay at anchor, is still growing on what was once part of his garden.
two days after the plunder of the missionaries, pomare, anxious to  remove all apprehension from their mind, sent the chief priest of the island
“afterwards i walked out to the point forming the division  between the two bays.
we therefore availed ourselves of the return of mr. orsmond's boat, to visit the station.
the children afterwards walked in procession through the settlement, halted at each of the extremities, sung a hymn, and then repaired to the chapel, where a suitable address was delivered to them by the pastor.
to this cheerless  humiliation, the female sex had been for ages subject, from the direct  injunctions of their false system of religion; and as its cumbrous fabric began  to give way, this barbarous and arbitrary imposition was proportionably  disregarded.
an expensive and sumptuous entertainment of  this kind was furnished by the chiefs of eimeo for the queen's sister.
some of the natives, however, were led to inquire how  it was that cook, vancouver, bligh, and other early visitors, had never told  them any of those things which they heard from the teachers now residing with  them.
he inquired after king george, governor macquarrie, and mr. marsden; the time of our departure from new holland; the nature of our voyage, &c.
he did so, and when the paper was removed from beneath the press, and the covering lifted up, the chiefs and assistants rushed towards it, to see what effect the king's pressure had produced.
the natives of the south sea islands,  although scarcely alarmed at thunder and lightning, are at sea greatly  terrified by the appearance of waterspouts.
whether his mind had at this time undergone a divine and decisive change, it is  not necessary now to inquire; every evidence that could be required, has since  been given, of the sincerity of his profession of christianity, and the  influence of its principles on his heart.
their crimes have never been like ours; they never offered human sacrifices, murdered their infants, &c. do they ever repent?
in order to encourage and direct them by our example, messrs. barff, orsmond, and myself, having obtained permission from the owners of the valley in which we resided, employed natives to clear away the trees and bushes with which it was overgrown, for the purpose of planting it with coffee, sugar cane, or cotton.
in every part i met with sections of pavement, and other vestiges of  former inhabitants; and was deeply affected, witnessing the depopulation thus  indicated, and which is found to have taken place throughout the island.
it was finished a week or two earlier than the chapel in huahine,  and was opened on the 11th of april in the same year; when upwards of 2,400  inhabitants of that and the adjacent islands assembled within its walls.
with the study of the language, the erection of a printing-office and a dwelling-house now demanded my attention.
they aimed at precision, and having adopted the english character, affixed to each letter a distinct and invariable sound.
he was arrayed in a handsome tiputa, of native manufacture.
a small and partially wooded  island on the north side of the opening in the reefs opposite the harbour,  distinctly points out the passage, and is very– 334 – serviceable to  ships going to sea.
among the various parties in afareaitu, at this time, were a number of the  natives of the paumotu, or pearl islands, which lie to the northeast of tahiti,  and constitute what is called the– 227 – dangerous archipelago.
the same year, in the month of november, teu, an aged and respected  chief, the father of pomare, and the grandfather of the king, died at his  habitation not far from the mission-house.
the ship's cook had lost his axe, and captain wilson  gave him ten guineas to try to purchase one from the natives, supposing that  the intercourse already had with europeans, would enable them to form some  estimate of the value of a guinea, and the number of articles they could  procure with it from any other ship that might visit the island; but, although  the cook kept the guineas more than a week, he could meet with no individual  among the natives who would part with an axe, or even a hatchet, in exchange  for them.
thirty-four or thirty-six, in one district, had, to use his own expression,  “laid hold of the word of god.”
i have frequently seen canes as thick as a man's  wrist, and ten or twelve feet between the root and the leaves.
i had heard of the success of the missionaries before i came to otaheite, and, after making great allowance for exaggeration in the accounts they had sent home, there remained sufficient to lead me to anticipate that they had done a great deal.
soon after the missionaries have entered, a native, perhaps in some distant part of the house, stands up, and, addressing them by name, asks a question, states a difficulty that may have perplexed his mind, begs an explanation of a passage of scripture, or makes an inquiry relative to some subject or portion of the sacred volume, &c.
theirimotu , a large yellow cane, and theto-ura, of a dark red colour, grow very large, and yield an abundance of juice, but thepatu, a small light-red, long-jointed cane, with a thin husk or skin, contains the greatest quantity of saccharine matter.
it is  impossible to contemplate the mighty deliverance thus effected, without  exclaiming, “what hath god wrought!” and desiring, with regard to  other parts of the world, the arrival of that promised and auspicious era, when  “the gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, even they shall  perish from the earth, and from under these heavens,”35 “and the  idols he shall utterly abolish.
mr. williams, in reference to this interesting spectacle, questions whether, but for the influence of christianity, one-third of the children would have been in existence, and states his opinion, that they would not, and that the hands of their mothers would have been imbrued in their blood.
such an appearance was more than once presented, and the reason assigned for it was, that the shirt 396 was so much smaller than the coat, that had it, instead of the coat, been put underneath, it would not have been seen.
it is the result of a conviction in the minds of the people, that his ultimate aim is their welfare; that he comes among them to promote, not his own, but their interest; and that his efforts tend to increase their knowledge and their enjoyments, and are adapted to put them in possession of the means of multiplying their comforts in this life, and leading them to future blessedness.
he was at first ridiculed in this  undertaking; for many of the chiefs and landed proprietors in eimeo were not  strongly attached to his family; they were, moreover, at that time the firm  supporters of idolatry, and considered his neglect of the gods as the cause of  his own troubles, and the war then desolating tahiti.
cushions have not yet intruded into any of the pews, and only into one of the pulpits.
these were his words.
this furnished a powerful incentive to  energetic perseverance in the acquisition of the language, that they might  speedily instruct them in the principles of christianity, and thereby elevate  their moral character, and improve their present circumstances.
the gratification he expressed on their landing, however, did not arise from any desire after religious instruction, for in this interview he spoke of their engaging in war with him, and probably rejoiced in their arrival only as a means of increasing the extent of his influence, and the stability of his government.
the habits of the people did not allow of their attending school with that regularity which scholars observe in england.
referring to his illness about this time, he said, “my  affliction is great; but if i can only obtain god's favour before i die, i  shall count myself well.
here might the hideous face of war be seen, stript of all pomp, adornment, and disguise.
since the abolition of idolatry, no part of the conduct of the south sea islanders has impressed the minds of foreign visitants more forcibly than their attention to the observance of the sabbath.
institutions, the ornament and the glory of our country, had not  arisen.
i looked round very often during the sermon, and saw not one of the congregation flag in their attention to it.
mr. nott replied, “we know nothing of war.”
this commission was executed, and not only were their objects of worship  destroyed, their temples thrown down, the houses of their idols consumed, and  idol-worship no longer practised; but the rude stills employed in preparing  ardent spirits from the sugarcane, and other indigenous productions, were  either broken, or hid under ground.
he was justly  considered as the principal support of the idolatry of his country.
in the commencement of the year 1815, the affairs of tahiti and eimeo, in reference to the supremacy of christianity or idolatry, were evidently tending to a crisis; and although the converts had carefully avoided all interference in the late wars which had desolated the larger island, they were convinced that the time was not very remote, when their faith and principles must rise pre-eminent above the power and influence of that system of delusion and crime, of which they had so long been the slaves, or plunge them in the deepest distress, and perhaps inevitable ruin.
this afforded the people of matavai time to retire, and encamp in the adjoining district with the people of apaiano.
a letter having been forwarded to inform him that we  were nearly ready, he hastened to our settlement, and, in the afternoon of the  day appointed, came to the printing-office, accompanied by a few– 221  –favourite chiefs, and followed by a large concourse of people.
to these the most popular english tunes are affixed; and with most of  those sung by ordinary congregations in england, the natives are acquainted.
– 52 – otu then demanded him, but the chiefs still refused compliance.
on the other hand was the illimitable sea, rolling in solemn majesty its swelling waves over the rocks which defended the spot on which we stood.
unable to meet, in port jackson, with any vessel proceeding to tahiti, mr. marsden had at length engaged the hawkesbury, a small sloop of about twenty tons burden, to take out the letters and articles that had been so long delayed.
in the afternoon of the succeeding sabbaths, i visited a number of christian chiefs at their own houses.
shortly after this was completed, mr. blossom removed to the 298 opposite side of the island, to take charge of the secular concerns of the south sea academy, and the work has since been carried on by mr. armitage alone.
opoa is the most remarkable place in raiatea; of its earth, according to some of their traditions, the first pair were made by tii or taaroa, and on its soil they fixed their abode, here oro held his court.
sometimes, when they had gone  to every house in a village, and the people promising to attend, had left their  houses, they often found, on reaching the appointed place, that only two or  three had arrived there; at other times, they either talked all the while about  their dress, complexion, or features, and endeavoured to irritate the  foreigners by false insinuations as to the objects of their visit; or to excite  the mirth of their own companions by ludicrous gestures, or low witticisms on  the statements that were made.
the sharks,  that had eaten men, were perhaps afterwards caught, and became food for the  natives,– 436 – who might themselves be devoured by other sharks.
the but-end of a tree was then hollowed out, and placed upon the rough stone boiler for a cap.
and, the natives of all the said islands being under his majesty's protection, all acts of rapine, plunder, piracy, murders, or other outrages against their persons or property, will, upon conviction, be severely punished.
mr. henry was the only one of the number who had left, that  resumed his labours in tahiti.
at this period, he fell into  open iniquity; and embraced a gloomy state of infidelity, the frequent  consequence of backsliding from god.”
they had not communicated to him their business, but their having applied for the return of the sandwich islanders, who had before absconded from the vessel, led him to suspect their business on the present occasion.
he informed me that it was devoted to that object, and spoke with apparent satisfaction of the happiness he enjoyed in the retirement it afforded.
the attack, as already stated, was made  at daybreak, in the western border of matavai: four individuals were killed,  and afterwards offered by the priest to his deity.
a  naval officer, who was at tahiti in 1822, stated, that he visited the islands  under a considerable degree of prejudice against the missionaries, and  suspicion respecting the reported change among the people,—but that his  visit had entirely removed both.
these, however, were  soon afterwards amply supplied.
– 345 – these two houses were not only the first in the leeward  group, but they were the first of the kind ever erected, for their own abode,
this intelligence,  when conveyed to those who had taken refuge in the mountains, appeared to them  incredible.
whether, however, they were influenced by a feeling of pride which made them averse to imitate the raiateans, or an unwillingness to increase their domestic employments, we do not know; but the females in general, the queen and chief women in particular, seemed at first determined to resist the innovation.
on the 5th of  october, 1813, the native christians engaged for the first time with their  teachers, in the monthly meetings for prayer for the spreading of the gospel.
thy cocoas and bananas, palms and yams, and  homestall thatched with leaves.
this circumstance, though insignificant, is interesting and important.
not long after the departure of the nautilus, it was reported, that  in order to avenge the death of the two men he had killed, the people of pare  had declared war against pomare.
his wishes were complied with, and the multitude appeared highly delighted when they saw the animal walking and running along the beach, with the captain on his back.
after waiting in fearful suspense several minutes, the  helmsman, hearing a rushing noise, involuntarily opened his eyes, and saw the  column passing, with great velocity, at a distance from the stern of boat.
could they be induced to erect  kilns, and burn it after the– 344 – european manner, it might be  furnished with great facility, and the fact of their being able to prepare with  little trouble, lime from the coral rock, would encourage them in building  comfortable houses.
its lowland is extensive, and the valleys, capable of the highest cultivation, are spacious, and conveniently situated for affording to the inhabitants intercourse with other parts of the island.
on their voyage,  they had carefully studied it, but though they were thus put in possession of a  number of words, in their proper collocation they discovered that they had  every thing to learn.
a native youth, fourteen or fifteen years of age, leaving the crowd, came forward, and asked if he should cook us some bread-fruit.
his  words at first seemed but as words of irony or jest; but the earnestness of his  manner, the details he gave, and the intelligence he brought from the king and  some of the chiefs, confirmed the declaration.
in february, 1813, he wrote to the following effect.
many  appeared to listen with earnestness and satisfaction to the message they  delivered, called god, the good spirit, and scrupled not to designate their own  gods asvarua maamaa, and varua ino, foolish spirits, and evil  spirits.
pomare was distiguished by laborious and patient perseverance; tamehameha, by bold and daring enterprise.
there were curtains  to the windows, made of white cloth, with dark leaves stained upon it for a  border, which gave a cheerful and comfortable air to the rooms.
when the  flour, and other foreign articles of provision which we had brought from port  jackson, were nearly expended, we subsisted almost entirely on native food; and  though most of it was rather unsavoury at first, it afterwards became tolerably  palatable.
towards the  autumn of 1813, mr. shelly, formerly a missionary in tongatabu, and  subsequently in matavai, arrived as master of the queen charlotte, at eimeo, on  his way to the paumotu, or pearl islands.
the school at papetoai was greatly increased; and hundreds, who had been early scholars there, were now stationed as teachers among the adjacent islands, imparting to others the knowledge they had received.
it was the custom of the missionaries, not only to instruct the natives in the school, preach to them in the chapel, and itinerate through the villages, but to assemble them for the purpose of reading, from manuscript, such portions of the scripture as were deemed suitable to their circumstances.
iv from page 87 to page 104.
at the same time it was recommended, that two young men and  two young women from each island, should be sent, to learn the art of making  looms, spinning, weaving, &c.
but the most rude and simple expedient i ever beheld was at raivavai, or high island, where every implement of iron was as precious and as scarce as bells or clocks were at the other stations.
one of mahine's men, raveae,34 pierced the body of upufara, the chief of papara, and the commander-in-chief of the idolatrous forces.
in writing down the names of those  who thus publicly professed christianity, the missionaries were influenced by a  desire, not only to instruct them more fully, but to become personally  acquainted with them, and to exercise over them a guardian care, which they  could not do without knowing their names, places of abode, &c. to their  number, eleven more were soon added; and with these they afterwards held  frequent meetings, for the purpose of informing their minds, and encouraging  them to faithfulness in their attachment to the redeemer.
they were conducted to a large, oval-shaped native house, which had been but  recently finished for capt.
though the  settlements were about thirty miles apart, yet, as the width of the channel was  not much more than twenty miles, the mountains, and coast of the opposite  island, were distinctly seen.
at borabora, for  a long time after mr. orsmond's settlement there, their only substitute for a  bell was a broad carpenter's axe.
almost all the  women, young and old, were habited in the european manner.
we passed between tahaa and raiatea, and arrived  at the new missionary settlement on the north-west side of the latter, about – 317 – noon.
i early voyages to the pacific—interest in behalf of the people  excited by the published accounts—formation of the missionary  society—sailing of the duff—arrival off tahiti—notice of a roman  catholic mission—opinion of captain cook on the formation of a settlement  in tahiti—cession of matavai—departure of the duff—influence of  the mechanic arts on the minds of the people—comparative estimate of iron  and gold—difficulties attending the acquisition of an unwritten  language—methods adopted by the missionaries—propensity to theft  among the natives—efforts to prevent human sacrifices and infant  murder—resolution of the missionaries relative to the use of fire-arms.
at length the vessel moved towards the sea, amid the shouts of the assembled multitudes.
having just quitted  the marquesas, where we saw the very state the otaheitans were in at the time  of their first visitors, we of course– 420 – saw the change to great  advantage; and the magnitude of it is so astonishing, that all has the  appearance of a dream.
towards the  latter part of his life, his pastor had the pleasure of observing the greatest  circumspection and moral purity in his whole conduct, with a high and  increasing degree of spirituality of mind and tranquil joy.
when  mr. nott left them, he invited the chief and his adherents to visit the station  on the sabbath, and cultivate an intercourse with other christian chiefs.
these visits were, however, in the arrangements of him who ordereth all things after the counsel of his own will, preparing the way for this, in a manner which those by whom they were made neither designed nor anticipated.
the influence of his  character in papetoai, where he is best known, has occasioned his election to  an important office in the christian church.
detached notices of this event have been transmitted to england in the letters of the missionaries, and in the different publications of the missionary society.
once or twice, when approaching tamae about sunrise, we have met the natives returning from the bushes, whither by the break of day, they had retired for mediation and secret prayer.
in the evening of the day, when the confusion of battle had in some degree subsided, pomare and the chiefs invited the christians to assemble, probably in the place in which they had been during the morning disturbedthere to render thanks to god, for the protection he had, on that eventful day, so mercifully afforded.
the inhabitants formerly wore a kind of bonnet, or rather shade for the eyes,  made of the leaves of the cocoa-nut, in a variety of forms, many of them  tasteful and elegant.
with great effort she was  replaced, during the same afternoon, in an upright position, and subsequently  launched upon the bosom of the pacific, amid the exulting shouts of the  multitudes who thronged the shores.
in order to carry these plans into effect, we left papetoai on the 25th of march, with mr. davies, mr. and mrs. crook, and family.
may you be saved, my friends, by jehovah, and jesus christ, the only saviour by whom we sinners can be saved.
hammers, saws, and adzes, were heard in every direction.
on the minds of the family, and the inhabitants of  the place, it produced a powerful impression.
it is always delightful to watch  the commencement and progress of mental improvement, and the early efforts of  intellect; but it was peculiarly so here.
these idols i saw at port jackson; they are now deposited in the missionary museum, austin friars.
the stillness of every thing around, the secluded retirement of the spot, and the varied objects of nature with which it was associated, seemed delightfully adapted to contemplation and devotion.
this was evident, from a speech once made by  haamanemane, who said that they gave the people plenty of the parau (word) talk  and prayer, but very few knives, axes, scissors, or cloth.
we desire genuine faith; where can we obtain  it?
upon this platform  ninety tables were prepared, after the manner of preparation for a feast in  england.
as she glided smoothly along towards the water, pomare, who had stationed himself by the sea-side for the purpose, gave the vessel her name, by throwing a bottle of wine at her, and exclaiming,
the root was cut off above the part that had been in  the ground, and the stem being then fixed over a vessel, half a pint sometimes  of thick purple juice exuded from it.
i was personally acquainted with oito while he  resided in eimeo, and have often passed along the mouth or opening of this  valley, but regret that i never had an opportunity of traversing its interior,  and visiting the abode of oito, or the sites of the rural oratories of the  first christiains in tahiti.
the grove, stately and rich in all the luxuriance of tropical verdure, extended from the beach to the very base of the mountains, whose gradual ascent, and rocky projections, led to the interior.
the public  adherents of christianity were but few, (less than fifty,) and surrounded by  jealous and cruel idolaters—who already began to wonder “whereunto  this thing might grow.”
a short time afterwards, several of the natives of our island sailed over to raiatea, and returned with very flattering accounts of the improved appearance of those who wore hats and bonnets.
he, however, wished to  know, and the people in general were evidently interested in the  inquiry—whether, in the event of a similar occurrence at any future  period, he should do wrong in driving out the animal, and repairing the fence.
while seeking  this, about– 101 – the dawn of the day, on the morning after their  arrival, mr. scott heard a voice at no great distance from his retreat.
on reaching the shores of this island, from which five years before he had been obliged to flee for his life, he found it was all true that had been told them, that the people were in that interesting state described by the prophet, when, enraptured by the visions of messiah's future glories, he exclaimed, the isles shall wait for his law.
among the various parties in afareaitu, at this time, were a number of the natives of the paumotu, or pearl islands, which lie to the northeast of tahiti, and constitute what is called the 227 dangerous archipelago.
he spent much of his time in reading and writing, in conversation, and in earnest inquiry about god, and the way of acceptance with him, through jesus christ,and sometimes spoke in terms astonishing even to the missionaries themselves.
many were induced to keep back from the schools, and the place of public worship, from a desire to remain free from those restraints on their vicious practices, which such profession of christianity was considered to impose.
he was one of those missionaries that arrived in the ship duff; he had borne the heat and burden of the day, and finished his course on the 25th of september, 1807.
five days after the departure of the betsy, the missionaries had the satisfaction to welcome again to their society, mr. and mrs. henry; who returned from port jackson in the eliza, a south 40 sea whaler.
in the means employed there was nothing extraordinary.
the hibernia, captain– 88 – campbell,  also arrived shortly afterwards; but captain campbell, receiving the letter,  was warned of his danger, and not only secured his own vessel, but succeeded in  rescuing the schooner and her crew.
, they simultaneously discontinued their work.
one of these, whose name was manu,  bird, resided at bunaauïa, in the district of atehuru.
overpowered, however, by numbers, the viro or front ranks were obliged to give way.
some of the natives said that he had acted as if insane; others, that the evil spirit had entered into him; but, from several expressions that were 38 used, there was reason to apprehend he had been murdered.
i felt inclined to do so, said he, last sabbath, when walking in my garden; but  on reflecting that i had other fruit ready plucked and prepared, i  hesitated,—not because i believed it would be in itself sinful, but lest  my attendants should notice it, and do so too, and it should become a general  practice with the people to go to their gardens, and gather fruit to eat on the  sabbath, which would be unfavourable to the proper observance of that day.
i had selected for the text what appeared a most suitable passage with which to commence my public ministry: this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that christ jesus came into the world to save sinners,
the king proposed to find materials, and the missionaries labour.
according to ancient usage in the erection of public buildings, the work had been divided among the different chiefs of the islands; these had apportioned their respective allotments among their peasantry or dependants, and thus each party had distinct portions of the wall, the roof, and the floor.
in many families, where  all were scholars,– 220 – there was but one book; while others were  totally destitute.
at length he reached the beach in safety; and, as he rose out of the water, the natives on the shore fled with precipitation, climbing the trees, or crouching behind the rocks and the bushes for security.
the missionaries also appear to have been so strongly influenced by the king's communication, that, instead of endeavouring to remove his objections, by persuading him to allow the trial to be fairly made, and then to act accordingly, they deemed it expedient, that so far as they, or the society by which the machinery had, at great expense, been sent out, were concerned, it should be at once discontinued.
to them the first-fruits of the field, the choicest  fish from the sea, with the most valuable productions of their labour and  ingenuity, were offered; and to propitiate their favour, avert their  displeasure, and death, its dreaded consequence, human victims were so often  slain.
the same was continued through the second day; but on the third, to the  great astonishment of all on board, no individual came near the ship,  assigning, afterwards, as a reason, that it was the sabbath.
to the organ which in the language of anatomy would be called  the heart, they attributed no other susceptibilities than those which are  common to other parts of the body.
the same individual who resided with upufara stated also, that only a day or two before the battle, he said to some one, with whom he was conversing,
overpowered, however, by numbers, the viro or front ranks were  obliged to give way.
such was the interesting state of pomare's mind, at the close of the year 1812, and the commencement of 1813.
these lie to the eastward of tahiti,  and form what is denominated the dangerous archipelago.
– 389 – the missionaries' wives had taught some few in eimeo prior to our arrival;  but, until their reception of christianity, they considered it degrading to  attach themselves to the household of foreigners, or to learn any of their arts  and customs; they also thought their own manner of wearing a piece of native or  foreign cloth, cast loosely round the body, preferable to the european mode of  dress, and consequently had no inducement to learn needlework, or any other  female employment.
with more frequency, however, and greater eagerness, they often inquired how they could prevent evil thoughts arising in their minds during seasons of devotionhow they could avoid repeating words of prayer unattended by devotional desiresand how they could at all times engage the heart in this exercise?
many, agreeably to the precautions of the missionaries, had met for worship under arms; others, who had not, were preparing to return to their tents, and arm for the battle.
they  had the delightful satisfaction of hearing some of the new converts engage in  prayer, and were surprised and gratified, in a high degree, with their fluency  and fervour, as well as the appropriateness of their language, when officiating  in this sacred duty.
in huahine they are usually held at the close of the public services connected with the missionary anniversaries.
a number of interesting and important inquiries is  naturally suggested by this amazing change; and we are anxious to be made  acquainted with every fact, in the application of those means which induced its  commencement, and sustained its progress.
it is  probable, also, that considering the tahitians as a christian people, he had  some desire to emulate the conduct of solomon in building a temple, as well as  surpassing in knowledge the kings and chieftains of the islands.
they would have prosecuted their march of destruction; and, as the  missionaries remark, they must have retreated, or fallen a sacrifice to their  fury.
the long-winged and interwoven leaves of the trees formed a spreading canopy, through which a straggling 267 sunbeam occasionally found its way, and among whose long and graceful leaflets the breeze from the ocean, sweeping softly, gave a degree of animation to the whole.
near the queen, on the right, stands peter the swede, their interpreter, and behind him stands idia, the mother of the king.
those who were frequently upon the waters, and enjoyed the gentle sea-breezes, or wished to excel their neighbours, built a massy pier or causeway in the sea, and, raising it four or five feet above high-water mark, covered it with smooth flat stones, and then erected their houses upon the spot they had thus recovered from the sea, by which it was on three sides surrounded.
the king and  his followers were allowed to land, and several of the people returned  unmolested to their respective districts and plantations.
the machinery, &c. were considered as  belonging to the missionary society, but at a public meeting held in eimeo, in  may 1824, for the purpose of arranging the principles upon which its future  operations should be conducted, it was distinctly stated by the deputation, and  recognized by the missionaries, “that the society contemplates no other  advantage in promoting the manufacture of cloth by this machinery, than the  good of the inhabitants of these islands;” “that no charges by way of  profit shall be made upon the cloth manufactured and sold to the inhabitants,  more than is merely necessary to defray the expenses attending it,” and  “that all the inhabitants of the islands connected with both the windward  and leeward missions, shall be allowed to share alike in the advantages of this  manufactory.”
they said to me, ‘write down our names.’
what  became of the organ and electrical machine, i never knew.
it was, however, a sacrifice cheerfully offered on her part.
these offerings were not only brought from the districts of  raiatea and the adjacent islands, but also from the windward group, and even  from the more distant islands to the south and south-east.
vi distillation of ardent spirits—description of a native  still—materials employed in distillation—murderous effects of  intoxication—seizure of the queen charlotte—murder of the  officers—escape of mr. shelly—seizure of the daphne—massacre of  the captain and part of the crew—public triumph over idolatry in  eimeo—visit of the queen and her sister to tahiti—emblems of the gods  committed to the flames—account of farefau—projected assassination of  the bure atua—manner of their escape—war in tahiti—pomare's tour  of eimeo.
it does not appear that there was any implement of husbandry, or useful tool, included in the catalogue of his presents, though he landed with a coat of mail, a suit of armour, musket, pistols, cartouche-box, cutlasses, powder, and ball!
moorea,45 they said, was their teacher,  and had instructed them concerning the true god, for whose worship in the  island of anaa,46 whence most of them came, they had already erected three  chapels.
it was subsequently fixed up as a post in the king's kitchen, and used in a most contemptuous manner, by having baskets of food suspended from it; and, finally, it was riven up for fuel.
his person was tall and commanding, his hair black and curling, his eyes benignant, and his whole countenance beamed with a joy that declared his tongue only obeyed the dictates of his heart.
but as their numbers were few, their influence small, and as the  great body of the people were doubtless favourable to the new order of things,  hopes of success were comparatively faint, and no further attempt was made.
it is not to be expected that a people unaccustomed to mental effort  should be constantly engaged with their books.
on the sabbath-day, the 6th of november, the district of matavai was thrown into great confusion, and numbers of men appeared in arms.
it is impossible to contemplate the mighty deliverance thus effected, without exclaiming, what hath god wrought!
my acquisition of the language was thus facilitated by  attention to printing in the native tongue.
the deputation and the missionaries, however, considering that the island of eimeo afforded the greatest facilities for carrying on the work, removed it thither, and with great expense and labour messrs. armitage and blossom erected the machinery, and commenced their work.
when, however, fully convinced of the reality, the hand of an almighty providence is distinctly acknowledged.
desirous of disclosing their  business to the chiefs when together, they remained near the residence of otu  some time, expecting the arrival of pomare, for whom they had sent.
the night, however, was cloudless, and star after star, from some unseen abyss, came through the sky, till all the firmament was thronged with constellations, and the sea strewn with their images.
the 7th of december, 1817, being the day fixed for the launch, crowds of the inhabitants assembled to witness the spectacle: when the preparations were completed, the wedges were removed; but as the vessel did not move, strong ropes were passed round her stern, and a number of the islanders on each side began pulling her towards the water.
we recommended each family to build  distinct and comfortable cottages for themselves,– 342 – and the  chiefs to partition bed-rooms in their present dwellings, in which they must  reside while building others; even in these we recommended them to reduce the  number of their inmates, and to erect distinct sleeping rooms for those they  retained.
to the natives of raiatea, this work of their own hands appeared a  wonderful specimen of architecture; the manner in which its interior was  finished perfectly astonished them, and appeared no less surprising to the  natives of the other islands.
they were also anxious to see this wonderful machine, the printing-press, in operation, having heard much of the facility with which, when once it should be established, they would be supplied with articles at that time more valuable, in their estimation, than any other.
his forehead was rather  prominent and high, his eyebrows narrow, well defined, and nearly straight; his  hair, which was combed back from his forehead, and the sides of his face, was  of a glossy black colour, slightly curled behind; his eyes were small,  sometimes appearing remarkably keen, at others rather heavy; his nose was  straight, and the nostrils by no means large, his lips were thick, and his chin  projecting.
uniformity was as deficient in the sittings of the chapel, as in the  houses of the town, each family fitting up their own according to their  inclination or ability.
these journeys were  exceedingly wearisome: returning from one of them, night overtook us many miles  before we reached our home; we travelled part of the way in a single canoe, but  for several miles, where there was no passage between the reef and the shore,  and the fragile bark was exposed without shelter to the long heavy billows of  the pacific, we proceeded along the beach, while the natives rowed the canoe  upon the open– 245 – sea.
while the spelling-book was in hand, mr. and mrs.  orsmond arrived in the islands, and took up– 224 – their residence at  afareaitu; increasing thereby the enjoyment of our social hours.
he sent several messengers to pare, commanding the body to be brought to him; but to this theraatiras, or resident chiefs, objected.
we were anxious to aid in the accomplishment of their  design; and a day was fixed, on which a public meeting was to be held for its  formation.
resounded in every direction, and  the king seemed ot think she would never be launched.
around the outside of the liquid  cylinder was a kind of thick mist, and, within, a substance resembling steam,  ascending apparently with a spiral motion.
they commenced it in the beginning of 1819, and completed it early in the following year.
there were many present, who were indignant at the insult, and filled with rage at the impiety of the act, as well as convinced, that if this conduct should be imitated by others, not only would their craft and their emoluments be endangered, but they would no longer be able to exercise that unquestioned influence over the people, to which they had hitherto been accustomed; nor to indulge their 114 base propensities, and live in the luxurious ease they then enjoyed.
on the outside of this, the pieces of coral are placed, twelve or  eighteen inches thick.
it is bounded on the south by a range of mountains separating it  from the district of haapape, and on the north by the small district of buaoa,  whence a long, bleak point of land, called the faaao, extending a considerable  distance into the sea, and covered with tall cocoanut– 249 – trees,  adds much to the beauty of the shore, and the security of the harbour.
at the same time that this event shed such light upon the prospects of the missionaries, other circumstances concurred, to confirm them in the conviction, that god was about to favour in a signal manner their enterprise, to follow their labours with his blessing, and with still greater success.
a second hymn is sung, another portion of scripture read, and prayer  offered by another individual—when the service closes, and the assembly  retires.
in all their idol worship, however large or costly the sacrifices that had been offered, and however near its close the most protracted ceremony might be, if the priest omitted or misplaced any word in the prayers with which it was always accompanied, or if his attention was diverted by any means, so that the prayer washai, or broken, the whole was rendered unavailable, he must prepare other victims, and repeat his prayers from the commencement.
will it be proper to write down their names?
he did so, and  when the paper was removed from beneath the press, and the covering lifted up,  the chiefs and assistants rushed towards it, to see what effect the king's  pressure had produced.
both rose from a comparatively humble station in society, to  the supreme authority; both owed their– 69 – elevation principally to  their own energies, and the aid they derived from their intercourse with  foreigners; both appeared the main pillars of the idolatry of their respective  countries; and both left to their heirs the undisputed government of the  islands they had conquered.
it is true, their occupations at home are seldom very urgent, and they have not much to neglect; it is nevertheless encouraging to notice, that they do not wish to avoid a place of worship, when a public service is held.
his  sermon on the love of christ, besides other public records which he has left,  prevent its being questionable whether he taught unitarianism or not.
a  man once asked, what caused the angels in heaven to sin, or satan to become a  wicked spirit?
may jehovah give me his good spirit to sanctify my heart, that i may love what is good, and that i may be enabled to put away all my evil customs, and become one of his people, and be saved through jesus christ, our only saviour!
on the day of the engagement, captain bishop, with a strong party, occupied the pass on the top of one-tree hill, arrested the progress of the victors, and favoured the retreat of the vanquished, whose courage appeared to have forsaken them, under the conviction that the god oro, fighting with their enemies, rendered them invincible.
352 upon walking through the village, we were very much pleased to see that a nice, dry, elevated foot-path or causeway ran through it, which must add to their comfort in wet weather, when going to prayers in their european dresses.
their family connexions may not indeed have been of the highest class, neither may the individuals themselves have enjoyed the advantages of a very liberal education, nor possessed any very extensive acquaintance with the world.
missionary effort, on the extended scale  and in the distant and comparatively unexplored field in which they attempted  it, was an event as new among the british churches, as the broad, catholic  principles, upon which it was undertaken, were unparalleled.
subjects of every kind were formerly discussed, and questions brought forward relative to the discipline of children, the forming of connexions, and the whole of their domestic economy, agriculture, trade, or barter, legislature, war and politics, history and science, as connected with the natural phenomena by which they were surrounded, and, occasionally, what might be termed the first efforts of philosophical research in their partially enlightened minds.
hats and bonnets were,  however, introduced among the natives by our friends in raiatea, with whom many  valuable improvements have originated; and the first hats and bonnets ever made  in the islands, and worn by the natives, were made by mrs. williams and mrs.
a visit which a  number of chiefs and their wives, from raiatea, paid to huahine, increased  their eagerness for this new article of dress—which, when once adopted,  was never laid aside.
many were doubtless influenced by motives of curiosity, others by a desire to possess an article of property now so highly esteemed by all parties, but many were certainly influenced by a desire to become more fully acquainted with the revelation god had made to man, and to read for themselves, in their own language, those truths that were able to make them wise unto salvation.
cotton for another piece was prepared, and the natives commenced spinning; but the confinement required being irksome, and their expectation rather lowered, as to the quality of the cloth they were to receive as wages for their labour,before the warp was ready for the loom
when mr. nott left them, he invited the chief and his adherents to visit the station on the sabbath, and cultivate an intercourse with other christian chiefs.
many of them immediately changed their names, and others would be happy to obliterate every mark of that fraternity, the badges of which they once considered an honourable distinction.
captain wilson coasted along the south and western shores of huahine, and then sailed to tongatabu; where, after spending twenty days with the missionaries, who appeared comfortably settled, he sailed for canton, where he received a cargo, with which he returned to england, and arrived safely in the thames; having completed his perilous voyage, under circumstances adapted to afford the highest satisfaction, and to excite the sincerest gratitude from all 11 who were interested in the success of the important enterprise.
these circumstances appear trivial, but they serve to shew the expedients resorted to in a state of society so peculiar as that now prevailing in the south sea islands.
those who had been at eimeo, and many  of the inhabitants of huahine, appeared interested in the details that were  given of the condition of other parts of the world, and the efforts that had  been made by christians in england to send them the means of instruction.
his evident satisfaction was proportionate, when he perceived that mr. and mrs. eyre, and five of the single missionaries, resolved to continue in tahiti.
before the assembly departed, i gave a short address to the parents, teachers, and children.
– 19 – the tahitian was the first polynesian language reduced to writing.
this is a consideration which, though confessedly very inferior to many, ought not to be disregarded by those who take an interest in the alteration of society which is now attending missionary efforts in various parts of the world, but particularly in such countries as africa, madagascar, and the islands of the pacific.
the acquisition of the language engaged our constant attention; and we not only devoted some hours every day to its study, but met together two or three times a week, to receive instruction, and facilitate our improvement.
his own affairs remained unsettled and discouraging; he was still in exile; 96 and rumours of war not only prevailed in tahiti, but invasion threatened eimeo.
the floor,  which was of sand, was covered with long dry grass.
williams and mr. orsmond had for some time past preached in  the native language.
immediately behind this spot, matoereere, a black rock, the loftiest mountain in the island, towered in majesty above the surrounding hills.
the assembled multitude were confounded and astonished; and the food being, by this act, offered as they considered to jehovah, no one dared to take any part of it to the idol temple.
before the service began, they were usually led to the seats appropriated  for them in the chapel; and where there have been galleries, these have been  occupied by the scholars.
weakness and vanity,  together with savage pride, appear to have been the most conspicuous traits of  character he developed in subsequent life.
57 their situation at this time must have been most distressing.
to which it was answered, that if god had not made that the peculiar test of their obedience, satan would have found some other medium through which to tempt them to sin.
since the establishment of the stations in huahine and the other islands, the number has been greatly diminished; the people in many parts have resorted to the missionary settlement, particularly on the sabbath; and the places formerly used as chapels have been converted into schools.
the former continued to be worn after their  renunciation of idolatry; and the missionaries knew no reason why they should  recommend the discontinuance of a dress to which the nation was accustomed,  merely on account of its gay appearance.
a similar instance occurred early in this year.
the work was but commenced, and the abolition of idolatry was but one of the great preliminaries in those designs of mercy which were daily unfolded, with increasing interest and importance, in their influence on the destiny of the people.
soon after breakfast, our captain landed with the saddle and bridle, and other presents, which mr. birnie, of sydney, had sent out with the horse.
as he drew to the close of his address, he intimated his wish that those who approved of the proposal he had made, should lift up their right hands.
the natives were delighted and astonished; and although our surprise was not less than theirs, our satisfaction was more chastened; for, notwithstanding we had succeeded so well in our first attempt, we considered it more the result of accident than skill, and were by no means confident that, in a second effort, we should be equally successful.
the most perfect order reigned the whole time of the service.
how little such an event had been  anticipated by captain wilson's predecessors, we may learn from the testimony  of captain cook.
convinced, that though the chiefs of the victorious army might be friendly to them, yet that they could not restrain their followers, who, in time of war, threw off all subordination; and expecting that the victors, after this success, would instantly 82 attack their dwelling, and that their lives were no longer secure, the missionaries remaining at tahiti fled to eimeo, where they were shortly after joined by the king.
no one said,  the good word, the true word is coming, spare your children; and now my heart  is repenting—is weeping for them!”
the missionaries had but recently returned from their banishment, and the work of instruction had scarcely been resumed; it was the beginning, and but the beginning, of a second attempt to plant the gospel in those islands.
the natives, in general, now considered it a great favour to be taught, though it was sometimes found that they had entertained very incorrect ideas of the motives by which their instructors were influenced.
the natives of afareaitu, and the neighbouring  districts, were rejoiced at our coming among them; they seemed a people  predisposed to receive instruction.
with equal transport, and with greater sympathy, those happy disembodied  spirits of just men made perfect, who have more recently entered on their  everlasting rest, if they have a knowledge of what passes on earth, must have  viewed the change!
the king,  determined in his purpose, levied a requisition for materials and labour on the  chiefs and people of tahiti and eimeo, by whose combined efforts it was  ultimately finished.
i cannot imagine a more cheering and  affecting scene, than must often have been presented, when a native  sabbath-school teacher has seated herself on the grass, under the shade of a  spreading tree, or by the side of a winding stream, and has there gathered her  little class around her, for the purpose of unfolding, and impressing on their  tender minds, the pure and sacred precepts of inspired truth; or has, under  these circumstances, engaged with them in prayer to that god, who is not  confined to temples made with hands, and who regards the sincerity of those who  call upon him, rather than the circumstances under which their petitions are  offered.
during the performance of these rites, pomare's orator, and some of  the inhabitants of matavai, used insulting expressions in reference to the  corpse; which so incensed otu, that, aided by the chief priest, he immediately  made war upon the district of matavai.
for soul and  spirit, however, they have distinct terms,varua, and the ancient word vaiti; but it does not appear that they were accustomed to consider the  soul or spirit as experiencing, in conjunction with the body, either mental or  moral sensations.
besides a service in english, the missionaries preach twice in the native language, and visit the sabbath school; these services are as many as they are able to undertake: the service at the morning prayer-meeting is therefore performed by the natives.
his obtaining the former; and in order to be revenged on them for this act of  friendship to those on board, he had allowed some of his men to follow and to  plunder them.
the inhabitants frequently assembled to hear their instructions as soon as they knew of their arrival in a district or village; whereas, on every former occasion, it had required much time and labour, by personal application, to assemble the smallest congregations.
x erection of a printing-officeincreased demand for booksestablishment of the printing presseager anticipations of the peoplefirst printing in the island done by the kingmaterials employed in binding native booksprinting the gospel of st. lukeliberal aid from the british and foreign bible societyinfluence of the process of printing, &c. on the minds of the peoplevisit of a party of natives from the eastern archipelagodistribution of elementary booksdesire of the inhabitants for the scripturesapplicants from different islandsestimation in which the scriptures are heldinfluence of the press in the nationnumber of works printed.
a young woman had attended very regularly for some weeks, and had learned to use her needle as well as could be expected in that time.
the enclosures of the garden were destroyed, the bread-fruit and cocoanut trees cut down, to prevent their affording shelter to the enemy, and the means of annoyance from their muskets or their slings.
their inquiries referred not only to historical, biographical, and other facts connected with the sacred volume, but to those relating to other nations of the earth.
be  merciful to us and bless us, for jesus christ's sake.
those who came were so little acquainted with the gospel, that in the lessons given in the school, and the addresses delivered to assemblies met for worship, it was found necessary to begin with the first principles of instruction, and of christianity.
the  native were in want of books, and most eager for them: the first inquiry of  every party that arrived, usually was, “when will the books be  ready?”
we landed on one of the small islets which define,  shelter, and adorn the entrance to the harbour, partook of some refreshment  under the shade the brushwood afforded, while our boat's crew climbed the  trees, and afterwards made an agreeable repast on the nuts which they gathered.
the kindness and the sympathy of his  fellow-labourers mitigated, however, in a great degree, the poignancy of his  distress; and the consolations of religion supported his mind under a  bereavement, which he had sustained in circumstances unusually distressing.
a flood of light, like the  rays of the morning, had broken in upon the intellectual and spiritual night,  which, like a funeral pall, had long been spread – 160 – over the  inhabitants of the valleys and hills of tahiti, and had rendered their abodes,  though naturally verdant and lovely as the bowers of eden, yet morally  cheerless and desolate as the region of the shadow of death!
a knowledge of the language was,  however, indispensable; and many of the missionaries employed much of their  time in making excursions through the neighbouring districts, spending several  days together with the chiefs at their own habitations, for the purpose of  observing their customs, and obtaining an acquaintance with the words which  they employed in social intercourse.
after two or three solicitations from his mother, otu, the young king, though in closest alliance with him, consented to his death, and he was murdered by one of idia's men, at the foot of one-tree hill, as he was on his way to pare, on the 3d of december 1798, ten days after the invasion of matavai.
a spark fell from the pistol, and the whole of the powder instantly  exploded.
the queen and chiefs were next supplied,  and preparations made for meeting the demands of the people.
this device was employed for a short time with success against the establishment of the mission among the sandwich islands; where the king and chiefs were told, that though foreigners first went in a peaceable and friendly manner to the west indies, they subsequently went with all the apparatus of war, attacked and defeated the inhabitants, hunted the fugitives with blood-hounds, finally exterminated them, and remained masters of the islands.
the melancholy aspect of affairs, their expulsion from tahiti, the total destruction of the settlement, and the little probability of a restoration of peace, induced them to determine on removing by the first opportunity to port jackson.
the hand of a superintending providence is generally acknowledged, it is true, but it is so only with respect to the temporal state.
he answered, in hurried accents, i see a whirlwind coming, pointing to a cloud a little to the windward of the ship.
his actions attracted the notice of the officer on  deck, who instantly sent an able seaman to the helm, and called the– 312  – captain.
the “old hundredth psalm,”  “denmark.”
it was one hundred feet long, and  sixty wide.
to me it was the most pleasing sight i had yet beheld, and imparted a higher zest to the enjoyment 195 i experienced in gazing on the island, as we sailed along its shores.
the natives were  surprised at the– 289 – quantity of juice from a single cane, as they  had never been accustomed to see it thus collected, but had generally broken it  in small pieces, and, by masticating the cane, extracted the juice.
to the mission families he was uniformly kind.
when, therefore, the food was presented to pomare-vahine, before any article was touched by the attendants, and while the spectators were expecting the priests to select the customary offerings to the idols, one of her principal men, who was a christian, came forward, uncovered his head, and, looking up to heaven, offered in an audible voice their acknowledgments and thanksgivings to jehovah, who liberally gave them food and raiment and every earthly blessing.
the swelling budthe opening blossomthe expanding leavesthe tiny fruit-formations, as they regularly pass under the eye of the observer, are not less interesting than the bough 353 bending with ripened fruit.
but there was a bitterness in the sea water which rendered it rather  unpalatable, i therefore dispensed with the further use of it, and finished my  meal with the bread-fruit and fish.
its arrival was most  providential.
as  it is a document important to the peace and security of the inhabitants of  polynesia, i deem no apology necessary, for inserting it nearly entire.
these self-denying individuals have been so destitute of a  change of apparel, that they could not,– 192 – without some sacrifice  of feeling, meet any of their own countrymen by whom the island might be  visited; and, often rising in the morning from the rustic bed, without knowing  whence the supplies of even native food for the day were to be derived, they  have sent out a native servant-boy to seek for bread-fruit in the mountains, or  to solicit a supply from the trees of some friendly chief in the neighbourhood,  while they have repaired to the school, and pursued their daily instruction,  cheered and encouraged only by the progress of their scholars.
numbers of  the inhabitants of several parts of tahiti and eimeo flocked to afareaitu, to  attend the means of instruction, and the public ordinances of religion, as it  was more convenient to many than papetoai.
during our  abode in huahine, a number of natives were on a voyage from the leeward to the  windward islands, in a boat belonging to mr. williams, when a waterspout  approached them.
it was oblong or square, with high  gable, or circular ends covered with thatch, so that the building resembled an  oval more than any other shape.
the attendance of the people is  regular, and the attention seldom diverted.
two months afterwards mr. nott, accompanied by mr. hayward, visited huahine, raiatea, and tahaa, the principal of the society islands, conversing with the inhabitants, travelling round the islands, and preaching to the people wherever it was convenient.
his implements of war, and especially the  fire-arms, rendered his aid and co-operation a desideratum with the king of the  island, who, in order more effectually to secure the advantage of his influence  and arms, gave him one of his daughters in marriage, and honoured him with the  name of paari, (wise or instructed,) by which name he is now always spoken of  among the natives; several of whom still remember him.
it is not easy to form an accurate idea of the distress of the last missionaries who reluctantly left tahiti, when they beheld their gardens demolished, their houses plundered and burnt, their pupils engaged in all the barbarity of a savage war; and the people, among whom they had hoped to introduce order, and peace, and happiness, doomed to the complicated miseries attending anarchy, idolatry, and the varied horrors of cruelty and vice.
view of fa-re harbour, in  huahine p. 352.
the hours that followed were some of the most solemn i have ever  passed in my life.
the leaders of the rebels refused, however, to meet pomare except in battle, and every hope of accommodation now vanished.
when the loose european dress was white, thepareu, worn round the waist on the outside of it, was of dark blue; one end of it was sometimes thrown carelessly over the shoulder, or hung loosely on the arm, heightening the novel and not 392 unpleasing effect produced by their blending, in the apparel of the same individual, the ancient native with the modern european costume.
– 6 – from a spanish account of chiloe, &c. published in 1791, it appears  that, in 1772, two ships, sent by the viceroy of peru to survey the islands of  the pacific, visited tahiti, and conveyed to peru two natives, who were  baptized there, and sent back, in 1774, with two roman catholic missionaries.
moisture induced decay, and although  over these parts of the floor they often spread a little fresh grass, yet many  places in the native houses frequently resembled a stable, or a stable-yard,  more than a suitable dwelling-place for human beings.
three or four hundred yards distant from the chapel, there was a beautiful and extensive grove.
they had obtained a creditable english, if not a classical, education, a due knowledge of the scriptures, and an experimental acquaintance with the principles of christianity; while some, with great mental vigour combined no small degree of intellectual culture.
in huahine a large class attended every afternoon from two o'clock till five, alternately at our respective houses, where mrs. barff and mrs. ellis met, and spent the afternoon pleasantly in each other's society, and unitedly teaching the females by whom they were surrounded.
appear more remarkable.
i was personally acquainted with oito while he resided in eimeo, and have often passed along the mouth or opening of this valley, but regret that i never had an opportunity of traversing its interior, and visiting the abode of oito, or the sites of the rural oratories of the first christiains in tahiti.
it was made for our  infant daughter, with leaflets of the fan-leaved palm, brought from the  marquesas; and the first hat we ever saw that had been made– 400 –  there, was one the same individual made for me at huahine, with the same kind  of leaves, which were platted by a sailor in eimeo.
in forming this, the roman  characters were preferred; sounds in the tahitian language attached to them;  and, for the purpose of facilitating the introduction of letters among the  people, a native name was affixed to each.
however, should the missionaries arrive at morea, write to me quickly, that i may know.
they had heard that, when seen by navigators, they sometimes – 311 – averted the threatened danger by discharging their artillery  at the waterspout.
the hull was destroyed, but all the stores were preserved.
the hand of a superintending  providence is generally acknowledged, it is true, but it is so only with  respect to the temporal state.
if lime-juice was sprinkled upon it, a beautiful and delicate pink was produced.
often they would ask, “how  can we attain true repentance, and a change of heart?
they now celebrated the subversion of idolatry, under circumstances that, but a few hours before, had threatened their own extermination, with the overthrow of the religion they had espoused, and on 153 account of which their destruction had been sought.
from the king they received  assurances of pardon, and were not backward in unitedly tendering submission to  his authority, and imploring his forgiveness for having appeared in arms  against him.
by this means they sometimes discovered the meaning of a variety of words, which they did not before know were even parts of the language.
few in number, compared with what they had been when they  maintained their former station in matavai, and suffering under the heaviest  domestic bereavements; prevented by personal indisposition, and other  circumstances, from engaging, either very frequently or extensively, in the  main work of instructing the people; their exertions, greatly to their own  regret, were exceedingly circumscribed.
in some stations, the boys and the men have been educated in  one school, and the women and girls in another; in others, the different sexes  have been taught at different times; and in some, they have assembled in the  same schools.
a fine quay, or  causeway, of coral rock, had been raised along the edge of the southern side of  the bay, on which the natives had erected the frame of a large and substantial  place of worship.
according to ancient usage in the erection of public buildings, the work had  been divided among the different chiefs of the islands; these had apportioned  their respective allotments among their peasantry or dependants, and thus each  party had distinct portions of the wall, the roof, and the floor.
they encamped in the northern part of pare, where they were joined by a  number of the inhabitants of those districts, favourable to his cause; but they  were attacked, and driven in confusion before the rebels towards matavai, which  had now become the frontier district.
with many, the influence of  a system so inflexible has probably operated powerfully in producing this  uniform attention, at least to the outward duties of the sabbath, the only  sacred day now recognized amongst them; with others, there is reason to believe  it arises from the influence of example, and the respectability it was at this  time supposed to impart to individual character; but with many it originates in  far higher motives, and is the result of christian principle in regard to what  they consider a duty.
before the sun had set, we had nearly lost sight of the island; and when the night gathered round us, we found ourselves in the midst of the vast pacific, in a very small and fragile bark, without compass or nautical instrument, or any other means of directing our way than the luminaries of heaven.
there were no partitions; but by hanging up some mats and native cloth, we soon succeeded in partitioning off a comfortable bed-room, sitting-room, and store-room.
i was astonished at the accounts i now received, of the change that had taken place among the people.
notwithstanding the prophet's prediction of victory, pomare was defeated, and  fled with precipitation to pare; leaving a number of muskets in the hands of  his enemies, and several principal warriors among the slain.
the gardens were large, and, at this time, well stocked with indigenous roots and vegetables.
the public services on this occasion were  to commence at three o'clock in the afternoon; but long before the appointed  hour, the chapel was crowded, and a far greater number than had gained  admission, still remained on the outside.
in october, mr. davies proposed to begin with the boys attached to their own houses, and met them three nights in the week for the purpose of instructing them in the catechism, and teaching them to read those few specimens of writing they had been able to prepare.
the simple declaration, good-night, brother, would be unintelligible to the tahitians, though the language were correct; a corresponding wish among them would be,ia ora na oe
as it respects the spiritual improvement of the rising generation, the understanding of the scriptures, and the extension of christianity, sabbath-schools are the most interesting and encouraging sections of this department.
in  another letter, written about a fortnight afterwards, he observes, “i  continue to pray to god without ceasing.
at the same time we were most anxious, distinctly and powerfully to  impress on their minds the desirableness and necessity of their possessing  correct ideas of the true god—the means of seeking his favour through  jesus christ the only saviour—the happiness that would result there from  in the present life, and in that state of existence after death, to which this  was but preparative —together with the increase of knowledge and enjoyment  that would attend their being able to read the printed books,—preserve  whatever they heard that was valuable, by making it fast upon the  paper,—and corresponding by letter with their friends at a distance, as  familiarly and distinctly as if they were present.
he said but little; yet there was reason to suppose, that if the assault had not been made by his direction, he was privy to it.
about the same time, mr. caw, a shipwright from england, joined the mission.
the rebels were no sooner masters of the island, than they resolved to pursue the most efficacious methods of establishing and perpetuating their power: arms and ammunition, they regarded as the best means of accomplishing this; and in order to secure these, as well as extend their conquests, they determined to murder the captain and officers, and to seize the first vessel that should arrive.
it was  subsequently fixed up as a post in the king's kitchen, and used in a most  contemptuous manner, by having baskets of food suspended from it; and, finally,  it was riven up for fuel.
six of the  natives were severely injured, and oripaia with one of his attendants died.
mr. davies, in particular, had devoted much of his  time to this work; and although it had hitherto been found impracticable to  teach the children letters, a number had committed the– 71 –  catechism to memory.
the acquisition of the language engaged our  constant attention; and we not only devoted some hours every day to its study,  but met together two or three times a week, to receive instruction, and  facilitate our improvement.
their feelings on this occasion must have been of no  common order.
the sacred scriptures, and the codes of laws, are the only standard works of importance yet printed.
the desire to obtain foreign clothing was now very great, equal to that with which they sought iron tools; and whenever they procured one article of it, it was worn forthwith, without waiting till the suit was completed.
the conduct of the victors, on the memorable 12th of november, had an astonishing effect on the minds of the vanquished, who had sought shelter in the mountains.
i have endeavoured to present an outline of this great change.
after walking between two and three  hours, they reached the residence of otu, the young king.
the state of things  resembled greatly that described by the saviour, when speaking of the results  that should follow the promulgation of his gospel.
it is cultivated by its proprietors, who, there is reason to hope, are decided christians.
the natives are now convinced that they can make cloth; others, besides those taught in the factory, we may expect will desire to learn; and as they can prepare and spin the cotton at their own dwellings, this employment, which is certainly adapted to their climate and habits, as they can take it up and lay it down at their convenience, will probably be very extensively followed through the islands.
it appeared metallic to a great  degree, as the sound produced by striking it was considerable; but not, i  should think, such as could – 387 – be heard at a distance.
the queen was in person about the middle stature; mild and affable in her behaviour; addicted to all the vices of her country; and was cut off in the prime of life, being about twenty-four years of age at the time of her death.
they are made entirely by the females, who manufacture not only for  themselves, their husbands, and their children, but, in some of the stations,  several have formed themselves into a kind of society, for the purpose of  making bonnets for the poor and the aged, who are unable to make for  themselves.
the leaders of the rebels refused,  however, to meet pomare except in battle, and every hope of accommodation now  vanished.
their principal aim, however, was to encourage habits of industry; and this, from the heat of the climate, the spontaneous productions of the soil, and other causes, appeared likely to be done by the introduction of what might be called artificial wants, which should operate on the native mind with power sufficient to induce labour for their supply.
here we received a cordial welcome from our friends messrs. orsmond, williams, and threlkeld, who were fully occupied in their new sphere of labour, and attached to the people; by whom they were respected, and among whom they had reason to believe they were usefully employed.
in the month of december, 1818, when the haweis sailed from  huahine, on her first voyage to new south wales, mr. and mrs. orsmond left us,  as we mutually supposed, on a visit of a few months to the island of raiatea,  for the purpose of receiving mr. threlkeld's attentions at a season of domestic  anxiety.
four of the missionaries went on this errand to the district of pare,  where the king and chiefs were residing.
the work was, however, already so  far advanced, that all parties were unwilling to abandon it.
they justly inferred, that, unless habits of industry were introduced, and civilization promoted, the people, if they did not absolutely return to all the absurdities, superstition, and cruelty of paganism, would develop but partially the genius and spirit of christianity, and exercise very imperfectly its practical virtues.
this introduced the fashion, and many of the women  made others for their husbands.
a wish to possess such property, and to receive  the assistance of the europeans in the exercise of the mechanic arts, or in  their wars, was probably the motive by which the natives were most strongly  influenced.
the tahitians in general are good imitators of others; this talent he possessed in an eminent degree, and adopted that polite, elegant, and unembarrassed address, whereby the class with which he associated has ever been distinguished.
as they passed along, the natives tendered their usual salutations, and about thirty accompanied them.
some of his ablest allies, especially tapoa the  chief of raiatea, was removed by death, and the others prepared to return to  their own islands.
ioretea, the ulitea of captain cook, or, as it is now more frequently called by the natives, raiatea, is the largest of the society islands.
the bure atua had hitherto  escaped the ruin intended for them by their enemies; and though these were  masters of tahiti, in eimeo, and secretly in tahiti, the number of those who  had joined the christians was greatly increased.
its own members appear to have made no efforts to preserve, and no class of the  community even solicited, its continuance.
– 272 – the haweis having conveyed the missionaries to their respective stations,  taken in cocoa-nut oil, and such other productions of the islands as were  marketable at port jackson, left tahiti, and touched at huahine, on her way to  the colony of new south wales.
the pineapple grew luxuriantly in several parts of tahiti; and  though the natives were told it was palatable food, they were so mistaken in  the nature of the fruit, that they baked numbers of them in their native ovens,  before they attempted to eat any undressed.
the hibernia, captain 88 campbell, also arrived shortly afterwards; but captain campbell, receiving the letter, was warned of his danger, and not only secured his own vessel, but succeeded in rescuing the schooner and her crew.
viii conduct of the leeward island chiefshostilities in the island of raiateasubversion of idolatry in huahine, raiatea, tahaa, and boraborageneral reception of christianity in the society islandsabolition of the areoi societyarrival of mr. crookpomare's family idols sent to englandtranslation of the king's letterconduct of the missionariesaccounts of their labours and successinquiries suggested by the changeremarks on the time, circumstances, means, and agents, connected with the establishment of christianitythe missionaries not unitarians.
it is however, frequently brought from new south wales, and from south or north america, and a tolerably good supply may, in general, be obtained.
a large school was in daily operation,  and a numerous and attentive congregation met for public worship in the native  chapel every sabbath.
it was, to urge those who were decided, and  wished to become sincere disciples of jesus christ, to make their desires  known—that the missionaries might pay them special attention, and give  them suitable instructions: they listened attentively, and many appeared deeply  affected.
we also persuaded them to use such articles of our clothing as were adapted to their climate and habits, and to adopt our social and domestic habits of life.
sometimes they  said, we will hear our own gods; at other times they scoffingly asked the  missionaries, if the people of matavai had attended to their word; if the king,  or any of his family, had cast away oro; declaring, that when the king and  chiefs heard the word of jehovah, then they would also.
grant us thy good  spirit to be our sanctifier.
the animals, with the exception of the goats and pigs, have all died; and in  this instance, the benevolent intentions of the british government, in sending  out horses, cattle, &c. proved abortive.
the varied emotions of hope and fear, of dread and expectation, with a 111 strange air of mysterious foreboding, agitating the bosoms of the multitude, were strongly marked in the countenances of the spectators; resembling, perhaps in no small degree, the feeling depicted in the visages of the assembled israelites, when the prophet elijah summoned them to prove the power of baal, or to acknowledge the omnipotence of the lord god of israel.
the intended victims of this  treachery were unconscious of their danger, until the evening of the 7th of  july; when, a few hours only before the horrid massacre was to have commenced,  they received secret intelligence of the ruin that was ready to burst upon them.
a solemn prayer was offered, after which– 268 –
we laboured eight, and sometimes ten, hours daily, yet found that  the work advanced but slowly.
the number of natives by whom we were always surrounded, afforded the best opportunities for learning the meaning of those words which we did not understand.
but little time was allowed for the drying of the printed sheets.
whatever articles of export they could ever  expect to furnish, must be the product of their own industry; this we were  desirous to direct in channels the most profitable, such as were best suited to  their means, and congenial to their previous habits.
upaparu, a  principal chief in the eastern part of tahiti, came over to eimeo for the  express purpose of seeking christian instruction, and attending the assemblies  for public worship.
while thus employed, we saw two other  waterspouts, and subsequently a third, if not more, so that we seemed almost  surrounded with them.
distillation of ardent spiritsdescription of a native stillmaterials employed in distillationmurderous effects v of intoxicationseizure of the queen charlottemurder of the officersescape of mr. shellyseizure of the daphnemassacre of the captain and part of the crewpublic triumph over idolatry in eimeovisit of the queen and her sister to tahitiemblems of the gods committed to the flamesaccount of farefauprojected assassination of the bure atuamanner of their escapewar in tahitipomare's tour of eimeo.
well  might one now engaged in this work exclaim, “five hundred millions of souls 50 who are represented as being unenlightened!
his acquaintance with english was  very partial, and mine with tahitian much more so; our conversation was,  consequently, neither free nor animated.
the agents of vice, idolatry, and cruelty, were  not inactive.
those patient labourers also, who had toiled in the field,  but had been called away before the first waive-sheaf was gathered in, must  have felt their joy increased, as the enlarged spiritual perceptions which they  possess enabled them to look not only on the outward change in circumstances  and in conduct, but on that more delightful transformation of character, which  every day unfolded some new and lovely features.
on the 6th of  march 1798, exactly twelve months from the day on which the duff first anchored  in matavai bay, a vessel arrived at tahiti; which, being the first they had  seen since the departure of captain wilson, excited considerable interest.
it is remarkable, that at a period of such unparalleled domestic distress, the most encouraging appearances of the divine favour towards the nation around them, should have been afforded; and it is probable that the very cheering prospects under which they were at this time called upon to pursue their missionary engagements, greatly alleviated their sorrow.
this furnished a powerful incentive to energetic perseverance in the acquisition of the language, that they might speedily instruct them in the principles of christianity, and thereby elevate their moral character, and improve their present circumstances.
it may be obtained in any quantity, but the labour of procuring the fuel necessary for preparing it on the present plan, is exceedingly irksome.
numbers of verdant little islands, situated like those of tipaemau, at the openings in the reef, are remarkably useful as sea-marks, and furnish convenient temporary residences for the fishermen, who resort to them during the season for taking theoperu , scomber scomber of linneus, and other fish, periodically visiting their shores.
after watching in  breathless suspense for some time its advance in a line towards our ship, we  had the satisfaction to see it incline in its course towards the starboard  quarter, and ultimately pass by about a mile distant from the stern.
flushed  with the success that had attended the savage and daring effort of the  raiateans, the tahitians, whom captain fodger had employed on board his vessel  the daphne, for the purpose of diving among the pearl islands, rose upon the  ship's company, murdered the captain and some of the men, took possession of  the vessel, and brought her to tahiti.
this was immediately spread upon the  paper, imparting to the sheet, when dried in the sun, a rich glossy purple  colour, which remained as long as the paper lasted.
many of them wore some article of european dress, and all were attired in native cloth, though several had only a maro, or broad girdle, round the waist.
the 12th of november, 1815, was the most eventful day that had yet occurred in the history of tahiti.
many were  induced to keep back from the schools, and the place of public worship, from a  desire to remain free from those restraints on their vicious practices, which  such profession of christianity was considered to impose.
haamanemane had formerly requested their aid in a descent he intended 22 to make upon raiatea, for the recovery of his authority there; but this they had firmly declined.
he knew of the approaching ceremony, that a human sacrifice was then to be offered,and he no sooner saw them advancing to his retreat, than a sudden thought, like a flash of lightning, darted through his mind, intimating that he was to be the victim.
why should they toil to make the earth bring forth, when without toil she gave them all they wanted?
the  vessel was about seventy tons burden, and the hull nearly completed.
the repeated trials with which the missionaries were exercised, the privations  they endured, and the painful and protracted discouragements by which, at this  period, they were depressed, were of no ordinary character.
the following day was the sabbath.
here otu once more demanded the body or image or the great god oro, which  the chiefs agreed ultimately to give up to the custody of the king, but which  they were not so ready at once to surrender.
first preaching in the native languagenational council in atehuruseizure of the idol ororebellion of the oropaintroduction of useful foreign fruits and vegetablesprovidential arrival of two vesselsbattle of pareking's camp attacked, oro retakenmission house garrisoned with seamen, &c.desolation of the wardeath of the king's brotherravages of foreign iv diseasesdeath of pomaresketch of his characterotu assumes the name of his late fatherorigin of the regal nameefforts to instruct the childrendeath of the queencompilation of the first spelling-bookfirst school for teaching reading and writingarrival of the hawkesburydeath of mr. jeffersonmr.
there is not, and there has not been, a single missionary there, since their first establishment, now four-and-thirty years ago, who, had he inculcated what unitarians themselves call unitarianism, would not have been regarded, by his companions, as having renounced his faith, and forsaken his lord.
the horrid– 316 – piles of skulls, in their  various stages of decay, exhibit a ghastly spectacle.
those among the natives who had earned to bind were now overwhelmed with business, and derived no inconsiderable emolument from their trade, as they required each person to bring the pasteboard necessary for his own books, and also a piece of skin or leather for the back, or for the whole cover.
the  accounts given by the missionaries, on my first arrival, and the many  interesting facts which subsequently came to my knowledge, when i had– 176  – acquired such an acquaintance with the language of the people, as to be  able to pursue my inquiries among them, have made an impression on my own mind  that will never be effaced, and not only excited the highest delight, but  convinced me, that, in the circumstances under which the change occurred, the  agency by which it was accomplished, and the continuance of its effects, it is  altogether one of the most remarkable displays of divine power that has  occurred in the history of mankind, and is, perhaps, unparalleled since the  days of the apostles.
opoa is the most remarkable place in raiatea; of its earth,  according to some of their traditions, the first pair were made by tii or  taaroa, and on its soil they fixed their abode, here oro held his court.
in addition to these discouragements,  the prejudices of many of the king's most warm and valuable friends were  unusually strong, as they considered the continuance of his misfortunes to  result, in part, from the countenance he gave, and the inclination he  manifested towards, the religion of the foreigners.
on the morning of the 16th of february, 1817, as the light of the day broke upon us, we discovered that during the night we had drifted to a considerable distance from the island; the canoes of the natives, however, soon surrounded our vessel; numbers of the people were admitted on board, and we had the long desired satisfaction of intercourse with them, through the medium of an interpreter.
yet it must be voluntary, let it not be by  compulsion.
a man came  to the monday evening meeting on one occasion, and said his mind was troubled,  as he feared he had done wrong.
it was therefore in a great  degree abandoned.
we found it not very extensive, though the land is rich  and good.
the latter, however, frequently became indignant at the very proposal, charging the god of the foreigners with all the maladies under which they suffered, and the disturbances that agitated the country; accusing them also of bringing down the vengeance of their own gods upon the family, by deserting their altars, and worshipping with the strangers.
a large school was in daily operation, and a numerous and attentive congregation met for public worship in the native chapel every sabbath.
their dress  was remarkably modest and becoming, being generally what they termahu bu , which consists of large quantities of beautifully white native cloth, wound  round the body, then passed under one arm, and fastened on the other shoulder,  leaving uncovered only the neck and face, and part of one arm.
they succeeded, at length, in inducing the inhabitants, by their example and persuasion, to seek an acquaintance with that more excellent way revealed in the word of god, for whose worship they erected a convenient and respectable building.
towards noon, our goods were most of them landed,  and taken into our new habitation.
their estimate of its value had been formed according to its bulk;  and when it was weighed, and they saw a large basket-full weigh only two or  three pounds, and a proportionate price offered, they were greatly  disappointed.
this induced in several of the chief women, who had at least one  complete english dress, a desire to learn to make them, and ultimately to  substitute the european bonnet for the nativetaumata.
but throughout the pacific, waterspouts of varied  form and size are among the most frequent of the splendid phenomena, and mighty  works of the lord, which those behold who go down to the sea in ships, and do  business upon the great waters.
the haweis was afterwards rigged, and employed in conveying the missionary families to their respective stations; after which she made one or two very profitless voyages to new south wales.
having refreshed ourselves, and united in grateful thanksgiving to the preserver of our lives, we lay down upon our mats, and enjoyed several hours of refreshing repose.
these gave a  richness and picturesque appearance to the landscape, which was greatly  heightened by the lofty mountain in the centre.
he  pointed, we saw a large cylindrical waterspout, extending, like a massive  column, from the ocean to the dark and impending clouds.
his mind had been for a long time  wavering, and he was, almost to the morning of the battle, undetermined whether  he should renounce the idols, or still continue their votary.
it  is as follows:— – 163 – “jehovah, thou god of our salvation, hear our prayers, pardon thou our  sins, and save our souls.
methinks i see thee straying on the beach, and asking of the  surge that bathes thy foot, if ever it has wash'd our distant shore.
previously,  however, to their embarkation, a signal triumph was achieved in favour of  christianity, at a public festival, in which they were the most conspicuous  party.
early in the same year, the number of pupils, and of those who professed christianity in eimeo, was considerably increased, and favourable intelligence continued to arrive from the adjacent island.
the missionaries, considering that in such retaliation the innocent  would suffer with the guilty, interposed, and prevailed upon the king to spare  the district, but to punish the guilty whenever they might be discovered.
the  success that attended his endeavours appears from a letter which he addressed  to the missionaries while in the district of maatea.
they usually fell upon each others necks, and tauahi, or embraced each other, and saluted by touching or rubbing noses.
our boat being but small, not above eighteen feet long, and her edge, when the sea had been smooth, not more than a foot or eighteen inches above its surface; every wave that broke near, threw its spray over us, and each billow, in striking our little bark, forced part of its foaming waters over the bow or the sides.
this vessel, considering it as their first effort at ship-building, was an astonishing performance.
when the door was made, it was necessary to hang it; but only a few of the chiefs were, for many years, able to procure iron hinges.
ii arrival of the first ship after the duff's departureassault upon the missionariesits disastrous consequencespomare's revengedeath of oripaialeague against pomareinvasion of matavaidescription and character of haamanemanehis assassinationmurder of mr. lewispomare's offering for the mission chapelarrival of a king's shipfriendly communications from the governor of new south walesgovernment ordersact of parliament for the protection of the south sea islandersarrival of the royal admirallanding of the missionariesdeparture of mr. broomhallnotice of his subsequent history.
five hundred millions! intrudes itself upon my mind wherever i go, and however i am employed.
the sandal-wood of the sandwich islands, and the pine-timber of new zealand, produced, without effort on the part of the inhabitants, being valuable commodities, and, given in exchange for the articles conveyed by foreign vessels to their shores, afforded great inducements to commercial adventure, and furnished the natives of those countries with facilities for increasing their resources and their comforts, of which the tahitians were destitute.
the pleasing anticipations which the missionaries 41 had been led to indulge, in connexion with the second visit of the duff, were destroyed by the arrival of the albion in matavai bay, on the 27th of december in the same year.
he then  lived some time with a native female, as his wife, but was soon left by her;  and, on the arrival of captain wilson, requested permission to leave the island  in his ship.
“on wednesday afternoon we attended a native divine service.
when captain cook visited taiarapu, in 1777, he saw the house which they had left; it was divided into two rooms; loop-holes were cut all around, which served as air-holes, and, perhaps, might be meant to fire from with muskets.30
it was  begun with a hymn; then mr. nott, who did duty, prayed extempore for some  length, and then read a passage from the scripture, upon which he preached with  great– 419 – fluency in the otaheitan language.
but whenever the missionaries had endeavoured to pour into his benighted mind the light of truth, as revealed in the sacred volume, it was a circumstance deeply regretted by them, that he had generally manifested indifference or insensibility.
the progress of divine truth was so rapid among the natives, that, in the close of 1814, not fewer than 300 hearers regularly attended the preaching of the gospel.
two natives paddled our light single canoe along the smooth water within the reefs, till we reached moru, where we landed, to take some refreshment at the house of a friendly chief.
the natives cut down four stout sticks from the neighbouring trees; these we fixed in the earthen floor, and fastening sheets and native cloth from one to the other, enclosed our bed-room; a couple of chests were carried into it, upon which we spread our bed, making up one for the children by the side of our own, on some packages that lay on the floor.
these regularly attended the school, and increased the  congregation to such a degree, that it was necessary again to enlarge the place  of worship.
in consequence of this intimation, and the increasing signs  of approaching hostilities, they established a strict nightly watch, and seldom  went far from their dwelling.
during such seasons, it was not merely  apprehension, but actual danger, to which all the europeans were exposed.
among the curiosities preserved by the young chief of tahaa, there was an article that i was very glad to see; it was a large quarto english bible, with numerous 371 coloured engravings, which were the only objects of attraction with the natives.
in a letter, dated tahiti, september 25, 1812, he thus expresses himself: may the anger of jehovah be appeased towards me, who am a wicked man, guilty of accumulated crimes,of regardlessness and ignorance of the true god, and of an obstinate perseverance in wickedness!
learning that they had discontinued idol-worship, i asked why they had abandoned their gods.
they might wish them to reside in it, exercise the office of chiefs over the whole, cultivate as much of it as they desired, and receive tribute from those who might occupy the remaining parts; but by no means perpetually to alienate it from the king, or chief, to whom it originally belonged.
matting was procured for sails, and the vessel,  pursuing her homeward voyage, reached port jackson in safety.
the school at papetoai was greatly increased; and hundreds, who  had been early scholars there, were now stationed as teachers among the  adjacent islands, imparting to others the knowledge they had received.
in 1822, when i last visited it, the roof had already begun to decay.
questions, similar to those started by these untutored islanders, have frequently been agitated among the learned, in the ethical schools of europe; and our most subtle casuists have found no easy task in obviating the difficulties which they involve.
the refugees from the conquered districts had already sheltered  themselves under the protection of the missionaries and their companions, and  they would have fallen a sacrifice to the cruelty of their enemies, had these  been allowed to pass through the district.
bless all the inhabitants of these islands, all the families thereof; let every one stretch out his hands unto god, and say, lord, save me, lord, save me.
although not a chief of the highest rank, he had been raised by the  king and people to the office of a magistrate, in his own district.
each appeared to have possessed natural endowments of a high order, and both were probably influenced by ambition.
most of the rivers or streams rise in the mountainous parts, and though, from the peculiar structure of these parts, and the circumscribed extent of the islands, the distance from their source to their union with the sea is short; yet the body of water is often 333 considerable, and the uneven ground through which they have cut their way, the rocky projections that frequently divide the streams, and the falls that occur between the interior and the shore, cause the rivers to impart a charming freshness, vivacity, and splendour to the inland scenery.
in the forenoon, pomare, and the people who had come over from eimeo, probably about eight hundred, assembled for public worship at a place called narii, near the village of bunaauïa, in the district of atehuru.
one or two  vessels arrived, but brought no letters or supplies; and, towards the close of  the year, they experienced a heavy loss, in the destruction of a large and  flourishing plantation.
xvi improved circumstances of the femalesinstruction in needle-workintroduction of european clothingits influence upon the peoplefrequent singularity of their appearancedevelopment of parental affectionincreased demand for british manufacturesnative hats and bonnetsreasons for encouraging a desire for european dress, &c.sabbath in the south sea islandsoccupations of the preceding dayearly morning prayer-meetingssabbath schoolsorder of divine serviceschool exercisescontrast with idolatrous worship.
the services commenced with singing, in which many of the natives joined.
the greater portion of the inhabitants were, however, under the necessity  of exercising their ingenuity to provide a substitute.
a native palm-leaf mat covered the earthen floor,a rustic seat, a table standing by a little open window, with a portion of the scripture, and a hymn-book in the native language, constituted its only furniture.
several hours every day were devoted to its acquisition, and twice a week we met, when we were assisted by the instructions of mr. davies, who favoured us with the use of his manuscript vocabulary, and the outlines of a grammar, which he had prepared several years before.
after the victory  of the 22d of december 1808, the rebels plundered the district of matavai and  pare, and, devoting to destruction every house and plantation, reduced the  whole country to a state of the wildest desolation and ruin.
he was a man of intelligence and ability,  possessing extraordinary devotedness and parient zeal.
the  channels of comfort were dried up, and though they had free access to the  fountain of all blessedness and consolation, and were enabled to say, “he  hath done all things well,” yet their trial must have been peculiarly  poignant and oppressive.
in these embarrassments they had no elementary books to consult, no preceptors to whom they could apply, but were frequently obliged, by gestures, signs, and other contrivances, to seek the desired information from the natives; who often misunderstood the purport of their questions, and whose answers must, as often, have been unintelligible to the missionaries.
it was the hereditary land of the reigning family, and the usual residence of the king and his household.
these encouraging appearances, in regard to the affairs of the  christians, only appeared to arouse the anger of their idolatrous enemies, who  were no longer satisfied with simply ridiculing, and treating with contempt,  the objects of their hatred, but proceeded to more alarming plans of resistance  against the progress of the new principles which were daily gaining ground  among the people.
he was still constant in attendance on public worship, industrious in the culture of his garden, and in working for the king and principal chiefs, who were evidently much attached to him.
the sandal-wood of the sandwich islands, and the  pine-timber of new zealand, produced, without effort on the part of the  inhabitants, being valuable commodities, and, given in exchange for the  articles conveyed by foreign vessels to their shores, afforded great  inducements to commercial adventure, and furnished the natives of those  countries with facilities for increasing their resources and their comforts, of  which the tahitians were destitute.
like every other undertaking that has yet been made to benefit the people, the cotton factory had to contend with great difficulty.
a variety of  events occurred at this time, to confirm the attachment of those who had  professed themselves favourable to christianity, and to induce those who were  undecided to join– 121 – them.
to an individual who could have stood at one end of the building, a  little above the assembly, and directed his glance to the other, the three  pulpits and preachers—the seven thousand hearers assembled around in all  the variety, and form, and colour of their different costume—must have  presented an imposing and a deeply interesting spectacle.
he was immediately told that he  would have done right, had he fetched the canoes to the shore on the sabbath.
numbers of the inhabitants of several parts of tahiti and eimeo flocked to afareaitu, to attend the means of instruction, and the public ordinances of religion, as it was more convenient to many than papetoai.
the luxuriant convolvulus, presenting its broad and shining leaves in striking contrast with the white coral and sand, spread its vines across the beach, even to the margin of the water, over which the slender shrub or the flowering tree often extended their verdant branches, while the groves of stately breadfruit, and the clumps ofumbrageous callophyllum, or tamanu trees, and the tall and graceful waving cocoa-nuts, shaded the different parts of the shore.
but although they are secured from heavy waves by the reefs of coral that stretch along the eastern shore, they are exposed to the prevailing winds, excepting so far as they are sheltered by the islands at the entrance from the sea.
it is as follows: 163 jehovah, thou god of our salvation, hear our prayers, pardon thou our sins, and save our souls.
with a fowl as an atonement, and a young plantain as a peace-offering, and on  the following day hastened to their dwelling.
as they walked, patii fully disclosed the fellings of his mind to  mr. nott, and assured him that on the morrow, at a certain hour, he would bring  out the idols under his care, and publicly burn them.
nails are still among the most valuable manufactures they can receive.
for two or three months contrary winds prevented any intercourse  between us, when at length mr. orsmond's boat arrived, with the unexpected and  melancholy tidings of the death of mrs. orsmond, which had taken place on the  6th of january, 1819.
often it has  been most cheering to see them thus employed; exhibiting all the native  simplicity of childhood, mingled with the indications of no careless exercise  of mind on the important matters of religion.
the suddenness and circumstances of his death, taken in  connexion with the troubles in which he had recently been engaged with the  greater part of the people of the island, on account of his violent seizure of  the idol of atehuru, strengthened in no small degree the idolatrous veneration  with which the natives regarded their god; and the anger of – 67 –  oro was by them supposed to be the direct cause of pomare's death.
the earth in some parts of the islands would probably answer 355 for bricks; and the missionaries formerly made one or two attempts to prepare them for ovens, &c. but did not succeed.
as their language is strikingly analogous to that  spoken in the society islands, i entered into conversation with them.
this, however, he  relinquished, and cheerfully engaged in an attempt to promote the industry of  the islanders, with no other remuneration than the missionaries receive—a  bare supply of the necessaries of life.
the demand will increase in the  exact proportion in which industry shall augment the produce of the islands,  and the property of their inhabitants.
in  acquiring a knowledge of its character and peculiarities, and reducing it to a  regular system, the missionaries had to proceed alone.
from him, as  an instructor, they derived no advantage; as he seldom came near them,  excepting when he bore some message from the king, or the chief with whom he  resided.
in reference to presents  made by missionaries to chiefs, on their first settlement among an  unenlightened people, i am disposed to think they are always injurious, when  given with a view of gaining influence, or inducing their recipients to attend  to religious instruction.
as soon as our men had refreshed themselves, we embarked in our respective canoes, and, resuming our voyage, proceeded along the smooth surface of the sea between the reefs and the shore.
their feelings on this occasion must have been of no common order.
but although they are secured from heavy  waves by the reefs of coral that stretch along the eastern shore, they are  exposed to the prevailing winds, excepting so far as they are sheltered by the  islands at the entrance from the sea.
towering above the plantains, papaws, &c., the shaddock  planted by captain cook appeared, like an inhabitant of another country, in  solitary exile; for though the climate is similar in point of temperature to  that in which it is accustomed to thrive, its shoots are not so long and  vigorous, its leaves are not so clear, dark, and glossy as those of the other  plants, and the fruit, though large and abundant, falls prematurely to the  ground.
in forming this, the roman characters were preferred; sounds in the tahitian language attached to them; and, for the purpose of facilitating the introduction of letters among the people, a native name was affixed to each.
we had not, however, been an hour at sea, when the heavens began to gather blackness, and lowering clouds intercepted our view of the shore we had left, and that to which we were bound.
the shore presented a scene of activity.
on account of the heavy expenses attending every voyage, although it was of great importance to maintain a regular intercourse between the respective stations, and between the islands and the colony, it was found necessary to dispose or the ship, which had been built with so much cost and labour; she was sold in new south wales, and is now employed in trading between port jackson and van diemen's land.
more important matters concerning them were however often the subjects of inquiry.
we have done every thing in our power, by treachery, stratagem, and open force, to destroy him and his adherents; and yet, when the power was placed in his hand, victory on his side, we at his mercy, and his feet upon our necks, he has not only spared our lives, and the lives of our families, but has respected our houses and our property!
in these cabins, parents, children, dogs, and  frequently pigs and fowls, passed the night, and the greater part of the day.
many of them immediately changed their names, and others  would be happy to obliterate every mark of that fraternity, the badges of which  they once considered an honourable distinction.
the success that attended his endeavours appears from a letter which he addressed to the missionaries while in the district of maatea.
as a beverage, we always preferred the latter, although the former is exceedingly pleasant.
he landed from  the ship duff in 1797, continued to labour with his companions, respected and  useful, until about three months after the departure of the nautilus– 37  – to port jackson, when he left the mission-house, and took up his  residence with ataio, or friend, in the eastern part of the district.
our friends in raiatea were perhaps more urgent than ourselves, in their recommendation of improved dwellings.
the remarks of former voyagers, and the specimens of the language they had given, were of little service, as they could only be the names of 14 the principal persons and things that had come under the notice of such individuals, and even in the representation of these, the orthography was as various as the writers had been numerous.
to the former  they gave up their public stores, and all the property they possessed, together  with the smith's shop, and the tools.
seventeen englishmen were thus cast ashore,  and added to the number of those already residing there.
whether the melancholy reverses he had experienced, and the  depression of spirits consequent upon the dissolution of his government, and  the desolation of his family, led him to doubt the truth of that system of  idol-worship to which he had been devoted, and on which he had invariably  relied for success in every enterprise—or whether the leisure it afforded  for contemplation and inquiry, under the influence of these feelings, inclined  him to reflect more seriously on the truth of those declarations he had often  heard respecting the true god, and to consider his present condition as the  chastening of that being whom he had refused to acknowledge—it is  impossible to determine; but these disastrous events had evidently subdued his  spirit, and softened his heart.
the death of christ in the place of the sinner, and faith in this atonement, as  the sinner's justification before god, were truths most frequently exhibited.
next to the chief, the members of his own family spread  their mats on the floor, and then the friends and attendants—the females  nearest the chief, the men towards the opposite end of the building.
here they were checked by pomare's musketeers, and retreated a few moments, when they halted, and faced their pursuers; but on the arrival of the english, they were seized with a panic, and fled.
the  invaders torch reduced the native hut to ashes, while the lurid flame seared  the green foliage of the trees, and clouds of smoke, rising up among their  groves, darkened for a time surrounding objects.
to this  spot it was proposed to adjourn, and thither the natives immediately repaired,  seating themselves on the ground under the cocoa-nut trees.
it was on the northern shores of  this bay, that eighteen of the missionaries, who left england in the duff,  first landed, upwards of thirty years ago.
if the spirits of departed prophets, from their seats of bliss, look down upon our globe; how must judah's royal bard have bent with rapture, to behold the accomplishment of triumphs, which, while he swept the hallowed harp of prophecy, he had foretoldthe multitude of the isles made glad37 under jehovah's reign, and the kings of the isles bringing presents38 to his son!
pomare was greatly delighted with the horse; and, in the course of the afternoon, the poor animal, after having been hung in slings, and unable to lie down during the greater part of the voyage, was hoisted out of the hold, to be taken ashore in a large pair of canoes which the king had ordered alongside for that purpose.
the mai who accompanied captain furneux does not appear to have been  connected by birth or rank with the regal or sacerdotal class, although, among  other accounts circulated respecting him while in england, it was stated that  he was a priest of the sun, an office and title unknown in his native islands.
in the sandwich islands they sometimes used a bullock's horn, or a long tin horn resembling that used by a mail-coach guard; but, in general, a far more classic instrument, a beautiful marine shell, a species of turbo, or trumpet-shell, varying in size according to the power of the individual by whom it might be sounded.
the partitions separating the different apartments were framed, wattled with thin sticks, and plastered; and although we found the labour of building oppressive, we were amply compensated by the comfort we subsequently enjoyed.
sometimes, when they had gone to every house in a village, and the people promising to attend, had left their houses, they often found, on reaching the appointed place, that only two or three had arrived there; at other times, they either talked all the while about their dress, complexion, or features, and endeavoured to irritate the foreigners by false insinuations as to the objects of their visit; or to excite the mirth of their own companions by ludicrous gestures, or low witticisms on the statements that were made.
the name of this individual was mai, usually  called omai, from the circumstance of the o being prefixed in the native  language to nouns in the nominative case.
had i been able to hear more distinctly, it is probable that at that time i should not have understood the bard, as many words not in common use are found in their songs.
the beach was lined with canoes from distant parts of eimeo and other islands; the houses of the inhabitants were thronged, and small parties had erected their temporary encampments in every direction.
at the earnest recommendation of the late rev. dr. haweis and others, the then newly-discovered islands of the south sea were selected as the first scene of its exertions; and thirty individuals, who had volunteered their services, engaged to attempt the establishment of missionary settlements in the marquesian, society, and friendly islands.
such an appearance was more than once presented, and the reason  assigned for it was, that the shirt– 396 – was so much smaller than  the coat, that had it, instead of the coat, been put underneath, it would not  have been seen.
the soldiers of pomare, soon after reaching the district,  proceeded to the temple, acquainted the inhabitants of the place, and keepers  of the temple, with the events of the war, and the purpose of their visit.
it had excited among all classes the liveliest interest,  called forth splendid efforts of sacred eloquence, and noble deeds of christian  benevolence; but, painful and deeply humiliating as it was, it now appeared to  those devoted servants of god, who had, amidst protracted and severe  privations, maintained their ground till life was no longer secure—after  having engaged the prayers of the people of god, and waited in vain for the  results of patient and self-denying toil, during twelve eventful  years—that the scene of their labour must be abandoned.
the vanquished, however, though spared and  liberated by the generosity of tamatoa, shewed themselves unworthy of the  kindness with which they had been treated, by still talking of war on behalf of  the idols.
a simultaneous movement appears to have taken place among the rulers of the people, to throw off the yoke of pagan priestcraft, to rend asunder their fetters, and remove from the eyes of the nation, in its remote extremities, the veil of delusion by which they had so long been blinded.
they are generally so impatient to see whether it is well burnt, that they throw water upon it often before the fire is extinct; and if they find it crumble and become pulverized, they cover it over with cocoanut leaves, and use it as occasion requires.
these habits, so perfectly congenial to their  – 278 – uncultivated minds, to the fugitive manner of life, mirthful  disposition, and rude state of society that prevailed among the islanders,  appeared one of the most formidable barriers to their receiving our  instructions, imbibing the spirit and exhibiting the moral influence of  religion, and advancing in civilization.
on the morning of the 16th of february, 1817, as the light of the  day broke upon us, we discovered that during the night we had drifted to a  considerable distance from the island; the canoes of the natives, however, soon  surrounded our vessel; numbers of the people were admitted on board, and we had  the long desired satisfaction of intercourse with them, through the medium of  an interpreter.
frequently one of these teachers, in order to greater quietude, and more unreserved converse with the children, would take her little class to some retired spot in one of the valleys behind the settlement, for the purpose of talking in the most affectionate manner to each individually, and then uniting with them in prayer to the most high.
the light fleecy clouds that passed over the surface of the sky, fringed with the moon's light, gave a pleasing animation to the scene, and with scarce inferior lustre gleamed the sea, whose waves were spangled with phosphoric fire, as though the lightnings there had spent their shafts, and left the fragments glittering on the field.
it has ever been considered a mark of respect due to every distinguished visitor, to prepare, soon after the arrival of such an individual, a sumptuous feast, termed by the natives afaamuraa, or feeding; not, however, by furnishing a rich and splendid entertainment at the habitation of the proprietors, and inviting as guests the parties in honour of whom it was prepared, but by cooking a number of whole pigs, fowls, and fish, with a proportionate accompaniment of vegetables, puddings, and what may be called their made-dishes, and 135 carrying the whole to the encampment of the visitor, with a considerable addition of the choicest fruits the season may afford.
i put the printer's ink-ball into his hand, and directed him to strike it two or three times upon the face of the letters; this he did, and then placing a sheet of clean paper upon the parchment, it was covered down, turned under the press, and the king was directed to pull the handle.
mr. shelly's life was threatened, and only spared at the instance of two tahitians, who, anxious to save him, requested that he might be kept, to navigate the vessel to tahiti, whither they intended to return.
thus were the idols which patii, who was a powerful priest in eimeo, had worshipped, publicly destroyed.
but throughout the pacific, waterspouts of varied form and size are among the most frequent of the splendid phenomena, and mighty works of the lord, which those behold who go down to the sea in ships, and do business upon the great waters.
perhaps i have: let me, my friends, know the whole of your mind in respect of this matter.
the habits of the people did not allow of their  attending school with that regularity which scholars observe in england.
the lord of hosts had been with them, the god of jacob was their helper, and to him they rendered the glory and the praise for the protection he had bestowed, and the victory they had obtained.
while the inhabitants continued heathens, their endeavours were altogether unavailing.
this event gave a new aspect to political affairs in the island, and appeared to unite in one interest otu and pomare his father.
he did not confine his efforts to private conversation, but in public council urged upon tamatoa and mahine, the chiefs of raiatea and huahine, the adoption of the christian religion; hereby publicly evincing his own determination to adhere to the choice he had made.
thus, in one year, the system of false worship, which had, from the earliest antiquity of its population, prevailed in these islands, was happily abolishedit is hoped, to be revived no more.
before the service began, they were usually led to the seats appropriated for them in the chapel; and where there have been galleries, these have been occupied by the scholars.
as soon as possible after the  battle, a canoe was despatched by mahine, king of eimeo and huahine, with the  tidings of its result.
although the religious exercises are now rather longer than they were when the people first began to attend, they seldom exceed an hour and a half on the sabbath, and little more than an hour at other times.
the derangement of the machinery suspending the work of the spinners,  some of them requested to take the cotton home, to prepare and spin at their  own houses.
it is impossible to behold them without  sympathizing in the feelings of pomare, when he calls them “tahiti's  foolish gods.”
he occupied a prominent station in all the struggles  between paganism and christianity; maintaining an unblemished character, and an  unwavering profession, through the varied scenes of that unsettled period.
auna, formerly an areoi and a warrior, now a christian teacher, who was my  informant on these points, then read the hymn, and the congregation sang it.
we had no compass on board.
no other kind of grain, with the exception of a small quantity of maize, or indian corn, is cultivated.
the wilderness around was cleared to a considerable extent; the inhabitants of other parts were repairing to vaóaara, and erecting their habitations, that they 338 might reap the advantage of instruction.
viii conduct of the leeward island chiefs—hostilities in the island of  raiatea—subversion of idolatry in huahine, raiatea, tahaa, and  borabora—general reception of christianity in the society  islands—abolition of the areoi society—arrival of mr.  crook—pomare's family idols sent to england—translation of the king's  letter—conduct of the missionaries—accounts of their labours and  success—inquiries suggested by the change—remarks on the time,  circumstances, means, and agents, connected with the establishment of  christianity—the missionaries not unitarians.
one of the king's orators, a short, plump, round-faced man, about fifty years of age, was perched upon a projecting rock by the sea-side, vociferating one of their ude, or songs, on the launching of their own large canoes, suiting the action to the word, and using at times the most violent gesticulations, as if he imagined his own muscular powers alone were 241 to move the vessel.
“these i can pity, but far beyond the rest, and with most cause, thee, gentle savage, whom no love of thee or thine, but curiosity  perhaps, or else vain-glory, prompted us to draw forth from the  native bowers, to shew thee here with what superior skill we can abuse the gifts of providence, and squander life.
while making  these inquiries, many of them, doubtless, recollected the conduct of his  father, in sending one night, when the warriors of atehuru had gone over to  tautira, a body of men, who at midnight fell upon their defenceless victims,  the aged relations,– 159 – wives, and children of the atehuruans, and  in cold blood cruelly murdered upwards of one hundred helpless individuals; and  this probably made the conduct of pomare ii.
it had always been employed, not only as a  school, but also as a chapel.
when i concluded, they all stoop up; the boys formed a  circle on one side, and the girls on the other, and sang alternately the verses  of a hymn in the native language; after which, one of the teachers offered a  short prayer,—and we retired, under the influence of emotions of  satisfaction; but it was not easy to say whether joy was most powerfully  exhibited in the countenances of the children or their parents.
the process which  effects the changes marking the progress from birth to maturity in the animal  creation, is not less curious; and at this time we beheld a work advancing,  which was rapidly transforming the character and habits of a nation, and  materially altering even the aspect of the habitable portions of their country.
the use of hats increased so rapidly, that all  the european thread in the islands was soon expended.
391 european cloths, cottons in particular, had long been favourite articles of barter with the natives, on account of their durability compared with native manufacture, their adaptation to the climate, variegated and showy colours, and the trifling injury they sustained from wet.
they have since learned that he was murdered; and some of them have also regretted, that, after his separation, kindness and friendly intercourse were not continued, which might perhaps, without compromise of character, have been consistently maintained.
it was oblong or square, with high gable, or circular ends covered with thatch, so that the building resembled an oval more than any other shape.
pomare, otu, haamanemane, paitia, and other chiefs, continued to manifest the truest friendship, and liberally supplied them with such articles as the island afforded.
, they found approximate nearer the native sounds than that which captain cook and his companions afterwards followed.
desirous of disclosing their business to the chiefs when together, they remained near the residence of otu some time, expecting the arrival of pomare, for whom they had sent.
i shall not soon forget the first time the queen, and about half a dozen of the chief women of huahine, appeared in public, wearing the caps which had been sent as a present by some ladies in england.
his conduct  on the above occasion gave idolatry a stab more deadly than any which it had  before received, and inflicted a wound, from which, with all the energy  subsequently manifested, it never could recover.
in acceding to the proposal of the directors, and engaging in this enterprise, he manifested a degree of devotedness seldom excelled.
she was boarded by three of the missionaries at the mouth of the harbour, and found to be the nautilus from macao, commanded by captain bishop, and originally bound to the north-west coast of america for furs.
she had survived but a few hours the birth of an infant daughter, by whom, in the space of five short days, she was followed to the eternal world, and, we believe, to the abodes of holy and unending rest.
all the missionaries remained at matavai, excepting one,  who accompanied captain bishop as surgeon.
as the ships were in repair, and the crews in health, they remained only three days in the harbour, and sailed from the island on the 27th of august; 32 having made a number of presents to the chiefs, they did not leave any of their crews on shore, which was a matter of great satisfaction to the missionaries, who had beheld with regret the baneful influence of unprincipled seamen, on the minds and habits of the people.
pomare had offered his prayers to the gods of his family, and many ceremonies had been performed, but to no purpose.
the chiefs and people  listened attentively to their proposal, appeared pleased, and said no more  children should be murdered.
the persons and the habitations of the missionaries had hitherto been secure, excepting from petty thefts; they were, however, occasionally alarmed by rumours of war.
it is recorded, in the history of the greenland missions, that the moravian brethren, for five or seven years, laboured patiently and diligently in teaching their hearers what are termed the first principles of religioninculcating the doctrines of the being and attributes of god, and the requirements of his lawwithout making the least favourable impression upon them, or being, in many instances, able to secure the attention of the people to their instructions.
in the  instruction of the children, the greatest difficulties had been experienced  from their restless and unrestrained dispositions and habits; for, having been  unaccustomed to any steady application, or to the least control, they seldom  attended to their lessons long enough to derive any advantage from the efforts  of their teachers; yet, as opportunity offered, the missionaries continued to  catechize them, and to preach to the adults.
bure– 117 – atua is a designation in no respect  dishonourable to those to whom it was applied, and of which
the commander of the betsy having intimated his intention of returning in five or six months, mr. harris proposed to his companions to visit new south wales; and on the 1st of january 1800, he sailed from matavai bay, intending to return when the ship should revisit the islands.
government and general orders, dated december 1, 1813 no ship or vessel shall clear out from any of the ports within this territory, (new south wales,) for new 43 zealand, or any other island in the south pacific, unless the master, if of british or indian, or the master and owners, if of plantation registry, shall enter into bonds with the naval officer, under £1000 penalty, that themselves and crew shall properly demean themselves towards the natives; and not commit acts of trespass on their gardens, lands, habitations, burial grounds, tombs, or properties, and not make war, or at all interfere in their quarrels, or excite any animosities among them, but leave them to the free enjoyment of their rites and ceremonies; and not take from the islands any male native, without his own and his chief's and parents' consent; and shall not take from thence any female native, without the like consentor, in case of shipping any male natives, as mariners, divers, &c. then, at their own request at any time, to discharge them, first paying them all wages, &c.
hitherto, the public worship of god had been performed in one of the apartments of the mission-house, but as it appeared expedient to erect a place for this specific object, to which also the natives might have access for the purpose of religious instruction, a spot was selected near the grave of mr. lewis; and on the 5th of march 1797, with the assistance of a number of pomare's men, they commenced the erection of their chapel.
the next object was to make the doors  and window-shutters: thus far they had been able to proceed in the erection of  their dwellings without nails; but to make doors and shutters without these,  brought them at first to a stand.
a wish to possess such property, and to receive the assistance of the europeans in the exercise of the mechanic arts, or in their wars, was probably the motive by which the natives were most strongly influenced.
the only means  they had of obtaining it was, by observing carefully the native sounds of  words, and then writing down the characters by which they were expressed.
the missionaries were almost overcome with surprise, and hastened to render their acknowledgment 165 of grateful praise to the most high, under feelings that it would be impossible to describe.
as the ships were in repair, and the crews in  health, they remained only three days in the harbour, and sailed from the  island on the 27th of august;– 32 – having made a number of presents  to the chiefs, they did not leave any of their crews on shore, which was a  matter of great satisfaction to the missionaries, who had beheld with regret  the baneful influence of unprincipled seamen, on the minds and habits of the  people.
viii from page 167 to page 192.
leave me, said the dying warrior; mark yonder man, in front of mahine's ranks; he inflicted this wound; on him revenge my death.
of one or two other natives they had every reason to hope most favourably, while one, who died about this time, left a pleasing testimony behind, of repentance, and reliance on the pardoning mercy of god.
they now felt that they were cut off from all but divine guidance, protection, and support, and had parted with those by whose counsels and presence they had been assisted in entering upon their labours, but whom on earth they did not expect to meet again.
there was something so pleasing and novel in their appearance, so peculiar in their voices when singing, and in their native language, both during the prayers and sermon, and something so solemn and earnest in their attention, with such an air of sincerity and devotion during the whole service, that it deeply affected my heart.
the season we had spent with them had been to us a  period of no ordinary activity and excitement, and it would probably be  regarded by them as an era in their history.
the tobacco plant is another exotic, common now in all the islands: it was introduced by capt.
whether, however, they were influenced by a feeling of pride which  made them averse to imitate the raiateans, or an unwillingness to increase  their domestic employments, we do not know; but the females in general, the  queen and chief women in particular, seemed at first determined to resist the  innovation.
the enterprise in which they had embarked, had at its  commencement united, in bonds of disinterested philanthropy, parties before but  seldom– 84 – associated; and had, by a vigorous and combined  movement, in force and magnitude surpassing any thing that had been hitherto  attempted by british christians, introduced a new era in the missionary efforts  of modern times.
it was built with care, and, considering it as a specimen of native workmanship, was highly creditable to their industry, perseverance, and ingenuity.
the pineapple grew luxuriantly in several parts of tahiti; and though the natives were told it was palatable food, they were so mistaken in the nature of the fruit, that they baked numbers of them in their native ovens, before they attempted to eat any undressed.
they had long been acquainted with the properties and uses of  iron, having procured some from the natives of a neighbouring island,31 where a  dutch vessel, the african galley,– 12 – belonging to roggewein's  squadron, had been wrecked, in 1722, upwards of forty years before they were  visited by captain wallis.
in connexion with this attack upon the district of matavai, which belonged  to pomare, otu and– 34 – haamanemane declared that pomare was  deprived of all authority in the larger peninsula.
to this spot it was proposed to adjourn, and thither the natives immediately repaired, seating themselves on the ground under the cocoa-nut trees.
another source of perplexity resulted from the injudicious methods of the native teachers, who at first, in their zeal to encourage their scholars, repeated to them every word in the columns of spelling, and lessons, so frequently, that many of their pupils could repeat from memory, perhaps, the whole of the book, without being able to read a single line.
at the same time assuring them, that whatever crimes they might have to answer for, rejection of the gospel would not be one; though this would, perhaps, involve the heaviest condemnation on their descendants, if by them that gospel was neglected or despised.
when arrayed in a favourite dress, which was a glazed hat, and a black coat fringed round the edges with red feathers, his appearance must have been somewhat ludicrous, although this was probably his sacerdotal habit, as red feathers were always considered emblematical of their deities.
here we experienced a hearty welcome from the chiefs  and people.
without admitting the existence of a power, alike at  variance with common sense and religion, in virtue of which the pope authorized  the commanders from spain and portugal to seize any country they might  discover, for the purpose of bringing its plundered inhabitants within the pale  of christendom, or approving the proceedings of those who acted upon such  authority; their object, the conversion of the idolaters, was one that must  commend itself to every enlightened christian; and their ardour was frequently  proportioned to the importance they attached to the enterprise.
they hastened to his house, and  found the corpse lying on a bed; the forehead and face considerably disfigured  with wounds, apparently inflicted with a stone and a sharp instrument.
from meditation on these, he derived the highest consolation and support.
in the  afternoon they assemble in the schools, and read the scriptures, and repeat  hymns, or portions of the catechism, and are questioned as to their  recollection of the sermon of the forenoon.
it is  a pleasing fact, which demonstrates unequivocally that the south sea islanders  are not deficient in capacity, but are capable, when inducement sufficient is  offered, of acquiring habits of close industry, that in the islands of raiatea  and huahine, or any of the stations in the leeward islands, there was hardly an  adult female, excepting the aged and infirm, who could not use her needle so as  to make her own clothes, and those required by other members of the family.
a plantain-tree and a dog were then brought for thetaura, the cord or bond of union, and then a plantain and a pig for the friend.48
this device was employed for a short time  with success against the establishment of the mission among the sandwich  islands; where the king and chiefs were told, that though foreigners first went  in a peaceable and friendly manner to the west indies, they subsequently went  with all the apparatus of war, attacked and defeated the inhabitants, hunted  the fugitives with blood-hounds, finally exterminated them, and remained  masters of the islands.
these latter were fastened to the long boards by strong  wooden pegs.
thirty-six massy cylindrical pillars of the bread-fruit tree sustain the centre of the roof, and two hundred and eighty smaller ones, of the same material, support the wall-plate along the sides, and around the circular ends, of the building.
a few native houses were visible: there were not probably more than ten or  twelve in the district, and the inhabitants might be occasionally seen guiding  the light canoe across the bay, or leisurely walking beneath the shade of the  spreading trees.
mrs. ellis, and myself, with an infant  and her nurse, set out in a native canoe, having most of our goods and luggage  on board.
few  remained behind; all the inhabitants of the district or village, who were able,  attended public worship.
it had always been employed, not only as a school, but also as a chapel.
it is always delightful to watch the commencement and progress of mental improvement, and the early efforts of intellect; but it was peculiarly so here.
industry flourishes here.
more important  matters concerning them were however often the subjects of inquiry.
pomare withdrew, and they afterwards agreed not to resort to the use of arms,  either for offence or defence.
he was not only a priest, but an areoi, and a warrior of no ordinary prowess.
– 423 – the thought of the  bowels, or within the bowels;te hinaaro o te aau, the desire of the  bowels; te riri o te aau, the anger of the bowels.
having offered a human  victim to his idol, he invaded the district of the absent chieftain, and  brought war to the very doors of the mission-house, in less than seventeen  months after the departure of the duff.
389 the missionaries' wives had taught some few in eimeo prior to our arrival; but, until their reception of christianity, they considered it degrading to attach themselves to the household of foreigners, or to learn any of their arts and customs; they also thought their own manner of wearing a piece of native or foreign cloth, cast loosely round the body, preferable to the european mode of dress, and consequently had no inducement to learn needlework, or any other female employment.
the season occupied in the printing and binding of  these books was one of incessant labour, which, in a tropical climate, and at a  season when the sun was vertical, was often found exceedingly oppressive;–  232 – yet it was one of the happiest periods of my life.
it has been– 315 –  distinguished as the cradle of their mythology, the birth-place and residence  of oro, the region to which disembodied spirits resorted, the seat of their  oracle, and the abode of those priests whose predictions for many generations  regulated the expectations of the nation.
169 mahine sent a special message to huahine, and the same change took place in that island; which was perhaps, for its size and population, more attached to its idols than any other.
a fine, intelligent young man, on becoming a disciple of christ, and a public worshipper of jehovah, was ridiculed by his family; this proving ineffectual, flattering promises were made of temporal advantages, if he would again unite with those who had been his former associates in idol worship; these he also declined.
222 having been told how it was to be done, he jocosely charged his companions not to look very particularly at him, and not to laugh if he should not do it right.
this change, although approved and effected by the principal chiefs on the islands, in conjunction with the messenger of the king, was nevertheless opposed.
by representations such as these, we endeavoured to excite in their minds a desire to hear the scriptures read, and the gospel preached, in the chapels, and to attend our instructions in the schools.
all their knowledge, traditions, songs, &c. were preserved by memory; and the preceptor recited them to his pupil, till the latter could repeat them correctly.
this part of our voyage, for twelve or fourteen miles, was delightful.
his inducement to undertake a voyage, of the incidents and exposures of which he could form no idea, does not appear to have resulted so much from a wish to gratify a restless and ardent curiosity, as from the desire to obtain the means of avenging his country, and regaining the hereditary possessions of his family, which were now occupied by the victors.
next to tahiti, raiatea perhaps is better supplied with rivers, or streams  of excellent water, than any other island of the group.
others attended in such numbers, that it was found necessary to enlarge the first place of worship they had ever used in the islands.
and thou hast found again
at one time they assured them– 300  – that it would be injurious to their interest, and, if successful,  prevent their being visited by shipping, &c., offering, at the same time,  to give them for their raw cotton twice as much cloth as they could procure at  the factory.
sometimes they heard that the rebels were entering matavai from the east, at  other times from the west, and sometimes they received intelligence that they  had divided their forces, and intended to commence the attack from two opposite  points at the same time.
the entire dissolution of this  association, and the abolition of its cruel and abominable practices, on the  introduction of christianity, is one of the most powerful demonstrations god  has given to his church and to the world, of the irresistible operation of  those means which he has appointed for the complete demolition of the very  strong holds of paganism, and the universal extension of virtue and of  happiness among the most profligate and debased of mankind.
on the present occasion, governor king, in a letter to pomare, remarked, that he could not too strongly recommend to his kind protection, the society of missionaries whom he had taken under his care; and that, such protection could not fail to excite the gratitude of the missionaries, and the friendship of king george.
they were small carved wooden images,  rude imitations of the human figure; or shapeless logs of wood, covered with  finely braided and curiously wrought cinet of cocoa-nut fibres, and ornamented  with red feathers.
– 305 – the dark and heavy atmosphere obscuring the sun, prevented our discerning  the land, and rendered us unconscious of the direction in which the storm was  driving us.
having just quitted the marquesas, where we saw the very state the otaheitans were in at the time of their first visitors, we of course 420 saw the change to great advantage; and the magnitude of it is so astonishing, that all has the appearance of a dream.
cushions have not yet intruded into any of the pews, and only into  one of the pulpits.
it belonged to  an ingenious and industrious young man, whose name was navenavehia, and who,  although an inferior chief in huahine, had accompanied mahine to eimeo, where  he had resided in the family of mr. george bicknell, by whom he had been taught  the use of tools, and the art of burning lime.
however remote from the land of his nativity may be its locality, however humble its structure, however rude its appendages, or limited its sources of comfort, compared with what in other parts may be enjoyed,around his rustic hearth, and in the bosom of his family, he finds the scene of his richest earthly felicity.
others  expressed the same determination; and pomare came forward alone, requesting  baptism, and desiring to hear and obey the word of god, as he said “he  desired to be happy after death, and to be saved at the day of judgment.”
if lime-juice was sprinkled  upon it, a beautiful and delicate pink was produced.
i teie nei po,  “may you have peace or life this night.”
in  this they found great difficulty, from what generally proves a source of  perplexity to a learner, in his first attempt at understanding a foreign  tongue, viz.
some appeared with only  the walls on the outside plastered, others with both sides plastered; some  having their doors and window-shutters fixed, others with a low fence only  across the door-way; some with grass spread over the whole floor, while others  had a portion boarded sufficiently large to contain their sleeping-mats at  night.
five months after the departure of the missionaries in the nautilus, two large vessels were seen standing towards matavai bay.
every place of public amusement, and every exhibition adapted to administer pleasure, was repeatedly visited; and the multiplicity of spectacles 367 thus presented in rapid succession, kept his mind in a state of perpetual excitement and surprise.
the directors of the  missionary society were fully sensible of the necessity of introducing a  regular system of industry among the islanders, in order to their assuming and  maintaining a station amongst christian or civilized nations; and felt that the  interesting and peculiar circumstances of the people at this time, required  something beyond the inculcation of the principles of christianity, and  instruction in the use of letters.
i put the printer's ink-ball into his hand, and directed him to strike  it two or three times upon the face of the letters; this he did, and then  placing a sheet of clean paper upon the parchment, it was covered down, turned  under the press, and the king was directed to pull the handle.
several valuable  kinds of cotton having been at– 281 – different times introduced,  were also growing remarkably well.
as an inducement to compliance with this last  request, they offered to build a house – 21 – for the accommodation  of the children that might be spared, whom they promised to nurse with  attention equal to that which they paid to their own.
they were afterwards individually interrogated as to their desires in  reference to these important matters: during this inquiry thirty-one declared  that they had renounced the idols, their worship, and every practice connected  with idolatry; wishing to abandon every thing contrary to the word of god.
and, in the close of the same year, desired that this name might be recorded  among the converts.
– 183 – the wonderful change that now seemed to be wrought in the minds and hearts  of many, did not appear to be more the immediate result of instructions given  at the time, than the remote but certain effect of truth imparted, and precious  seed, which, having been scattered years before, was now revived with a power,  that the individuals themselves could not comprehend, nor on ordinary  principles explain.
at a late hour we retired to rest, but not to sleep.
this building, which is called the royal mission chapel, and might, not inappropriately, be termed the cathedral of tahiti, is certainly, when we consider the imperfect skill of the artificers, their rude tools, the amazing quantity of materials used, and the manner in which its workmanship is completed, an astonishing structure.
the religion of jesus christ was the topic of conversation until they reached the settlement; when patii took his leave, and mr. nott informed his colleagues of the success of his visit to the young chief of huahine, and the determination which the priest of the district had made known to him.
230 the process of binding appeared to the natives much more simple than that of printing; yet, in addition to those whom we were endeavouring to instruct, each of the principal chiefs sent one of his most clever men, to learn how to put a book together.
yet so dull of heart, and  spiritless, as never to regret sweets tasted here, and left as soon as  known.
this state of affairs, together with the earnest desire of the people to increase their knowledge of sacred truth, rendered it desirable that the press should be set to work as soon as possible.
in the letter sent at this time to the directors, they express their anxiety to hear from england, their conviction of the facilities that would be afforded towards the establishing the gospel in tahiti and the neighbouring islands, if they were joined by a body of missionaries and an experienced director, and recommended that a surgeon and several mechanics should be included in the number of those who might be sent.
his departure, in his critical state of mind, was  much to be regretted, as it deprived him of the instructions of his teachers,  exposed him to many temptations, and much persecution.
they have also been taught to saw  trees into a number of boards, instead of splitting them into two planks, which  was their former practice.
the people of huahine and their chief were certainly among the most superstitious and idolatrous tribes of the pacific.
they were also anxious to see this  wonderful machine, the printing-press, in operation, having heard much of the  facility with which, when once it should be established, they would be supplied  with articles at that time more valuable, in their estimation, than any other.
when they arrived at  tiataebua, puru, the king of huahine, and the chief of eimeo, received them  cordially; said his son taaroarii wished to be instructed in the word of god,  to learn about jehovah and jesus christ, of whom he had so frequently heard  pomare speak.
a number of chiefs, with the queen  and principal women of the islands, sat around; while thousands of the people,  attired in their gay and many-coloured native or european dresses, composed the  vast assemblage, each one having come, as to a public festival, in his best  apparel.
the introduction among an indolent people, of  any art that requires constant, and sometimes heavy labour, must be gradual;  but as building, and the use of household furniture, &c., increases among  the people, skill in these departments will be held in higher esteem, and the  number of workmen will necessarily increase with the demand for their labour,  and the remuneration it receives.
the impression this unpleasant occurrence  produced upon the society at matavai, was such, that eleven missionaries,  including four who were married, judged a removal from the island to be  necessary; and as the captain and supercargo of the nautilus offered a passage  to any who were desirous of returning to port jackson, they prepared for their  departure.
the king with his attendants passed by the printing-office every afternoon, on  their way to his favourite bathing-place, and seldom omitted to call, and spend  some time in watching the progress of the letters, and appeared surprised when  he found that, in sixteen pages of the spelling-book, there were upwards of  five thousand of the letter a. an edition of 2300 copies of the tahitian  catechism, and a collection of texts, or extracts from scripture, were next  printed; after which, st. luke's gospel, which had been translated by mr. nott,  was put to press.
the almighty can (or will) make me good.
often, as the little boy has walked back to the seat with his prizeperhaps a copy of one of the gospelsi have seen the mother's eye follow the child with all a parent's emotion beaming in her eye, while the tear of pleasure has sparkled there; and, in striking contrast with this, the childless mother might be seen weeping at the recollection of the infants, which, under the influence of idolatry, she had destroyed and which, but for her own murderous hands, might have mingled in the throng she then beheld before her.
the danger then came upon me suddenly, and my thoughts, while in peril, were but few.
305 the dark and heavy atmosphere obscuring the sun, prevented our discerning the land, and rendered us unconscious of the direction in which the storm was driving us.
a heathen ceremony was  at hand, for which a human victim was required, and this young man was selected  by his persecutors, because he professed to be a worshipper of the true god.
arrival of missionaries from england—building and launching of the  haweis—re-occupation of matavai—new stations in tahiti—journeys  across the interior of eimeo—village of tamai—retrospect of labour at  afareaitu—honesty of the people—departure from eimeo—voyage to  the society islands—appearance of huahine—fa-re harbour and  surrounding country—accommodations on shore—state of the inhabitants  of huahine—commencement of missionary labours—influence of presents  on the people.
as an inducement to compliance with this last request, they offered to build a house 21 for the accommodation of the children that might be spared, whom they promised to nurse with attention equal to that which they paid to their own.
when the queen went over to tahiti, pomare undertook a journey round eimeo,  purposing, by conversation with the chiefs of the different districts, to  inform them of the nature of christianity, endeavour to induce them to receive  it, and recommend it to the people.
for some time we bound every book that was given to the  natives; but our materials being expended long before they were supplied, and  the people continuing impatient for the books, even in sheets—rather than  keep them destitute of the scripture already printed, they were thus  distributed.
mrs. ellis, unable to walk any  further, sat down upon a rock of coral, and gave our infant the breast, while i  hailed the natives, and directed them to bring the canoe over the reef, and  take us on board.
pomare, however, was uninfluenced by any of these representations,  and, notwithstanding the embarrassed state of his– 100 – affairs, and  the uncertainty of the result, to which the present agitation, and the  approaching national assembly of chiefs and people, might lead; and though his  friends added insult and reproach to his misfortunes, he remained stedfast.
the missionaries at raiatea procured what is called a pig of cast-iron ballast, a solid piece about three or four feet long, and six or nine inches square, with a hole through one end.
it was, however,  only those who were recently awakened to a sense of the enormity of these  crimes, and were but very partially informed as to the true state– 434  – of england, that ever asked such questions as these.
wilson;  between him and his nephew, mr. w. wilson, stands a child of mr. hassel; mrs.  hassel with an infant is before them.
when the king despatched a select band to demolish the idol temple, he said, god not to the little island, where the women and children have been left for security; turn not aside to the villages or plantations; neither enter into the houses, nor destroy any of the property you may see; but go straight along the high road, through all your late enemy's districts.
they commenced it in the beginning of 1819,  and completed it early in the following year.
his affairs appeared desperate, and he entertained no thoughts of security, but by flight to eimeo.
in order to satisfy themselves, oripaia proposed to one of his attendants to try it.
in this employment they were sometimes engaged for several days together, drinking the spirit as it issued from the still, sinking into a state of indescribable wretchedness, and often practising the most ferocious barbarities.
the missionaries who had arrived undertook to finish what their predecessors had commenced; and although it was an undertaking of great labour, it was ready to be launched in a few weeks after they had landed.
it is impossible to  conceive the emotions of– 409 – delight produced by witnessing six or  eight hundred natives assembling at this hour in the respective chapels, and,  on entering, to see a native, one who was perhaps formerly a warrior or areoi,  or even an idolatrous priest, stand up, and read a psalm or hymn, which the  congregation rise, and sing.
its form is somewhat triangular, and its circumference about  fifty miles.
in the  schools, mr. barff had been much engaged, and mr. orsmond, prior to his removal  to raiatea, had assisted in the instruction of the people, not only of fare,  but also of the adjoining districts.
one hundred and thirty-three windows or apertures, furnished with sliding shutters, admit both light and air, and twenty-nine doors afford 377 ingress and egress to the congregation.
after remaining about three weeks at tahiti, and assisting the society in their regulations by his counsel, and in the preparation of their houses by the carpenters of the ship, 46 captain wilson sailed from matavai on the 31st of july.
this was an article in great and constant demand throughout the islands.
the inhabitants of the dwelling which we entered soon rose from their beds, kindled a large fire in the centre of the floor, cooked us some provisions, and furnished us with warm and clean native cloth, to wear while our own clothes were dried.
the health of the missionaries had not been affected by the climate.
towards the autumn of 1813, mr. shelly, formerly a missionary in tongatabu, and subsequently in matavai, arrived as master of the queen charlotte, at eimeo, on his way to the paumotu, or pearl islands.
objects of the greatest curiosity at all other  times, they paid no sort of attention to, during the solemnity of their  worship.
this was the end of the principal idol of the tahitians, on whom they had long been so deluded as to suppose their destinies depended; whose favour, kings, and chiefs, and warriors, had sought; whose anger all had deprecated; and who had been the occasion of more bloody and desolating wars, for the preceding thirty years, than all other causes combined.
it was friday when the vessel arrived; the natives thronged the ship with fowls, fruit, vegetables, &c. for sale, manifesting considerable earnestness and address in the disposal of their goods.
this  not only aroused the jealousy of the chief, and the rage of otu, but having  nearly cost mr. broomhall and his companions their lives, it made the  missionaries extremely cautious in administering medicine to any of the chiefs.
notwithstanding  this, the assailants were, in their first onset, repulsed; but, renewing their  attack in the night, although; pomare's party had forty muskets, and those in  the hands of the rebels were not more than fourteen, they threw the king's  forces into confusion, killed a chief of influence, a near relative of  pomare's, and, driving his warriors to their canoes, retook the object of their  murderous contention, the image of oro, and remained masters of the whole of  tairabu, as well as of the south and western side of the large peninsula.
early in the year 1819, the captain of a vessel, the indus, whom purposes of commerce led to tahiti, informed the king that mr. gyles's errand to tahiti was merely experimental; and that, should the attempt to manufacture sugar succeed, individuals from the distant countries, possessing influence 284 and large resources, would establish themselves in the islands, and, with an armed force, which he would in vain attempt to oppose, would either destroy the inhabitants, or reduce them to slavery.
the frame of the building had been prepared with great care, several of the pillars being of polished aito, or casuarina.
i have often heard with pleasure, as i  have passed the sabbath-schools rather earlier perhaps than usual, the praises  of the saviour sung by between three and four hundred juvenile voices, who were  thus concluding their morning exercise.
at on place, though the people on their first  arrival welcomed them cordially, yet when they understood the object of their  visit, a marked, and by no means pleasing change, appeared in their behaviour.
it has opened a new channel for commercial  enterprise, and has actually created a market for british manufactures, the  consumption of which, among the islands of the pacific that have received the  gospel, is already considerable.
in the course of the following year, the loss sustained by the death of mr. scott was repaired by the arrival of mr. crook from new south wales; he reached the islands in the month of may, and rendered important service in the prosecution of the common enterprise.
early voyages to the pacificinterest in behalf of the people excited by the published accountsformation of the missionary societysailing of the duffarrival off tahitinotice of a roman catholic missionopinion of captain cook on the formation of a settlement in tahiticession of matavaideparture of the duffinfluence of the mechanic arts on the minds of the peoplecomparative estimate of iron and golddifficulties attending the acquisition of an unwritten languagemethods adopted by the missionariespropensity to theft among the nativesefforts to prevent human sacrifices and infant murderresolution of the missionaries relative to the use of fire-arms.
in staining these papers, they were covered over with the juice of the stems of the mountain plantain, orfei.
nails are  still among the most valuable manufactures they can receive.
on their return home, they travelled through the district of atehuru, and found the king, pomare, and all the chiefs and warriors of the land, assembled at the greatmarae, where a number of ceremonies were performing in honour of oro, the great national idol.
this, however, was only manifested during the time when very few could be induced to attend, and none perhaps came from the influence of that desire for christian instruction which attended the general profession of christianity.
a plantain-tree and a pig were brought by the residents for the  king, a similar offering for the god; this was followed by a plantain and a  pig, for thetoe moe, perhaps sleeping hatchet.
he had a small english bible, and, at his request, i read to him one  or two chapters.
here i looked abroad with new and mingled emotions on the  scene in which i was to commence my labours, and probably to spend the  remainder of my life.
we had not been many weeks at fare before tamatoa, the king of raiatea, with his brother, and a number of chiefs from raiatea, tahaa, and borabora arrived.
the survivors of such as were  carried off by these means, feeling the incipient effects of disease  themselves, and beholding their relatives languishing under maladies of foreign  origin, inflicted, as they supposed, by the god of the foreigners, were led to  view the missionaries as in some degree the cause of their suffering; and  frequently, not only rejected their message, but charged them with being the  authors of their misery, by praying against them to their god.
in the leeward of society islands the remembrance  of these exercises are among the most pleasing recollections i retain of my  intercourse with the people.
this was not a groundless opinion, but an inference authorized by the most melancholy but unquestionable facts.
this also in one thing that i want to inquire of you: when i go round tahiti: it may be that the raatiras and others will ask me to put down their names; what shall i do then?
considering the islanders as an uncivilized people, they seem to have been remarkably ceremonious.
such neglect was also frequently used as a cover for wickedness.
at the hour of  midnight they were to be attacked, their property plundered, their houses  burnt, and every prisoner secured, to be slaughtered on the spot.
east india company, but who now generously offered to conduct the distant and adventurous voyage.
they were deeply affected, even unto tears.
many  were doubtless influenced by motives of curiosity, others by a desire to  possess an article of property now so highly esteemed by all parties, but many  were certainly influenced by a desire to become more fully acquainted with the  revelation god had made to man, and to read for themselves, in their own  language, those truths that were able to make them “wise unto  salvation.”
it is verdant to its  summit, which is of a beautiful conic shape, supported by a perpendicular–  274 – rock.
they expressed themselves  pleased with the prospect of such an event, and promised every assistance in  the erection of our houses, &c.
the hand of the almighty was strikingly exhibited, 108 in the door thus effectually opened for the preaching of the gospel.
the climate was favourable to their growth, and they appeared to thrive well.
the bed-rooms were up stairs, and were perfectly clean and neat.
in  general their inquiries were exceedingly interesting.
there was so much  rural beauty and secluded quietude in the scene, and so much that was novel and  striking in the appearance of the people, momentous and delightful in the  object for which they had been convened, that it was altogether an interesting  meeting.
tuahine's mind, on the  subject of the christian religion, was at this period in a state resembling  that of oito's.
the soil of the bottom of the valley is rich and fertile, well stocked with  cocoa-nuts and breadfruit trees.
how it might be when the house was  filled, i do not know; but when empty, the human voice could be distinctly  heard from one end to the other, without any great effort on the part of those  who at this distance called or answered.
the king and his friends were desirous on this occasion to prevent such an acknowledgment.
when first declared by the missionaries, it merely awakened astonishment, and was considered as one among the many novel and striking facts connected with the doctrines which the new religion unfolded.
the panels were of  rich yellow bread-fruit, and the frame ofmero, a fine-grained, dark,  chestnut-coloured wood.
a chapel has been built with this material in the island of eimeo, and it will probably last longer than any other yet erected.
flushed with success, and animated with the belief that the god fought with them, the rebels, 55 having offered in sacrifice the bodies of the slain, and united in their confederacy the districts of papara, and the whole of the south-west side of the larger peninsula, crossed the isthmus, marched at once to tautira, and attacked the king and pomare; who, ever since their arrival with the idol they had seized in atehuru, had been engaged in offering human sacrificed, and by other acts of worship, propitiating the favour of oro.
this afflictive bereavement was followed by another equally painful, namely, the death of 91 mrs. davies,which took place on the fourth of the following september.
extending his arms forward, raveae passed the muzzle of his musket under his own arm, suddenly turned his body on one side, and, pulling the trigger of his piece at the same instant, shot his antagonist through the body, who immediately lost hold of his prey, and fell dying to the ground.
the  people around were touched with a feeling of compassion; but although their  commiseration was fully appreciated, there was not that reciprocity of feeling  which could lessen, if any considerable degree, the burden of his grief.
they advanced with deliberation and care; and though the tahitian dialect, as written by them, is doubtless imperfect, and susceptible of great improvement, the circumstance of its having formed the basis of those subsequently written, the ease with which it is acquired, and the facility with which it is used by the natives themselves, are evidences of its accuracy and its utility.
what mind, under the influence of the unequivocal declarations of the sacred volume, and an acquaintance with the true condition of the heathen, can calmly entertain the thought of the millions who remain ignorant of the gospel?
excepting in tahiti and eimeo, there is now no island on which more than a single missionary resides, and consequently public preaching only at the station which he occupies.
the  islanders in general are fond of singing, and always ready to learn.
by any of the natives of the south sea islands.
about midday the captain returned to the ship; and we  shortly afterwards weighed anchor, and sailed for the island of eimeo.
previously, however, to their embarkation, a signal triumph was achieved in favour of christianity, at a public festival, in which they were the most conspicuous party.
the inhabitants of the leeward islands, whose encampment he passed when on his way to papetoai, strongly persuaded him to join their party, and carry the flag of the gods to raiatea, entreating him to adhere to the religion of his fathers, and to beware of matapuupuu, a man of influence, an areoi, and a high-priest, from huabine, who had recently joined the christian converts, and utami, a well-informed and enterprising man, chief in the island of tahaa, who, with his wife, had also attached himself to their number.
mr. davies, in his journey round tahiti, in 1816, met  with the murderer of the young man who was offered in sacrifice by the people  of taiarabu, to insure success in their last attack upon the people of atehuru  and papara, and whose tragical death, he justly considered, ought to be  recorded, because it is hoped it was “the last human sacrifice offered in  tahiti,” and because the victim was selected “on account of his  attachment to christianity.”
some of the missionaries carried their principles of forbearance so far, as to declare that, but for the exposure of the females even then it would not be right to have recourse to arms.
whenever he alluded to that society, or to the crimes committed by its members, it was always with evident feelings of the deepest distress.
many of the seeds grew, and the vegetables produced added an agreeable variety to the indigenous productions of the country.
instead of a single mat, three or four, or even ten, were sometimes spread one upon the other, to give elevation and softness; and this, with the finer texture of the mats, was the only difference between the bed of the chief, and that on which the meanest of his dependents slept.
the affairs of tahiti continued in the same  state until the 22d of december; when the king, influenced by metia, the  prophet of oro, attacked the rebels; who were not only superior in numbers, but  favoured in the conflict by the occupation of an advantageous position.
matavai,  the original missionary station, was the first that was re-occupied.
multitudes flocked from the different districts, to attend the means of  instruction in the school, and on the sabbath.
here they were hospitably received by the chiefs and people.
his acquaintance with english was very partial, and mine with tahitian much more so; our conversation was, consequently, neither free nor animated.
this was the introduction of hats and bonnets.
at the urgent request of utami, the chief of the populous district of atehuru, he subsequently commenced a mission among his people at bunaauïa, or burder's point, whither mr. bourne also repaired.
many of their inquiries related to the proper observance of the sabbath, and under what circumstances it would be proper to launch a canoe or undertake a voyage?
soon  after midnight, and walking along the shore, or sitting on the beach until  day-break.
the enclosures of the  garden were destroyed, the bread-fruit and cocoanut trees cut down, to prevent  their affording shelter to the enemy, and the means of annoyance from their  muskets or their slings.
learning that they  had discontinued idol-worship, i asked why they had abandoned their gods.
could they be induced to erect kilns, and burn it after the 344 european manner, it might be furnished with great facility, and the fact of their being able to prepare with little trouble, lime from the coral rock, would encourage them in building comfortable houses.
during 178 no period in the history of the mission, could the time to favour the nation have appeared more unlikely than the present.
they had no idea even of the existence of nerves, and it was necessary to introduce into their language a word by which they might be designated.
and two years after, when first visited by captain cook; or when captain bligh,  in the bounty, spent six– 196 – months at anchor here in 1788 and  1789; when captain vancouver arrived in 1792; captain new, of the  dædalus, in 1793; and captain wilson, in the duff, who anchored in the  same bay on the 6th of march, 1797.
the royal chapel at papaoa,  however, is the only one of the kind in the islands.
we travel far, 'its true, but not for nought; and must be bribed to compass earth again
a most favourable opportunity was afforded for his acquiring that knowledge of our agriculture, arts, and manufactures, our civil and religious institutions, which would have enabled him to introduce the most salutary improvements among his countrymen.
our kitchen was the open yard behind the dwelling; and its only fixtures were a couple of a large stones placed in the ground, parallel to each other, and about six inches apart.
their  countenance beamed with peace and delight; and,ia ora oe ia iesu, ia ora
the incarnation, the life, especially  the sufferings and death, of the lord jesus christ, were, from this time, the  principal subjects brought before the minds of their hearers; and the results  were such as to shew the propriety of the alteration.
he laboured diligently to multiply the resources of the island,  and improve the condition of the people, and his adherents were always well  furnished with all that the island afforded.
the circumstance of the king's  throwing the wine at the ship, the breaking of the bottle, the red wine  spreading abroad, and the pieces of glass flying in every direction, startled  the natives who were pulling the ropes on that side of the vessel.
about five in the afternoon of the same day, mr. barff and myself were  restored to our families; thankful for the guidance and protection we had  enjoyed on the voyage, and the merciful care which those we left had  experienced during our absence.
but the most remarkable object connected with opoa, was the large marae, or temple, where the national idol worshipped, and human victims were sacrificed.
meetings for reading the scriptures and prayer are held at some of the native houses in the evening, and we usually read a sermon in the english language in our own families.
had i been able  to hear more distinctly, it is probable that at that time i should not have  understood the bard, as many words not in common use are found in their songs.
in february, 1813, he wrote to the following  effect.
he had laboured  unremittingly for ten anxious years; filling, with credit to himself and  advantage to the mission, the most important station among his brethren, by  whom he was highly and justly respected.
on the 13th of july, 1801, captain wilson, and the eight missionaries from england, landed near point venus, and were introduced to otu, pomare, and other principal chiefs, by whom they were welcomed to tahiti.
the  doctrine of the resurrection of the body has ever appeared to them, as it did  when announced by the apostle to the civilized philosophers of athens, or the  august rulers in the roman hall of judgment, as a fact astounding or  incredible.
in the course of the night, two seamen absconded with the ship's boat; and the next morning the captain and supercargo addressed a letter to the missionaries, acquainting them with the desertion of the men; and their determination, in consequence of their deficiency of hands, to recover them, cost what it would; soliciting, at the same time, aid in effecting their 25 apprehension.
then with what  augmented joy must that honoured and distinguished saint,39 in strict obedience  to whose last bequest and dying charge the south sea mission was attempted,  with those holy and devoted men who first matured, and subsequently aided so  nobly, the plan of sending the – 161 – gospel to tahiti, have viewed  the pleasing change.
although among  themselves accustomed to hear critically, and to ridicule, with great effect,  any of their own countrymen who should use a wrong word mispronounce or place  the accent erroneously on the one they used, yet they seldom laughed at the  mistakes of the newly arrived residents.
the helmet, and some other parts of his armour, with several cutlasses, are still preserved, and, when we arrived in huahine, were displayed on the sides of the house standing on the spot where mai's dwelling was erected by captain cook.
the people of afareaitu erected the printing-office; and those of maatea, a neighbouring district, my dwelling.
as soon as our men had refreshed themselves, we embarked in our  respective canoes, and, resuming our voyage, proceeded along the smooth surface  of the sea between the reefs and the shore.
at the same time that  this event shed such light upon the prospects of the missionaries, other  circumstances concurred, to confirm them in the conviction, that god was about  to favour in a signal manner their enterprise, to follow their labours with his  blessing, and with still greater success.
his supposed influence with the gods, his deep skill in the mysteries of their worship, and the constant dread of his displeasure, which would probably have doomed the individual, by whom it was incurred, to immolation on the altar of his idol, favoured, in no small degree, his assumption and exercise of civil power, both in eimeo and tahiti.
the bonnets are either sewn together, or woven throughout, after the manner of leghorns, and are made not only with the leaves of themau, and the bark of thepurau, but of the fine white layers of the inside of the plantain stalk, the leaf of the sugar-cane, and a strong and beautiful species of fine grass.
flushed with the success that had attended the savage and daring effort of the raiateans, the tahitians, whom captain fodger had employed on board his vessel the daphne, for the purpose of diving among the pearl islands, rose upon the ship's company, murdered the captain and some of the men, took possession of the vessel, and brought her to tahiti.
many of their questions referred to the exercise of prayer, for punctual attendance to which they have been uniformly distinguished.
the  health of the missionaries had not been affected by the climate.
– 57 – their situation at this time must have been most distressing.
the change that has taken place has not rendered the people unsocial or melancholy, but has introduced to their families, and more general intercourse, a degree of cheerfulness and reasonable enjoyment unknown before, especially in reference to the rising generation.
excepting in tahiti and  eimeo, there is now no island on which more than a single missionary resides,  and consequently public preaching only at the station which he occupies.
without officiously interfering with their individual or family affairs, he should interest himself in their welfare, and strive to share and alleviate their distress.
two or three athletic men instantly set off for that purpose.
i met them at the door, and asked them their errand.
imperat, 1774,” stood in front of the house, and near it was  the grave of the commander of one of the ships, who died in 1774.
their appearance on the heads of the natives of raiatea produced no slight sensation there; and the report of their use, as it spread through the islands, occasioned a considerable stir.
the horses, included among his presents, appear to have been regarded by mai as mere objects of curiosity, and, when occasionally ridden, it was to inspire terror or excite admiration in the minds of the inhabitants.
i  have often been overtaken with storms when at sea in european vessels, boats,  and native canoes, but, to whatever real danger i may have been exposed, i  never was surrounded by so much that was apparent, as during this voyage.
in order, however, to ensure  as regular and punctual an attendance as possible, the principal instruction – 319 – was given at an early hour every morning, that the people  might attend the school before engaging in their ordinary avocations.
this,  however, was only manifested during the time when very few could be induced to  attend, and none perhaps came from the influence of that desire for christian  instruction which attended the general profession of christianity.
the paper sent by the missionary society was only sufficient,  after the elementary books had been finished, to enable us to print 1500 copies  of the gospel; but the arrival of the liberal grant from the bible society  enabled us at once to double the number of copies.
to the head they attributed nothing in connexion with intellect, nor to the heart with regard to moral feeling.
but the king was not thus to be diverted from his original design; and however injudicious the plan he pursued might be, the motives by which he was influenced were certainly commendable.
at this time an event transpired, which threatened at first a revival of all the confusion and desolation of war.
at length the vessel moved towards the sea, amid the shouts of the  assembled multitudes.
it was introduced by the missionaries, and at this time  adopted by the christians, when speaking of any of the idols of tahiti.
as we passed  by it, we felt grateful that the winds were fair and the weather calm, and that  we had reached our anchorage in safety.
it does not appear that mai's house was designed as a model by which the natives were to be encouraged to build their own, but a place of security for the property, which he was recommended to enclose with a spacious native building: and the pursuits of its present occupants are in delightful contrast with the childish exhibition of fireworks, or the display of those trinkets, by which it was endeavoured to impress the minds of the natives with ideas of english superiority.
they were, however, the only inventions of the kind the natives had ever seen; and on the night when the chapel was first illuminated by their aid, as they came in one after another, and saw the glare of such a number of lights suspended from the roof in a manner that they could not at first understand, they involuntarily stopped to gaze as they entered the door, and few proceeded to their seats without an exclamation of admiration or surprise.
– 264 – the greater portion of the inhabitants having now embraced christianity,  they availed themselves of what appeared to them the most suitable means for  impressing the minds of the converts with the principle laid down in the  scriptures, that it is the duty of those who enjoy the gospel, not only to  maintain, but also to extend it.
in the commencement of a new settlement, or the establishment of a town, like that rising around us at the head of fare harbour, we were desirous that it should assume something like a regular form, as it regarded the public buildings and habitations of the chiefs and people.
even the changes which the body naturally undergoes in its present mortal state, militate against the supposition, that every atom once vitally united to the common mass will be included in the body that shall be hereafter, and direct us to admit that the resurrection must be consistent with innumerable mutations.
he was not only a priest, but an  areoi, and a warrior of no ordinary prowess.
in the month of july, following, the queen of tahiti died, in the district of pare, after an illness of nearly eight weeks.
i cannot describe it; but it possessed  charms independent of the beautiful scenery and rich vegetation.
it had  but one floor, excepting, that over the printing-office there was a kind of  loft for drying the paper.
their arrival was welcomed with joy, and we were happy to receive their countenance and co-operation in the prosecution of our work.
her memory was greatly esteemed by those who  had borne with her the burden of the day, and survived her in the field.
i was enabled to  conclude the service with less difficulty than i expected, and was happy to  have an opportunity of declaring, though very imperfectly, truths that were  able to make those to whom they were delivered, wise unto salvation, through  faith in christ jesus.
the tempest increasing, the natives were alarmed, and during the occasional intervals in which the wind abated its violence, the rain came down in tremendous torrents.
these– 198 – inquiries i  answered, and handed him a number of small presents which i had brought from  england, adding a curious penknife of my own, which he had appeared desirous to  possess.
fifty had now given in their names, as having renounced idolatry, desiring to acknowledge jehovah alone as god, and to be instructed in the obedience his word required.
near one of the large cocoa-nut trees,  whose cylindrical trunk appeared like a natural pillar supporting the roof,  there was a rustic sort of stand, four or five feet above the ground, on which  mr. nott took his station.
their salutations were cordial, though unaccompanied by the observances that were formerly regarded as indispensable.
that it is creditable alike to the head and the heart of the speaker or actor, would have been altogether unintelligible to them.
the venus schooner, however, arrived, and was seized by the people, before the native could deliver his letter: the master and seamen were not murdered, but kept prisoners, to be offered in sacrifice to oro.
tamaota the king, and his brother, accompanied them, while the rest of the chiefs and people of that island followed in their boats and canoes.
their acquaintance with the most useful of the mechanic arts, not only delighted the natives, but raised the missionaries in their estimation, and led them to desire their friendship.
the interests of his kingdom appeared to require his concurrence with their proposal; and, on the thirteenth of august, in less than a month after the pleasing event referred to, he sailed with them from eimeo, followed by the chiefs and people from the leeward islands, and most of the inhabitants of papetoai and its vicinity.
the blood  of the martyrs has ever been the seed of the church; and, from an exhibition of  principles so unequivocal in their nature, and so happy in their effects, it is  not too much to presume that it proved so on the present occasion.
the 270 regulations of the society were then read, and the treasurer and secretaries chosen.
numbers excused themselves from attending, on account of the  wearisomeness of learning their– 255 – letters, when there was every  reason to believe that unwillingness to conform to the precepts inculcated, was  the true cause of disinclination.
the natives crowded the ship; and pomare, who was on board, beheld with expressions of contempt the poverty of the vessel, and the distress of her crew.
or whether, when they had retired to their gardens, or the bushes adjacent to their dwellings, and were there engaged in prayer, their attention should be diverted by an intruder, they should leave off or continue?
they were also desirous  to receive additional evidence of his sincerity, and of the uprightness and the  purity of his conduct, during a longer period than they had yet observed it.
they brought back their– 288 – cotton, and hung it up  in their houses till another ship arrived, when it was again presented for  sale; but being again estimated by weight, little if any more was offered for  it.
while in port jackson, they received affectionate and  encouraging letters from the society, and their friends in england, and  communications of a– 89 – most touching, yet confident kind, from the  king, who invited their return.
on the 23d of september following, they took their final departure from portsmouth.
this, however, he relinquished, and cheerfully engaged in an attempt to promote the industry of the islanders, with no other remuneration than the missionaries receivea bare supply of the necessaries of life.
on the following day, when the king, chiefs, and people, were assembled within the temple, otu and his father, pretending to have received intimation that oro wished to be conveyed to tautira, in taiarabu, pomare addressed the chiefs of atehuru, requesting them to give him up; but the orators of the atehuruan chiefs resisted.
they have been seen occasionally looking down to notice what had attracted the attention of a little boy or girl, standing, perhaps, beside them; and if they thought the child could not distinctly see the different pieces, they have lifted it up, that it might look over the table, and then have asked the child which it would like to have.
pomare, however, appeared to experience great  satisfaction in superintending its erection, and in marking its progress.
i was then called out, and a native repeated 204 the names of the chiefs who had sent us the food; and, pointing to the heaps of fruit and the pigs, said one was for me, and another for mrs. ellis, and the third for our infant daughter.
the feelings  of the people on this subject were frequently so strong, and their language so  violent, that the missionaries have been obliged to hasten from places where  they had intended to address the people.
he occupied a prominent station in all the struggles between paganism and christianity; maintaining an unblemished character, and an unwavering profession, through the varied scenes of that unsettled period.
these alarming statements were strengthened by allusion to the present state of the west indies, where mr. gyles had been engaged in the manufacture of sugar and the culture of coffee.
buildings, also, in every stage of their progress, might be seen in a walk through the settlement: sometimes only a heap of spars and timber lay on the spot where the house was to be raised, but at other places the principal posts of the houses were erected, others were thatched, and some partially 347 or entirely enclosed with the beautiful white coral-lime plaster.
such, also, was their state, without any other alteration than a knowledge of the use of fire-arms produced, for a number of years after the visits of wallis, cook, and bligh.
the conduct of pomare, the king's father, with that of his queen, idia, was highly commendable; several of the articles of dress, which had been taken from the missionaries, were restored, and the people in general appeared to compassionate them; though two of them heard the natives, who were stripping them, remark, that, as they had four of them in their possession, they would go and take the fourteen remaining at matavai.
the acquisition of the language i commenced with mr. crook, and was happy to  avail myself of the aid of mr. davies, who was– 216 – well acquainted  with it, and willing to render us every assistance which his other avocations  would admit.
the natives had watched the change in his mind with the most  fearful apprehension, as to its results upon the minds of his subjects.
two or three aged and  stately chestnut-trees growing on the margin of this bank, extended their  branches over the steam and the bank, casting around a grateful and an inviting  shelter from the noontide sun.
when we landed at fare in huahine, i do not think there were more than ten or twelve houses in the whole district.
dreadful and alarming as these superstitious and bloody contests had been,  and though still exposed to the horrors of savage war, the missionaries,  protected in their work by the care of providence, felt that they were “…… devote to god and truth, and sworn to man's  eternal weal, beyond repentance sworn, or thought of turning back,” – 60 – and determined, in dependence on divine protection and  support, to maintain their station; diligently to labour, and patiently to wait  for the reward of their toil.
i shall not  soon forget the first time the queen, and about half a dozen of the chief women  of huahine, appeared in public, wearing the caps which had been sent as a  present by some ladies in england.
they said they were ashamed to invite us into their huts, but that their other house was building, and then they would be happy to see us there.
the former was beautifully white and glossy, while the latter was of a yellow colour, and much more firm and durable, on which account it was preferred for hats.
many  of the pupils being adults, had other engagements.
i then placed the composing-stick in his hand; he took the capital letters, one by one, out of their respective compartments, and, fixing them, concluded the alphabet.
their gardens were again enclosed, and such  seeds as they had preserved were committed to the ground.
an entertainment and a procession usually terminate the exercises of the day.
272 the haweis having conveyed the missionaries to their respective stations, taken in cocoa-nut oil, and such other productions of the islands as were marketable at port jackson, left tahiti, and touched at huahine, on her way to the colony of new south wales.
when interrogated as to their reasons for this sudden change in their conduct, it was found that they had not indeed struck for higher wages, but had left off to think about it, and that, until their minds were made up, they could not return.
the bible has been the basis of the greater part of the instruction given in the schools, but not to the exclusion of other departments of knowledge.
once a week, the people of maatea, a neighbouring district,  brought our family a present of bread-fruit, and other articles of food; the  inhabitants of afareaitu, and the district of teavaro, took a similar one to  our companions.
behind  them appeared a kind of open, or trellis-work line of pews, which were followed  by several rows of benches with backs; and, still more remote from the pulpit,  what might be called free or unapporpriated sittings, were solid benches or  forms, without any support for the back or arms.
in this  opinion they were correct; for whatever qualification a man may possess, unless  he manifests application and ability sufficient to acquire the language of  those among whom he labours, he will make but a very inefficient teacher.
shortly before his death, he recommended them to the protection of his son;  though the more he understood the chief object of their pursuit, the greater  aversion he seemed to manifest to it.
they seek not the praise that cometh from man, but the testimony of their consciences, and the approval of heaven; and, irrespective of the honour god has put upon them, they are entitled, from their steady and successful course, to be highly esteemed for their works' sake.
the struggle and the gasp, as the wearied arm should attempt to resist the impetuous waves, the straining vision that should linger on the last ray of retiring light, as the deepening veil of water would gradually conceal it for ever, and the rolling billows heaving over the sinking and dying body, which, perhaps ere life should be extinct, might become the prey of voracious inhabitants of the deep, caused scarcely a thought, compared with the appearance of the disembodied spirit in the appearance of its maker, the account to be rendered, and the awful and unalterable density that would await it there.
their delightful labours in this department of instruction 323 have not been in vain.
even those who, though they had not  condemned the scheme as utopian and visionary, had withheld their sanction and  their aid, now pointed to the deserted field as a demonstration of the  soundness of their judgment, and an explanation of their conduct.
discouraging indeed will be his prospects, if the estimation in which he is held by those among whom he labours be only that 259 which arises from their expectation of the presents he may make them.
the floor was of earth; upon this we spread some clean white sand, which was covered over with plaited leaves of the cocoa-nut tree.
the females, no longer exposed to that humiliating neglect to which idolatry had subjected them, enjoyed the comforts of domestic life, the pleasure resulting from the culture of their minds, the ability to read the scriptures, and to write in their own language, in which several excelled the other sex; they also became anxious to engage in employments which are appropriated to their own sex in civilized and christian communities.
we landed on one of the small islets which define, shelter, and adorn the entrance to the harbour, partook of some refreshment under the shade the brushwood afforded, while our boat's crew climbed the trees, and afterwards made an agreeable repast on the nuts which they gathered.
these idols i saw at port jackson; they are now deposited in  the missionary museum, austin friars.
“sicilian mariners,” and others of a more  moderate data, are among their greatest favourites.
this event was truly cheering to their predecessors, as it conveyed the  strongest evidence– 239 – of the desire, on the part of the society  at home, to relieve them from every distressing anxiety as to their successors,  and to afford every aid in the prosecution of their important and extending  work.
this was not only the signal for war, but the commencement of  hostilities.
i entered from the west; and  the perspective of a vista, extending– 379 – upwards of seven hundred  feet, partially illuminated by the bright glow of strong noon-day light  entering through the windows, which were opened at distant intervals, along the  lengthened line of pillars that support the rafters—the clean rustic  appearance of the grass-spread floor—the uniformity of the simple and rude  forms extending throughout the whole building—the pulpits raised above  them—heightened the effect of their perspective.
these were scenes witnessed immediately after the general adoption of european clothing.
he  was present, surrounded by not fewer than seven thousand of his subjects, when  it was for the first time appropriated to the sacred purpose for which it had  been built, and his feelings on that occasion were, no doubt, of a superior and  delightful kind—very different from those of his predecessors in the  government of tahiti, and especially of his father, who, when the missionaries  built their little chapel at matavai, for which he had furnished the timber,  sent a large fish, requesting it might be suspended in the temple of the god of  britain, that he might share his favour, and secure his aid, as well as that of  the gods of tahiti.
she was accompanied by her sister, pomare-vahine.
the king, who was on board the ship at the time, hastened on shore, and was only restrained from commencing an immediate attack by the counsel of his 80 uncle, who urged the necessity of invoking the favour of the gods before commencing hostilities.
the climate  was favourable to their growth, and they appeared to thrive well.
under  these circumstances, it required no small degree of forbearance and  self-possession, as well as patient toil, to persevere in preaching the gospel  among a people whose spirit and conduct afforded so little encouragement to  hope it would ver be by them received.
a number of interesting and important inquiries is naturally suggested by this amazing change; and we are anxious to be made acquainted with every fact, in the application of those means which induced its commencement, and sustained its progress.
in the close of 1814, pomare-vahine, the daughter of the king of  raiatea, and the sister of pomare's queen, paid a visit to eimeo, from the  leeward islands, and in the month of may, 1815, made a voyage to tahiti, in  company with her sister the queen, and a numerous train of companions and  attendants, most of whom professed to be christians.
naturally quick in his perceptions, and lively in his conversation, although the structure and idiom of his own language effectually prevented his speaking english with ease or fluency, he was soon able to make himself understood; and the embarrassment he occasionally felt, in giving utterance to his thoughts, perhaps added to the interest of those who were watching the effect which every object in a world so new to him must naturally occasion.
“then,” said the king, “think about it, and perhaps we  can have a combination, or society, for this purpose.”
the roaring of the tempest, and the hollow sounds that murmured on the ear, as the heavy billow rolled in foam, or broke in contact with opposing billows, seemed as if deep called unto deep; and the noise of waterspouts might almost be heard, while we were momentarily expecting that the mighty waves would sweep over us.
but, as forster, who accompanied him on his return, laments, no friendly mentor ever attempted to cherish and gratify this wish, much less to improve his moral character, to teach him our exalted ideas of virtue, and the sublime principles of revealed religion.
it is cultivated by its  proprietors, who, there is reason to hope, are decided christians.
the church was well attended, though not so full as on sundays, when it is crowded.
these momentous objects absorbed all the powers of the mind, and produced an intensity of feeling, which for a long time rendered me almost insensible to the storm, or the liquid columns which threatened our destruction.
idol-worship, with all its attendant cruelty and  moral degradation, was discontinued.
i one day visited this garden, a few weeks  after it had been enclosed and stocked with the most valuable indigenous plants  of the islands.
save  thou us through jesus christ, thy son, the prince of life; yea, let us obtain  salvation through him.
it may, perhaps, be thought that i am trespassing the bounds of propriety in giving these particulars to the public; but, in this instance, and there are others that might also be adduced, i feel it due, not more to the individual than to the cause in which he is embarked; to the friends by whom 297 it is supported; and even to those who, in consequence of mistaken views, and misrepresentation, may sometimes be induced to suppose mercenary motives influence those who engage in missionary undertakings.
while the enclosure of plantations and gardens, the erection of neat  and commodious dwellings, schools, and the spacious place of worship, after the  european plan, were rapidly altering the aspect of the settlement, the natives  themselves were undergoing a change of appearance in perfect harmony with this  transformation.
these self-denying individuals have been so destitute of a change of apparel, that they could not, 192 without some sacrifice of feeling, meet any of their own countrymen by whom the island might be visited; and, often rising in the morning from the rustic bed, without knowing whence the supplies of even native food for the day were to be derived, they have sent out a native servant-boy to seek for bread-fruit in the mountains, or to solicit a supply from the trees of some friendly chief in the neighbourhood, while they have repaired to the school, and pursued their daily instruction, cheered and encouraged only by the progress of their scholars.
a few of the chief women were furnished with an english riband, which was considered as valuable as an 403 embroidery of gold would be in some circles of society.
cut off also from the  endearments of home, the pleasures of society in civilized life, the  satisfaction derived from books, and the reciprocal interchange of all the  offices of friendship, the only earthly solace a missionary enjoys among an  uncivilized people, except what he derives from his work, is found in the  social endearments of the domestic circle.
at other times they threatened mr. armitage with ruin, and  announced their determination to oppose him.
they were  generally large, and, when attached to a light thin door, looked remarkably  clumsy: but they were made with great industry and care, and the joints very  neatly fitted.
my intimate acquaintance with all  that had been printed, afforded me great facility in prosecuting the study of  tahitian.
in some  instances, the natives appeared to listen with attention and interest to their  message, but they frequently found great difficulty in inducing them to attend,  and often observed with pain, that their instructions were received with  indifference or with ridicule.
in this  proceeding they were influenced by a desire that their domestics, and every  member of their families, might have an opportunity of attending public worship.
though of no very durable kind, it appeared well adapted for  the purpose to which it was appropriated.
though the shore is generally a gradual and waving ascent from the water's edge to the mountain, it is frequently rocky and broken.
what the state of morals must necessarily have been among such a community, it is unnecessary to shew; yet such were the modes of life that prevailed among many, even after they had renounced idolatry.
the structure of many sentences was also 236 acquired by the same means; and, in much less than twelve months, i could converse familiarly on any common subject.
they were  instantly launched; and, hurrying– 140 – away what few things they  could take, they embarked soon after sunset, and reached eimeo in safety on the  following morning, grateful for the happy and surprising deliverance they had  experienced.
among those whose regards for the people were awakened, the late excellent.
this circumstance, together with the length of time and the constant attention that a cotton plantation required, before any return could be received, greatly discouraged them, and prevented their continuing its culture.
the king cut up the turtle, and began to eat it, inviting some that sat at meat with him to do the same; but no one could be induced to touch it, as they expected every moment to see him either expire, or writhe in strong convulsions.
it was entitled, te evanelia na luka, iritihia ei parau tahiti, literally, the gospel of luke, taken out to be, or transferred to, the language of tahiti;e-parau hae-rehia te parau maitai o te hau nei e
numerous addresses on the subject of christian practiceseveral editions of the native hymn-bookthe reports of their different societies and, lastly, they have commenced a periodical publication called the repository.
the scene was one of diversified beauty, and the only sounds were  those occasioned by the rustling among the sugar-canes, or the luxuriant and  broad-leaved plantains, while the passing breezes swept gently through them.
i cannot, if i would, give up the idea of being a missionary, while i reflect upon this vast number of my fellow-sinners, who are perishing for lack of knowledge.
within the limits of the grant made to captain cook for his friend mai, some of the missionaries, who in 1809 took shelter in huahine, after their expulsion from tahiti in 1808, erected their temporary habitations.
the meeting at raiatea in the year  1824 was deeply affecting.
a man came to the monday evening meeting on one occasion, and said his mind was troubled, as he feared he had done wrong.
flushed with success, in the moment of victory, the king's warriors were, according to former usage, preparing to pursue the flying enemy.
she was accompanied  by her sister, pomare-vahine.
but the most rude and  simple expedient i ever beheld was at raivavai, or high island, where every  implement of iron was as precious and as scarce as bells or clocks were at the  other stations.
he also added to their number thirty-nine others, whose names, at their own desire, were recorded as the professed worshippers of the true god.
the people readily erected the frame of our house and the printing-office, which was put up much in the same manner as that had been which we occupied in eimeo; but, as it was intended for a more permanent abode, it was finished with greater care.
the whole  congregation now stood, and many of them joined in the singing.
the desire now became general, and was not confined to those who possessed other articles of foreign dress, it being extended even to such as had none.
the morning service commences with singing, during  which the congregations stand; a portion of scripture is then read, and prayer  offered, the congregation kneeling or standing.
the carpenters of the vessels erected for him a house in the european style, and, on the 26th of october, the presents with which he had been so liberally supplied, were landed, and he took possession of his dwelling.
cession of matavai to face the vignette title.
puru and his adherents had not been much with the missionaries.
the origin of moral evil was sometimes introduced.
while the ship remained at tahiti, mr. w.  wilson made the tour of the island; the iron, tools, and other supplies for the  mission, were landed: the missionaries, and their friends on board, having  spent a month in agreeable intercourse, now affectionately bade each other  farewell.
as he drew to the close of his address, he intimated his  wish that those who approved of the proposal he had made, should lift up their  right hands.
he is a valuable and steady friend, and an assistant, in 115 whom the missionaries can repose confidence.
their own improvement, and the preparation for instructing the people, was prosecuted contemporaneously with their efforts to teach the people; and the numerous and respectable philological and other manuscripts which these have transmitted to england, although never published, shew that they were far from being unqualified for their work.
the breeze was fresh, and as the object of alarm was still at some distance, it was possible we might avoid coming in contact with it.
numbers in tahiti and eimeo were emboldened, by his  example—not only in burning their idols, but demolishing theirmaraes or temples; their altars were also stripped and overthrown, and the wood  employed in their construction converted into fuel, and used in the native  kitchens.
the missionaries, and many of the parents of  the children, were present—delighted to witness the cheerfulness of the  boys and the girls, as they sat together, and unitedly partook of the bounties  of providence.
it was a period of humiliation, darkness, and distress; while the  population of tahiti itself was torn by factions, and desolated by wars, that  threatened its extinction.
what an astonishing and happy change must have taken place in the views, feelings, and pursuits of the inhabitants of tahiti, in the course of a few weeks, from the battle of narii, or bunaauïa!
they were often without tea and sugar, had no other animal food than that which they procured in common with the natives, and but seldom obtained flour.
many, no doubt, embarked in the enterprise, as subsequent  events fully proved, with incorrect ideas of the work, or mistaken views of the  qualifications necessary for its accomplishment.
it is recorded, in the history of the  greenland missions, that the moravian brethren, for five or seven years,  laboured patiently and diligently in teaching their hearers what are termed the  first principles of religion—inculcating the doctrines of the being and  attributes of god, and the requirements of his law—without making the  least favourable impression upon them, or being, in many instances, able to  secure the attention of the people to their instructions.
badly  made, or carelessly used, and were frequently broken a few days after their  arrival.
in the  arrangement, however, of the different articles of a complete dress, they were  at first equally unhappy, and not unfrequently presented an appearance which it  was impossible to behold with gravity.
when the whole of the  missionaries reached huahine, it was proposed in the first instance to form  only one station in the leeward islands; and that those of us who had but  recently arrived from england, should unitedly prosecute the study of the  language, with such assistance as messrs. davies and nott could render us,  until we should be able to perform divine service among the people, and conduct  the affairs of a distinct station.
but, although we had no lock, and for a long time no bolt on our door, (which,  when fastened, a native could at any time have opened, by putting his hand  through the sticks and pushing back the bolt, and though sometimes the door was  left open all night,)—yet we do not know that one single article was  stolen from us by the natives, during the eighteen months we resided among them.
bishop with his men left the island.
many of the female  voices are clear and soft, without being weak; and they usually perform parts  appropriated to the female voice better than the men do theirs.
he assured us of his intention to board the floor, and partition off their  bed-room; but said, he thought they might as well live in it while he was doing  this, and therefore had occupied it as soon as the walls were dry.
the former was a carpenter, acquainted with the construction of machinery and wood-work in general; a department of labour highly advantageous to a rude, or but partially civilized people, and at this time in great estimation among the tahitians.
the devout attention these poor  people paid to what was going forward, and the earnestness with which they  listened to their teacher, would shame an english congregation.
peace continuing in the island during the close of 1806, and the beginning of 1807, allowed the teachers to pursue uninterruptedly their endeavours to plant christianity among the inhabitants, although at that time with little prospect of success.
we have done every thing in our power, by treachery,  stratagem, and open force, to destroy him and his adherents; and yet, when the  power was placed in his hand, victory on his side, we at his mercy, and his  feet upon our necks, he has not only spared our lives, and the lives of our  families, but has respected our houses and our property!”
the  assembly maintained the most perfect silence, until mr. davies, who officiated  on the occasion, and was seated behind the table, which answered the double  purpose of a desk for the schoolmaster,– 208 – and a pulpit for the  minister, rose, and gave out a hymn in the native language.
xiv from page 330 to page 362.
but since the arrival of the royal admiral, in july, 1801, although the directors had repeatedly sent out articles to port jackson for tahiti, yet the missionaries had received neither supplies nor letters from england.
it has also been stated, that in his reception and treatment of the refugees, he was not acting more from the dictates of his own generosity, than from the suggestions of the chief heathen prophet of the nation, who had engaged, provided his advice was followed, to restore to him the dominion in tahiti.
the study of the  language, which, under the guidance and assistance of mr. nott, had been  regularly pursued one or two evenings every week, was resumed.
in the visit of mai, the experiment, in reference to the effect of  refinement, civilization, and philosophy, upon the ignorant and uncivilized,  was tried under circumstances the most favourable for producing sympathy in one  party, and impression on the other:—the result was affecting.
yet the disappointment which the natives had experienced prevented their cultivating the cotton; and but little was available for the establishment, excepting that subscribed by the members of the native missionary societies: the people declined coming to learn, and prospects were most unpromising.
speaking of the departure of the spanish missionaries, and the prospect of any future european establishment in the islands, he observes, it is very unlikely that any measure of this kind should ever be seriously thought of, as it can neither serve the purpose of public ambition, nor private avarice; and without such inducements, i may pronounce that it will never be undertaken.28the natives were delighted to behold foreigners coming to take up their permanent residence among them; as those they had heretofore seen had been transient visitors, with the exception of the spanish missionaries and their attendants, and a spaniard, who had saved his life by escaping from langara's ship, while it was lying at anchor off vaiarua, in taiarabu, in march, 1773; at which time three of his shipmates were executed.
on being asked what he thought of it, he said it was very  surprising; but that he had supposed, notwithstanding all the descriptions  which had been given of its operation, that the paper was laid down, and the  letters by some means pressed upon it, instead of the paper being pressed upon  the types.
to reclaim the inhabitants from superstition, to impart to them the truths of revelation, and to improve their present condition, were the objects that had brought them to tahiti.
it was a rough flat oval-shaped stone, about three feet long, and twelve or eighteen inches wide.
hope and fear alternately pervaded the minds of the missionaries and their pupils, with regard to the burning of the idols, and the consequent tumult, devastation, and bloodshed that might follow.
when they first entered with their bonnets on, much surprise was  not excited; but when these were removed, and the cap appeared, they viewed  each other for some time most significantly, without,– 393 – however,
these lie to the eastward of tahiti, and form what is denominated the dangerous archipelago.
this not only required a considerable addition of  personal labour, but a variety of articles that could not be supplied on the  islands, and must be obtained through the medium of commerce with port jackson  and england; and they could only procure these articles, in a degree equal to  that in which they multiplied the productions of the soil, so as to be able to  exchange them for the manufactured goods of civilized countries.
mr. nott came  over to afareaitu for the purpose of completing the plan.
messrs. williams and threlkeld had availed  themselves of the visit of the active, in the month of september, to remove  with their families to raiatea, and form a new station in that large and  important island.
it has been asked, at meetings where i have been present, would satan have tempted eve, or would man have fallen, if god had not forbidden our first parents to eat of the fruit of the tree of knowledge?
the cessation of hostilities  afforded the missionaries a respite from anxious watching, and allowed them to  pursue their former avocations.
their parents attend, and witness the procedure with great satisfaction.
the  advanced ranks– 150 – of these united bands met, and arrested the  progress of the hitherto victorious idolaters.
it is verdant to its summit, which is of a beautiful conic shape, supported by a perpendicular 274 rock.
there is something peculiarly pleasing in watching the process which  periodically changes the face of the natural world.
although we were  pleased with the effect produced on the minds of the natives, and a thousand  delightful associations revived in our bosoms the first time we mingled with a  crowded evening congregation, we did not recommend our people to follow the  example their ingenious neighbours had– 363 – set them.
to maintain the christian faith, and enjoy a  continuance of their present peace and comfort, they foresaw would be  impossible.
the water within the reefs is as smooth  as the surface of a lake in a pleasure-ground, though often from eighteen to  thirty fathoms deep.
the derangement of the machinery suspending the work of the spinners, some of them requested to take the cotton home, to prepare and spin at their own houses.
no native chapel is yet furnished with a public  clock; and although it would be a valuable article, there is not such a thing  in the south sea islands.
once a week, the people of maatea, a neighbouring district, brought our family a present of bread-fruit, and other articles of food; the inhabitants of afareaitu, and the district of teavaro, took a similar one to our companions.
at eleven o'clock i attended public worship in the english language.
the king, and many of the chiefs of tahiti and eimeo, appeared to lament the removal of the press; but as mr. bourne, who was acquainted with the art of printing, had a small press and types, and others had been requested from england, it was the less to be regretted.
several large plantations were well  stocked with the different productions of the island; but a large portion of  the valleys adjacent to the settlement, were uncultivated, and covered with  grass or brush-wood, growing with all the rank luxuriance that a humid  atmosphere, a tropical sun, and a fertile soil, would combine to produce.
in most of the places they were hospitably  entertained, though, on one occasion, the chief refused them lodging, because a  former missionary had not rewarded him for his accommodations.
although much recurred to memory that demanded deep regret and most sincere repentance, yet i could 309 look back upon that mercy that had first brought me to a knowledge of the saviour, with a gratitude never perhaps exceeded.
an  excellent discourse was afterwards delivered by mr. scott, to which they  listened with mingled feelings of wonder and delight.
his age and bodily infirmities were such as to prevent his learning to read, yet he constantly attended the school, and, from listening to others, was able to repeat with correctness large portions of the scriptures, which were regularly read by the pupils.
their teaching would, in that case, have been more defective than i am willing to suppose it was.
i  beheld, with no common interest, a number of fine, healthy, and  sprightly-looking children on that occasion assembled together, and saw a  little boy, seven or eight years of age, with a little fringed mat wound round  his waist, and a light scarf thrown over the shoulder, stand upon a form, and  repeat aloud two or three chapters of one of– 326 – the gospels,  answer a variety of questions, and pass through the whole of his examination  with scarcely a single mistake.
her natural disposition was amiable, her piety unaffected, and her love for the poor heathens unfeigned.
a portion of the scriptures, in the native  language, is then read; and the thanksgivings and petitions of the assembly are  offered to almighty god, with a degree of fervour, appropriate use of scripture  language, and chastened devotional feeling, that is astonishing, when it is  considered that, but a few years before, they were ignorant and barbarous  idolaters.
to the favour of the gods he considered himself indebted for the aggrandisement of his person and family; and if the missionaries would have allowed the claims of oro or tane to have received an equal degree of attention to that which they required for jehovah, or jesus christ, pomare would readily have admitted them; but when required to renounce his dependence upon the idols of his ancestors, and to acknowledge jehovah alone as the true god, he at once rejected their message.
places now  used for worship in the islands, although not so numerous as formerly, are much  more convenient and substantial.
in huahine a large  class attended every afternoon from two o'clock till five, alternately at our  respective houses, where mrs. barff and mrs. ellis met, and spent the afternoon  pleasantly in each other's society, and unitedly teaching the females by whom  they were surrounded.
threlkeld, in the spring of 1820.
an instance of this occurred  early in the following year, 1803, when the unicorn, a london ship, arrived, on  her return from the north-west coast of america.
when  interrogated as to their reasons for this sudden change in their conduct, it  was found that they had not indeed struck for higher wages, but had left off to  think about it, and that, until their minds were made up, they could not  return.
as she glided  smoothly along towards the water, pomare, who had stationed himself by the  sea-side for the purpose, gave the vessel her name, by throwing a bottle of  wine at her, and exclaiming,
there were, however, other points of inquiry, peculiarly affecting to themselves.
we were in an  excellent harbour, upon whose shores industry and comfort were plainly  perceptible; for, in every direction, white cottages, precisely english, were  seen peeping from amongst the rich foliage, which every where clothes the  lowland in these islands.
haamanemane had formerly requested  their aid in a descent he intended– 22 – to make upon raiatea, for  the recovery of his authority there; but this they had firmly declined.
he was present, surrounded by not fewer than seven thousand of his subjects, when it was for the first time appropriated to the sacred purpose for which it had been built, and his feelings on that occasion were, no doubt, of a superior and delightful kindvery different from those of his predecessors in the government of tahiti, and especially of his father, who, when the missionaries built their little chapel at matavai, for which he had furnished the timber, sent a large fish, requesting it might be suspended in the temple of the god of britain, that he might share his favour, and secure his aid, as well as that of the gods of tahiti.
the missionaries,  however, have not, in any degree, introduced the love of finery; they found it  there, and cannot be supposed to have produced any change for the worse, in the  taste of a people, by whom a black coat fringed round the edge with red  feathers was considered a suitable dress even for a high-priest.
the ornament on the  rafter terminated in a graceful fringe or bunch of tassels.
we have, however,  sometimes attended, and always with satisfaction.
i have often heard with pleasure, as i have passed the sabbath-schools rather earlier perhaps than usual, the praises of the saviour sung by between three and four hundred juvenile voices, who were thus concluding their morning exercise.
the blood of the martyrs has ever been the seed of the church; and, from an exhibition of principles so unequivocal in their nature, and so happy in their effects, it is not too much to presume that it proved so on the present occasion.
in every place they were welcomed and  entertained with hospitality.
he put together the small letters in the same manner; and the few  monosyllables, composing the first page of the small spelling-book, were  afterwards added.
their increased acquaintance with the people had awakened  their deepest commiseration, when they beheld them, not only wholly given to  idolatry, and mad after their idols, but sunk to the lowest state of moral  degradation and consequent wretchedness.
at the openings of several of the little glens which surround it, the cottages of the natives are seen through the luxuriant foliage of thepandanus, or the purau; while the cultivated plantations in various parts extend from the margin of the sea to the foot of the mountains.
he was an early convert to christianity; his deportment was uniformly upright; his character respected by all who knew him; and for several years before his death, he was a member of the christian church at burder's point.
for a number of sabbaths after our arrival, but few of the inhabitants  assembled for public worship, and the schools were very thinly attended.
this district had formerly been distinguished for the turbulent and warlike dispositions of its inhabitants, and the ardour of their zeal in the service of their idolsthe magnitude of the idol templesthe sanguinary character of their worshipand the presence of oro, the war-god of the south sea islanders.
sometimes they said, we will hear our own gods; at other times they scoffingly asked the missionaries, if the people of matavai had attended to their word; if the king, or any of his family, had cast away oro; declaring, that when the king and chiefs heard the word of jehovah, then they would also.
i te bure anae; vanquished !
the worship of oro, in themarae here, appears to have been of the most sanguinary kind; human immolation was frequent, and, in addition to the bones and other relics of the former sacrifices, now scattered among the ruins of the temple, there is still a large enclosure, the walls of which are formed entirely of human skulls.
next to this, ribands of native cloth, dyed  with showy colours, were employed; while others used a string of the bark from  a branch of thepurau, with the outer rind scraped off, the inner bark  washed and bleached, passed round the bonnet, and tied under the chin.
peace at that  period every where prevailed, but it was of short duration.
soon after the return of messrs scott and hayward from tahiti, indications of  the same convictions and inquiry were occasionally manifested in eimeo; and on  the 25th of july, 1813, which was the sabbath, the first place for public  worship erected in the island of eimeo was opened.
some sold what they had collected, others were so disappointed, that they seemed hardly to care what became of it.
towards the evening of the day, the children walked two and two, hand in hand, from one end of the settlement to the other, preceded by the flag belonging to the schools.
on reaching atehuru, they found the  rebels had taken refuge in their pare or natural fortress, about four miles and  a half from the beach.
numbers of the vanquished fled to eimeo, where  they were received by the king, or protected by the chiefs, who had taken no  part whatever in the wars that were now desolating tahiti, and who determined  to observe the strictest neutrality; or, if they acted at all, to do so only on  the defensive, should invasion be attempted.
we were, however, sufficiently encouraged to  recommend the people, notwithstanding their disappointment in regard to the  cotton, to direct their attention to the culture of sugar, since they had no  longer any cause to doubt the practicability of procuring, from their  respective plantations, sugar for their own use, or for barter with shipping.
several of the natives now came forward, and expressed  their pity for the missionaries, gave them a few strips of cloth, and, at their  request, – 26 – conducted them to pomare and idia, whose tent was at  some distance.
and having seen our state, our palaces, our ladies, and our pomp of equipage, our gardens, and our sports, and heard our music; and thy simple friends, thy simple fare, and all thy plain delights, as dear to thee as once?
the circumstances of his  death were truly affecting, and the feelings of the missionaries such as it  would be in vain to attempt to describe.
they had stocked it  with cocoa-nuts, oranges, limes, and citrons, of which, not fewer than six  hundred plants, with other productions, were growing remarkably well.
as it appeared improbable that the place could be attacked with advantage to the assailants, and equally improbable that its occupants would accept any terms of capitulation that the king would offer, captain bishop returned to matavai, and on the day following pomare sailed about twelve miles towards pare.
i never heard them complain of the heat; and the cause of their apparent insensibility to its oppressive influence is probably to be found in their being early exposed, and constantly habituated, to the climate.
so many teachers, so many books, the whole of the bible in their language, and no idolatry, they must have little else to do but to praise god.
he  relinquished missionary pursuits, and sailed for port jackson on the ninth of  march.
he had for this purpose visited afareaitu, and, on  his return to the other side of the island, requested that he might be sent for  whenever we should begin.
they justly inferred, that, unless habits of  industry were introduced, and civilization promoted, the people, if they did  not absolutely return to all the absurdities, superstition, and cruelty of  paganism, would develop but partially the genius and spirit of christianity,  and exercise very imperfectly its practical virtues.
i have frequently seen thirty or forty canoes from distant parts of eimeo, or from some other island, lying along the beach; in each of which, five or six persons had arrived, whose only errand was to procure copies of the scriptures.
the regularly framed and plastered chapels in huahine and raiatea were the first of the kind in the leeward or windward islands; they were not, however, the only large buildings erected for public worship.
were the resources of those societies formed for the universal diffusion of  education, and the means of the british and foreign bible society such as to  enable them to undertake entirely the instruction of the heathen, and the  translation and circulation of the scriptures, it would greatly facilitate the  extension of christianity.
may my sins be pardoned, 98 and my soul saved, through jesus christ!
“at the time appointed, he called on brother marshman, at brother  carey's house, and, after a little conversation on the state of his soul, he  added, ‘you now behold an apostate missionary.
we were robbed by an english servant, whom we had taken from port jackson, of linen and clothing; but, although we had no lock, and for a long time no bolt on our door, (which, when fastened, a native could at any time have opened, by putting his hand through the sticks and pushing back the bolt, and though sometimes the door was left open all night,)yet we do not know that one single article was stolen from us by the natives, during the eighteen months we resided among them.
they were designed to stimulate the men who were  drawing the canoes into the water.
flour is, consequently, now only to be obtained from vessels visiting the islands.
the circumstances which follow relative to the penitence of this unhappy man, are taken from the circular letters published by the baptist missionary society.
every face was directed to the preacher, and each countenance strongly marked  with sincerity and pleasure.
it was supposed by the people, that his illness and death 65 were occasioned by the incantations of metia, a priest of oro, a famous wrestler and sorcerer, whose influence, ceremonies, and prayers, had induced the evil spirits to enter into the young prince, and destroy him.
one end of the building was used by the inhabitants for divine service every sabbath; the other parts are only occupied at the annual meetings of the tahitian missionary society, or on similar occasions, when large national assemblies are convened.
it has been, however, discontinued.
he did not pretend to know much, but he knew that he was a sinner, and that jesus christ came into the world to save sinners, and this knowledge removed from his mind the fear of death.
we have always been accustomed to have our usual beverage prepared in the morning and afternoon; but this is the only purpose for which, in ordinary seasons, a fire has ever been lighted for any of the missionary families; and when destitute of these articles, which in the earlier periods of the mission was often the case, no fire was lighted on the sabbath; their food was invariably dressed on the preceding day, and the warmth of the climate prevented their requiring fire for any other purpose.
distillation of ardent spirits—description of a native  still—materials employed in distillation—murderous effects – v –of intoxication—seizure of the queen  charlotte—murder of the officers—escape of mr. shelly—seizure of  the daphne—massacre of the captain and part of the crew—public  triumph over idolatry in eimeo—visit of the queen and her sister to  tahiti—emblems of the gods committed to the flames—account of  farefau—projected assassination of the bure atua—manner of their  escape—war in tahiti—pomare's tour of eimeo.
the priest, or friends, may wish to see  me, but it is under very different circumstances from what your message would  imply: i know a ceremony approaches, that a human victim is then to be  offered—something within tells me i am to be that victim, and your  appearance and your message confirms my conviction.
in regard to the time of its occurrence.
these instances are, i believe, very rare, and absolute necessity  alone can warrant recourse to such a plan.
when returning from the sandwich islands on board the  ship russell, in 1825, we experienced a happy deliverance from one of these  wonderful and alarming objects.
on the 2nd of december, in the same year, mui, one of the early scholars, and one whose name had been written among the first that professed christianity, departed to the world of spirits, under the consolation that pure religion imparts in the hour of death.
in addition to the printed specimens,  they had a small vocabulary, compiled by one of the officers of the mutineers  in the bounty, who had resided some months in tahiti, prior to the arrival of  the pandora; when he was arrested, and brought a prisoner to england, where he  was executed at portsmouth.
the regularly framed and plastered chapels in huahine and raiatea  were the first of the kind in the leeward or windward islands; they were not,  however, the only large buildings erected for public worship.
pomare was left a widower and childless,  all the children of the late queen having been destroyed.
the accounts given by the missionaries, on my first arrival, and the many interesting facts which subsequently came to my knowledge, when i had 176 acquired such an acquaintance with the language of the people, as to be able to pursue my inquiries among them, have made an impression on my own mind that will never be effaced, and not only excited the highest delight, but convinced me, that, in the circumstances under which the change occurred, the agency by which it was accomplished, and the continuance of its effects, it is altogether one of the most remarkable displays of divine power that has occurred in the history of mankind, and is, perhaps, unparalleled since the days of the apostles.
on the northern side of the valley, and near the foot of matoereere, we  proposed to erect our dwelling and the printing-house.
although the light hats, made with a fine sort of grass, or the bark  of a tree, are, in our estimation, remarkably well adapted to the climate, most  of the men, making any pretensions to respectability, strive to possess an  english hat.
when, however, they saw one of the seamen, who had landed with the captain from the ship, take hold of the halter that was on his neck, they returned, to gratify their curiosity.
in  some places, the persecutions were so inveterate as to produce remonstrances,  even from several of the inferior chiefs, who were themselves idolaters.
at this critical period, his majesty's ship porpoise arrived in  matavai bay.
he– 78 – maintained an  arduous post among the pioneers of the little army of christian missionaries,  who, “unarmed with bow and sword,” had ventured to attack idolatry in  its strongest holds among these distant islands; and, “high on the pagan hills, where satan sat encamped, and o'er the  subject kingdoms threw perpetual night, to plant immanuel's cross, the ensign of the gospel, blazing round immortal truth.”
we hope they  will follow the plastered cottage, just as that now occupies the place of the  native hut.
i  have often heard the young man's mother-in-law, and other members of the  household, speak of this discourse as having deeply impressed their minds.
then with what augmented joy must that honoured and distinguished saint,39 in strict obedience to whose last bequest and dying charge the south sea mission was attempted, with those holy and devoted men who first matured, and subsequently aided so nobly, the plan of sending the 161 gospel to tahiti, have viewed the pleasing change.
some openly avowed  their attachment to the new order of things, maintaining, in the midst of the  heathen around them, daily worship in their families, and morning and evening  devotion in private; others, for fear of giving offence to their chiefs or  neighbours, maintained secretly their profession, and at the hour of midnight  met together, as the persecuted christians in england have often formerly done,  in the depths of the woods, or the retired glens of the valleys, for conference  or social prayer.
the representations in the preceding page will convey some idea of the shape and appearance of the former kind.
the spot where mai's house stood is still called beritani, or britain, by the inhabitants of huahine.
it is seven hundred and twelve feet in length, and fifty-four wide.
the danger now appeared more imminent, and a watery grave every moment more probable; yet there was leisure afforded for reflection, and the sensibilities and powers of the mind were roused to an unusual state of excitement by the conflicting elements on every side.
– 5 – on the 7th of march, 1797, the missionaries went on shore, and were met on  the beach by the late pomare and his queen, then called otoo and tetua; by them  they were kindly welcomed, as well as by paitia, an aged chief of the district.
but we look forward, with pleasing anticipation, to the time  when the natives themselves– 237 – shall become writers.
the evils necessarily resulting from these habits were too palpable to  allow us to delay attempting an alteration.
in some, we imagined we could trace the spiral motion of the water as it was drawn to the clouds, which were every moment augmenting their portentous darkness.
pomare, king of tahiti, &c. &c. tahiti motu ta, feb. 19, 1816.
on the 23d of november, the missionaries heard that he had died on the preceding evening.
on  one occasion, mr. nott, returning from a visit to the king, was resting in a  – 83 – native house, when a party of the rebels approached the spot;  his native companion, one of pomare's warriors, observing them, touched him on  the shoulder, and urged him to fly to the canoe lying on the beach: he and his  fellow-traveller had scarcely pushed off from the shore, when the men came up,  and, finding they had escaped, invited them to land, or requested the native to  allow the foreigner to walk.
the impression which the intelligence of these events produced upon their minds, was that of mingled admiration, gratitude, and hope, to a degree that may be better imagined than expressed.
it appeared to have remained in the state in which we saw it for some months past.
the chiefs of  the district, and island, soon visited us, received a few articles as presents,  and appeared highly gratified with what they saw, especially with some  engravings of natural history.
on the left-hand, about two hundred girls were arranged in the same manner.
the large fragments or blocks of coral, sometimes three or four feet in diameter, are conveyed on rafts to the shore, where they are broken into small pieces.
she was told that the labour  of teaching had been gratuitous, and the advantage resulting was all her own;  and appeared satisfied when assured, that now she had learned, she should be  regularly paid for the needlework she might do.
he instantly rose to the surface; and, snorting, as if glad, even under these circumstances, to gain his freedom, swam towards the shore; but the natives no sooner saw him at liberty, than they plunged into the water, and followed like a shoal of sharks or porpoises after him.
mr. nott read again the verse, “god so loved,” &c. when the  native rose from his seat, – 188 – and said, is that true?
after this  period, it was only shewn by those who were actuated by a desire to obtain the  favour of their superiors.
he exchanged inviting  prospects of wealth, comfort, and usefulness at home, for the toil and  self-denial inseparable from such an attempt.
sometimes, in a deserted still-house might be seen the fragments of the rude boiler, and the other appendages of the still, scattered in confusion on the ground; and among them the dead and mangled bodies of those who had been murdered with axes or billets of wood in the quarrels that had terminated their debauch.
mr. and mrs. bicknell, the first who arrived, resided  some time in the same house with him.
the captain  lowered down the boat; the king shouting, directed the natives to leave the  horse to himself; but– 199 – his voice was lost amid the din and  clamour of the crowds that accompanied the exhausted and frightened animal to  the land.
altogether, the  building was finished in a manner highly creditable to their public spirit,  skill, and industry.
yet the disappointment which the natives had experienced  prevented their cultivating the cotton; and but little was available for the  establishment, excepting that subscribed by the members of the native  missionary societies: the people declined coming to learn, and prospects were  most unpromising.
three weeks afterwards, he intimated to his companions his intention of uniting in marriage with a native of the island, solemnly purposing to abide faithful towards her until death.
the  letters of each word constitute the word, so that a person pronouncing the  letters used in spelling a word, would, in fact, pronounce the word itself.
i naturally inferred that the house was appropriated to purposes of secret  devotion; and meeting– 373 – its proprietor, i asked its use.
the principal and largest is to the left, viewing them from seaward; in this, and extending up the valley, the village is situated.
these habits, so perfectly congenial to their 278 uncultivated minds, to the fugitive manner of life, mirthful disposition, and rude state of society that prevailed among the islanders, appeared one of the most formidable barriers to their receiving our instructions, imbibing the spirit and exhibiting the moral influence of religion, and advancing in civilization.
to them it was peculiarly so; for we may naturally suppose, the recollection of the individuals whom many of them had perhaps poisoned, murdered without provocation, slain in battle, or killed for sacrifice, would on these occasions forcibly recur to their minds; and at these times, many a parent's heart must have been rent with anguish, to us inconceivable, at the remembrance of those children in whose blood their hands had been imbrued.
detached notices of this event have been transmitted to  england in the letters of the missionaries, and in the different publications  of the missionary society.
they were astonished at  themselves, and were a wonder to all who beheld them.
here they were hospitably received  by the chiefs and people.
their ideas and ours were totally at variance on  this point; and, from the very nature of the subject, it was impossible to  demonstrate the accuracy of one or the other.
he was one of those missionaries that arrived in the ship duff; he  had borne “the heat and burden of the day,” and finished his course  on the 25th of september, 1807.
proud of their triumph, insolent  in crime, and impatient of control, the atehuruans and natives of papara  quarrelled with the taiarabuans, who had joined them in destroying the porionu.
one of the king's  orators, a short, plump, round-faced man, about fifty years of age, was perched  upon a projecting rock by the sea-side, vociferating one of their ude, or  songs, on the launching of their own large canoes, suiting the action to the  word, and using at times the most violent gesticulations, as if he imagined his  own muscular powers alone were– 241 – to move the vessel.
the spaces between the posts, excepting those for doors or windows, were filled with a kind of hurdle-work, or wattling of small rods or sticks, of the toughcasuarina.
the heat of the sun, and the oppressiveness of  the atmosphere, with the labour of rowing with their paddles our heavily laden  canoes every inch of the way, had so fatigued our men, that when we reached  a-ti-ma-ha, fifteen miles from the place whence we started in the morning, we  deemed in expedient to land for the night.
in the front of the line, auna, upaparu, hitote, and others equally distinguished for their steady adherence to the system they had adopted, took their station on this occasion, and shewed their readiness to lay down their lives rather than relinquish the christian faith, and the privileges it conferred.
on one of these occasions, mr. nott was reading the first portions of the gospel of st. john to a number of the natives.
many soon learned to sew the sheets together, others cut pieces of wood  very thin, instead of pasteboard, which were fastened to the sides; the edges  of the leaves were then cut with a knife; and the book used in this state  daily, while the owner was searching for a skin or a piece of leather, with  which to cover it for more effectual preservation.
the missionaries and their friends also attended.
the inhabitants of the islands knew that many of the supplies which the families from time to time received, were sent by their friends in england, and procured by the voluntary contributions of those there, who had first sent, and subsequently maintained, the mission; and it was thought that it would be better that their contributions towards the support of christianity, should be combined with those of the contributors to the missionary society; that the supplies for the teachers might still be drawn from this source, while at the same time the natives would be contributing towards the support of their own instructors, and yet identifying themselves with british christians in their efforts to propagate christianity throughout the world.
we enjoyed a most delightful sail along the northern part of eimeo the next  morning, and soon after twelve o'clock anchored in the spacious and charming  bay of opunohu, or, as it is usually called by foreigners, the harbour to taloo.
on such occasions, and they were not infrequent, the contrast between the country and the inhabitants must have been most affecting, appearing as if the demons of darkness had lighted up infernal fires, even in the bowers of paradise.
the  first sheet of st. luke's gospel was nearly printed, when the active, with six  missionaries from england, arrived.
they had established among themselves a meeting for prayer, which they held on the sabbath, and often assembled at other times for social worship.
they were not altogether so prepossessing in person, as, from the different accounts i had read, i had been led to anticipate.
anxious to avoid unnecessary expenditure of those funds which  british benevolence furnished, they had on a former occasion written, to  prevent the society's incurring and further expense on their account, as their  remaining on the island was uncertain; but now, as there was a prospect of  peaceable continuance, and the liberal supply they had taken out in the duff,  being, by plunder, presents, &c. nearly expended, they found it necessary  to solicit a few articles for their own use, and others for presents to the  chiefs, whom they described as daily visiting their dwellings, and treating  them with kindness.
mai, the king or chief of  borabora, who was alos at huahine, had before written to the missionaries,  reminding them that jesus christ and his apostles did not confine themselves to  one place, but visited different parts, that as many as could might receive  their instructions.
another once proposed the following  query: you say god is a holy and a powerful being, that satan is the cause of a  vast increase of moral evil or wickedness in the world, by exciting or  disposing men to sin.
we usually found them either reading  together, conversing on the contents of their books, or some other religious  subject.
some employed the long filaments of the  dried plantain-stalk; and others split the thin bark of thepurau into  fine threads or fibres, and, though not equal in strength to the twisted  thread, both answered remarkably well.
instruction itself will be  undervalued; it can never be attempted but on a very limited scale, and will be  always liable to vexatious interruptions.
xv schools erected in huahine—historical facts connected with the site  of the former building—account of mai, (omai)—his visit to england  with captain furneux—society to which he was introduced—objects of  his attention—granville sharp—his return with captain  cook—settlement in huahine—his subsequent conduct—present  proprietors of the beritani in huahine—house for hidden  prayer—cowper's lines on omai—royal mission chapel in tahiti—its  dimensions, furniture, and appearance—motives of the king in its  erection—description of native chapels—need of clocks and  bells—means resorted to for supplying their deficiency—attendance on  public worship.
may my friends be saved by jehovah the true god!
most of the rivers or streams rise  in the mountainous parts, and though, from the peculiar structure of these  parts, and the circumscribed extent of the islands, the distance from their  source to their union with the sea is short; yet the body of water is often  – 333 – considerable, and the uneven ground through which they have  cut their way, the rocky projections that frequently divide the streams, and  the falls that occur between the interior and the shore, cause the rivers to  impart a charming freshness, vivacity, and splendour to the inland scenery.
the stations have also been hitherto but  indifferently supplied with a far more useful appendage to their places of  public worship than even a dial, namely, a bell.
they doubtless supposed the attempt was on his part a speculation for the accumulation of wealth; the only end which most propose, who visit those island; and which, when pursued on fair upright principles, is not to be condemned.
it was some months since they had arrived from their native islands, which they had left for the purpose of procuring books and teachers for their countrymen.
and it is a  melancholy fact, that the influence of unprincipled and profligate foreigners  has been more fatal to the missionaries, more demoralizing to the natives, more  inimical to the introduction of christianity, and more opposed to its  establishment, than all the prejudices of the people in favour of idolatry, and  all the attachment of the priests to the interests of their gods.
many of the pupils being adults, had other engagements.
the exercises of the day were highly interesting both to the missionaries and their little band of followers.
it was then much more compact, and the width better proportioned than it now appeared.
the boys afterwards delivered public addresses.
sometimes the adults are examined as well as the children, but,  in general, only the latter.
they are made entirely by the females, who manufacture not only for themselves, their husbands, and their children, but, in some of the stations, several have formed themselves into a kind of society, for the purpose of making bonnets for the poor and the aged, who are unable to make for themselves.
water and wood were at all times procured with facility from the adjacent shore; and supplies of stock, poultry, and vegetables might generally be obtained by barter with the inhabitants.
the missionaries resumed their attempts to instruct the natives, but found the acquisition of the language so difficult, and the insensibility of the people so great, that they were exceedingly discouraged.
it is impossible to conceive the emotions of 409 delight produced by witnessing six or eight hundred natives assembling at this hour in the respective chapels, and, on entering, to see a native, one who was perhaps formerly a warrior or areoi, or even an idolatrous priest, stand up, and read a psalm or hymn, which the congregation rise, and sing.
the effect of this magnificent scene has often been heightened by the  impression that the voyagers, whose approaching bark became every moment more  conspicuous among the surrounding– 233 – objects, were not coming in  search of pearls or gems, but the more valuable treasure contained in the  sacred scriptures, deemed by them “more precious than gold, yea, than much  fine gold.”
towards the close of the year 1802, mr. jefferson – 61 – and mr. scott made the tour of tahiti, for the purpose of  preaching to the people.
in these houses the people took their meals, sitting in circles on the grass-spread floor.
mahine on this occasion wore a curious helmet, covered on the  outside with plates of the beautifully spotted cowrie, or tiger shell, so  abundant in the islands; and ornamented with a plume of the tropic, or  man-of-war bird's feathers.
his directions were attended to; no individual  was injured, no fence broken down, no house burned, no article of property  taken.
it was intended to employ the vessel in the pearl-fishery, among  the paumotu islands– 240 – to the eastward; to work her with native  seamen, to take the pearls, and mother-of-pearl shell, to port jackson;  bringing from that settlement tools, cutlery, and manufactured goods for the  natives, and supplies for the mission; thus providing a means of stimulating  the people to habits of industry, and defraying to a certain degree the  expenses of the mission.
the natives abandoned themselves to despair, and either  threw themselves along in the bottom of the boat, or sat crouching on the keel,  with their faces downwards, and their eyes covered with their hands.
he went through every room in their house, and every birth on board, and  addressed each individual by name, with earnest entreaties to remain, and  assurances of protection.
i have heard several wish they  could remove from their bodies the marks tataued upon them, but these figures  remain too deeply fixed to be obliterated, and perpetually remind them of what  they once were.
but in the estimate of their character,  qualifications, and exertions, a variety of considerations ought to have a  greater influence on the minds of those by whom they are thus represented, than  they are sometimes allowed to exert.
in order, however, to ensure as regular and punctual an attendance as possible, the principal instruction 319 was given at an early hour every morning, that the people might attend the school before engaging in their ordinary avocations.
it is probable they also expected, by this summary vengeance, to deter others from following his example.
the first night he passed on shore, he  slept on the earthen floor, by the side of a warrior, the murder of the crew of  the boyd, and a cannibal; and the spot on which he lay was encircled by native  spears fixed in the ground.
others, however, occupy lands which are at some distance; and even those who have erected their dwellings near the residence of their teacher, having plantations situated in a remote district, are often absent for several days together.
under these circumstances,– 77 – their distresses were  somewhat relieved by the arrival of mr. warner; who, after the ordinary  preparation, had been sent from england in the capacity of surgeon to the  mission, which he joined on the 12th of may, 1807.
at first we perceived a great inclination to drowsiness, especially during the afternoon: at this we were not surprised, when we recollected that this was the manner in which they were accustomed to spend several hours every day, and that they were also unaccustomed to fixedness of attention, or exercise of thought on a particular subject, for any length of time.
in some places it might be rendered heart according to our idiom, as in the thoughts of the heart or mindthe desire of the mind, or soulor, the anger of the soul.
although that idol was now in 58 the hands of his enemies, yet, as his errand was of a sacred character, the atehuruans, notwithstanding they would not admit him to the temple, allowed him to present his offerings, which he deposited on a part of the beach near the temple, and peaceably retired.
the account of the  settlement given by the former, and the emotions excited in his own mind by his  visit, are so interesting, that i think it would be almost unjust to deprive  the readers of these pages of the satisfaction his description is adapted to  afford.
the service, therefore, necessarily devolved on those who were willing, under every accompanying disadvantage, to undertake it.
sometimes they procured the tough skin of a large dog, or an old goat, with long shaggy matted hair and beard attached to it, or the thin skin of a wild kitten taken in the mountains.
the  impetuous attack of the idolaters, attended with all the fury, imprecations,  and boasting shouts practised by the savage when rushing to the onset, produced  by its shock a temporary confusion in the advanced guard of the christian army:  some were slain, others wounded, and upaparu, one of pomare's– 149 –  leading men, saved his life only by rushing into the sea, and leaving part of  his dress in the hands of the antagonis33 with whom he had grappled.
when the  missionaries heard the natives make use of a word or sentence with which they  were not already acquainted, they wrote it down, and repeated distinctly  several times what they had written.
among the last number was taaroarii, the young chief of huahine and sir charles 107 sanders' island, and matapuupuu, a principal areoi, and chief priest of huahine, who had long been one of the main pillars of idolatry in the island to which he belonged.
it was a rude, unsightly machine, yet it answered but too well the purpose for which it was made.
it had excited among all classes the liveliest interest, called forth splendid efforts of sacred eloquence, and noble deeds of christian benevolence; but, painful and deeply humiliating as it was, it now appeared to those devoted servants of god, who had, amidst protracted and severe privations, maintained their ground till life was no longer secureafter having engaged the prayers of the people of god, and waited in vain for the results of patient and self-denying toil, during twelve eventful yearsthat the scene of their labour must be abandoned.
subsequently, when they entered into its design, and began to consider that it would become a source of pecuniary advantage, although it was thought that eimeo would be most eligible for its establishment, the chiefs of pare and the adjoining districts refused to allow the machinery to be removed.
the numbers  employed rendered these allotments but small, seldom more than three of six  feet in length, devolving on one or two families.
it was worn on the forehead immediately below the hair, and fastened by a narrow leaflet passing round the back of the head above each of the ears, leaving the whole of the back and upper part of the head entirely exposed.
an excitement, highly beneficial in – 262 – its tendency, was awakened in the minds of the people; who,  influenced by the example and advice of their friends from eimeo, attended in  great numbers daily at the schools, and were seen in the chapel, not only on  the sabbath, but whenever it was open for public worship.
our mode of saluting by merely shaking hands, they consider  remarkably cold and formal.
to us this was a most welcome  sound, indicating our approach to the land.
nearly twenty girls, and eight or ten boys, engaged to learn to spin and weave.
within the precincts of the missionary station, not far from the place of worship, one of the great nationalmaraes formerly stood,where the image of oro had often 324 been kept, where human sacrifices were offered, where the inauguration of the last heathen king who reigned in tahiti took place, and where every cruelty and every abomination connected with paganism had been practised for ages.
it was a large oval building, standing within ten or twelve yards of the sea, without either partitions or even sides, consisting simply of a large roof, supported by three pillars along the centre, and a number round the sides.
before they had time to ask a single question, he exclaimed, ua pau!
otu, called pomare since his father's death, has  often, during the latter years of his life, told mr. nott, that after the  departure of the duff, frequently, when he has been carried on men's shoulders  round the– 29 – residence of the missionaries, peter the swede, who  has been with him, has said, when the missionaries were kneeling down in  prayer, at their morning or evening family worship, “see they are all down  on their knees, quite defenceless; how easily your people might rush upon them,  and kill them all, and then their property would be yours.”
he stood transfixed as it were to the earth, till the native retired; when he bowed his knees, and, screened from human observation by the verdant shrubs, offered up, under the canopy of heaven, his grateful adoration to the most high, under all the melting of soul, and the excitement of spirit, which the unprecedented, unexpected, though long-desired events of the morning had inspired.
we were desirous to induce some of the chiefs to attempt the erection of a stone house; but they had no proper tools for preparing the stone, and the labour was also greater than in their present state of civilization they were disposed to undertake.
this circumstance, though  insignificant, is interesting and important.
the conduct and conversation of pomare in reference to the  gods, on this and similar occasions, must necessarily have weakened the  influence of idolatry on the minds of those by those by whom he was attended;  and if it produced no immediate and salutary effect on them, it doubtless  confirmed his own belief in the vanity of idols, and the folly of indulging  either hope or fear respecting them.
we  procured cocoa-nut oil, and when it grew dark, breaking a cocoa-nut in half,  took one end, and winding a little cotton-wool round the thin stalk of the  leaflet of the tree, fixed it erect in the kernel of the nut.
all the missionaries remained at matavai, excepting one, who accompanied captain bishop as surgeon.
by the  latter, the natives of the pearl islands were formerly regarded with the  greatest contempt, astaehae and maua, savages and barbarians.
intoxication, infant murder, and some of the more degrading vices, fostered under the sanction of their superstition, were also discontinued.
arrivals in huahine—support of the mission—formation of the  tahitian missionary society—place of meeting—speech of the  king—formation of a society in huahine—establishment of the mission  in raiatea—description of the district of fare—erection of  dwellings—preaching in the native language—indolence of the south sea  islanders—means adopted for the encouragement of industry—cotton  plantation—disappointment in returns—arrival– vii – of mr. gyles—introduction of the art of making sugar, &c.—visit  to tahiti—sugar plantations and mills in the leeward  islands—introduction of coffee from norfolk island—culture of tobacco.
the word of god does grow in tahiti, and the raatiras are  diligent about setting up houses for worship, they are also diligent in seeking  instruction, and now it is well with tahiti.
we arrived at huahine late on  the evening of the following day, and some of our party went on shore, but it  was not till the morning of the 20th that we reached the anchorage in fare  harbour.
the lower hills, at the time of our arrival, were clothed with verdure,  and the mountains in the centre of the island, whose summits appeared to  penetrate the clouds, were often entirely covered with trees.
they proceeded to their destination, but had scarcely commenced their pearl-fishing, when the natives attacked the crew, barbarously murdered the first and second officers, who were men of fine stature and benevolent dispositions; and killing one of the seamen, took possession of the ship.
the sail  ropes were again fastened, and we pursued our way under the influence of  thankfulness for the deliverance we had experienced.
i have seen many who had written out the whole of the spelling-book on sheets of writing paper; and others who, unable to procure paper, had prepared pieces of native cloth with great care, and then, with a reed immersed in red or purple native dye, had written out the alphabet, spelling, and reading lessons, on these pieces of cloth, made with the bark of a tree.
cannibalism, though some deny its having been practised among themselves, is supposed to have existed in one of the islands at least, and is known, and universally acknowledged to prevail among those by which they are surrounded; and it is not considered by them improbable that some of their own countrymen have been eaten by the islanders among whom they have, from stress of weather, been cast.
tuahine was born in the island of raiatea, but had been some time residing in  the inland parts of the district of pare.
the nautilus had touched at the sandwich islands, and had brought away some of the natives: while the vessel remained, five of these absconded; one was brought back, but escaped again.
on the 7th of march, 1797, the missionaries went on shore, and were met on the beach by the late pomare and his queen, then called otoo and tetua; by them they were kindly welcomed, as well as by paitia, an aged chief of the district.
if you think proper, you may burn them all in the fire; or, if you like, send them to your country, for the inspection of the people of europe, that they may satisfy their curiosity, and know tahiti's foolish gods!
schools were built, and places for public  worship erected; the sabbath was observed; divine service performed;  child-murder, and the gross abominations of idolatry, were discontinued.
the erection of a house upon the improved plan, regulating its size by the rank or means of the family for whom it was designed, became a kind of test of sincerity in professions of desire to be instructed; for, to embrace christianity, with the precepts which it inculcated, nothing could be more at variance than the habits of indolence and unsightly filthiness of their former habitations.
on the north-west is a small but very secure harbour, called hamaniino.
it is true, there was no missionary to preach the  gospel to them, or to lead their public service, yet it was performed with  earnestness, propriety, and devotional feeling.
no sooner did these deluded, polluted, and cruel  people, receive the gospel of christ, the elevated sentiments, sacred purity,  and humane tendency of which, convinced them that it must have originated in a  source as opposite to that whence idolatry had sprung, as light is to darkness,  than the spell in which they had been for ages bound was dissolved, and the  chains of their captivity were burst asunder.
he relinquished missionary pursuits, and sailed for port jackson on the ninth of march.
with the name he also associated the title of majesty, styling himself, and receiving the appellation of, his majesty pomare.
the information, however, which the inhabitants received from the individual whom mr. williams employed to instruct them, not only in its growth, but in the methods of preparing it in the different forms under which it is offered in the markets, was valuable; and though no very advantageous results have hitherto followed, it may hereafter be productive of good.
the pleasing anticipations  which the missionaries– 41 – had been led to indulge, in connexion  with the second visit of the duff, were destroyed by the arrival of the albion  in matavai bay, on the 27th of december in the same year.
their voyage,  though protracted, was safe, and not unpleasant; and on the 4th of march, 1797,  they had the satisfaction of beholding the high land of tahiti in the distant  horizon.
during the early  periods of their residence in the islands, our predecessors often endeavoured  to rouse them from their abject and wretched modes of life, by advising them to  build more comfortable dwellings, to wear more decent clothing, and to adopt,  so far as circumstances would admit, the conveniences and comforts of  europeans.
after two or three solicitations from his mother, otu, the young  king, though in closest alliance with him, consented to his death, and he was  murdered by one of idia's men, at the foot of one-tree hill, as he was on his  way to pare, on the 3d of december 1798, ten days after the invasion of matavai.
towards the  close of the year, the mission sustained a heavy loss in the death of mr.  jefferson.
a  young woman had attended very regularly for some weeks, and had learned to use  her needle as well as could be expected in that time.
the scholars are the same as in the day-schools, but the mode of instruction pursued is different.
they could not conceive, notwithstanding the frequent explanations given, why the missionaries should be so desirous for their learning to read, &c. if they were not, in some way or other, benefited thereby: hence, many of the early scholars expected to be paid for learning, and i believe some for appearing at the chapel.
several of  the best native carpenters have, however, readily come forward to repair the  wheel, and have received their payment in cloth made at the– 302 –  factory.
the  authentic information possessed by many who combined in arranging the plan, as  well as by those who attempted its execution, was not only exceedingly limited,  but received through a medium44 that necessarily imparted a higher glow of  colouring, than those channels through which more accurate accounts have since  been transmitted.
– 7 – when the missionaries from england, who had now arrived,  landed from the duff, the chiefs and people were not satisfied with giving them  the large and commodious fare beritani (british house,) as they called the one  they had built for bligh, but readily and cheerfully ceded to captain wilson  and the missionaries, in an official and formal manner, the whole district of  matavai, in which their habitation was situated.
one of his  intimate companions informed me, that a short time before his death, he had a  dream which somewhat alarmed him.
formerly they were  accustomed to sleep, but we believe this practice is by many discontinued.
soon after  the missionaries have entered, a native, perhaps in some distant part of the  house, stands up, and, addressing them by name, asks a question, states a  difficulty that may have perplexed his mind, begs an explanation of a passage  of scripture, or makes an inquiry relative to some subject or portion of the  sacred volume, &c.
native remedies were now applied, to relieve the sufferings of oripaia, but they were unavailing, and, after languishing for some time in the greatest agony, he expired.
in speaking of their progress,  shortly after they had commenced– 18 – this department of labour,  they observe, “we have already joined some thousands of words together,  and believe some thousands yet remain.”
this disastrous war is called, in the tahitian traditions,  the tamai rahi ia arahuraia, the great war of arahuraia.
the mountains are sufficiently elevated  to intercept the clouds that are wafted by the trade-winds over the pacific;  being clothed with verdure to their very summits, while they attract the  moisture, they also prevent its evaporation.
he gave them orders to destroy the  temple, altars, and idols with every appendage of idolatry they might find.
the point on the left, in  going in, is low, and covered with wood, with several cottages along the shore.
at intervals we beheld, through the clouds and rain, one or  other of the waterspouts, the whole of which appeared almost stationary, until  at length we lost sight of them altogether, when the spirits of our native  voyagers evidently revived.
having driven to the mountains such as had escaped the slaughter in the assault, plundered their houses, and afterwards reduced them to ashes, the king took the bodies of the slain on board his fleet; and, sailing to taurtira, offered them in sacrifice to oro.
every one,  therefore, followed his own– 356 – inclinations.
many of the seeds grew, and the vegetables produced added an agreeable  variety to the indigenous productions of the country.
when the king despatched a select  band to demolish the idol temple, he said, “god not to the little island,  where the women and children have been left for security; turn not aside to the  villages or plantations; neither enter into the houses, nor destroy any of the  property you may see; but go straight along the high road, through all your  late enemy's districts.”
the first bound copy was sent to papetoai, and is still, i believe, in mr. nott's possession; the second, half-bound in red morocco, was presented 229 to the king, who received it with high satisfaction.
this was the most difficult article to procure, and many books were used without it for many months.
tuahine has since rendered the most important services to the mission, by aiding mr. nott in the translations.
it was introduced by the missionaries, and at this time adopted by the christians, when speaking of any of the idols of tahiti.
a project was formed by the pagan chiefs of pare, matavai, and apaiano, to assassinate, in one night, every individual of the bure atua.
a few yards distant from the spot in which mai's house stood, and immediately in front of the dark and glossy-leaved shaddock-tree planted by captain cook, the first building for the worship of jehovah was erected; and on the same spot the first school in huahine was opened, in which the use of letters, and the principles of religion, were inculcated.
the chiefs are fond of coffee as a beverage, and, with the people, will doubtless raise it for their own use; and as it requires but comparatively little attention, probably it may be furnished in a greater abundance than either sugar or cotton.
comparing the past with the present state of the people, he said, i was a mighty chief; the spot on which we are now assembled was by me made sacred for myself and family; large was my family, but i alone remain; all have died in the service of satanthey knew not this good word 329 which i am spared to see; my heart is longing for them, and often says within me, oh !
a  considerable party of the aura tribe came one day to the printing-office, to  see the press– 228 – when they were admitted, and beheld the native  printer at work, their astonishment was great.
another large meeting of chiefs, priests, and warriors, was held during the summer of 1803 at atehuru, and rumours of war were again spread through the land.
the expression of their countenance, and the outline of their features, greatly resemble those of the society islanders; their manners are, however, more rude and uncourteous.
the experience of those who were true christians in england, was also introduced; and their remarks on this point, especially when they first became interested in the subject of religion themselves, were often rather amusing.
prayer 426 in their families was regularly observed; and among the many inquiries in reference to this subject, it was once asked, whether jesus christ had family prayer with his disciples; whether, in their own houses, in the event of the sickness or absence of the husband, the wife should not convene the family, and perform this important duty?
the unconscious earth had been saturated with his blood; and, when they  placed his body on the rude altar, or suspended it from the sacred tree, in the  presence of their god, they not only supposed they offered a sacrifice at once  acceptable and efficacious, but, doubtless, viewed the immolation as one by  which they had achieved for idolatry a triumph over humanity and christian  principle.
it was you that taught us; but  the words, the knowledge, was from jehovah.
a few, including two or three who had been to eimeo,  had acquired the elements of reading, or had learned to repeat the lessons in  the spelling book, more from memory than acquaintance with spelling and  reading; the rest remained nearly in the same state in which they were when  visited in 1808 and 1809, excepting that their superstitious ceremonies were  discontinued, and they had a building for the worship of the true god.
they were exceedingly anxious that some  of our number should at once remove to their islands.
notwithstanding the bure atua had escaped the machinations of their enemies,  and the murderous counsel of the idolaters had issued in their own defeat, yet  it was impossible, that, amidst the agitation which prevailed in tahiti, the  adjacent island of eimeo should remain free from apprehension and disquiet; and  although the king had sent repeated messages of a peaceable tendency to the  conquerors, and had received assurances that– 142 – there was no  feeling of hostility towards him and his adherents, yet they knew, by past  experience, that no reliance was to be placed on such professions.
and this is my shelter, my close hiding-place, even from the anger of  jehovah.
forty natives came at the time appointed; the design of the meeting was explained by mr. nott.
auna told me that the king one day said to him, auna, do you think you could collect five bamboo canes of oil in a year?
the chiefs procured most of the  materials, and when it was nearly finished, pomare sent a fish as an offering  to jesus christ, requesting that it might be hung up in their new chapel.
these were after submitted to the action  of a powerful screw-press, and, when gradually dried, formed a good stiff  pasteboard.
the inferior hills, on one side, were not only verdant, but to a considerable extent clothed with shrubs or trees, while a degree of sterile whiteness marked the basaltic and volcanic rocks on the other.
their whole moral conduct seemed  changed; the things they once delighted in, they now abhorred, and found  enjoyment in what had formerly been a source of ridicule or aversion.
his sermon on the love of christ, besides other public records which he has left, prevent its being questionable whether he taught unitarianism or not.
accident, so far as captain wallis was concerned, made us acquainted with their existence.
and, the natives of all the said islands  being under his majesty's protection, all acts of rapine, plunder, piracy,  murders, or other outrages against their persons or property, will, upon  conviction, be severely punished.”
the governors of the  colony of new south wales have uniformly manifested the most friendly concern  for the safety of the missionaries, and the success of the several missions in  the south seas.
the influence of his character in papetoai, where he is best known, has occasioned his election to an important office in the christian church.
in the close of 1814, pomare-vahine, the daughter of the king of raiatea, and the sister of pomare's queen, paid a visit to eimeo, from the leeward islands, and in the month of may, 1815, made a voyage to tahiti, in company with her sister the queen, and a numerous train of companions and attendants, most of whom professed to be christians.
others could repeat correctly, from memory, the whole of the books, and were anxious for fresh ones.
in the 327 centre, tables were spread for the chiefs, and the parents and friends of the children: we sat down with them, gratified with their hospitality, but deriving far more pleasure from gazing on the spectacle on either side, than in partaking of the provision.
that they had not died so soon: great are my crimes; i am the father of nineteen children; all of them i have murderednow my heart longs for them.
the anarchy, crime, and wretchedness, which now  desolated tahiti, were increased by intemperance, which at this time prevailed  to an awful and unprecedented degree.
when they reached otu's dwelling, pomare called the king, his son, into the outer court, and questioned him as to the treatment the missionaries had received.
at this remarkably critical  period, the whole of the party having to attend a meeting either for public  worship, or for some other general purpose, assembled in the evening near the  sea.
a few miles beyond the harbour of hamaniino, vaóaara is situated, which was the former missionary station, the residence of the chiefs, and principal part of the population.
some appeared with only the walls on the outside plastered, others with both sides plastered; some having their doors and window-shutters fixed, others with a low fence only across the door-way; some with grass spread over the whole floor, while others had a portion boarded sufficiently large to contain their sleeping-mats at night.
before, however, these feelings could be exercised, and the earth had drunk up his blood, or his insulted corpse was deposited on their altar, his liberated and ransomed spirit had winged its way to the realms of blessedness, had joined the noble army of martyrs; and united in ascriptions of grateful homage unto him who had loved him, and not only made him faithful to the end, but triumphant over death.
they  called himbuaa-horo-fenua and buaa-afai-taata; land-running pig,  and man-carrying pig.
the noble magnanimity of the king and chiefs in the hour of conquest, when under all the intoxicating influence of recent victory and conscious power, were no less honourable to the principles which they professed, and the best feelings of their hearts, than conducive to the cause of christianity.
in september, 1773, when captains cook and furneux left huahine, the latter was accompanied by a native, who had intimated his desire to proceed in the ship on a visit to britain.
a constant attendant on these meetings at afareaitu had, while  we resided there, one side of his face torn off, and eaten by one.
what the pegs wanted in strength, they determined to supply by  numbers, and i think i have seen upwards of fifty or sixty hard pegs driven  through one of these cross-pieces into the boards forming the door.
the chiefs and greater part of the population of tahaa, an island included  in the same reef with raiatea, imitated the example of tamatoa and the raiatean  christians, and destroyed their idols.
but hast thou found their former charms?
in reference to this, while  they were sometimes trivial, and perhaps ludicrous, they were often deeply  interesting and important, and not unfrequently difficult and perplexing.
accustomed only to perform those services that were for the advantage of foreigners, the natives had been usually paid for the same.
but o that we may all be saved, through jesus christ.
the natives were surprised at the 289 quantity of juice from a single cane, as they had never been accustomed to see it thus collected, but had generally broken it in small pieces, and, by masticating the cane, extracted the juice.
this person had been chosen with others for an  arduous undertaking; had been set apart to the great work, and had engaged in  it to a considerable extent; having acquired a tolerable knowledge of the  language in which he was to preach to the heathen.
the wall, or outside of the dwelling, was composed only of large sticks, or poles, placed perpendicularly from the floor to the roof, two or three inches apart, so that we could see the ocean on one side, and the dark outline of the inland mountains on the other; while looking up through the roof, which was, in this respect, like ossian's ghost, we discerned the stars twinkling in a blue and cloudless sky.
the missionaries have been charged with affectation in their orthography,  &c. but so far from this, they have studied nothing with more attention  than simplicity and perspicuity.
often, when standing at my door, which was but a short distance from the  sea-beach, as i have gazed on the varied beauties of the rich and glowing  landscape, and the truly picturesque appearance of the island of tahiti,  fourteen or eighteen miles distant, the scene has been enlivened by the light  and nautilus-like sail of the buoyant canoe, first seen in the distant horizon  as a small white speck, sometimes scarcely distinguishable from the crest of  the waters, at others brilliantly reflecting the last rays of the retiring sun,  and appearing in bold and beautiful relief before “the impassioned splendour of those clouds that wait upon the  sun at his departure.”
the indolence of the south sea  islanders has long been proverbial, and our minds were not less affected on  beholding it, than those of other visitors had been.
their own dress was  remarkably simple in its form and appearance, and was generally more or less  suited to their vocation.
the parties, who for a long time had been inveterate enemies to each other, readily agreeing to the proposed confederation, were made friends on the occasion, and cordially united in the plan of destroying the christians.
the sailor kept at the helm, mr. barff sat on one side of the stern, and i on the other, watching the alarming object before us!
at the urgent request of utami, the chief of the populous  district of atehuru, he subsequently commenced a mission among his people at  bunaauïa, or burder's point, whither mr. bourne also repaired.
i hastened out, and asked them, if they had been there all night: they said they had; i then inquired why they did not, as i had directed them, go and lodge at some house, and come again.
the  following day was the sabbath.
three of the missionaries had cleared, enclosed, and cultivated it; and had rendered it, as far as the productions of the island were available, subservient to their interests.
in one of these, dated calcutta, may 8, 1809, the writer says 47
the most profound silence prevailed, and we might have fancied that we were the only beings in existence, for no sound was heard, excepting the gentle rustling of the leaves of the cocoa-nut tree, as the light breeze from the mountain swept through 246 them, or the hollow roar of the surf, and the rolling of the foaming wave as it broke over the distant reef, and the splashing of the paddle of our canoe as it approached the shore.
i have visited the district only once since; and although welcomed  with every expression of gladness by the people, i experienced a sensation of  melancholy interest, in walking over the garden, the fences of which had been  taken down, and a few flourishing shrubs only remained, to mark its situation.
v from page 105 to page 129.
when a ship arrived, they were eager to dispose of it, expecting far more in return than the warmest encouragement in its culture had ever warranted.
on  the eighteenth of june, 1818, mr davies, mr. and mrs. williams, mr. and mrs  orsmond, mrs. ellis, and myself, accompanied by a number of the principal  chiefs, sailed from eimeo to the leeward islands.
it is probable that at that period public ordinances were altogether discontinued.
no other kind of  grain, with the exception of a small quantity of maize, or indian corn, is  cultivated.
some of their  houses were two hundred feet long; and on the floor, hundreds have, at times,  lain down promiscuously to sleep.
the circumstances of his death were truly affecting, and the feelings of the missionaries such as it would be in vain to attempt to describe.
it was readily furnished, and a spot marked out, measuring about two  hundred yards, along the sea-shore, and extending from the beach to the  mountain.
it is not, however, to those who abandoned the talks, that i refer so much, as to those who (except when driven from it by the approaching desolations of murderous war) maintained their post, and died in the field; or who, after having sustained the privation 190 and toil of thirty years of exile from country and from home, are still willing to end their days among the people with whose interests and destiny they have identified themselves.
after urging these and corresponding inquiries, which had exercised their minds, they would ask, after all these processes of new combination, will the original parts of every human body be reunited at the resurrection?
meetings for reading the scriptures and prayer are held at some of  the native houses in the evening, and we usually read a sermon in the english  language in our own families.
i declare, i never saw any thing to equal it!
the cylinders for crushing the cane were perpendicular: an ox was trained to draw in the mill.
i felt inclined to do so, said he, last sabbath, when walking in my garden; but on reflecting that i had other fruit ready plucked and prepared, i hesitated,not because i believed it would be in itself sinful, but lest my attendants should notice it, and do so too, and it should become a general practice with the people to go to their gardens, and gather fruit to eat on the sabbath, which would be unfavourable to the proper observance of that day.
but the advantageous and expensive arrangements of the directors, for the purpose of introducing these important branches of commerce and productive labour, although not entirely frustrated, were in the first instance rendered to a great degree unavailing, by the unfounded reports of unprincipled and interested individuals, who beheld the advancement of the people in knowledge and civilization with any other feelings than those of satisfaction.
during this transition, while the horse was suspended midway between the gangway and the yard-arm, some of the bandages gave way; when the animal, after hanging some time by the neck and fore-legs, to the great terror both of pomare and the captain, slipped through the slings, and, clearing the ship's side, fell into the sea.
in addition to these privations, the gloom and discouragement that depressed their spirits, on account of the total want of success attending their labours, must have been increased, in a 75 great degree, by the uncertainty and anxiety of remaining, at that remote distance from home, five years, without even once hearing by letter from their native country, or their friends.
there is one lecture, which is on wednesday evening.
some degree of confusion consequently prevailed.
the houses of the chiefs were better built, and more capacious; the roofs  generally impervious, and the sides frequently enclosed with straight white  poles of the hibiscus tree.
vii from page 144 to page 166.
late in the evening, the missionaries  and people had some intimation of his intention: before daylight the next  morning, the attack was commenced at one end of the district; the inhabitants  fled before the assailants; and by sunrise, the warriors of otu had scoured the  district from one end to the other, driving before them every inhabitant,  excepting a few in the immediate vicinity of the missionary dwellings.
a fine stream, rising in the interior mountains,  winds through the sinuosities of the head of the valley, and, fertilizing the  district of matavai, flows through the centre of this long neck of land, into  the sea.
the schoolmaster was not abroad in the earth, and, proceeding onward  with the tide of commerce that rolled round the world, the progress of  discovery and science penetrating every remote, inhospitable section of our  globe; the bible and the missionary had not been sent.
when he left them, they expressed the  deepest regret, and requested that one of the missionaries would come and  reside among them.
again he answered in the affirmative; and the king again said, “do you  think those that value the gospel would think it a great labour to collect so  much yearly for this purpose?”
several messages were exchanged, and the negociations appeared to terminate in confidence and friendship.
127 an immolation, equally affecting, was related to me by mr. nott.
it is a matter of  devout acknowledgment to the almighty, by whose power alone the means employed  have been rendered efficacious in its– 170 – annihilation, and  furnishes a cause of hallowed triumph to the friends of moral order, humanity,  and religion.
a settlement thus formed could never possess any  approximation to uniformity; yet it frequently seemed to us as if the variety  in size and shape among the buildings, and the irregularity of their situation,  were in perfect keeping with the wild, untrained luxuriant loveliness, and  romantic appearance, of the rocks, the hills, the mountains, the valleys, and  every other natural object by which the rising settlement was surrounded.
this is a consideration which, though  confessedly very inferior to many, ought not to be disregarded by those who  take an interest in the alteration of society which is now attending missionary  efforts in various parts of the world, but particularly in such countries as  africa, madagascar, and the islands of the pacific.
twilight in the tropics is always shortit soon grew dark; i wished them good night, and afterwards retired to rest, supposing they had gone to sleep at the house of some friend; but, on looking out of my window about daybreak, i saw these five men lying along on the ground on the outside of my house, their only bed being some platted cocoa-nut leaves, and their only covering the large native cloth they usually wear over their shoulders.
– 28 – noti, eiaha e haere, mr. nott, don't go, was his  language to that individual; and such was also used to others.
if ever it has wash'd our distant shore.
they were now desirous to assimilate their dresses in some degree to  ours.
24 these indeed were formerly the only articles of trade, with the exception of ardent spirits, that many adventurers ever thought of giving to uncivilized nations, in exchange for the produce of their countries!
several large plantations were well stocked with the different productions of the island; but a large portion of the valleys adjacent to the settlement, were uncultivated, and covered with grass or brush-wood, growing with all the rank luxuriance that a humid atmosphere, a tropical sun, and a fertile soil, would combine to produce.
in one of the visits which mr. nott made to the residence of taaroarii, for the purpose of preaching to this people, he was followed by patii, the priest of the temple in papetoai, the district in which the missionaries resided.
auna told me that the king one day said to him,  “auna, do you think you could collect five bamboo canes of oil in a  year?”
nearly in front of the site of mai's dwelling now stands  the residence of pohuetea and teraimano, to whom by right of patrimony beritani  belongs.
the rain soon abated, and the northern horizon became somewhat clear, but the joyful anticipation with which we viewed this change was soon superseded by a new train of feelings.
after all, they were easily broken, and made a most unpleasant noise  every time the door was opened or shut.
the man readily answered his question, and concluded by saying,  “oli mani hoi,” she is “also an old man.”
auna answered that he did not think they would.
haapii parau, learners, or brethren, friends, and disciples, are the terms most frequently employed by the converts themselves.
hence we  could perceive a degree of painful emotion among the people whenever the  subject was introduced; and although less intimately affected by this inquiry  than those around us, it was to us a most appalling subject—one on which  we could not dwell with composure.
the person seated on the right hand is  paitia, the chief of the district; behind him stand mr. and mrs. henry, mr.  jefferson, and others.
well might the poet lament his fate.
a few of the trinkets,  such as a jack-in-a-box, a kind of serpent that darts out of a cylindrical case  when the lid is removed, were preserved with care by one of the principal  chiefs, who, when we first saw them, considered them great curiosities, and  exhibited them, as a mark of his condescension, to particular favourites.
his conduct on the above occasion gave idolatry a stab more deadly than any which it had before received, and inflicted a wound, from which, with all the energy subsequently manifested, it never could recover.
he was delighted when he saw the first page complete, and appeared desirous to have it struck off at once; but when informed that it would not be printed till as many were composed as would fill a sheet, he requested that he might be sent for whenever it was ready.
xii from page 261 to page 292.
on  account of the heavy expenses attending every voyage, although it was of great  importance to maintain a regular intercourse between the respective stations,  and between the islands and the colony, it was found necessary to dispose or  the ship, which had been built with so much cost and labour; she was sold in  new south wales, and is now employed in trading between port jackson and van  diemen's land.
to these the most popular english tunes are affixed; and with most of those sung by ordinary congregations in england, the natives are acquainted.
besides these regular periods of instructions and times of public worship, the missionaries frequently held special meetings with those whose names they had written down, for the purpose of unfolding more fully the sublime doctrines of revelation, and uniting with them in social worship.
they were delivered to pomare, who requested that the saddle and bridle might be put on the horse, and that the captain would ride him.
pomare erected some works on one-tree hill, to arrest their progress, should they attempt the district in that direction; and, hearing they were still ravaging the peninsula of tairabu, sent a strong party totabu-te ohua, strike their encampment at home.
it was one hundred feet long, and sixty wide.
pomare, by uniting the refugees with his adherents in eimeo, and his auxiliaries from the leeward islands, might bring against them.
he gave them orders to destroy the temple, altars, and idols with every appendage of idolatry they might find.
this is probably the only plan that would render it profitable; but to  the use of rum, the present chiefs, of the leeward or society islands, are  averse; its introduction since embracing christianity, they have been able to  prevent; and it will be matter of deepest regret, if either they or their  successors should favour its distillation on the islands, or its importation  from abroad.
mrs. nott and mrs. crook made one or two loose dressing-gowns for pomare, after a pattern from us.
the first public or open  indications of the change, were given at a time which, according to human  probabilities, was but little favourable to such events.
a large  quantity of every valuable kind of food was dressed and presented, together  with several bundles of native cloth.
trimmings are not so scarce now as formerly, but the supply taken is still  inadequate to the requirements of the people, among whom bonnets and hats are  now so common, that before i left the leeward islands, scarcely a man, woman,  or child was to be seen out of doors without one—many of them possessing  two, and sometimes three or four.
it was no easy task for them to build houses of this kind; there were no regular carpenters and masons.
they  represented distinctly the disadvantages under which they should commence  public instruction, from their very partial knowledge of the language; but the  chiefs always replied, “never mind that, you possess enough now to teach  us more than we know, and we will make it our business to teach you our  language.”
although exhibited in the person of a chief, the incongruity of such an arrangement furnished matter of ridicule even for themselves, and is now never seen.
and with what ecstatic songs of gratitude and praise, must they have welcomed, to the realms of happiness, the first arrivals from those clustering isles, of redeemed and purified spirits, who had been made partakers of the grace of life, and heirs with them of immortality.
the idolaters were defeated, and afterwards treated with the same clemency and jenient conduct which the christian conquerors in tahiti had manifested, and christianity was firmly established.
when his canoe approached the  shore of eimeo, the teachers and their pupils hastened to the beach, under the  conflicting emotions of hope and fear.
– 15 – the simple declaration, good-night, brother, would be  unintelligible to the tahitians, though the language were correct; a  corresponding wish among them would be,ia ora na oe
the inhabitants, unable to withstand the young king and his ally, abandoned their plantations and their dwellings, and fled for their lives.
this service i attended, and was also gratified to find, that not fewer than  four of five hundred of the natives,– 206 – imitating their teachers  in this respect, met for the purpose of praise and supplication to the true  god, during the interval of public worship, which was held early in the  morning, and at four in the afternoon.
the congregation was large, the chiefs and missionaries were present; and, at the appointed time, i commenced the services with reading and prayer, exercises in which i had occasionally engaged before.
pomare had not only sent an atonement and a peace-offering, but, even before the missionaries sailed, had made war upon the district, and had killed two of the men who had been engaged in assaulting them.
he appeared to understand, in some degree, the english language, although unable to speak it.
he began by referring them to the ages that were past, and to the system  of false religion by which they had been so long enslaved, reminding them very  feelingly of the rigid exactions imposed in the name of their imaginary gods,  for they were but pieces of wood, or cocoa-nut husk.
captain gambier, who visited them in the same year, in the extracts  from his journal, which have been published, states, in reference to the manner  of attending the duties of the sabbath among the young, that, “the  silence—the order preserved—the devotion– 416 – and  attention paid to the subject, surprised and pleased me beyond measure.”
i opened the leaves, and found the fish nicely broiled; and, imitating the practice of those around me, dipped several of the first pieces i took into the dish placed by my side: but there was a bitterness in the sea water which rendered it rather unpalatable, i therefore dispensed with the further use of it, and finished my meal with the bread-fruit and fish.
the indigenous productions of the island were abundant in the neighbourhood, and were comparatively cheap, as this part of the island had been but little visited by foreigners.
among them were our fellow-voyagers, mr. and mrs. threlkeld, and our esteemed friends mr. and mrs. barff; we had parted with them in england, and were truly rejoiced to welcome them to the distant shores of our future dwelling-place.
at any rate, there is reason – 303 – to hope that whatever difficulties may yet be encountered,  the efforts made to introduce this branch of labour will be advantageous to the  natives.
our advice was not unheeded; several of the chiefs were induced to cultivate  the cane; the mill we had erected became a kind of public machine, to which  they brought their produce; and although, in some instances, we failed in  procuring good sugar, in time the people were so well acquainted with the  process, as to be able to boil it themselves.
when he reached eimeo, he was an idolater, but soon became a pupil in the school; and, in the close of the same year, desired that this name might be recorded among the converts.
mr. armitage has also succeeded in dying the cloth, and thus furnishing different patterns and colours, which has greatly increased its value in their estimation.
that they taught what those whom he addressed considered as the essential principles of unitarianismthen the assertion appears entirely gratuitous.
it will appear as clear as light to the spiritual mind, that the account of their state, and the gratification experienced 350 in the contemplation of it, was altogether of a temporal nature; that the progress made towards civilization and earthly happiness, in consequence of the moral influence of christianity, was the cause of that delight.
310 they occur more frequently in the south than in the north pacific, and although often seen among the society islands, are more rarely met with in the sandwich group.
i answered, that i thought it would not be wrong.
but although these  circumstances have hitherto operated against the general culture of the cane,  the chiefs and some of the people make sugar for their own consumption, and  have occasionally supplied captains of ships, who have wished to replenish  their sea-stock.
these, together with  captain bishop and his men, exposed to one common enemy, united with the  missionaries for mutual defence; and to them, under god, the missionaries owed  their preservation.
the same individual who resided with upufara stated also,  that only a day or two before the battle, he said to some one, with whom he was  conversing, “perhaps we are wrong: let us send a message to the king and  tati, and ask for peace; and also for books, that we may know what this new  word, or this new religion, is.”
sometimes we walked  along the beach to papeare, several miles to the north of our  abode—ascended a low ridge of mountains, extending nearly to the  sea—crossed the elevated eastern range—and continuing our way through  the defiles and ravines of the interior mountains,– 244 – descended  on the opposite side of the island, and approached the shore near the inland  boundary of opunohu bay.
sugarcane grows spontaneously in all the south sea islands, and more than ten varieties are indigenous.
auna answered that he did not think they  would.
let him not be reproved; neither let the chiefs in general, nor his superiors, be angry with him on that account.
the history of our first parents was frequently brought forward.
sometimes they procured the tough  skin of a large dog, or an old goat, with long shaggy matted hair and beard  attached to it, or the thin skin of a wild kitten taken in the mountains.
pressed at the (paper or book) presser of the missionaries.
although  divested of every thing like stateliness or grandeur, the first visit i paid to  the chapel left a strong impression on my mind.
when the king had printed three or four sheets, he examined the press in all its parts with great attention.
the service closes, and the assembly retires.
the king,  and many of the chiefs of tahiti and eimeo, appeared to lament the removal of  the press; but as mr. bourne, who was acquainted with the art of printing, had  a small press and types, and others had been requested from england, it was the  less to be regretted.
the chiefs treated them with every mark of friendship, regretted that their establishment should suffer from the quarrel between them and the king, and requested them not to leave the island.
he had laboured unremittingly for ten anxious years; filling, with credit to himself and advantage to the mission, the most important station among his brethren, by whom he was highly and justly respected.
we have, however, sometimes attended, and always with satisfaction.
papists have  often adduced the indifference of protestants– 3 – to the propagation  of their faith, as a proof of their heresy: yet supposing that many of the  portuguese and spanish discoverers, who were catholics, to have believed that  their own was the true faith; while we commend their zeal, we cannot but  condemn the violence and absurdity of their proceedings, in forcing what they  called christianity upon the tribes they discovered.27 the published accounts of the voyages from britain to the south seas, in  the latter part of the eighteenth century, produced a strong feeling of wonder  and delight, and excited considerable interest in behalf of the inhabitants of  the remote and isolated regions.
in confirmation of  this, it is unnecessary to do more than refer to the work itself.
others might be often  seen employed in pulling down the houses of their idols, and erecting temples  for the worship of the prince of peace, working in companionship and harmony  with those whom they had met so recently upon the field of battle.
the earthen floor was usually covered with long  grass.
in adjusting the spelling they have adopted, they did not follow any former visitors, but, having fixed their alphabet, they have invariably endeavoured, as accurately as possible, to express the names the natives use.
the principal and largest is to the  left, viewing them from seaward; in this, and extending up the valley, the  village is situated.
a chief of huahine once asked  me, whether it would be right, supposing he were walking in his garden on that  day, and saw ripe plantains hanging from the trees that grew by the side of the  path, to gather and eat them?
it was always a matter of regret with the missionaries, that the expenses of the establishment in the islands should be sustained altogether by the parent society; and in order to diminish this, they had from time to time disposed of the fruits of their own industry, to the captains of vessels touching at tahiti; or they had sent small quantities to new south wales, receiving, in return, such articles as they were most in need of.
peace at that period every where prevailed, but it was of short duration.
but there are individuals, from whose general habits of observation, and principles of judgment, 189 it might have been supposed a more just conclusion would have been formed, who have occasionally described them as the most unsuitable agents that could have been employed.
one of these natives was  upaparu, a chief of rank, present secretary to the government of tahiti, and a  steady friend to foreigners.
the annual examinations of these schools are among the most exhilarating and interesting festivities now observed in the islands.
they were in the possession of fire-arms, which they had brought on  shore solely with a view to intimidate the natives, and deter any, who,  unrestrained by the influence of the chiefs who had guarantied their  protection, might be disposed to attack them.
– 361 – individuals in england, who have materially contributed by personal  exertions or pecuniary aid to the erection or enlargement of a church or  chapel, have, when the object of their solicitude and their toil has been  accomplished, experienced emotions of satisfaction during the subsequent  opportunities they have had of rendering divine homage there; but the  satisfaction of the tahitians, though the same in kind, i am disposed to  believe, is stronger in degree, when standing on the floor, the trees  constituting which, they cut down in the forest—when skreened from the  wind by that portion of the wall their own hands reared, and covered by that  section of the roof which they had thatched.
they had visited tahiti, for the purpose of preaching to the inhabitants, but they had not been able to re-establish the mission in their original station, and were, consequently, all residing at eimeo when we arrived.
as soon as the new building in huahine was finished, and appropriated to the sacred use for which it had been reared, the original chapel was converted into a school, and was scarcely sufficient to accommodate the increasing number of scholars.
shelly's life was threatened, and only spared at the instance of two tahitians,  who, anxious to save him, requested that he might be kept, to navigate the  vessel to tahiti, whither they intended to return.
shoes and hats are not much less in demand than cottons or woollens; and these also must, for the present, and probably for many years to come, be supplied from england or america.
the foregoing statement of the teaching of the missionaries in the south sea islands, i have deemed not less just to them than due to my readers.
from  this circumstance his favourite wife assumed the name of tane rurua, from tane,  a husband, and rurua, bound round, or bound repeatedly.
the bakedti root, called dracanæ terminalis, macerated in water, and already in a state of  fermentation, was then put into the hollow stone, and covered with the unwieldy  cap.
one of the reasons which they  gave why so many slept in a house, was, their constant apprehensions of evil  spirits, which were supposed to wander about at night, and grasp or strangle  the objects of their displeasure, if found alone.
i was desirous of speaking  to them in return, and expressing the grateful satisfaction with which i had  beheld their worship; but the scene before me had taken such a powerful hold of  my feelings, that i returned home in silence, filled with astonishment at the  change that had taken place, and deeply impressed with the evidence it afforded  of the efficacy of the gospel, and the power of the almighty.
hence we could perceive a degree of painful emotion among the people whenever the subject was introduced; and although less intimately affected by this inquiry than those around us, it was to us a most appalling subjectone on which we could not dwell with composure.
but the most impressive exercise of mind was that referring to the awful change approaching.
printing in england, it was proposed, that, as a temporary measure, to supply  the existing demand for books, the press should be set up at afareaitu.
one or two european vessels were seized, and the crews inhumanly murdered.
to the censure thus passed upon those, under whose care he spent the period of his residence in england, one exception at least must be made, and
in many instances i have seen a garment for the  mother next selected; and then the father, with the remainder of their native  produce, has purchased some articles for himself.
with this  material we had made the floors of our own temporary dwellings, in which we had  erected slight partitions of poles, covered with thick native cloth, to  separate the different apartments from each other.
captain wilson was, however, happy to find the king, chiefs, and people, so willing to receive the missionaries, and so friendly towards them; and the latter being now settled with seeming comfort in their new sphere of labour, the duff sailed for the friendly islands on the 26th of march.
the expression of their countenance, and the outline of their  features, greatly resemble those of the society islanders; their manners are,  however, more rude and uncourteous.
pomare had for some time past shewn his contempt for the idols of his ancestors, and his desire to be taught a more excellent way, that he might obtain the favour of the true god.
i one day visited this garden, a few weeks after it had been enclosed and stocked with the most valuable indigenous plants of the islands.
the vanquished, however, though spared and liberated by the generosity of tamatoa, shewed themselves unworthy of the kindness with which they had been treated, by still talking of war on behalf of the idols.
he then had to ascend the mountains again, for trees, which he must either split or saw into boards for flooring his apartments, manufacturing doors, windows, shutters, &c.
here we received a cordial welcome from our friends  messrs. orsmond, williams, and threlkeld, who were fully occupied in their new  sphere of labour, and attached to the people; by whom they were respected, and  among whom they had reason to believe they were usefully employed.
erection of a printing-officeincreased demand for booksestablishment of the printing presseager anticipations of the peoplefirst printing in the island done by the kingmaterials employed in binding native booksprinting the gospel of st. lukeliberal aid from the british and foreign bible societyinfluence of the process of printing, &c. on the minds of the peoplevisit of a party of natives from the eastern archipelagodistribution of elementary booksdesire of the inhabitants for the scripturesapplicants from different islandsestimation in which the scriptures are heldinfluence of the pressnumber of works printed.
it was a rude, unsightly machine, yet it  answered but too well the purpose for which it was made.
the female with whom he had lived as his wife, informed them that he went out of the house on the preceding evening, and that hearing a noise shortly afterwards, she hastened to the spot whence it proceeded, and saw him on the pavement in front of the house, beating his head against the stones.
they usually answered,teie, here, and so proceeded 337 to the rendezvous appointed, where a present was given to the king, and a similar offering to the god.
great attention had, during the last year, been paid to the instruction of the children in the short catechism, in which the first principles of christianity were familiarly exhibited to the minds of the young people.
influenced by these considerations, the directors sent to the south sea  islands mr. gyles, a gentleman who had been many years manager of a plantation  in jamaica, and who, being well acquainted with the culture of the cane, and  the manufacture of sugar, was furnished by the missionary society with the  necessary machinery and apparatus for introducing this branch of industry.
individuals  professing to understand making bricks have once or twice offered to teach the  natives; but much as we have wished to possess permanent brick houses for  ourselves, or to recommend the natives to prepare such, we are convinced that  the labour would be too great, and the failures in burning them too frequent,  to allow at present of their being made with advantage,—yet
the facility with which the  manufacture of sugar might be carried on by the people, and the certain market  it would always find in port jackson should they be able to furnish more than  their own necessities required, induced us not only to recommend it to the  natives, but also to plant with sugarcane the ground already cleared and  enclosed.
upon this platform ninety tables were prepared, after the manner of preparation for a feast in england.
some degree of  confusion consequently prevailed.
after the conclusion of the usual school exercises, mr. barff appropriated half an hour to the instruction of the natives in the art of singing.
his mind had been for a long time wavering, and he was, almost to the morning of the battle, undetermined whether he should renounce the idols, or still continue their votary.
we were anxious, also, to mingle our sympathies with those of our companions there, in that bereavement by which all were so deeply affected.
– 211 – about two o'clock in the afternoon we resumed our journey; travelling  sometimes along the seabeach, and at other times availing ourselves of the  canoe until near sunset, when we reached afareaitu, and created by our arrival  no small stir among the people.
the song employed on the present occasion appeared rather a long  one: i tried to comprehend its import, but, notwithstanding all the  vociferation of the orator, it was recited with such rapidity, and there was so  much din and clamour among the people, who on such occasions only put forth  their strength in proportion to the noise which they make, that i could only  now and then distinguish the word pahi, a large canoe or ship.
numbers of the areois early embraced christianity, and some from the highest orders were among the first converts.
mr. stewart estimates that the 398 trade of four american merchants in the sandwich islands amounts to one hundred thousand dollars a year; this, however, is a far greater amount than that of all the other islands of polynesia.
it was headed by taute, 81 who had long been the king's prime-minister, and who was one of the most powerful chiefs and successful warriors on the islands.
the bure atua had hitherto escaped the ruin intended for them by their enemies; and though these were masters of tahiti, in eimeo, and secretly in tahiti, the number of those who had joined the christians was greatly increased.
the native carpenters will be able to make looms, as they have made turning-lathes, which, though rude, will be such as to answer their purpose.
mrs. ellis had engaged in it ever since our arrival in  eimeo; and, as soon as we were settled in the leeward islands, some were daily  occupied in teaching the native females to sew.
at other times they wore apareu , which reached from the waist to the calf of the leg.
as we approached its southern shore, a canoe came off with some natives, who brought a pig and vegetables for sale; but the wind blowing fresh, we soon passed by, and had little more than a glance at the people.
the splendid appearance of the loose and flowingahu puu, or the richness of the tiputa, dyed in their bright and favourite scarlet and yellow colours, together with some of their head-dresses of tropicbird feathers, and garlands of the gayest flowers, gave them certainly an imposing appearance.
it is a privilege to visit a country, and a happiness to live in a community, where the sabbaths are thus spent, and prove to multitudes foretastes of heaven on earthpledges of joy surpassing fancy's flights and fiction's story, the preludes of a feast that cannot cloy, and the bright out-courts of immortal glory!
a fine,  intelligent young man, on becoming a disciple of christ, and a public  worshipper of jehovah, was ridiculed by his family; this proving ineffectual,  flattering promises were made of temporal advantages, if he would again unite  with those who had been his former associates in idol worship; these he also  declined.
the breeze was fresh, and as the object of alarm was  still at some distance, it was possible we might avoid coming in contact with  it.
some of the natives said that he had acted as if insane;  others, that the evil spirit had entered into him; but, from several  expressions that were– 38 – used, there was reason to apprehend he  had been murdered.
being driven by a heavy gale to kamtschatka, and unable to pursue her intended voyage, she had altered her course for massuefero, near the south american coast, but had been compelled by stress of weather to steer for tahiti.
the– 270  – regulations of the society were then read, and the treasurer and  secretaries chosen.
the contrast is still more striking when compared with the manner in  which it is perverted into a season of activity, business, and unwonted gaiety  in the pursuit of pleasure, in catholic countries—but it never appears so  surprising as when viewed in comparison with the actual state of the people  themselves only a few years ago.
in order to  ascertain the nature and extent of the desire which had been excited, and to  confer with the individuals under its influence, messrs. scott and hayward,  having been deputed by their companions to visit tahiti, sailed over from  eimeo, on the 15th of june, 1813.
prayer for divine direction  accompanied their earliest inquiries on the subject of religion; and when in  any district even two or three were desirous of becoming the disciples of jesus  christ, they were accustomed to associate together for this purpose.
one of the reasons which they gave why so many slept in a house, was, their constant apprehensions of evil spirits, which were supposed to wander about at night, and grasp or strangle the objects of their displeasure, if found alone.
as we stopped occasionally to speak to some of the natives standing  near their huts, we had frequent opportunities of observing the value they set  upon the comforts of our english style of cotage, and other things introduced  among them of late.
a  distressing epidemic had raged for some time among the people, and still  confined many to their habitations, yet there were not fewer than fifteen  hundred present.
native remedies were now applied, to relieve the sufferings of oripaia, but  they were unavailing, and, after languishing for some time in the greatest  agony, he expired.
this ship was under the command of capt.
they were equally remote from all the kind attentions of tenderest friendship, the rich consolations of christian 92 intercourse, and the public ordinances of that religion, which is alone adapted to impart effectual consolation.
the account of the settlement given by the former, and the emotions excited in his own mind by his visit, are so interesting, that i think it would be almost unjust to deprive the readers of these pages of the satisfaction his description is adapted to afford.
i wrote many of them down at the time; others have been recorded by my companions: a selection will convey a more correct idea of their mode of 425 thinking and expression, than any general description.
this circumstance rendered the hymn-book which was completed at huahine, quite a favourite, and afforded the means, not only of assisting them in the matter of their praises to almighty god, but enabled us to convey the most important truths of revelation in the manner most attractive and familiar to the native mind.
the influence which a  missionary will aim to possess is more difficult to attain; but when once  possessed, is of exceedingly greater value.
on the  left-hand, about two hundred girls were arranged in the same manner.
he fixed two large stones in the ground for a fire-place, and, bringing a bundle of dry sticks from the adjacent bushes, lighted a fire between the stones, upon which he placed the tea-kettle.
it exhibits, not only the rich luxuriance of the scenery, but the complexion, expression, dress, and tautauing of the natives, with remarkable fidelity and spirit.
first record of the names of the professors of christianitytaaroarii's rejection of idolatrous ceremoniesdetermination of patti, the priest of papetoaiidols publicly burnt at uaeva, in eimeoincrease of the scholarscontempt and persecution on account of the profession of christianitybaneful influence of idolatry on social intercoursehumiliating circumstances to which its institutes reduced the female sexhappy change in domestic society, attending the introduction of christianitypersecution of the christiansworshippers of the true god sought as victims for sacrifice to the pagan idolsnotice of aberahamamartyrdom in tahiti.
pomare advised the married missionaries to leave the island.
some of the sugar manufactured by mr. gyles was of a very superior quality; and if hired labour were less expensive, or the people more industrious, it might be raised with facility in considerable quantities.
it is because of this that i rejoice, and i pray to jehovah, that he may increase my abhorrence of every evil way.
these found all remaining as they had been left on  the morning– 158 – of the battle, and were informed, by the wives and  relatives of the defeated warriors, that pomare and the chiefs had, without any  exception, sent assurances of security to all who had fled.
on our first  visit to raiatea, in january 1819, the servants of tamatoa, the king of that  island, were plastering a house for his residence: it was nearly finished; the  outside was completed, and they were at work within.
the vine, the peach, and the fig, appeared to thrive well; but in the war which broke out shortly after, the fences were broken down, the plants torn up or trodden under foot, and the garden was entirely destroyed.
from the peaceful exercise of sacred worship, they had been that morning hurried into all the confusion and turmoil of murderous conflict with enemies, whose numbers, equipment, implacable hatred, and superstitious infatuation from the prediction of their prophets, had rendered them unusually formidable in appearance, and terrible in combat.
we did not deem what is usually termed civilisation  essential to their receiving the forgiveness of sin, enjoying the favour of  god, exercising faith in christ, and being after death admitted to the heavenly  state; yet we considered an improvement of their circumstances, and a change in  their occupations, necessary to their consistent profession of christianity,  and the best means of counteracting that inveterate love of indolence to which  from infancy they had been accustomed.
during my visit to new zealand, i was several times greeted in this manner by chiefs, whose tataued countenances, and ferocious appearance, were but little adapted to predispose for so close a contact.
during  the two years he spent in this country,– 368 – he was inoculated for  the smallpox, from which he happily recovered; and, loaded with presents  profusely furnished by his friends, he embarked for his native island at  plymouth, in the summer of 1776.
the  first native bonnet we have heard of, as manufactured in the islands, was  finished while we resided in afareaitu, by mrs. ellis.
this arose from the circumstance of  the word, which in english is translated scribe, being in tahitian rendered  writer, and the secretaries of the native missionary societies being the only  individuals among them thus designated.
when spoken to on the impropriety of their conduct, they would sometimes answer, we are not scholars, or, we are not praying people; these being the terms employed to designate those who made a profession of religion.
he then alluded to the toil they endured, and the zeal and diligence so often manifested, in the service of these idols.
in many families, where all were scholars, 220 there was but one book; while others were totally destitute.
we  visited the grave of the first labourer that had been called from our little  band, and (with mingled feelings of regret at her early departure from the  field we had unitedly cultivated, and sympathy with him whom she had left  behind,) beheld the humble mound under which her mortal remains were reposing,  and around which a number of indigenous and exotic flowers had been  planted.—mr.
the attack, as already stated, was made at daybreak, in the western border of matavai: four individuals were killed, and afterwards offered by the priest to his deity.
by this  conveyance, the remaining missionaries wrote an account of their circumstances  and their prospects to the directors in london, stating, that although they had  not acquired a sufficient knowledge of the language to enable them publicly to  preach the gospel, they had observed, whenever they had conversed with the  natives, that though they could perceive the difference between christianity  and paganism, their attachement to the abominations of the latter was too  strong to be removed by any other influence than that of the spirit of the most  high.
– 156 – it was a rude, uncarved log of aito wood, casuarina  equisatifolia, about six feet long.
his departure from the island under such circumstances, although desirable on account of the influence of his principles and conduct on the minds of the inhabitants, could not but be peculiarly distressing to those he left behind.
in order to prevent their dropping out when the wood shrunk by the heat, they drove small wedges into the ends of the pegs, which frequently kept them secure.
the indolent habits of these young persons, their impatience of control, and the fugitive mode of life to which many had been accustomed, were not to be at once removed.
on the left, next to the king, stands his  father pomare, the upper part of his body uncovered in homage to his son, and  behind him is hapai, the king's grandfather.
a wooden cross, inscribed with “christus vincit, et  carolus iii.
nearly in front of the site of mai's dwelling now stands the residence of pohuetea and teraimano, to whom by right of patrimony beritani belongs.
a few yards distant from the spot in which mai's  house stood, and immediately in front of the dark and glossy-leaved  shaddock-tree planted by captain cook, the first building for the worship of  jehovah was erected; and on the same spot the first school in huahine was  opened, in which the use of letters, and the principles of religion, were  inculcated.
he appears to have  passed the remainder of his life in inglorious indolence or wanton crime, to  have become the mere instrument of the caprice or cruelty of the king of the  island, who not only availed himself of the effects of his fire-arms in periods  of war, but frequently ordered him to shoot at a man at a certain distance, in  order to see how far the musket would do execution; or to despatch with his  pistol, in the presence of the king, the ill-fated objects of his deadly anger.
translations of the most approved psalms and hymns, with a number that are  original, have been prepared in the native language, in almost every variety of  metre.
the missionaries were  almost overcome with surprise, and hastened to render their acknowledgment – 165 – of grateful praise to the most high, under feelings that it  would be impossible to describe.
when we arrived, we found, not only that the reports we had heard were correct, but that the change had progressively advanced, becoming daily more extensive in its influence and decisive in its character, and that the whole of the inhabitants were no longer idolaters, but either professors of christianity, or desirous to receive religious instruction.
the  structure of many sentences was also– 236 – acquired by the same  means; and, in much less than twelve months, i could converse familiarly on any  common subject.
in all its departments, and under  every circumstance, it bears the impress, and exhibits, in the clearest manner,  the sovereignty and the power, of the almighty, in regard alike to the time of  its commencement, the circumstances of its progress, and the means of its  accomplishment.
the storm continued  during the day.
here they dry and repair their nets while watching the approach of the shoals, and find them remarkably advantageous in prosecuting the most important of their fisheries.
shortly after this important event, which may justly be considered as the dawning of that day, and the first ray of that light, which has since shed such lustre, and beamed with such power, upon these isles of the sea, two chiefs arrived from tahiti, inviting pomare to return, and resume his government, promising an amicable adjustment of their differences.