lauraceae common name: avocado, alligator pear  (english); aguacate, palta (spanish) origin:
mexican types discolor quickly and require immediate consumption.
spinks origin e. bradbury, bradbury, 1911.
if it is moist (holds together), do not irrigate; if it crumbles in the hand, it may be watered.
ryan origin albert rideout, whittier, 1927.
origin: the avocado probably originated in southern mexico but was cultivated from the rio grande to central peru before the arrival of europeans.
the disease is rampant near the coast and has no economical control.
drymifolia blake), west  indian (p. americana mill. var.
a miticide may be required if natural  predators are absent.
paint  and cover the graft with a moistened plastic bag and place a vented paper bag  over the whole.
seeds may sprout within an avocado when  it is over-mature, causing internal molds and breakdown.
fruit large to very large, 16 oz., elongated pyriform,  skin dark green with numerous small raised pale spots, waxy bloom, skin thin.
dothiorella ( botryosphaeria ribis) canker infects the trunk, causing dead patches that  spreads to maturing fruit, causing darkened, rancid smelling spots in the  flesh.
fruit very large, to 24 oz., elongated glossy green, seed small, oil 15%.
the leaves are high in oils and slow to compost and may collect in mounds beneath trees.
to 26° f. season july.
fruit medium, to 14 oz., skin green flesh  extraordinarily pale,buttery, nearly fiberless.
pruning: columnar cultivars require pinching at early age to form a  rounded tree.
for coast, santa  barbara and ventura.
once a tree is infected (signs include yellowing and dropping leaves), there is little that can be done other than cut back on water.
fruit small, 5 oz., round pyriform, skin paper-thin, purplish  black, waxy bloom.
tree  dwarf, to 14 ft., low vigor.
the flesh is hard when harvested  but softens to a buttery texture.
jim origin john reinecke, san diego, 1939.
fruit variable in size, 7 to 12 oz., skin thick,  pebbled, green.
select disease-free, certified plants and avoid planting where avocados once grew or where soil drainage is poor.
quite hardy, for  central valley floor and far north.
scions are collected dec - jan after the buds are well-formed.
in cooler areas  plant the tree where it will receive sun during the winter.
give the tree  plenty of room--up to 20 feet.
for  further protection heat with light bulbs and wrap the trunk with sponge foam.
some hardier varieties can be grown in the cooler parts of northern and inland california and along the gulf coast.
tender,  to 30° f. season april.
fruits may continue enlarging on the tree even after maturity.
the largest seed are planted in  gallon cans and the seedlings are then grafted to a root rot tolerant clonal  scion.
related species: coyo (persea schiedeana nees), anay ( beilschmiedia anay kosterm) adaptation: avocados do well in the mild-winter areas of  california, florida and hawaii.
tree  broad, high branching.
one cultivar makes a good espalier.
the fruit of mexican varieties are small (6 -  10 ounces) with paper-thin skins that turn glossy green or black when  ripe.
avocados do best some distance from ocean influence but are not adapted to the  desert interior.
hybrid forms exist between all three types.
the largest seed are planted in gallon cans and the seedlings are then grafted to a root rot tolerant clonal scion.
fruit 15% - 25% larger than mexicola and somewhat rounder in shape  with better seed/flesh ratio.
flesh exceptional, oil 18%.
young trees require pinching  to force low branching.
mexican types are immune to trunk cankers but the fruit is not.
fruit large, to 18 oz., oblate, green, resembling  fuerte.
they will not survive in locations with poor drainage.
tree  open, upright, branching.
never enter winter with wet soil.
to 27° f. season april.
commence feeding of young trees after one year of  growth, using a balanced fertilizer, four times yearly.
root rot ( phytophthora cinnamomi) is a soil-borne fungus that infects many plants, including avocados.
they  are hardy 24 - 19° f. avocados need some protection from high winds  which may break the branches.
to 32° f. season july.
in containers use a planting mix combined with topsoil.
to 27° f. season september.
topa topa origin e.s. thatcher, ojai, 1912.
the disease is easily transported by equipment, tools and shoes from infected soils.
tree dense,  columnar.
all about citrus and subtropical fruits.
branches exposed to sun by defoliation are extraordinarily susceptible to sunburn and will surely die.
the flesh of avocados is deep green near the skin, becoming yellowish  nearer the single large, inedible ovoid seed.
this can usually be corrected by a chelated foliar spray of trace elements containing iron.
root rot ( phytophthora cinnamomi) is a soil-borne fungus that infects many plants,  including avocados.
it is a major disease problem in california.
branches exposed to sun by  defoliation are extraordinarily susceptible to sunburn and will surely die.
chevron  chemical co. 1985.
hardy for bay area, central  valley.
fruit small, 6 oz., elongated hass  look alike.
wind-caused abrasion can scar the skin,  forming cracks which extend into the flesh.
clinical feeding studies in humans have shown that avocado  oil can reduce blood cholesterol.
flesh injury begins after harvest and is impossible to detect on outside.
off-season fruit should not be harvested with the main crop, but left on the tree to mature.
irrigation: avocado trees may not need irrigation during the winter rainy season, but watch for prolonged mid-winter dry spells.
clinical feeding studies in humans have shown that avocado oil can reduce blood cholesterol.
only west indian type recommended for california, rather hardy,  to 28° f. season april.
tree  dense, productive.
two fungi and one virus cause more damage than any pests.
when  growth is some 3 - 4 inches above the vermiculite, the plant is removed  into the light where the upper portion quickly assumes a green color.
the disease is easily transported by equipment,  tools and shoes from infected soils.
"cukes" are seedless,  pickle-shaped fruits.
miscellaneous: leaf and seed extracts have been used for a variety  of medical application, including treatment of diarrhea and dysentery and as an  antibiotic.
to  26° f season august.
for containers and greenhouse  only, not hardy.
to 23° f. season october.
tends to bear in alternate years, unproductive near coast or in north.
to  23° f. whitsell origin robert whitsell, riverside,1982, patented.
fruit large,  to 15 oz., round, skin thick, pebbled, green.
any seed may  also be used for rootstock, but mexican types make the strongest growth and are  the most often used.
the trees grow well on hillsides and should never be planted in stream beds.
the seedling  plants are ready to bud the following year.
recovers rapidly from freeze.
creative resources  systems, inc. 1987.
west indian varieties thrive in humid, tropical climates and freeze at or near 32° f. guatemalan types are native to cool, high-altitude tropics and are hardy 30 - 26° f. mexican types are native to dry subtropical plateaus and thrive in a mediterranean climate.
the seedling plants are ready to bud the following year.
for further protection heat with light bulbs and wrap the trunk with sponge foam.
propagation: desired clonal rootstocks can be be propagated by a  method known as the etiolation technique.
snails can be a problem in california.
tree broad, productive.
pinkerton origin john d. pinkerton, saticoy, 1972, patented.
fruit small, to 8 oz., long pyriform, skin paper-thin, pale waxy  green.
over irrigation can induce root which is the most common cause of avocado failure.
the flesh of avocados is deep green near the skin, becoming yellowish nearer the single large, inedible ovoid seed.
of california industry.
most productive of dwarf avocados, best  dwarf for outdoor use, also for containers, greenhouse.
lula origin george cellon, miami, 1919.
extraordinarily hardy, recovers quickly from freeze, to 22° f. season  october fuerte origin atlixco, mexico, intro.
known,  seedlings useful as rootstocks in far north.
fruits: west indian type avocados produce enormous, smooth round, glossy green fruits that are low in oil and weigh up to 2 pounds.
gwen origin riverside, robert whitsell, 1982, patented.
such branches should always be whitewashed.
the skirts of avocado trees are sometimes trimmed to discourage rodents,  otherwise the trees are usually never pruned.
fruits: west indian type avocados produce enormous, smooth round,  glossy green fruits that are low in oil and weigh up to 2 pounds.
plant above a slope for air drainage, or near the house for added protection.
guatamalensis l. wms.), mexican (p. americana var.
soil: avocado trees like loose, decomposed granite or sandy loam best.
fruit small to  medium, 10 oz., green, resembling fuerte.
mexicola grande seedling selection of mexicola.
dothiorella ( botryosphaeria ribis) canker infects the trunk, causing dead patches that spreads to maturing fruit, causing darkened, rancid smelling spots in the flesh.
to 30° f. february to october.
fruit small to  medium, to 10 oz. elongated smooth green, resembles fuerte but inferior,  has fibers.
bears in alternate years.
six-spotted mite is very harmful; even a small population  can cause massive leaf shedding.
creamhart origin orton englehart, escondido,1969.
to  30° f. season april - july.
wind-caused abrasion can scar the skin, forming cracks which extend into the flesh.
the avocado probably originated in southern mexico but was  cultivated from the rio grande to central peru before the arrival of europeans.
if it is moist (holds together), do not irrigate; if it crumbles  in the hand, it may be watered.
the best results are obtained by fencing the tree with plastic mesh for the  first two to three years.
sun blotch is a viral disease that causes yellowed streaking of  young stems, mottling and crinkling of new leaves and occasional deformation of  the fruit.
high in monosaturates,  the oil content of avocados is second only to olives among fruits, and  sometimes greater.
mexicola origin coolidge, pasadena, 1910.
for  coast and intermediate.
avocado  fruit is self-thinning.
fruit handsome, large pyriform, to 17 oz., green, skin resembles  fuerte.
purple cultivars should be permitted to color fully before harvest.
to  30° f. season august.
tree dwarf, to 12 feet, low vigor.
it is also useful to plant the  tub with annual flowers to reduce excess soil moisture and temperature.
tree open,  spreading, tall.
avocados do best some distance from ocean influence but are not adapted to the desert interior.
cold-damaged fruit turns black.
formerly standard cv.
fruit dark green, medium, to 10 oz.
readily adaptable to espalier.
tree columnar, vigorous.
west indian varieties thrive in humid, tropical climates and  freeze at or near 32° f. guatemalan types are native to cool,  high-altitude tropics and are hardy 30 - 26° f. mexican types are  native to dry subtropical plateaus and thrive in a mediterranean climate.
further reading see generally: california avocado society yearbook, 1915 to present.
the northern limits in california is approximately cape mendocino and red bluff.
not hardy, to  30° f. season february - october.
the skirts of avocado trees are sometimes trimmed to discourage rodents, otherwise the trees are usually never pruned.
select  disease-free, certified plants and avoid planting where avocados once grew or  where soil drainage is poor.
the leaves of mexican types have a pronounced anise scent when crushed.
fairly hardy for large cv., worth trying in bay area.
for inland empire, bay area.
fruit medium,  to 15 oz., round with small neck, tangelo shaped.
fruit medium, to 12 oz., pyriform,  skin thick, pebbled, coppery purple.
off-season blooms may appear during the year and often set fruit.
guatemalan types produce medium ovoid or pear-shaped, pebbled green fruits that  turn blackish-green when ripe.
it has no insect vector but is spread by use of infected scions, contaminated tools and roots grafted with adjacent trees.
container and dwarf trees will need constant staking.
paint and cover the graft with a moistened plastic bag and place a vented paper bag over the whole.
avocado brown mite can be controlled by powdered sulfur.
to  26° f. season august.
watch soil moisture carefully at the end of the irrigating season.
the  disease is rampant near the coast and has no economical control.
budding is done in january, when suitable buds are available.
frost protection: it is important to choose a cultivar that is  hardy in your area.
when the stem of the graft reaches about 1/4 inch in diameter, the top is cut off leaving a whorl of buds just above the graft.
fruit exceptionally large, to 24 oz., elongated, purple, flesh  excellent, oil 13%.
flesh injury begins after harvest and is impossible to detect on  outside.
once a tree is infected (signs include  yellowing and dropping leaves), there is little that can be done other than cut  back on water.
to  26° f. season december.
tree tall, spreading,  open.
to 30° f. season november.
plastic containers should be avoided.
some hardier varieties can be grown in the  cooler parts of northern and inland california and along the gulf coast.
when the stem of the graft reaches about 1/4 inch in diameter, the  top is cut off leaving a whorl of buds just above the graft.
hybrid forms exist  between all three types.
rincon origin carlsbad, sam thompson, 1944.
plant  above a slope for air drainage, or near the house for added protection.
but the tree tends to rebloom.
seeds may sprout within an avocado when it is over-mature, causing internal molds and breakdown.
ganter origin albert rideout, whittier, 1905.
to  26° f. season june.
miscellaneous: leaf and seed extracts have been used for a variety of medical application, including treatment of diarrhea and dysentery and as an antibiotic.
yellowed leaves (chlorosis) indicate iron deficiency.
flowers: avocado flowers appear in january - march before the first seasonal growth, in terminal panicles of 200 - 300 small yellow-green blooms.
for containers and  greenhouse.
cultivars anaheim origin otto keup, anaheim, 1910.
tree vigorous, open, resists wind.
mexican  types ripen in 6 - 8 months from bloom while guatemalan types usually take  12 - 18 months.
the flesh is hard when harvested but softens to a buttery texture.
these measures also permit tender cultivars to become established in borderline  locations; established trees are much hardier than young ones.
currently the standard of the industry.
production is best with cross-pollination between types a and b.
watch soil moisture carefully at the end of the  irrigating season.
fruits may continue enlarging on the tree even after  maturity.
by f.w. popenoe, 1917.
larger stocks are worked by bark grafts in the  spring.
tree columnar, slow  growing, difficult to propagate, often scion incompatible.
guatemalan types can be stored firm, at 40 - 50° f. for up to six  weeks.
they are tolerant of acid or alkaline soil.
it is fast growing and can with age  reach 80 feet, although usually less, and generally branches to form a broad  tree.
fruit  handsome, elongated pyriform, small to medium, 8 oz., smooth dark purple  with white waxy bloom.
they are hardy 24 - 19° f. avocados need some protection from high winds which may break the branches.
foliage: avocado leaves are alternate, glossy, elliptic and dark green with paler veins.
avocados have been grown in california (santa barbara)  since 1871.
avocados have been grown in california (santa barbara) since 1871.
wurtz (syn. littlecado) origin roy wurtz, encinitas, 1935.
seedlings commonly used for rootstocks.
container plants  should be moved outdoors with care.
the leaves of west indian varieties are scentless, while guatemalan types are rarely anise-scented and have medicinal use.
mature trees often also show a zinc deficiency.
the shade under the trees is too  dense to garden under, and the constant litter can be annoying.
roots are coarse and greedy and will raise pavement with age.
hass origin rudolph hass, la habra heights, 1926.
tends to bear alternate years.
fruit round, slightly pyriform, to 20 oz., slightly rough glossy  green, oil 12%.
older trees benefit  from feeding with nitrogenous fertilizer applied in late winter and early  summer.
species: guatemalan (persea nubigena var.
growth is in frequent flushes during warm  weather in southern regions with only one long flush per year in cooler areas.
grafted  plants normally produce fruit within one to two years compared to 8 - 20 years  for seedlings.
fruit small to medium, to 12 oz., round-ovoid, smooth green.
some cultivars bloom and set fruit in alternate years.
at the beach or in windy inland canyons, provide  a windbreak of some sort.
when growth is some 3 - 4 inches above the vermiculite, the plant is removed into the light where the upper portion quickly assumes a green color.
the leaves of west indian varieties are scentless, while guatemalan types are  rarely anise-scented and have medicinal use.
once established the avocado is a fairly tough tree.
it is better to avoid any pruning.
tree columnar, productive.
see index of crfg publications, 1969 -  1989 and annual indexes of fruit gardener for additional articles on the  avocado.
budding is done in january, when  suitable buds are available.
lacquered, coppery  purple, outstanding flavor, oil 16%.
the  northern limits in california is approximately cape mendocino and red bluff.
to 25° f. season december.
they normally remain on the tree for 2 to 3 years.
reed origin james s. reed, carlsbad, 1948.
foliage: avocado leaves are alternate, glossy, elliptic and dark  green with paler veins.
frost protection: it is important to choose a cultivar that is hardy in your area.
fruit  medium, to 14 oz., elongated, otherwise resembles hass, skin thick,  pebbled, purple.
culture location: avocados will grow in shade and between  buildings, but are productive only in full sun.
flesh rather poor, oil 15%, seed  elongated.
by carl schmidt, 1911.
off-season blooms may appear during the year and often set  fruit.
tree rather open, not tall.
they are tolerant  of acid or alkaline soil.
flesh highest quality, seed very large.
avocado fruit is self-thinning.
whitewashing the trunk or branches will  prevent sunburn.
pests and diseases: rats and squirrels will strip the fruit.
current orchard practice avoids staking.
defoliated at 20° f, trunk killed at 17° f. season september.
nabal origin antigua, guatemala, intro.
the best results are obtained by fencing the tree with plastic mesh for the first two to three years.
commercial  standards requires fruit to reach 8% oil content before harvesting.
in youth, protect with rugs, towels and such spread overhead on a frame.
the upper branches can also be top worked with hardy mexican types, which will protect a more tender cultivar on lower branches, as well as serving as a pollinator.
the trees grow  well on hillsides and should never be planted in stream beds.
tree tall and spreading similar  to mexicola.
high in monosaturates, the oil content of avocados is second only to olives among fruits, and sometimes greater.
propagation: desired clonal rootstocks can be be propagated by a method known as the etiolation technique.
a 4 inch band of black tar paper is formed into an extension of the can and filled with vermiculite and placed in a dark box with high temperature and humidity.
skin paper-thin, purple-black.
description growth habit: the avocado is a dense, evergreen  tree, shedding many leaves in early spring.
about 5% of flowers are defective in  form and sterile.
fruit beautiful, medium to large, to 18 oz., ovoid,  skin thin, lacquered maroon purple.
related species: coyo (persea schiedeana nees), anay ( beilschmiedia anay kosterm) adaptation: avocados do well in the mild-winter areas of california, florida and hawaii.
these measures also permit tender cultivars to become established in borderline locations; established trees are much hardier than young ones.
off-season fruit should not be harvested with the main  crop, but left on the tree to mature.
commercial standards requires fruit to reach 8% oil content before harvesting.
avocados are often in bloom at the time of frost and the flowers are killed, but the tree tends to rebloom.
each panicle will produce only one to three fruits.
to 27° f. season january.
the flowers attract bees and hoverflies and pollination usually good except  during cool weather.
puebla origin atlixco, mexico, intro.
here is the list of additional crfg fruit facts.
older trees benefit from feeding with nitrogenous fertilizer applied in late winter and early summer.
commence feeding of young trees after one year of growth, using a balanced fertilizer, four times yearly.
a miticide may be required if natural predators are absent.
they are too vigorous.
leaf-rolling caterpillars (tortrix and amorbia) may destroy branch terminals.
it is also useful to plant the tub with annual flowers to reduce excess soil moisture and temperature.
others need no training.
avocados tolerate some  salts, though they will show leaf tip burn and stunting of leaves.
the flowers attract bees and hoverflies and pollination usually good except during cool weather.
to 25° f. season  november.
a 4 inch band  of black tar paper is formed into an extension of the can and filled with  vermiculite and placed in a dark box with high temperature and humidity.
fruit commonly over  24 oz., dark glossy green, rough, pyriform, oil 21%.
"cukes" are seedless, pickle-shaped fruits.
zutano origin r.l. ruitt, fallbrook, 1926.
queen origin antigua, guatemala, intro.
lyon origin r. lyon, hollywood, 1908.
fruit small  to medium, to 10 oz., olive green, with long neck, oil 12%.
sun blotch is a viral disease that causes yellowed streaking of young stems, mottling and crinkling of new leaves and occasional deformation of the fruit.
the roots are highly  competitive and will choke out nearby plants.
harvest: the time of harvest depends upon the variety.
injury to branches causes a secretion of dulcitol, a white, powdery sugar, at  scars.
fruit  small, 12 oz., elongated pyriform, waxy green, skin paper-thin.
container plants should be leached often to reduce salts.
hardy, for far north.
fruit small, to 8 oz., a hass look  alike, elongated green, flesh good.
production is best with cross-pollination between types a and  b.
bacon origin james bacon, buena park, 1954.
koch, f.d. avocado grower's handbook, bonsall publications, 1983.
in containers use a planting mix combined with  topsoil.
larger stocks are worked by bark grafts in the spring.
the upper  branches can also be top worked with hardy mexican types, which will protect a  more tender cultivar on lower branches, as well as serving as a pollinator.
least hardy  mexican type, to 29° f. season december.
six-spotted mite is very harmful; even a small population can cause massive leaf shedding.
flesh exceptionally high quality, oil 16%.
the leaves are high in oils and slow to  compost and may collect in mounds beneath trees.
plant cleaned seeds as soon as they are ripe.
most cultivars are ill-adapted to espalier.
guatemalan types produce medium ovoid or pear-shaped, pebbled green fruits that turn blackish-green when ripe.
duke origin bangor (oroville), 1912.
the avocado is not suitable for hedgerow,  but two or three trees can be planted in a single large hole to save garden  space and enhance pollination.
avocado brown mite can be controlled  by powdered sulfur.
the tar  paper collar is removed, the shoot is severed from the seed and then placed in  flats where the cuttings are rooted in the conventional manner.
tree tall and spreading,  vigorous.
it has no insect vector but is spread by use of infected scions,  contaminated tools and roots grafted with adjacent trees.
soil: avocado trees like loose, decomposed granite or sandy loam  best.
tree dense, broad,  prolific.
the leaves of mexican types have a  pronounced anise scent when crushed.
© copyright  1996,california rare fruit growers, inc. questions or comments?
mexican types ripen in 6 - 8 months from bloom while guatemalan types usually take 12 - 18 months.
pruning: columnar cultivars require pinching at early age to form a rounded tree.
indoor trees need low night temperatures to induce bloom.
there are dwarf forms of avocados suitable for growing in containers.
avocados tolerate some salts, though they will show leaf tip burn and stunting of leaves.
over irrigation  can induce root which is the most common cause of avocado failure.
to test to  see if irrigation is necessary, dig a hole 9 inches deep and test the soil  by squeezing.
seeds commonly used for rootstocks, resist root rot.
it is important to  use virus-free propagating wood.
drymifolia blake), west indian (p. americana mill. var.
any seed may also be used for rootstock, but mexican types make the strongest growth and are the most often used.
by juan murrieta, 1910.
flesh only  fair, almost colorless,seed cavity molds rapidly.
flesh good, oil 19%, seed fairly small.
the flowers are perfect,  but are either receptive to pollen in the morning and shed pollen the following  afternoon (type a), or are receptive to pollen in the afternoon, and shed  pollen the following morning (type b).
irrigation: avocado trees may not need irrigation during the winter  rainy season, but watch for prolonged mid-winter dry spells.
they normally remain on the tree for 2 to 3 years.
not alternate bearing.
guatemalan types can be stored firm, at 40 - 50° f. for up to six weeks.
tree slow  growing, easily trained.
it also causes rectangular cracking and checking of the trunk, as if  sunburned.
flesh good, oil 18%, seed medium.
by e.e. knight, 1914.
high quality flesh  with high oil content.
davenport, t.l. avocado flowering, hort.
deep  irrigation will leach salt accumulation.
avocados are often in bloom at the time of frost and the flowers are killed,
deep irrigation will leach salt accumulation.
flesh  excellent, oil 21%.
in  youth, protect with rugs, towels and such spread overhead on a frame.
this is especially true of mexican types.
the tar paper collar is removed, the shoot is severed from the seed and then placed in flats where the cuttings are rooted in the conventional manner.
protect with tin trunk wraps.
the flowers are perfect, but are either receptive to pollen in the morning and shed pollen the following afternoon (type a), or are receptive to pollen in the afternoon, and shed pollen the following morning (type b).
there are dwarf forms of avocados suitable for  growing in containers.
hardy for bay area, central valley.
the fruit of mexican varieties are small (6 - 10 ounces) with paper-thin skins that turn glossy green or black when ripe.
mexican types are the best choice for colder regions.
this can usually  be corrected by a chelated foliar spray of trace elements containing iron.
flowers: avocado flowers appear in january - march before the first  seasonal growth, in terminal panicles of 200 - 300 small yellow-green blooms.
hardy to about 18° f. murrieta green origin colima, mexico, intro.
morton, julia f. fruits of warm climates.
harvest fruit before the frost season begins.
flesh excellent, oil 20%.
some cultivars are columnar, others selected for nearly prostrate form.
it also causes rectangular cracking and checking of the trunk, as if sunburned.
about 5% of flowers are defective in form and sterile.
it is important to use virus-free propagating wood.
to 27° f.  season july.
tree prostrate, difficult to  train, low vigor.
to test to see if irrigation is necessary, dig a hole 9 inches deep and test the soil by squeezing.