- issue #16 - summer 1993.
track 5:  the haunted mansion at tokyo disneyland  1:31 when tokyo disneyland opened in april of 1983, the haunted mansion was  there, towering over fantasyland.
on busy park days, early morning and late night are probably the best times to try the mansion.
some present home-made or counterfeit items as official merchandise, while others falsely claim that their items are 'rare' or 'sold out.'
the music box version of grim grinning ghosts that plays when i load the  better haunts main page - where's it from?
as they walked to  the mansion, each guest noticed a new tombstone bearing his or her name (and a  humorous custom epitaph) on the mansion's lawn.
as the first major disneyland attraction to be completed without walt's close direction, some people believe that the haunted mansion is an example of failed imagineering teamwork.
the other two create a nuisance for other guests, and may ruin or spoil many of the illusions inside the attraction.
nothing will grab, splash, or touch you in the haunted mansion.
so if something's slow to go up, poke her.
once you board your doombuggy, do not attempt to exit the vehicle until a cast member gives you
snow white dark ride, and interview with  ken anderson on the first "haunted house" concepts, bones in  disneyland.
the haunted mansion is a tremendous joke on the guest, really - when you first get in the queue, you have no idea what you're in for.
this is a frequently asked questions resource, not a news service.
there's also a  fine bulletin board atdoombuggies.com.
" "rudelsburg" - a font that appears on the haunted mansion attraction posters - is also available there.
we have also learned that the wdw forever kiosks are also gone.
however, the bit after the "shhhhh, listen" about madame leota isn't there anymore.
the pertinent tracks included the foyer, load, ballroom organ, graveyard instrumental, and acapella exit crypt music with little leota's spiel.
some antique hearse experts have also disputed the claims, maintaining that disneylands hearse is an 1890s model, and thus could not have been used.
this event is a hard-ticket event taking place  on selected evenings during the hallowe'en season at disney's california  adventure.
track 9: three ghostly voices  2:55 first, eleanor  audley, who voiced several disney animated villains, awakens "creepies and  crawlies" with these out-takes from her recording sessions as madame leota  and the raven.
one major disneyland mansion change we think bears special attention is the abandonment of madame leota's famous fiberoptic head effect.
haunted mansion, and interview with marc davis.
also, given the 2006 changes in the disneyland mansion's attic in particular, the "helpless little bride" traditions carried over from the original mansion story concepts - through the american and tokyo mansions, and strongly into phantom manor - have been somewhat...negated.
much of the merchandise sold out within hours, and as of this writing is fetching 2-10 times retail price among disneyana collectors).
along with a gothling mansion maid with black hair who holds a rose.
[fred joerger, model designer (a wed art director)] rest in peacerest
the disneyland façade is probably based on several real structures.
tokyo disneyland, which opened on april 15th, 1983, has a mansion virtually identical to walt disney world's original mansion.
but hey, if it's  there, give it a try.
some of the more recent offerings at the cart include license plates, hats, baby tees, lockets, buttons, and fridge magnets.
there are also a number of disney warehouse stores in california and florida, which may have some mansion items left over from disneyland.
i remember being up there for certain).
what is the haunted mansion?
it's a must-have issue.
now you've crossed the river jordan
snow white dark ride, and interview with ken anderson on the first "haunted house" concepts, bones in disneyland.
kronos, a clue enthusiast in addition to his mansion affinity, has complained about the thinness of the playing pieces (they're not fully dimensionalized) and the omission of the side doors in the ballroom.
next, veteran disney character actor pete renoudet gives a supernaturally good audition performance as the ghost host.
although, i've heard that the marc davis april is now hanging somewhere in the wdw mansion.
phantom manor's ravenswood family were all given official names in the backstory developed for the thunder mesa area.
are there any good books or shows i can find about the haunted mansion?
at least one imagineer - x. atencio - took "his" headstone home after the queue space enlargement.
the haunted mansion gets airtime in many television shows and specials,  almost all of them disney.
the parks refurbish most attractions at least once a year, usually during off-peak weeks in the fall, late winter, and spring.
in recent years, walt disney world has also gotten into the mansion merchandise "spirit" with madame leota's cart, which has sold mansion pop-up books, gargoyles, coloring books, and die-cast hearses (complete with invisible ghost horse!), and other items.
at walt disney world and tokyo disneyland, it isn't necessary to move the guests to a lower level, so the ceiling rises up.
while there is virtually no gore in the haunted mansion, there are supernatural and occult themes and scenes (including a seance) that some members of certain religions or sects may find offensive.
what kinds of special events has disney done to celebrate the haunted mansion?
disneyland paris, marne la vallée, france when is the best time to ride the mansion?
disneyland celebrated the 30th anniversary of the haunted mansion on june  26, 1999 with a special ticketed event.
the walt disney world version, which is nearly 33% longer than the disneyland mansion, opened in the magic kingdom's liberty square area on october 1st, 1971.
additionally, the disneyland and wdw mailing lists rarely overlap.
originally, the disneyland mansion featured an exterior *human* cemetery with a collection of imagineer headstones similar to those listed below.
this omission apparently hampers game strategy and renders the set useless at official clue tournaments.
youtube.com is another good place to look.
in 2006, disneyland added an annual, resort-wide, season-long celebration  called halloweentime, which means special decorations and daily events which  can be joined apart from the hard-ticket mht event...
still, the wait wasn't a total waste of time, as the development of the omnimover ride vehicle system for new tomorrowland's adventure thru inner space would provide a solution to two problems.
in fact, given that in 2005 the disneyland changing portrait gallery was significantly changed (with the addition of the "gracey" foyer portrait from the wdw mansion, the removal of aprildecember, and the transformation of the panther gal into a...white tiger, i guess?), you might say that some of the disneyland portrait gallery stories (and wdw sinister eleven biographies, given the 2007 wdw refurb) are left more than a little rootless nowadays.
other fans (including the co-author of this faq, aprildecember) came up with names and stories for other characters, including someunique to the disneyland mansion.
at disneyland, fantasmic! shows on the rivers of america will usually make access to the whole of new orleans square and critter country very difficult, if not impossible, during the half-hour or so before, during, and just after the performance.
track 12:  breakdown and unload spiels  0:55
while the hearses are authentic antique funeral carriages that were used in funeral ceremonies, neither has any special significance as far as we know.
over the 2001-2002 holiday season, disneyland inaugurated "haunted mansion holiday," an attraction overlay based on disney'sthe nightmare before christmas (click here for a transcript and more from the special 2001 narration) with another special event.
kronos is a life-long mansion fan, writer, frequenter of walt disney world, co-moderator of the hauntedmansion@yahoogroups.com list, and webmaster of tombsweettomb.com from the mid-atlantic united states.
stanton hall natchez, ms the haunted mansion, disneyland, anaheim, ca the harry packer mansion, jim thorpe, pa the haunted mansion, walt disney world, lake buena vista, fl the bates' house, universal studios, ca phantom manor, disneyland paris, marne la vallée, france previous 5 | skip previous |
we can't guarantee we'll link it,  though.
additionally, the disneyland and wdw mailing lists  rarely overlap.
doombuggies, also known as omnimovers, were originally developed for use in "adventures thru inner space," a former disneyland tomorrowland attraction about atomic science, featuring a trip through a snowflake molecule.
so what about the haunted mansion clue game?
what's this i hear about a haunted mansion movie?
in 2002, the  disneyana and disney gallery shops even carried a version of the haunted  mansion gate plaque.
the latter listing is geared primarily to pin-trading, but it should include  every event of interest, as virtually all events are merch-heavy, and merch  means lots of pins (not to mention funky-expensive tschotsky-thingies that  probably break really easily, tee hee).
it's quite pretty, coming in a colorful tin.
on april 12th, 1992, disneyland paris opened its phantom manor, a new spin on the haunted mansion, located in frontierland.
there's the 2003 film starring eddie murphy and a new production that was announced in july of 2010.disney will be collaborating with writer-director guillermo del toro on this new haunted mansion film.
sometimes, an attraction will go "101" - disney codespeak  for a breakdown - with no notice whatsoever.
the 30th anniversary disc and haunted mansion holiday/scarols recordings  can be purchased via amazon.
his generic "haunted house" drawing featured a street scene intended for disneyland's precursor project - the so-called "mickey mouse park" that would have been built on a smallish parcel of land across the street from the walt disney studios in burbank.
at walt disney world, the mansion is also all but deserted during the early  morning and late in the evening (as crowds tend to pass up the mansion in favor  of the "mountain" thrill rides).
some of your best information bets are probably the two best-known  unofficial disney historical journals,persistence of vision and the e  ticket (no longer publishing).
what are all of the tombstone epitaphs?
the doombuggies run on a continuous loop, with loading and unloading accomplished by use of a moving sidewalk/load belt.
in the past, the haunted mansion has been known to go down for scheduled maintenance in october, february, and april (and now for haunted mansion holiday, the disneyland mansion is down in september and january...see the haunted mansion holiday note above).
how can i get the music from the haunted mansion?
for reservations send resume of past experience to: ghost relations dept. disneyland.
much of the merchandise sold out within hours, and as of this  writing is fetching 2-10 times retail price among disneyana collectors).
interior and initial concept details for the attraction (like the endless hallway) were gleaned during at least one visit by anderson to sarah winchester'sllanada villa in san jose, california.
in addition to the monuments inspired by the original disneyland pet cemetery (the first version, not the 90s addition), it contains a tribute to mr. toad (added with or just after the big 2007 refurb).
this  omission apparently hampers game strategy and renders the set useless at  official clue tournaments.
if you crave more, jeff at doombuggies.com has a large media collection including various scenes and snippets from tv specials and documentaries.
continuing through oct.  31, the first-ever event will allow guests to enter a family-friendly world of  halloween delights.
it would have featured the headless horseman from disney's adaptation of "the legend of sleepy hollow," a story playing prominently in 1949's two-part cartoon feature "the adventures of ichabod and mr. toad."
according to some, the original inspirations for this "spooky house" concept were a pair of bob hope ghost flicks ( the cat and the canary and the ghost breakers).
while there are more websites devoted to the haunted mansion than any other  single disney attraction, we preferdoombuggies.com, grimghosts.com, better  haunts & graveyards, and tombsweettomb.com.
in it, we're introduced  to marc davis, rolly crump, and several concept artworks and models created for  the mansion.
a special cd, t-shirts, beanbag toys, masks, lithographs, lenticular cards, sculptures, pins, and other items came to join the normal selection of attraction posters, disneyland forever cd selections, and postcards at disneyland.
each doombuggy has three speakers mounted inside the clamshell that provide a running narration through the attraction.
the trick is finding the ones with significant content.
issue #16 - summer 1993.
be sure to read the .txt notes included for information on using the excellent dingbats included!
track 11: original radio advertisements 2:55 original radio advertisements in the summer of 1969 featured lennie weinrib as the daring reporter, ginny taylor as the ghost son, and paul frees recreating his role as the ghost host, as well as playing the parts of phineas pock, willie the wisp, and granny ghoul.
they cite the ambiance-and-design-heavy first half of the attraction (care of claude coates) and the character-jammed second half (care of marc davis) as the misintegration of imagineering talents and personalities, while others believe it to be a clever and intentional means of building up and then smashing to bits the scary-old-house cliché.
track 8: otherworldly music 3:32 world-renowned organist gaylord carter performed these unheard versions of the haunted mansion music under the direction of composer and disney legend buddy baker.
another good tv offering is the 1965 "disneyland tencennial"  episode of disney'swonderful world of color series, originally presented  on nbc and currently available on dvd (order it above).
the walk-through concept limited guest capacity, for one, and made it impossible to present high-quality special effect viewpoints for guests at the back and sides of each tourgroup, too.
the attraction went in with disneyland's new tomorrowland in 1967, and was replaced with star tours in 1986.
are the mansion exteriors based on real houses?
the attraction was a duplicate of the  walt disney world show - in english - except for a chilling narration delivered  by a japanese speaking ghost host (t. hori).
we have also  learned that the wdw forever kiosks are also gone.
there's the 2003 film starring eddie murphy and a new production  that was announced in july of 2010.disney will be collaborating with  writer-director guillermo del toro on this new haunted mansion film.
stanton hall in natchez, mississippi, theevergreen house in maryland, and another baltimore mansion, theshipley-lydecker house, all bear similarities to the final mansion exterior.
more price-tiered holiday events ocurred in 2003 and 2004.apparently, there are no special haunted mansion holiday merch/dinner events planned for disneyland from 2006 on .
as of 2005, disneyland has drummed up it's own version of the mnsshp,  called mickey's halloween treat.
disneyshopping.com (formerly the disney store) has also been known to sell mansion-related items, though not usually the same items you see in the parks.
what kinds of special events has disney done to celebrate the haunted  mansion?
another good tv offering is the 1965 "disneyland tencennial" episode of disney'swonderful world of color series, originally presented on nbc and currently available on dvd (order it above).
as a result, most of the mansion planning was delayed until after the fair was over.
to order,visit our astore.
how long is the ride itself?
but now that the disneyland and wdw brides are eeeeevillle... what happened to the changing portraits in the disneyland mansion?
disneyshopping.com is one good place to start, though it does not  usually feature the same items sold at the parks.
in 1963, wed erected a sign outside the building, inviting various happy haunts to move in.
at the barstow location, faq co-author aprildecember found her collection of hitchhiking ghost beanies for less than six dollars!
in this 1965 clip from  the "disneyland 10th anniversary" television program, walt takes  eager viewers behind-the-scenes to preview concepts for the haunted mansion,  joined by disney legend marc davis and the first disneyland ambassador, julie
once you board your doombuggy, you will not be permitted to exit the ride until it comes to an end.
now that the furor's died down a bit,  you will likely not run into too many queue problems on weekdays; but, watch  out on weekends, holidays (like thanksgiving week), and throughout christmas  break.
at the same time, the changing portrait gallery was altered.
sometimes, it airs late-night on the disney channel (with the discontinuation ofvault disney, though, who knows when or if it'll continue to run).
the portraits are made to look less like projection screens, and more like paintings.
after dinner, guests were given a personalized death certificate and invited on a behind-the-scenes walking tour of the haunted mansion -- with the house lights on.
in this 1965 clip from the "disneyland 10th anniversary" television program, walt takes eager viewers behind-the-scenes to preview concepts for the haunted mansion, joined by disney legend marc davis and the first disneyland ambassador, julie reihm.
walt disney world's hearse was manufactured in the 1860s, and the compartment inside that hearse contains a floral arrangement of ferns and roses.
additionally, the best  overall phantom manor website (in our humble opinions) isravenswood manor.
afterwards, they were chauffeured back to their hotel, where special souvenirs (including their personalized tombstone) awaited them.
disneyland forever kiosks in disneyland's 20th century  music shop (main street)
paul frees "etherealizes" as our ghost host while thurl ravenscroft's distinctive bass voice resounds through the graveyard.
disneyland has several 40th anniversary-themed events planned for summer,  2009.
in the past, the  haunted mansion has been known to go down for scheduled maintenance in october,  february, and april (and now for haunted mansion holiday, the disneyland  mansion is down in september and january...see the haunted mansion holiday note  above).
constance herself is a roofer's-axe-wielding projection of a real actress (julia lee) on a dressed form, located on the left side of the doombuggy track just before you exit to the graveyard.
in the 1950s, while visiting england, walt publicly broke his plans for a haunted attraction in a bbc radio interview.
disneyland's haunted mansion holiday host is voiced by corey burton).
however, its legacy lives on in the haunted mansions, "buzz lightyear's space ranger spin" and a few epcot attractions, all of which use the omnimover vehicle system.
the music box version of grim grinning ghosts that plays when i load the better haunts main page - where's it from?
as you proceed through the attraction, you suspect you're in for some sort of scare...a scare which turns out to be less frightening than silly and amusing.
the tokyo version is located in fantasyland.
as in virtually all disney attractions, guests are asked to refrain from eating, drinking, smoking, taking flash pictures, or using video cameras with an attached spotlight.
it's a great document, but it's somewhat outdated (1996), and doesn't cover a lot of topics we thought people would like to know about.
at disneyland, the combined length is a little bit shorter.
slated to become a walk-through tour guided by cast members, this latest incarnation of walt's haunted attraction would have been situated in one of the "center street" cul-de-sacs located in the middle of main street.
while many sellers offer bona fide merchandise at fair minimums, others have been known to misrepresent their wares.
the weathered, blocky text used on the haunted mansion story lp can  be replicated reasonably with "terrorama chiseled," by jeff  baham.
though its ride vehicle track and room layout is identical to those of the disneyland haunted mansion, this haunted attraction involves western-themed story elements, special effects, and musical arrangements very unlike those used in the mansions.
in 2001, the overlay featured a lovely score orchestrated by gordy goodwin.
after dinner, guests were given a personalized  death certificate and invited on a behind-the-scenes walking tour of the  haunted mansion -- with the house lights on.
here restshere rests wathel r. bender he rode to glory on a fender peaceful rest [wathel rogers, audio animatronics programming] here lieshere lies good old fred a great big rock fell on his head rest in peace
can i purchase haunted mansion souvenirs outside the parks?
several of the articles (including one by co-faq  author aprildecember) are availablehere.
the witching hour of midnight on sept. 29, 2006, will mark the beginning of  disney's halloweentime, an all-new seasonal event at the disneyland resort with  whimsical decor, costumed disney characters, and interactive halloween  activities the whole family will find frightfully fun.
are there days when the mansion will be closed?
you will see ghosts, and they will give you a start, but not in the straight, serious, horror-scare-you way you might expect.
if you have a site you like, email us about it!
if you have already attended a special event, or have put yourself on the  disney gallery/disneyana shop mailing list, you'll probably get an invitation  in the mail.
in 2006, disneyland added an annual, resort-wide, season-long celebration called halloweentime, which means special decorations and daily events which can be joined apart from the hard-ticket mht event...
are there stores outside the parks that sell mansion-related park  souvenirs?
the  voice of marc davis can be heard in the background, as he and x. atencio direct  the recording sessions.
at the time of the latest faq update, the disneyland forever kiosks have been discontinued.
chances are that somebody lurking about will have gotten the info from one source or another, and usually well ahead of time.
track 10: spooky sound effects 4:48 here are some of the eerie music tracks and sound effects from the haunted mansion.
are there any physical restrictions?
the witching hour of midnight on sept. 29, 2006, will mark the beginning of disney's halloweentime, an all-new seasonal event at the disneyland resort with whimsical decor, costumed disney characters, and interactive halloween activities the whole family will find frightfully fun.
in 2006, i bought a light-up attic bride piece with a beating heart; she looked great with our jack-o-lanterns!
the music is available on compact disc.
be sure to  read the .txt notes included for information on using the excellent dingbats
humanity is to take the disneyland railroad to new orleans square.
none of these are official, and some fans and cast members (including disney archivist dave smith) refuse to recognize or acknowledge them.
unless it's  christmas break, spring break, or the peak of summer, wait times should be  moderate-to-nil.
depends on where you are!
for mobility-impaired guests, the haunted mansion is "transfer accessible" (meaning you will need to be transferred from your wheelchair to the ride vehicle in order to experience the attraction).
the oldest is the hauntedmansion@yahoogroups.com list.
"we hope families will begin a new holiday tradition of celebrating halloween with us here at the disneyland resort." was the 2002 (and beyond)
the 1963 sklar sign text read: notice!
in october of 2002, haunted  mansion holiday reprised itself with a different musical score.
according to jason surrell, even melanie ravenswood's first name is "official.
humanity is to take the disneyland  railroad to new orleans square.
disneyland's mansion fastpass distribution area is  beautiful, especially at night.
they  now use the scarols in the queue.
doing otherwise could result in serious bodily injury and/or expulsion from the park.
mr. price's performance is heard here for the first time anywhere.
the trick is finding the ones with significant  content.
at walt disney world, the mansion is also all but deserted during the early morning and late in the evening (as crowds tend to pass up the mansion in favor of the "mountain" thrill rides).
eventually, they developed new stories about original characters, such as the murderous "blood family", or pirate captain gore (also known as "bloodmere" in some versions) and his doomed bride, priscilla.
co-faq author kronos and justin callahan created a wonderful version of the  font called "ravenscroft."
do you walk through the haunted mansion or is it a ride?
in 2002, a mansion snowglobe  and mansion 'spookhouse' decoration were available (they were still carried at  disneyland's "le bat en rouge" too, for awhile at least).
haunted mansion, and interview with marc  davis.
this hard-ticket event includes trick-or-treating, special parades and fireworks, fortune telling, and more.
track 7: the genius of paul frees 4:01 a collection of out-takes and unused narration from the original haunted mansion, providing a rare behind-the-scenes glimpse at the work of paul frees.
the ride portion of the attraction moves very slowly, and tilts backwards at one point.
next, veteran disney character actor pete renoudet gives a  supernaturally good audition performance as the ghost host.
she doesn't "change" though.
in this scene, peter bruni (as mr. gridley) is desperately searching for donnie and jay osmond.
if you can't walk at all, you will need the assistance of a friend or family member (the ride attendants are not permitted to lift guests for safety reasons).
if you want to see some changing portrait art that never made the cut, see this show.
according to my friend bruce, the marc davis "april" portrait was added to one of the hall scenes several months after the reopening.
haunted mansion holiday music different from 2001's original tunes?
sometime later, a small "pet cemetery" was fashioned atop the main exit crypt right next to the disability-accessible entrance on the side of the building (don't confuse it with the much newer, main queue pet cemetery, which was added much later).
so who are you guys?
most mansion items currently sold at the parks can be ordered through disneyland delivears (1-800-760-3566) or walt disney world merchandise mail order (1-407-363-6200).
what is the 'haunted mansion' font called?
stay alert, though, this soundtrack assembly includes a few never-before-heard surprises.
on most days at the park, you won't have to wait more than 15-20 minutes to get in.
it's an excellent resource for all mansion fans!
but the seventh did him in a pet cemetery resembling the first "exit crypt pet cemetery" at disneyland was added at wdw's mansion sometime after the "new" pet cemetery was added at disneyland in 1993.
the originals the disney versionsthe originals the disney versions seven winsome wivesseven winsome wives some fat, some thin six of them were faithful
track 10:  spooky sound effects  4:48 here are some  of the eerie music tracks and sound effects from the haunted mansion.
track 2:  welcome  2:02 a pair of unused  introductions to the mansion, performed by actress eleanor audley (madame  leota) and brilliant voice talent paul frees (the ghost host.)
the singing busts, for example, had names printed on the projection film used to bring them to life.
on busy days in the park, using the fastpass option may work for you.
since, they've given us all sorts of mansiony crap, from pins and other collectibles to hallowe'en decorations.
and third, imagineer leota toombs (who appeared as both the face of madame leota and the face and voice of little leota) is heard in these never-before-released vocal takes for madame leota.
in peace good friend gordon
in 2002, a mansion snowglobe and mansion 'spookhouse' decoration were available (they were still carried at disneyland's "le bat en rouge" too, for awhile at least).
incidentally, nearly 30 years later, the tragic wedding story concept was resurrected in the planning and construction of disneyland paris' phantom manor (opening in 1992), which roughly tells the story of a beautiful girl named melanie ravenswood, whose groom is murdered by the evil phantom, who in turn makes her his captive.
this cd includes the following tracks (text taken from the  album's liner notes): track 1:  walt disney  0:26
special note: with the introduction of the haunted mansion  holiday overlay at disneyland, queue waits from october to the beginning of  january may be significantly lengthened.
at the barstow location, faq  co-author aprildecember found her collection of hitchhiking ghost beanies for  less than six dollars!
"disney's halloweentime will be a wonderful opportunity for families to come together and enjoy the make-believe aspects of the holiday," said matt ouimet, president of the disneyland resort.
leases include license to scare the daylights out of guests visiting the portrait gallery, museum of the supernatural, graveyard, and other happy haunting grounds.
the voice of marc davis can be heard in the background, as he and x. atencio direct the recording sessions.
what happens if i or my children "chicken out"?
your best bet to access the mansion during a parade is through fantasyland (as opposed to approaching liberty square through the hub or frontierland).
most mansion items currently  sold at the parks can be ordered through disneyland delivears (1-800-760-3566)  or walt disney world merchandise mail order (1-407-363-6200).
there's a full script of the disneyland attraction plus tomb inscriptions from the anaheim mansion's exterior.
now you can hear it in the mansion fastpass area at  disneyland (or at least, you could last i checked).
according to the wdw official website, the haunted mansion "may be too intense for children and some adults."
are there exactly 999 ghosts/ghost effects in the mansions?
over the 2001-2002 holiday season, disneyland inaugurated "haunted  mansion holiday," an attraction overlay based on disney'sthe nightmare  before christmas (click here for a transcript and more from the special  2001 narration) with another special event.
my blueprint, given the 1969 date, was a concept for a much later addition).
kurt russell, the osmonds, ej peaker, and friends take viewers on an abbreviated ridethrough of the attraction.
track 11:  original radio advertisements  2:55 original radio advertisements in the summer of 1969 featured lennie weinrib as  the daring reporter, ginny taylor as the ghost son, and paul frees recreating  his role as the ghost host, as well as playing the parts of phineas pock,  willie the wisp, and granny ghoul.
the two most notable mansion-related editions of the e ticket are available oncd-rom... - issue #13 - summer 1992.
also, for the love of gracey's ghost, please don't spiel along.
to make the new effect more workable, the panther lady portrait has been essentially recolored; her hair seems to be lighter, and her gown is now black instead of white.
as they walked to the mansion, each guest noticed a new tombstone bearing his or her name (and a humorous custom epitaph) on the mansion's lawn.
what are some of the most recent changes at the mansions?
many folks who've heard both versions seem to prefer the goodwin score, oddly enough.
when the mansion reopened after the haunted mansion holiday pulldown, it was gone again.
so we guess that counts as official.
it's still there, and includes a sparse assortment of pet gravestones created from backyard statuary (check our "graveyards " section for pictures).
the event began with a panel  discussion by hm imagineers entitled "the haunted mansion: 30 years of hot  and cold running chills" and sales of collectible merchandise (including  event-specific pins, cds, t-shirts, artwork, figurines, posters and a leather  jacket.
we recommend that you keep a close eye on the disney gallery site (i'm not  sure what to call it now that the disney gallery has closed) and thedisney  parks special merchandising events pages to see what's coming down the pipe.
track 4: the haunted mansion at walt disney world 1:00 when the haunted mansion materialized in 1971 in the magic kingdom at the walt disney world resort, it was nearly identical to the disneyland show, with the addition of these brief but eerie audio tracks - actually recorded at the same time as the disneyland soundtrack.
one way to avoid pushing your  way through the masses of fantasmic!
in '05, the effect was completely changed again.
you can get it atdisney fonts.
mr. price's performance  is heard here for the first time anywhere.
you  can order a copy ofthe haunted mansion: from the magic kingdom to the movies - by jason surrell - from amazon.com.
both the event and the overlay were huge successes, sparking plans for similar overlays at other mansion attractions (to date, tokyo disneyland's mansion).
the portraits were "repainted" to utilize a new projection technique, and the slow-dissolve transformations were abandoned for the original lightening-cued flash transformations that opened the attraction (although, it's important to note that marc davis had, during the early imagineering stages of the effect, envisioned slow dissolves).
these cds are, as of this writing, available from disneyland delivears
in the late 1980s / early 1990s, some walt disney world cast members decided to name many of the mansion's characters, providing background stories for them as well (the now-infamous "ghostly gallery").
you can order a copy ofthe haunted mansion: from the magic kingdom to the movies - by jason surrell - from amazon.com.
they're black vehicles that are essentially a bench with an attached clamshell-shaped backdrop and a lap bar that closes around you (you can see a photograph of the doombuggies below).
since mr. baxter approved the original hearse addition to disneyland's mansion exterior in 1995, and came up with the idea of including ghost horses with the hearses in the first place, i suppose he should be the one to name them.
are there any websites that have good information about the haunted mansion?
the evening was capped off with a midnight ride through the haunted mansion where guests got to shake the hands of the imagineers who worked on the attraction and thrill to "real" ghosts hidden throughout the ride.
ebay is also the place to go if you really want wild  and wacky unofficial stuff, like original artwork, gate plaque castings,  etceteras.
these are happy haunts who know how to have a good time.
when's the next big haunted mansion event?
for more information and some awesome goodies, visit  http://www.haunted-mansion.com.
aprildecember recommends two: a 1970 disney television special called disneyland showtime is  particularly interesting.
track 3:  the haunted mansion at disneyland  22:28
the compartment inside disneyland's hearse contains a sign stating disneyland's "ghost relations" department is "accepting applications."
in 2002, the disneyana and disney gallery shops even carried a version of the haunted mansion gate plaque.
several of the articles (including one by co-faq author aprildecember) are availablehere.
do not apply in person.
what's changed since the original faq was written?
he announced his intention to recruit old ghosts to come live and "perform" at disneyland, claiming inspiration by all of the ancient ghosts displaced from old british homes during wartime and urban renewal.
similar versions of the font are called "ruben" and " rubens.
is there any significance to the hearse outside the haunted mansion?
additionally, the gorgon's been moved to aprildecember's place on the far end of the hall, and the foyer painting of 'master gracey' from the wdw mansion is now in the center frame.
track 2: welcome 2:02 a pair of unused introductions to the mansion, performed by actress eleanor audley (madame leota) and brilliant voice talent paul frees (the ghost host.)
will they frighten me?
this faq isn't intended to be super-exhaustive, but we do hope it'll answer your main questions, and provide you with some resources to continue your exploration of the universe of the haunted mansion.
in addition, russell narrates a segment on the making of the mansion, which features some nifty shots of imagineers working on effects and models for the attraction.
one way to avoid pushing your way through the masses of fantasmic!
the wdw mansion was down for most of the summer of 2007 in order to accomplish its first major-change rehab in time for the first mickey's not-so-scary hallowe'en party in late september.
the omnimover vehicle design was conceived by bob gurr and a few other disney imagineers, and then brought to fruition by the arrow dynamics company, which has provided a number of ride vehicles and systems to the disney parks since 1955.
walt disney's death in december of 1966 and 1967's new tomorrowland project further complicated matters.
:: last updated 1/23/2011 :: ~*~ c. u. later dustin t. dust asher t. ashes m. t. tombc. u.
most of  these stores aren't permanent.
each park still sells the "haunted mansion compact disc " (the same thing as the old 30th anniversary cd, basically).
i've also heard that there are versions of haunted mansion holiday's soundtrack, complete with queue scarols, available at disneyland and tokyo disneyland.
learn more about these events and others at disneygallery.com: more about events...
not really, as the haunted mansion is not a thrill ride.
what can't i do inside?
it was purchased via a disney auctionears ebay stunt by a louisiana attorney ("jay").
we recommend that you keep a close eye on the disney gallery site (i'm not sure what to call it now that the disney gallery has closed) and thedisney parks special merchandising events pages to see what's coming down the pipe.
the event began with a panel discussion by hm imagineers entitled "the haunted mansion: 30 years of hot and cold running chills" and sales of collectible merchandise (including event-specific pins, cds, t-shirts, artwork, figurines, posters and a leather jacket.
chances are that somebody lurking about will have  gotten the info from one source or another, and usually well ahead of time.
omnimovers, on the other hand, offered guests a high-quality, uniform attraction experience at speedy intervals.
that's old news...why aren't you quicker with your updates?
[leota toombs, face of madame leota and face/voice of little leota] the above are all references to imagineers who worked on the attraction.
it's also got interesting queue areas and a  pre-show which is a vital part of the haunted mansion experience, which makes  the wait to get on the "ride" less of a bore.
more recently, special "haunted mansion holiday" merch (pins, ornaments, sweatshirts, plush, &c.) have made it to the shelves of new orleans square shops (including a cart near the mansion exit, and a reincarnated store below the disney gallery called le bat en rouge!).
we are happy to report that the mansion book selection is deepening.
for those who want vintage and other sold-out haunted mansion items, such  as the 1969 story album narrated by thurl ravenscroft, the 1964 sound effects  album, the secret panel chest, e-ticket magazine back issues, and the like,  ebay should not be missed.
the two most notable mansion-related editions of the e ticket are  available oncd-rom...
a few words of warning about ebay: unless you're bidding on an item presented by the disney company (id: disneyauctionears), bid with caution.
so if something's slow to go up,  poke her.
these cds are, as of this writing, available from disneyland delivears (1-800-760-3566) or walt disney world merchandise mail order (1-407-363-6200).
disneyshopping.com has gotten into the act as well, carrying haunted  mansion collectibles, hallowe'en decorations, and more!
at the walt disney world mansion, the imagineer epitaphs are (with the imagineer's real name and general mansion project role in brackets]:
your best bet to access the mansion during a parade  is through fantasyland (as opposed to approaching liberty square through the  hub or frontierland).
there were no danny elfman tunes from nightmare before christmas in that soundtrack.
the weathered, blocky text used on the haunted mansion story lp can be replicated reasonably with "terrorama chiseled," by jeff baham.
what is a "doombuggy"?
are there any websites that have good information about the haunted  mansion?
as a last line of offense, pay attention to the popular haunted mansion fan lists and bulletin boards.
when combined with the pre-show, the total length of the average guest's experience is roughly 15 minutes (not counting the queue line, of course).
on busy days in the  park, using the fastpass option may work for you.
the  evening was capped off with a midnight ride through the haunted mansion where  guests got to shake the hands of the imagineers who worked on the attraction  and thrill to "real" ghosts hidden throughout the ride.
you used to hear it as part  of the queue background music loop during haunted mansion holiday 2001.
disneyland.com and waltdisneyworld.com try to post refurbishment schedules to their calendars features as soon as the schedules are known, but nothing's guaranteed.
in peace mister sewell the victim of a dirty duel [bob sewell, model shop lead] at peaceful rest liesat peaceful rest lies brother claude planted here beneath this sod [claude coats, show designer/art director] (this one's new as of early 2002: )(this one's new as of early 2002: )
if you want to see some changing portrait art that never made the  cut, see this show.
their were several haunted mansion 40th anniversary merchandise events planned for disneyland in 2009.
immediately after the parades, however, the mansion is typically flooded by a "rush" of guests.
since,  they've given us all sorts of mansiony crap, from pins and other collectibles  to hallowe'en decorations.
if you're serious about your numbers, wdi senior creative veep tony baxter suggests including the wallpaper demons from the corridor of doors in your count.
previous 5 | skip previous |  previous | next skip next | next 5 | random | list | home go back to the main page...
you'll also want to check out the october, 2002, issues of haunted attraction magazine.
during the 1998 and 1999 hallowe'en seasons, it sold a cassette version of the 1969 story album narrated by thurl ravenscroft.
you can also find a torrent containing all  of the disneyland forever selections in lossless formathere.
on october 25, 2000, the disneyland resort in california hosted a special "haunted mansion"-themed dinner experience for $2,000.00 a ticket.
track 6:  phantom manor at disneyland paris  12:48
a few  words of warning about ebay: unless you're bidding on an item presented by the  disney company (id: disneyauctionears), bid with caution.
most of these stores aren't permanent.
they completely redid the effect in january of 2005, probably to bring a little more "gracey" into the disneyland mansion, to bring the presentation a bit more in line with both zee movieeee et le wdw mansion.
on most days at the  park, you won't have to wait more than 15-20 minutes to get in.
more about events... - june pin event - august shag cocktail event and product signing - september "wedding"-themed anniversary merch event
cast members portraying family servants would serve as the tour guides, an idea which survives today in the maid/butler roles that contemporary mansion hosts and hostesses play.
in general, "rehab"  periods usually last anywhere from a few days to a few months, depending on the  kinds of repairs and additions planned for the attraction.
you can still find "used" versions on ebay.
originally, the portraits were intended to fade back and forth between the before and after pictures (according to marc davis, who had originally prepared them for a mansion-themed restaurant that never materialized).
continuing through oct. 31, the first-ever event will allow guests to enter a family-friendly world of halloween delights.
some portions of the attraction are rather dimly-lit, and... does anything grab you or jump out at you?
additionally, the best overall phantom manor website (in our humble opinions) isravenswood manor.
what kinds of haunted mansion souvenirs are available?
children tend to be more frightened by the idea of the haunted mansion than by the ride itself.
it was originally created for the gazebo in the outer queue area of phantom manor at disneyland paris.
the latter listing is geared primarily to pin-trading, but it should include every event of interest, as virtually all events are merch-heavy, and merch means lots of pins (not to mention funky-expensive tschotsky-thingies that probably break really easily, tee hee).
that having been said... what about the older souvenirs that are no longer produced?
disneyland's hearse appeared first, with the big attraction refurb of 1995.
the other baltimore source structure was depicted in an architectural resource collection used at wed (you can see the photo of the house at doombuggies.com).
30 lucky (and, one presumes, wealthy) guests were given the full vip treatment as they were driven by limousine from the disneyland hotel through disneyland to the front gate of the mansion.
the haunted mansion is an attraction blessed with relatively short queues  and generally speedy loads.
is it scary/suitable for my children?
she mistressesbetter haunts & graveyards.
there's also a fine bulletin board atdoombuggies.com.
eventually, it was agreed that the "haunted house" (as it was marked on maps of the park from 1957) would be constructed in what would become the new orleans square section of disneyland.
in addition, russell  narrates a segment on the making of the mansion, which features some nifty  shots of imagineers working on effects and models for the attraction.
keep in mind that sometimes company plans change, though, so don't take early  rumors too seriously.
disneyshopping.com (formerly the disney store) has also been known to sell  mansion-related items, though not usually the same items you see in the parks.
story concepts revolved around various characters.
imagineers (notably ken anderson, to whom walt disney assigned primary artistic responsibility for "haunted house" concepts in 1957) actually visited evergreen house to collect details.
disneyland celebrated the 30th anniversary of the haunted mansion on june 26, 1999 with a special ticketed event.
completed as early as spring of 1971, it was among the opening day attractions.
it stands to the left of the doombuggy track as you pass the spooky musicians.
there are well under 999 actual ghost figures and effects in the mansion.
i'm not a news service, but as i learn stuff, i post it - and usually to my twitter feed or updates blog.
in 1990, vincent price recorded a narration for phantom manor - but the show concept changed and his narration was never used.
they now use the scarols in the queue.
it's by don bertino, and you can look at it here.
disneyland's mansion fastpass distribution area is beautiful, especially at night.
you used to hear it as part of the queue background music loop during haunted mansion holiday 2001.
some of the more recent offerings at  the cart include license plates, hats, baby tees, lockets, buttons, and fridge  magnets.
track 6: phantom manor at disneyland paris 12:48
another spooky event that is not directly mansion-related is wdw's  "mickey's not-so-scary hallowe'en party," held several days each  october at the magic kingdom.
as of summer, 2010, disney and writer-director guillermo del toro have announced a collaboration on a new haunted mansion film.
but hey, if it's there, give it a try.
stay tuned for more information.
at wdw, the ride portion of the haunted mansion is roughly 7 to 8 minutes long.
marc davis' famous changing portraits and stretching pictures, too, were in the mix as early as 1965, when walt showed them off in the disneyland tencennial episode ofwonderful world of color.
are there any good fora for discussing the mansions online?
then, in the big 1995 mansion refurb, they portraits were made to fade slowly, as originally intended.
in peace cousin huet we all know you didn't do it
the first artistic rendering of a disney haunted attraction was created by harper goff in 1951.
as far as we know, the barstow and anaheim  locations in california, and the character warehouse in the former belz outlet  mall in orlando, are the only fixed locations.
the next day the guests concluded their adventure with a luncheon held at the park's ultra-private, ultra-exclusive restaurant and lounge, club 33.
dear sweet leota,dear sweet leota, beloved by all in regions beyond now, but having a ball
fastpass systems have been added to both the disneyland and walt disney world mansions, but are now rarely used (last i noticed, at disneyland, fastpass only ran during haunted mansion holiday crowds).
this screencap was taken from the march, 1970 "disneyland showtime" special featuring the osmonds, ej peaker, kurt russell, and the haunted mansion.
this time, though, the technology has been significantly revamped.
the 30th anniversary disc and haunted mansion holiday/scarols recordings can be purchased via amazon.
it was reprised on october 27-29, 2003, and  again in 2004.
the guests dined on such fare as  "mummified duck" and "death by chocolate" with imagineers  rolly crump and alice davis, while being serenaded with chamber music from a  ghostly band of musicians.
the walt disney world and tokyo disneyland façades incorporate elements of several different periods.
they were greeted at the  front door by none other than jack skellington (from the disney/touchstone film the nightmare before christmas) who led them to a sumptuous banquet held  in the changing portrait hallway.
many of these items feature the phrase "it's your funeral!"
as far as we know, the barstow and anaheim locations in california, and the character warehouse in the former belz outlet mall in orlando, are the only fixed locations.
this event is a hard-ticket event taking place on selected evenings during the hallowe'en season at disney's california adventure.
it's themed to look like part of the mansion's gardens, and is worth a look, at least!
on october 25, 2000, the disneyland resort in california hosted a special  "haunted mansion"-themed dinner experience for $2,000.00 a  ticket.
another  special-ticket price-tiered event was held, along with a great disney gallery  exhibit on the art of the haunted mansion.
track 3: the haunted mansion at disneyland 22:28
in 2006, i bought a light-up attic bride piece with  a beating heart; she looked great with our jack-o-lanterns!
some of the remaining headstones were relocated to the top of the berm next to the queue area (the good old fred one
disneyland has several 40th anniversary-themed events planned for summer, 2009.
by a happy combination of circumstances, the reluctant 'spook house' on the river which walt and wed enterprises so desperately wanted to populate finally became a workable concept as the doombuggy-powered haunted mansion.
the mansion is right next door to the station.
it was released on november 26, 2003 in theatres.
the attraction was a duplicate of the walt disney world show - in english - except for a chilling narration delivered by a japanese speaking ghost host (t. hori).
kurt russell, the osmonds, ej peaker, and friends take  viewers on an abbreviated ridethrough of the attraction.
hal lusinashun bea witch hap a. ritionin spiritual repose hal lusinashun bea witch
the 999 happy haunts/room for a thousand thing is just a cute way of playing up walt disney's original "supernatural real estate" gag, conceived early in the planning stages of the project.
"grim grinning ghosts" can be found on the official albums of disneyland and walt disney world.
if you crave more, jeff at doombuggies.com has a large media collection  including various scenes and snippets from tv specials and documentaries.
many folks who've heard both  versions seem to prefer the goodwin score, oddly enough.
now  that haunted mansion holiday is a regular event at tokyo disneyland as well,  you should expect similar sticking points at that park during the holiday  season, too.
immediately after the parades, however, the mansion  is typically flooded by a "rush" of guests.
what about [blank]? section [blank] is so obvious.
since the haunted mansion anniversary event mentioned above, mansion fans have enjoyed a resurgence in haunted mansion collectibles.
it was originally created for the gazebo in the outer queue area of phantom  manor at disneyland paris.
what's the latest mansion-related news?
other options for new merchandise include mouseshoppe.com (for disneyland items), which tends to be significantly more expensive, and ebay, an online auction outfit.
another spooky event that is not directly mansion-related is wdw's "mickey's not-so-scary hallowe'en party," held several days each october at the magic kingdom.
not everyone is convinced  that fastpass works to the guest's advantage, especially when used on an  attraction with naturally short wait times like the mansion.
in the afternoon, the crowds are much heavier as tourists use the cold, dark mansion to escape the florida sun.
before the mansion attraction could be fully planned and executed, however, wed enterprises - what disney imagineering was then called - became distracted by their work on the 1964-65 new york world's fair.
i've heard cast members and fans referring to characters in the mansions by name.
the bulk of the attraction is a slow-moving ride through the mansion, with a running narration (courtesy of your friendly "ghost host," a disembodied voice provided in the american mansions by the late paul frees.
during the 1998 and 1999 hallowe'en seasons, it sold a cassette version of the  1969 story album narrated by thurl ravenscroft.
if you decide not to ride the attraction after entering, please notify a cast member immediately.
special note: with the introduction of the haunted mansion holiday overlay at disneyland, queue waits from october to the beginning of january may be significantly lengthened.
on october 30, 2002, walt disney world's magic kingdom held a special "999 happy haunts ball."
also, the mansion is pretty vacant immediately before and during the magic kingdom parades, although liberty square becomes congested to the point of immobility during them.
as of 2005, disneyland has drummed up it's own version of the mnsshp, called mickey's halloween treat.
it's also quite pricey, though.
haunted mansion holiday music different  from 2001's original tunes?
they're partially influenced by the harry packer mansion in jim thorpe, pennsylvania, and by a drawing or engraving of a stone villa from an architecture collection used at wed.
with ken anderson's assignment to the project in 1957, the team considered using the prankish spirits from the classic 1937 animated short film "lonesome ghosts" and other supernatural disney cartoon personalities.
the original chills and thrills, from the first creaking threshold to the last groaning tombstone.
another special-ticket price-tiered event was held, along with a great disney gallery exhibit on the art of the haunted mansion.
are there stores outside the parks that sell mansion-related park souvenirs?
aprildecember is a dreamer, college professor, graphic designer, former disneyland attractions hostess, and law-degree-toting rebel.
or walt disney world merchandise mail order (1-407-363-6200).
it covers quite a bit about the technologies used in the disneyland mansion, the people who created the magic that is the mansion, and the text associated with the mansion.
the haunted mansion holiday leota (as of this writing) still utilizes a static projection effect, however.
both the event and the overlay were  huge successes, sparking plans for similar overlays at other mansion  attractions (to date, tokyo disneyland's mansion).
the wdw mansion was down for most of the summer of 2007 in order  to accomplish its first major-change rehab in time for the first mickey's  not-so-scary hallowe'en party in late september.
some characters - including the hanging skeleton and the singing busts - had in-house imagineering names which have influenced the monikers by which some mansion fans refer to them.
i've also heard that there are versions of haunted mansion holiday's  soundtrack, complete with queue scarols, available at disneyland and tokyo  disneyland.
according to imagineer and mansion author jason surrell, art director marvin davis included a haunted house in early visual conceptions of main street usa.
it included a sound chip which played a short snippet of  ghost host narration.
each doombuggy can seat two adults or three children comfortably.
the haunted mansion gets airtime in many television shows and specials, almost all of them disney.
track 5: the haunted mansion at tokyo disneyland 1:31 when tokyo disneyland opened in april of 1983, the haunted mansion was there, towering over fantasyland.
afterwards, they were chauffeured back to  their hotel, where special souvenirs (including their personalized tombstone)  awaited them.
the winchester house (llanada villa) is the source of the mansion's endless hallway concept, various decor elements (including the dark, wood molding), and the notion of putting a big pipe organ in a crazy little ballroom.
there have been many!
it's located on the sloping hillside between the mansion exit crypt and the gate entrance to the mansion's main exterior queue areas.
they were greeted at the front door by none other than jack skellington (from the disney/touchstone film the nightmare before christmas) who led them to a sumptuous banquet held in the changing portrait hallway.
you can still find  "used" versions on ebay.
bidding usually gets fierce on the most-wanted collectibles, but if  you have to have it, chances are you'll be able to get it on ebay.
track 7:  the genius of paul frees  4:01 a  collection of out-takes and unused narration from the original haunted mansion,  providing a rare behind-the-scenes glimpse at the work of paul frees.
some sensitive adults find the attraction scary, while most think the scares and subject matter are rather tame.
bidding usually gets fierce on the most-wanted collectibles, but if you have to have it, chances are you'll be able to get it on ebay.
in fact, in the middle  of the 2002 haunted mansion holiday season, the expanding room soundtrack was  reverted to the goodwin version.
in 1962, the mansion facade was built along the rivers of america, in what was at the time the farthest edge of frontierland.
in general, "rehab" periods usually last anywhere from a few days to a few months, depending on the kinds of repairs and additions planned for the attraction.
walt disney had always wanted some sort of haunted attraction in his park, though he didn't have any set ideas in mind when he began toying with the concept in the early 1950s.
it's also quite pricey,  though.
and premier shop (tomorrowland, next to the old nasa  exhibit) used to have haunted mansion selections available as part of a  "build your own disneyland cd" offering.
martin sklar, current wdi ambassador and former imagineering principal creative executive, wrote the copy featured on the sign (for the record, the sign as constructed was different than the blueprint concept featuredhere on the site - the sign copy differs, too.
in 1993, the "new" pet cemetery was added to the main queue area.
the wdw haunted mansion's  fastpass area has been themed to look like a colonial shipping dock receiving  shipments of fresh tombstones.
[at tokyo dl, this epitaph exists...but with yale gracey's name replaced by "mr. west."] rest in peacerest
according to comprehensive blueprints created by anderson, this incarnation would have combined the original "walk through tour" idea with a theatre-type finale featuring dark-ride style special effects.
april december was removed, the gorgon was swapped into her slot, and the "master gracey" changing portrait from the walt disney world mansion foyer was given the center frame.
not everyone is convinced that fastpass works to the guest's advantage, especially when used on an attraction with naturally short wait times like the mansion.
pov's issue #9 dedicates several pages to the music of the haunted mansions.
are there any good books or shows i can find about the haunted  mansion?
if necessary, the attraction can be stopped in order to allow mobility-impaired guests to board.
since the haunted mansion anniversary event mentioned above, mansion fans  have enjoyed a resurgence in haunted mansion collectibles.
various gags and elements researched for the attraction in the early-to-mid-sixties included rolly crump's "museum of the supernatural" (also known in some proposals as the "museum of the weird"), featuring a candle man, a living gypsy cart, a talking chair, and a coffin clock.
now you can hear it in the mansion fastpass area at disneyland (or at least, you could last i checked).
in fact, in the middle of the 2002 haunted mansion holiday season, the expanding room soundtrack was reverted to the goodwin version.
in his mansion book, however, jason surrell provides that the black hearse at wdw was used in at least one film,the sons of katie elder.
new orleans square and pirates of the caribbean had to be put to bed first.
the entrancing musical arrangements were created by john debney.
at disneyland, fantasmic! shows on the rivers of america will usually make  access to the whole of new orleans square and critter country very difficult,  if not impossible, during the half-hour or so before, during, and just after  the performance.
the lights went out on this old spartan
more price-tiered holiday events  ocurred in 2003 and 2004.apparently, there are no special haunted  mansion holiday merch/dinner events planned for disneyland from 2006 on .
sometimes, it airs late-night on the disney channel  (with the discontinuation ofvault disney, though, who knows when or if  it'll continue to run).
also, the mansion is pretty vacant immediately before and during the  magic kingdom parades, although liberty square becomes congested to the point  of immobility during them.
while the museum of the supernatural never made the finished attraction intact (the corridor of doors wallpaper, chair-faces, and haunted grandfather clocks are among the remnants), several of marc davis' supernatural portraits certainly did (most notably in the disneyland mansion's changing portrait hall and in the wdw mansion's now-defunct sinister eleven gallery).
if you want to see what the museum of the weird was all about, see  this show.
" "rudelsburg" - a font that appears on the haunted mansion  attraction posters - is also available there.
stay alert, though, this soundtrack assembly includes a few  never-before-heard surprises.
then in january of 2005, the whole seance scene was significantly revamped again to incorporate new "hover" technology and effects.
in october of 2002, haunted mansion holiday reprised itself with a different musical score.
a special cd,  t-shirts, beanbag toys, masks, lithographs, lenticular cards, sculptures, pins,  and other items came to join the normal selection of attraction posters,  disneyland forever cd selections, and postcards at disneyland.
as for the rest of the names you may hear or read, they're largely made up.
no, nothing's been readded.
she mistressesbetter haunts  & graveyards.
the first haunted mansion opened in disneyland on august 9th, 1969, and each disney theme park has included one ever since (except hong kong disneyland, which opened in 2005 without a mansion).
however, wait times for the haunted mansion will usually be pretty short if you can get through the crowds.
while there are more websites devoted to the haunted mansion than any other single disney attraction, we preferdoombuggies.com, grimghosts.com, better haunts & graveyards, and tombsweettomb.com.
" i've also heard tony baxter refer to the "ghost horse" attached to the wdw exterior hearse as "old dobbin."
you can also find a torrent containing all of the disneyland forever selections in lossless formathere.
paul frees "etherealizes" as our ghost host  while thurl ravenscroft's distinctive bass voice resounds through the  graveyard.
here's more on the 2003 movie: walt disney pictures presented a feature film based on the haunted mansion attraction at disneyland.
inside the haunted mansions, many of the graveyard scene headstones supposedly feature scrambled references to various imagineers who worked on the attraction.
it's themed to look like part of the mansion's  gardens, and is worth a look, at least!
are all of the characters named?
while the ride cars can rotate a full 360 degrees, they do not spin wildly.
the reasons for the first two are simple: it cuts down on the potential for messes and spills.
the old jilted bride concept morphed into that of a golddigging, murderous "black widow" named constance (ha) who marries men of means and then beheads them.
now that haunted mansion holiday is a regular event at tokyo disneyland as well, you should expect similar sticking points at that park during the holiday season, too.
disneyland.com and waltdisneyworld.com try to post refurbishment schedules  to their calendars features as soon as the schedules are known, but nothing's  guaranteed.
the parks refurbish most attractions at least once a year, usually  during off-peak weeks in the fall, late winter, and spring.
[gordon williams, sound effects and audio animatronics programming] rest in peacerest
changes include upgrades to attraction audio, a new changing portrait gallery just past load, the removal of the sinister eleven gallery (a dark corridor with evil eyes replaces the old gallery location), a new staircase scene just beyond the library and music room, the disneyland "floating" crystal ball effect, the disneyland "constance" upgrades to the attic, a mr. toad tribute in the hillside pet cemetery, and more.
both disneyland and walt disney world display an antique hearse outside the mansion (disneyland's is painted white, while walt disney world's is painted black).
the haunted mansion is the walt disney company's version of a classic "spook house".
unless it's christmas break, spring break, or the peak of summer, wait times should be moderate-to-nil.
that depends entirely upon you and your children.
disneyland forever kiosks in disneyland's 20th century music shop (main street)
the guests dined on such fare as "mummified duck" and "death by chocolate" with imagineers rolly crump and alice davis, while being serenaded with chamber music from a ghostly band of musicians.
the  show's writer, x. atencio, provided his own voice for the foreboding  "breakdown" spiels and some "unload" spiels that never  materialized.
as a last line of offense, pay attention to the popular haunted mansion fan  lists and bulletin boards.
this hard-ticket event includes  trick-or-treating, special parades and fireworks, fortune telling, and more.
is there a story behind the mansion?
the phantom pianist is still present, but the rest of the attic is now filled with vignettes including constance's marriage portraits (as you pass, the grooms' heads disappear a la the original hatbox ghost that was originally located in the attic) along with the items she's amassed through each particular marriage.
kronos reports that the famous "the" in "the haunted mansion" found on the gate plaques and other signage was created with a font called "bookman italic swashes ."
many of these names are rooted in tombstone and mausoleum epitaphs found on the mansion grounds, though these epitaph names are not officially linked with any particular ghost characters featured inside the attractions.
kronos is a life-long mansion fan, writer, frequenter of walt disney  world, co-moderator of the hauntedmansion@yahoogroups.com list, and webmaster  of tombsweettomb.com from the mid-atlantic united states.
[dave burkhart, model builder] master graceymaster gracey laid to rest
there's also a series of haunted mansion comics presented by slave labor  graphics, a children's popup book (now out of print), a few movie-related kids'  books, several coloring books, and small sections covering the mansion in  various books about the parks/walt disney/imagineering, among other things.
now, the portraits flash back and forth with the lightning again.
according todon's faq, it was added with the 1995 refurb (during which the phantom pianist in the attic joined the cast of 999).
in memory of our patriarchin memory of our patriarch dear departed grandpa marc [marc davis, show designer/art director] requiescatrequiescat francis xavier no time off for good behavior r.i.p. [f.x. atencio, show writer, epitaph writer, and ggg lyricist] here lieshere lies a man named martin
"we hope families will begin a new holiday tradition of celebrating  halloween with us here at the disneyland resort."
there is a brief "pre-show" walk through, consisting of two rooms (a foyer and the "stretching room") and a corridor.
now that the furor's died down a bit, you will likely not run into too many queue problems on weekdays; but, watch out on weekends, holidays (like thanksgiving week), and throughout christmas break.
at disneyland, the stretching room is a true elevator, carrying guests down to a lower level (they need to be moved under the railroad tracks to a show building outside the park's berm).
in 1990, vincent price recorded a narration for phantom manor - but the show  concept changed and his narration was never used.
that wasn't the original intention, however, and it isn't the way disneyland paris' phantom manor came to be presented, either.
in 2006, the attic scene was changed.
track 9: three ghostly voices 2:55 first, eleanor audley, who voiced several disney animated villains, awakens "creepies and crawlies" with these out-takes from her recording sessions as madame leota and the raven.
on busy park days, early morning and late night are probably  the best times to try the mansion.
a question can't really attain "frequently asked" status until people have been asking it for awhile.
that's how it's been ever since.
if you want the absolute latest what-ifs, try one of the disney message boards.
you'll also want to check out the october, 2002, issues of haunted  attraction magazine.
keep in mind that sometimes company plans change, though, so don't take early rumors too seriously.
the haunted mansion ride vehicles are called "doombuggies" (a pun on the word "dunebuggy" that was, admittedly, a lot funnier in the late 1960s).
finally, despite disney's claims that it's based primarily on an old "second empire" style schoolhouse (thefourth ward school in virginia city, nevada), phantom manor's façade in disneyland paris appears to be heavily influenced by the infamous "bates house" from alfred hitchcock's classic horror thriller "psycho".
significant upgrades to the walt disney world haunted mansion are complete as of september 14, 2007.
so, if you're only on the disneyland list, you probably won't  get info about wdw events.
she's voiced by actress kathryn cressida, saying silly things like, "i do...idid..." as of 2008, it appears that the "original" ghost host narration is back.
the idea behind fastpass is this: you can 'reserve' yourself a spot in an attraction during a specific window of time, thereby reducing your time in line.
for more information and some awesome goodies, visit http://www.haunted-mansion.com.
while many sellers  offer bona fide merchandise at fair minimums, others have been known to  misrepresent their wares.
ebay is also the place to go if you really want wild and wacky unofficial stuff, like original artwork, gate plaque castings, etceteras.
many of the sound effects were created by disney legend jimmy macdonald.
for the record: it has been widely reported that disneyland's hearse was used in the 1877 funeral of mormon leader brigham young, but this has been hotly disputed by some mormons and historians.
built just next to magnolia park and fowler's harbor, the building remained empty and quiet until 1968.
i know that the haunted mansion movie altered the nature of the bride story as it is.
there's also a series of haunted mansion comics presented by slave labor graphics, a children's popup book (now out of print), a few movie-related kids' books, several coloring books, and small sections covering the mansion in various books about the parks/walt disney/imagineering, among other things.
later dustin t. dust asher t. ashes m. t. tomb
the "i do!"popups were removed, the bride figure was completely changed out and moved to the opposite side of the doombuggy track, and a new "story" introduced.
nowadays april does most of the updates.
in 2001, the overlay featured a lovely score orchestrated by gordy  goodwin.
more recently,  special "haunted mansion holiday" merch (pins, ornaments,  sweatshirts, plush, &c.) have made it to the shelves of new orleans square  shops (including a cart near the mansion exit, and a reincarnated store below  the disney gallery called le bat en rouge!).
vestiges of the pirate groom/doomed bride story remain in the disneyland mansion to this day, too, from the "lonely" bride in the attic (with the 2006 conversion of the usual bride to the murderous "constance," this isn't necessarily the case anymore) to the ship-shaped weathervane atop the captain's walk.
stay tuned  for more information.
also be aware that the overlay prep will make extended refurbishment  downtime necessary (the week after labor day through the beginning of october,  and the second week of january through the beginning of february).
[cliff huet, set designer] in memoriumin memorium uncle myall here you'll live for quite a while [chuck myall, architectural design (a wed art director)]
30 lucky (and, one presumes, wealthy) guests were given the full  vip treatment as they were driven by limousine from the disneyland hotel  through disneyland to the front gate of the mansion.
if  you have a site you like, email us about it!
the original chills and thrills, from the first creaking threshold to the last  groaning tombstone.
during the graveyard scenes, there are several "pop-up" ghosts that have been known to momentarily startle even diehard fans of the attraction with dozens, if not hundreds, of visits under their belts (including the authors of this faq).
you can find a list of disneyland's epitaphs on don's faq.
the haunted mansion is an attraction blessed with relatively short queues and generally speedy loads.
the show's writer, x. atencio, provided his own voice for the foreboding "breakdown" spiels and some "unload" spiels that never materialized.
the names on the tombs in the exit queue are: first tomb:first tomb: in spiritual repose
sometimes, an attraction will go "101" - disney codespeak for a breakdown - with no notice whatsoever.
if you want to see what the museum of the weird was all about, see this show.
it included a sound chip which played a short snippet of ghost host narration.
but there were other projects still to be finished before the mansion could become a top priority.
the next day the guests concluded their adventure with  a  luncheon held at the park's ultra-private, ultra-exclusive restaurant  and lounge, club 33.
skip next | next 5 | random | list | homeskip next | next 5 | random | list | home go back to the main page...
there are "chicken exits" available that will bypass the ride completely and send you immediately to the exit (at wdw, the exit is marked with a sign reading "for those of you too full of fear, one last chance to exit here").
issue #13 - summer 1992.
be advised, though, that these announcements sometimes arrive too late to reserve space.
here's more on the 2003 movie: walt disney pictures presented a feature film based on the haunted mansion  attraction at disneyland.
ken anderson, when assigned primary artistic responsibility for the project in 1957, went out in search of further inspiration for walt's spook house, touring sarah winchester's amazing 1880's farmhouse-cum-sprawling mansion in san jose, california.
kronos reports that the famous  "the" in "the haunted mansion" found on the gate plaques  and other signage was created with a font called "bookman italic swashes ."
fastpass systems have been added to both the disneyland and walt disney  world mansions, but are now rarely used (last i noticed, at disneyland,  fastpass only ran during haunted mansion holiday crowds).
more, it's not our style to report fresh rumors as credible possibilities, let alone as fact.
sometime not long before the advent of haunted mansion holiday, however, the remainders were cleared away for good.
enjoy active retirement in this country club atmosphere - the fashionable address for famous ghosts, ghosts trying to make a name for themselves...and ghosts afraid to live by themselves!
the epitaphs were composed by show writer x. atencio, while the tombstones themselves were designed by vic greene.
finally, while not a ride requirement, you should cover or extinguish all lighted jewelry or toys, as the glow from these items may disturb other guests and detract from the ride experience.
some of our sections are very basic, geared toward first-timers, while others involve more advanced topics we find interesting.
however, wait times for the haunted mansion will usually be  pretty short if you can get through the crowds.
the entrancing musical  arrangements were created by john debney.
after the tour, the guests boarded the doombuggies for a ride through the mansion -- this time with actors hidden throughout the attraction.
it was reprised on october 27-29, 2003, and again in 2004.
the idea behind fastpass is  this: you can 'reserve' yourself a spot in an attraction during a specific  window of time, thereby reducing your time in line.
pov's issue #9 dedicates several pages to the music of the haunted  mansions.
"disney's halloweentime will be a wonderful  opportunity for families to come together and enjoy the make-believe aspects of  the holiday," said matt ouimet, president of the disneyland resort.
i haven't seen it, so i can't verify precisely where it is (and he can't remember - ha!).
it's also got interesting queue areas and a pre-show which is a vital part of the haunted mansion experience, which makes the wait to get on the "ride" less of a bore.
this can be accomplished very easily if you can walk for short distances (20 feet or so).
aprildecember recommends two: a 1970 disney television special called disneyland showtime is particularly interesting.
and premier shop (tomorrowland, next to the old nasa exhibit) used to have haunted mansion selections available as part of a "build your own disneyland cd" offering.
and third,  imagineer leota toombs (who appeared as both the face of madame leota and the  face and voice of little leota) is heard in these never-before-released vocal  takes for madame leota.
no mourning please, at his request farewell [yale gracey, effects desgner]
we can't guarantee we'll link it, though.
at some point in the 1970s, the imagineer cemetery - which had been located within the queue area on the french market side of the mansion facade building - was cleared to make room for more queue space.
there are also a number of disney warehouse stores in california and  florida, which may have some mansion items left over from disneyland.
for those who want vintage and other sold-out haunted mansion items, such as the 1969 story album narrated by thurl ravenscroft, the 1964 sound effects album, the secret panel chest, e-ticket magazine back issues, and the like, ebay should not be missed.
track 8:  otherworldly music  3:32 world-renowned  organist gaylord carter performed these unheard versions of the haunted mansion  music under the direction of composer and disney legend buddy baker.
some of your best information bets are probably the two best-known unofficial disney historical journals,persistence of vision and the e ticket (no longer publishing).
in the afternoon, the crowds  are much heavier as tourists use the cold, dark mansion to escape the florida  sun.
in it, we're introduced to marc davis, rolly crump, and several concept artworks and models created for the mansion.
the "spooky retirement community" concept continued into the 1960s with marty sklar's "real estate sign" copy (see above), and strongly influenced me in developing the "home and garden" spoof slant for this web site.
in recent years, walt disney world has also gotten into the mansion  merchandise "spirit" with madame leota's cart, which has sold mansion  pop-up books, gargoyles, coloring books, and die-cast hearses (complete with  invisible ghost horse!), and other items.
the wdw haunted mansion's fastpass area has been themed to look like a colonial shipping dock receiving shipments of fresh tombstones.
[bill martin, architectural design (wed's vp of design, in charge of the mk)] dear departeddear departed brother dave he chased a bear into cave
hap a. rition second tomb:second tomb: here lyeth his loving wives penelope died 1434here lyeth his loving wives penelope died 1434 third tomb:third tomb:
in 2002, there was an entirely new soundtrack,  featuring the danny elfman tunes from the film.
hey, isn't there another mansion faq out there somewhere?
at disneyland, you'll find a 21st century addition to the interior graveyard scene.
was the 2002 (and beyond)
smoking is potentially dangerous; in addition to the smell and the health risks to other guests, some structures and mechanisms in the haunted mansion could be damaged by a smoldering cigarette butt or hot ash.
track 4:  the haunted mansion at walt disney world  1:00 when the haunted mansion materialized in 1971 in the magic kingdom at the  walt disney world resort, it was nearly identical to the disneyland show, with  the addition of these brief but eerie audio tracks - actually recorded at the  same time as the disneyland soundtrack.
after the tour, the guests boarded  the doombuggies for a ride through the mansion -- this time with actors hidden  throughout the attraction.
with haunted mansion holiday in 2001, we saw the return of the 'front projection' effect onto a static table.
be advised, though, that these announcements sometimes arrive too  late to reserve space.
so, for many years, the portraits changed with every flash of lightening which illuminated the hallway.
aprildecember is a dreamer, college professor, graphic designer, former disneyland  attractions hostess, and law-degree-toting rebel.
if you have already attended a special event, or have put yourself on the disney gallery/disneyana shop mailing list, you'll probably get an invitation in the mail.
on october 30, 2002, walt disney world's magic kingdom held a special  "999 happy haunts ball."
some present home-made or counterfeit items as  official merchandise, while others falsely claim that their items are 'rare' or  'sold out.'
at right, you can see where the headstones sat, in front of the mausoleum/chicken exit door.
kronos, a clue enthusiast in addition to his mansion affinity, has  complained about the thinness of the playing pieces (they're not fully  dimensionalized) and the omission of the side doors in the ballroom.
only madame leota, the disembodied spirit medium, and now constance the black widow are officially named in the haunted mansion universe.
videotaping without an external light (or with an infrared light) is permitted.
previous | nextprevious 5 | skip previous | previous | next when is the best time to ride the mansion?
disneyshopping.com has gotten into the act as well, carrying haunted mansion collectibles, hallowe'en decorations, and more!
if you have suggestions or information we might like to add, email us.
at the time of the latest faq  update, the disneyland forever kiosks have been discontinued.
as it wound up ultimately presented, the haunted mansion is merely a haunted house pastiche - a collection of ghostly gags and clichés without a storyline.
with the construction of disneyland in 1955, the haunted house project started to take on a bit more life.
each park still sells the "haunted mansion compact disc " (the same thing as the old 30th anniversary cd,  basically).
so, if you're only on the disneyland list, you probably won't get info about wdw events.
all ghosts and restless spirits past-lifetime leases are now available in this haunted mansion don't be left out in the sunshine!
disneyshopping.com is one good place to start, though it does not usually feature the same items sold at the parks.
for some reason, the imagineers at wed changed the concept before installation.
track 12: breakdown and unload spiels 0:55
other options for  new merchandise include mouseshoppe.com (for disneyland items), which tends to  be significantly more expensive, and ebay, an online auction outfit.
in 2002, there was an entirely new soundtrack, featuring the danny elfman tunes from the film.
in the "stretching gallery", does the ceiling go up, or does the floor go down?
the pertinent tracks  included the foyer, load, ballroom organ, graveyard instrumental, and acapella  exit crypt music with little leota's spiel.
co-faq author kronos and justin callahan created a wonderful version of the font called "ravenscroft."
this cd includes the following tracks (text taken from the album's liner notes): track 1: walt disney 0:26
also be aware that the overlay prep will make extended refurbishment downtime necessary (the week after labor day through the beginning of october, and the second week of january through the beginning of february).