if you want to get the most out of your waking life, make it your goal to get the most out of your sleep.
when you realise how profoundly sleep affects your quality of life, you'll take it as seriously as you take diet and exercise.
the human body is brilliantly designed to naturally follow the rhythms of nature.
if you wake up groggy, it's  probably because you're falling short of sleep needs.
morning exercise does little to  improve sleep, so if a better night's sleep is your goal, get your exercise in  the afternoon or early evening.
electric lights, tvs and other modern  conveniences short-circuit our natural bio-rhythms.
once you've learned the techniques, you can set your own schedule and  enjoy group classes on weekends.
try searching our entire site: go © 2012 contact us career opportunities terms & conditions privacy policy site map like us on facebook follow us on twitter our awards
one good way to remind yourself  to relax and unwind at the end of the day is to treat yourself to arelaxation  massage after work on monday.
as little as 20 minutes twice a day is enough to increase endorphin and other "happy" hormone levels.
we spend somewhere between a quarter to a third of our lives  sleeping for a reason: we need it.
- application (a): - email list - ntp consumer: - first name: - last name: - name: - email: - postcode: - haven't found what you're looking for?
contact aherbalist near you and find out which herbal tea blends are  best for relaxation before bed.
there's plenty of time  tomorrow to face the world and if you wake up refreshed, you'll see everything  in a brighter light and be more productive, too.
- protect yourself from mobile phone waves - learn how to heal yourself - angelic artwork and
exercises like yoga and pilates are  ideal, so find a school near you that holds classes in the afternoon or early  evening.
viteknologies.com.au - home improvement pages - pet pages ntpages.com.au australia's #1 natural health site search 4518 articles search - home - practitioners - schools - products - positions vacant - articles - list your business welcome!login shortlist (0) | new user?
however, heavy exercise also releases adrenaline, so instead of going to the gym at night, get your exercise in the afternoon.
you'll be happier, healthier and  more productive the next day and that first step towards better sleeping habits  will set the stage for a better life.
next time  you're tempted to stay up late studying, watching tv or catching up on your  emails, resist the temptation and go to bed.
do you look  forward to weekends as the days when you can sleep in?
meditation in  particular has been shown to be a great way to bring greater balance into life.
topic: wellbeing share this page share tweet print print link to this page: - - application (a): - email list - ntp consumer: - email: - postcode: - subscribe enter your details to receive our weekly newsletter, packed with the latest natural health news, articles and offers.
we spend somewhere between a quarter to a third of our lives sleeping for a reason: we need it.
these are 5  ways to get a better night's sleep.
morning exercise does little to improve sleep, so if a better night's sleep is your goal, get your exercise in the afternoon or early evening.
take sleep seriously most of us don't take sleep seriously unless we have insomnia.
if you spend your evenings catching up on  your bills, worrying about something that you put in the back of your mind at  work or even watching a suspenseful or violent movie on tv, you're creating  stress at just the time you should be putting the day's stresses behind you.
however,  heavy exercise also releases adrenaline, so instead of going to the gym at  night, get your exercise in the afternoon.
while disconnecting the house from the power grid might be overdoing it, putting yourself on a sleep schedule that corresponds with the time you have to wake up for work or school is a realistic way to tell your body when it's time to sleep.
featured businesses complete natural skincare when i try to describe the properties of my soap and creams the best way i have found to describe them, is like liquid gold.
find out how to add your business to natural therapy pages articles | wellbeing | 5 ways to get a better night's sleep 5 ways to get a better night's sleep feb 29, 2012 by rob schneider share tweet print print sponsored by do you need an alarm clock to wake you up in the morning?
as little as 20 minutes twice a day is enough to increase endorphin and other  "happy" hormone levels.
establish a sleeping pattern
take sleep seriously most of us don't take sleep seriously unless we  have insomnia.
there's plenty of time tomorrow to face the world and if you wake up refreshed, you'll see everything in a brighter light and be more productive, too.
turn off all the lights or if you need a dim light, place it near the ground.
does  it take another cup of coffee to keep you going after lunch?
if the answer to  any of these questions is, "yes," you probably aren't getting enough  sleep.
this acts like a signal to your body that the sun is setting, while an overhead light, even if dim, tells your body it's daytime.
contact aherbalist near you and find out which herbal tea blends are best for relaxation before bed.
while disconnecting the  house from the power grid might be overdoing it, putting yourself on a sleep  schedule that corresponds with the time you have to wake up for work or school  is a realistic way to tell your body when it's time to sleep.
avoid alcohol, caffeine and smoking most of us know that a cup of  coffee is the last thing you should drink before bedtime, but did you know that  the caffeine continues to work for up to six hours after you drink a cup of  coffee?
- list your business - advertiser login - customer support view awards partner sites resources - natural therapy uk - natural therapy nz - home improvement pages - pet pages subscribe to our newsletter - associations - modalities - practitioners by name - media centre - forums/blogs - discussion - articles - glossary - other links - link to us enter your details to receive our weekly newsletter with the latest natural therapy articles, news & views of natural health.
if you drink an afternoon cuppa at 4pm, it will still be affecting you at 10pm and can make getting to sleep difficult.
make evening a time of relaxation by reading a good book, listening to music,  meditating or doing something else that you enjoy.
exercise regular exercise is important for a variety of reasons, one of them being that exercise raises endorphins' levels.
avoid alcohol, caffeine and smoking most of us know that a cup of coffee is the last thing you should drink before bedtime, but did you know that the caffeine continues to work for up to six hours after you drink a cup of coffee?
if you spend your evenings catching up on your bills, worrying about something that you put in the back of your mind at work or even watching a suspenseful or violent movie on tv, you're creating stress at just the time you should be putting the day's stresses behind you.
exercise regular exercise is important for a variety of reasons, one  of them being that exercise raises endorphins' levels.
try going to bed a little  earlier.
you'll be happier, healthier and more productive the next day and that first step towards better sleeping habits will set the stage for a better life.
shortlist (0) | new user?
alcohol does make you drowsy, but it prevents restful sleep, causing "sleep fragmentation," a condition in which your brainwave patterns "bounce" from deep sleep to the waking or near waking state repeatedly.
nicotine is a stimulant and that "relaxing last cigarette before bed" habit is just the addiction speaking.
this acts like a signal to your body that the sun is setting, while an  overhead light, even if dim, tells your body it's daytime.
unwind before bedtime our lives are so busy, we find it hard to keep  up with all the things we have to do.
if you drink an afternoon cuppa at 4pm, it will still be affecting you  at 10pm and can make getting to sleep difficult.
one good way to remind yourself to relax and unwind at the end of the day is to treat yourself to arelaxation massage after work on monday.
when you realise how profoundly sleep affects your quality of  life, you'll take it as seriously as you take diet and exercise.
find out how to  add your business to natural therapy pages articles   |  wellbeing  |   5 ways to get a  better night's sleep 5 ways to get a better night's sleep feb 29, 2012 by rob schneider share print print sponsored by do you need an alarm clock to wake you up in  the morning?
by mcarthur natural products latest wellbeing articles - the benefits of paw paw - setting up a corporate wellness program - what is laughter therapy?
try going to bed a little earlier.
once you've learned the techniques, you can set your own schedule and enjoy group classes on weekends.
if you want to get the most out of your  waking life, make it your goal to get the most out of your sleep.
do you look forward to weekends as the days when you can sleep in?
alcohol does make you drowsy,  but it prevents restful sleep, causing "sleep fragmentation," a  condition in which your brainwave patterns "bounce" from deep sleep  to the waking or near waking state repeatedly.
nicotine is a stimulant and that  "relaxing last cigarette before bed" habit is just the addiction  speaking.
turn off all the lights or if you need a dim light, place it near the  ground.
electric lights, tvs and other modern conveniences short-circuit our natural bio-rhythms.
the "feel good" hormones, endorphins relieve stress and induce relaxation.
the best way to break a bad habit is to replace it with a  good one.
unwind before bedtime our lives are so busy, we find it hard to keep up with all the things we have to do.
if you wake up groggy, it's probably because you're falling short of sleep needs.
the best way to break a bad habit is to replace it with a good one.
the human body is brilliantly designed  to naturally follow the rhythms of nature.
if the answer to any of these questions is, "yes," you probably aren't getting enough sleep.
make evening a time of relaxation by reading a good book, listening to music, meditating or doing something else that you enjoy.
by the time you get home, you'll want to make  that feeling last rather than worry about what's on your plate tomorrow.
by the time you get home, you'll want to make that feeling last rather than worry about what's on your plate tomorrow.
next time you're tempted to stay up late studying, watching tv or catching up on your emails, resist the temptation and go to bed.
when darkness falls, the brain  begins to release restful chemicals.
most of us require 6 to 8 hours of sleep every night.
does it take another cup of coffee to keep you going after lunch?
these are 5 ways to get a better night's sleep.
meditation in particular has been shown to be a great way to bring greater balance into life.
the "feel  good" hormones, endorphins relieve stress and induce relaxation.
does it take 2 cups of coffee to make you really feel awake?
when darkness falls, the brain begins to release restful chemicals.
beautiful books featured articles exploring past life regression therapy get fit and have a healthy relationship a career in beauty therapy aromatherapy for eczema relief a career in shiatsu migraine sufferers helped by acupuncture directory - massage - natural medicine - beauty - yoga - spiritual - exercise & fitness - energetic - structural - cognitive courses - practitioners - schools - products - room for rent for business owners - aromatherapy - counselling - herbal medicine - homoeopathy - kinesiology - naturopathy - nutrition - remedial massage - sports massage we're ranked #1 in the hitwise australia 'natural therapies' category.
exercises like yoga and pilates are ideal, so find a school near you that holds classes in the afternoon or early evening.
most of  us require 6 to 8 hours of sleep every night.