you can also reserve an entire table for 10, but you must buy the tickets first, then call mary daltroff at 731-5121 and reserve the table.
what is especially notable about joan cortright and barbara palmer is that they have been coming to work at the chamber for over 20 years.
you will study and do exercises in one, two and three point perspective.
the pagosa ladies finished in seventh place this year.
for bower's involvement and commitment she is a recipient of the sda 2004 distinguished manager award.
the center is encouraging "surrogate  dads" to bring a special young lady to this event who may not have a  father in her life.
at the half, pirate coach lindsey kurt-mason warned his squad to "keep your heads.
for example, they could custom buy  over the internet and get fast delivery as a customer service or, let us buy  direct from them (with a built in service fee) from their own web site  addresses plastered all over town.
"the public was so cooperative, no one was turned away, and the  volunteers were great."
a 30-percent chance for rain at lower elevations and snow in the mountains is in the forecast for wednesday, as are highs in the 50s and lows in the upper 20s.
continue to work together, making it easy for you to  create independently.
watching the kids play with no pressure, just having fun, again reminded me the game is for the kids, and kids will develop their level of fun if we just leave them alone.
as always, there are a number of items to be raffled.
in an oct. 18 post editorial, it was noted that, while the option to vote early is inviting, perhaps this is one election year when it is wise to wait.
his plan discovered, arnold escaped and later led  devastating attacks against colonial forces.
director gerald smith took exception to what he called esterly's  "mischaracterization of the initiative" and read into the record the  preamble and summary thereof.
i'd also like to offer a heart felt thank you to local  physicians for being so attentive and thorough with pam on wednesday.
if the  sender does not receive an automated acknowledgment of receipt, it is the  sender's responsibility to insure timely receipt by other means.
project hotline for the lonesome dove work is (719) 850-2553 and for the other two projects, the hotline is (719) 873-2221.
each participating gallery will feature local artists and handcrafted items, food, drink and possibly music.
these occur at regular, predictable intervals that can be used to create a calendar.
different  cultures at different times perceived this as a spiritual venue.
center's keeper came out to face moe, the state's leading scorer in class 3a going into the contest.
i'm warm and  fuzzy and looking for a new home where warmth and comfort are needed and will  be accepted.
friday calls for mostly-cloudy conditions, a 40-percent chance for showers, thunderstorms and wet snow, highs in the 40s and lows in the 15-25 range.
walkup scored to take the serve back and forrest served up an ace to end the game.
efolkmusic.com reviewer bob barlow, writing about  buddy's third album, wrote: "blinding flash of light" is a cd poised  so evenly on the knife-edge between hope and despair that it takes several  listens just to determine where buddy tabor stands on the big questions he has  chosen to tackle.
to test the quality of the random survey, income levels and ages of  respondents were compared to income figures in the 2000 u.s. census.
and the survey says š protecting natural recreational opportunities  like the riverwalk, reservoir hill and open space is most important to local  residents.
library newslibrary news we can't build until spring by lenore bright sun columnist time has run out on our plan to start on the new library addition this fall.
learn  the elements of - and how to write - a convincing query letter; the  fundamentals of a compelling book proposal; how to find and deal with a  literary agent; which publishers to approach for different genres of books; the  basics of a publishing contract -advances, rights, royalties, copyright, sales,  marketing, etc.; and much more.
the cost of attaining a level 2 status is less than $150 plus the fees for  sample collection.
this group of remarkable volunteers hosts our visitor center seven days a week during the summer months and on the weekends during the winter with absolutely no thought of anything in return.
i encourage  each of you to fill out the survey online at www.archuleta.org or contact the  planning department at 264-5851.
that was followed by 81 percent highlighting open space acquisitions, 76  percent choosing to assure public access along the river and 71 percent wanting  to optimize recreational resources on reservoir hill.
i believe communication with the citizens is the only way to create and  know the public sentiment.
market forces, largely influenced by the response of  the private sector, are at least as important.
hunters who use atvs are also  asked to be courteous to other hunters regardless of the rules in the area.
artists may enter up to four submissions for $10 per artwork.
a woman loses her family in a car crash.
the result may be yet another trip to state for the boys.
there is certainly evidence that they can work effectively, as can be seen by successful programs already within the county.
there will also be three public open house forums on october 26-28 where  more can be learned about the deis.
along the way, the place has changed and so has the time and date, but the past two years the holiday bazaar has been the first saturday in november at the pagosa springs community center.
survey shows pagosans like outdoor, simple life
- continental estates ii sketch plan review re-plat of pineview dr. and lots 45 and 46.
united way works in archuleta, dolores, la plata, montezuma and san juan counties to solve each community's human problems.
special district association cites diane bower diane bower, district manager of the pagosa fire protection district, has  been honored with the 2004 distinguished manager award by the special district  association of colorado (sda).
the winds of change are sweeping over this great land of ours, but if we can turn indifference to legitimate concern, and if we can generate sincere political involvement among the ranks, then we can temper the force of the blow, and steer it in a direction of our choosing.
clinical signs include ulcers in the lining of the mouth and intestines, diarrhea, lower weight gains and diminished reproductive performance.
however, children as young as six and seven vandalize schools and park areas.
you can view  betty's art at the center during the month of november by appointment.
read the razor-sharp political commentary in most letters columns in  newspapers; listen to the average radio talk show.
walkup got a tremendous up on the ball and liza kelley powered a kill to the floor on the bayfield side of the net.
over 99 percent of donations stay in our community, with less than 1 percent paying dues to united way of america.
nov. 18 - signature gift and greeting card workshop with betty slade, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center.
elk with spike antlers are not legal, except in a few game management units (gmus).
shots on goal: p-12, c-12.
civic club bazaar slated nov. 6 to benefit library mark your calendars for saturday, nov. 6, and remember it's less than two  weeks away.
"i'm comfortable with where we sit, but we're right on the edge.
must be winter time again.
some ceremonies were performed to scare dragons from swallowing the moon or to ward off evil omens.
the agenda includes: - call to order/roll call at 7 p.m. - public hearing for public comment for proposed changes to section 25  — outdoor lighting of the land use regulations.
a sauce, a gravy of some sort.
bosley has been married to his wife, francie, for 40 years and has five  children and nine grandchildren.
which is only appropriate, since buddy has  called alaska home for the past 30-some years.
it hurts dreadfully and i'm confused.
i may need a little 'needlework' to be able to do my job without worry.
the survey also looked at economic indicators for the community, such as  "leakage," dollars flowing to other communities - and the "big  box" issue.
donations to united way's work in archuleta county support 15 local programs for children, youth, families and the elderly who are in need.
she began her career with the district when it was under the management of the pagosa lakes property owners association and was hired as manager when the board decided the district needed its own administration.
after i take those breaths and distance myself from the icky mass of  meatball humanity, i turn to self-analysis.
his songs spring from those experiences, sometimes like joyful cries,  sometimes like aching wails.
one can only imagine what could happen if kerry becomes president.
not one of the malicious ones, but meaty  at times, nonetheless.
as a community, we must band together and shoot a whole lot more arrows in the butt of this preposterous idea.
senior rachel watkins captured the alternate spot to state with a one-second victory over teammate drie young.
if elected, bosley says he will make a maximum effort to stay in touch with  the residents of colorado.
brett works out of his home and offers windshield chip and crack repair.
i may need a little 'needlework' to be able to do my job  without worry.
thank you to archuleta county and all its visitors for your support in another  successful year.
take a gander at a lot of what passes for  parenting in many families.
the project site is in mineral county and the pre-decisional environmental assessment (ea) is now available for public review by calling the ranger district at 264-1509.
i witnessed my son, gabe, running, joking and just loving the fact that he was participating in a great sport with his friends and peers.
admission is $10 and includes homemade desserts, coffee and tea during intermission.
i see a lot of unlawful activity going on in town and out in far reaches of the county and i suppose law enforcement people are far outnumbered.
there must also be a strong strategic plan with specific actions that must take place within a definite time-line to make sure that vision is achieved.
representing pagosa were jane stewart, barbara sanborn, sho jen lee, bev hudson, audrey johnson, kathy giordano, josie hummel and nancy chitwood.
to have any commissioner(s) attempting to manage the county staff would be  redundant, demoralizing and counterproductive to the policy-making role that is  appropriately the responsibility of the bocc.
did one of the candidates say something that might have caused a vote to be changed, had the voter waited?
she began her  career with the district when it was under the management of the pagosa lakes  property owners association and was hired as manager when the board decided the  district needed its own administration.
- housing solutions for the southwest.
and, i was cognizant of the fact that colorado was the worst hit state in the nation last year, per capita.
schiro: i am in favor of an airport advisory board to work with the board of county commissioners.
pagosa fire protection district began as a 21 square-mile area and under  bower's supervision has grown to include over 180 square miles, including the  town of pagosa springs.
the bocc is ultimately responsible for the smooth operation of the airport, so they should also be responsible for the makeup of the advisory board.
every team went undefeated this season, there were no losers.
like a tennis player who tries  to slam or spin the ball in hopes his opponent will fail to return it, words  are used to attack or put a creative spin on reality in the hopes the speaker  will look good and his opponent off balance and out of sync.
for example, in the first four minutes pirate shots were going everywhere but in the net.
membership our membership news this week includes four new members, one new owner and 14 renewals.
the pauses are called standstills, and specifically, the northern standstill may have been marked by ancient people living at chimney rock.
please, please don't make me do this again, bring your talent to our next  amateur half hour nov. 9.
and, that one-day active duty service may have nothing to do  with wartime service.
a graduate of the university of colorado, he received an honorary doctorate from the institution last may. bosley claims he has "the experience, qualifications, commitment and passion" to help lead cu.
earlier periods are also considered wartime such as world war i, mexican  border war, spanish-american war and indian wars, but have very limited  application to veterans or survivors living today.
civic club raffle tickets will also be available at six for $5 or $1 each.
she owned her own signature art gallery in albuquerque, was active with the dallas wholesale show for many years and is the owner of the hi slade publishing company which prints and publishes serigraph and lithograph prints and cards.
he finished in 24:11.
john graves will provide piano music and straight from the stage there will be ballerinas.
they would still be eligible for most wartime va benefits.
tickets  are $10 general admission, $8 seniors, $8 faculty and staff, and $5 students.
however, a veteran may qualify for benefits while in the military reserves if they were called up to active duty and completed the term for which they were called, and who were granted an other than dishonorable discharge.
- heard a treasurer's report indication that, as of sept. 30, $918,000 or  91.1 percent of the total dues assessment of $1,008,000 has been collected, the  rate of receipt 1.2 percent ahead of 2003.
the teams tied all the way to 11-11 when the wolverines surrendered a point with a ball hit out to knot the score then committed a second error to put the pirates ahead.
if the goal is  reached, it will be the highest amount raised in united way's history.
some of it has shed light.
this area is special already.
for more information on how to enter the show, drop by moonlight books and pick up the rules and regulations.
pagosa fire protection district began as a 21 square-mile area and under bower's supervision has grown to include over 180 square miles, including the town of pagosa springs.
as have many of the recent pirate games, this one started with an early pagosa lead thanks to the webb brothers, moe and shan.
we were told they could be ordered, but  it would take at least two weeks.
both the moon and the sun rise at different places along the horizon throughout the year.
pam had a front tooth broken off at the gum line and another broken in half.
you live in the mountains, not by  the ocean.
coloradans average just about one night.
wartime periods for these purposes, wartime periods are the following: - persian gulf war -
anyway, i am sure this is one of many letters thanking the paper for  running the cruse column.
reliable information certainly va benefits for any veteran may be based on individual circumstances of military service, or the specific rules for the va benefit, which vary from benefit to benefit.
how is the 450,000 gallons a water a day it will take to flush the toilets at the village a good thing?
turn east on greenbriar drive off of north pagosa by the fire station, then  left into the parking lot and look for the big sign.
pagosa lakes newspagosa lakes news vandals leave lake pagosa pier with severe damage by ming steen sun columnist last friday afternoon, oct. 15 at around 4 p.m., a property owner called the plpoa office to report that children on bicycles were vandalizing the association-owned fishing pier at the dam at lake pagosa.
the architect and colorado jaynes are in agreement that we should not rush the project.
ormonde's header off a corner kick by thomas martinez was wide right and muirhead's kick off the rebound went wide left.
(the latest being a sudden lake in the crawl space due to the high level of ground water this year.)
elk with spike antlers are not legal, except in a few game  management units (gmus).
atkinson said now that the survey was complete, the key would be to make it  a "living, dynamic document," used in developing marketing  strategies, community consensus building and as a springboard for planning  effects.
i believe assigning the tasks and monitoring the progress through communication is the best way that i can serve the citizens of archuleta county.
kerry dermody evil filtering in dear editor: i was born and raised in pagosa springs.
department heads, elected officials and the county administrator, all should have defined responsibilities and authority to carry out the tasks necessary within their areas of expertise to accomplish what is needed.
the next most-important items dealt with enjoyment of the natural amenities, including trails, parks and plazas.
in any case, said baker, survey results will be implemented into the new code, but unless participation reaches minimum levels, survey feedback will not weigh as heavily as would be the case otherwise.
right to play as a child and not as an adult; 5.
well, if that  is true, he must be spending a lot of time just wandering around the capitol.
david bohl, board president, reviewed resolutions 87-7 and 87-8 which removed the screening requirement for trash receptacles and propane tanks in july 1987.
she paints in oils, watercolors,  acrylics and pastels.
it hurts dreadfully
witches and goblins
flc workshops how to get your book published, 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 23.
no reproductions or color copies allowed.
complete survey results are available to the public at  www.townofpagosasprings.com.
they will not, however, be rerouted through new mexico to reach destinations in the san luis valley.
arnold who was an ardent patriot at the beginning of america's fight for independence, soon became disenchanted with the effort, as his personal ambition for power and success was not meeting his expectations.
finally, after these actions are taken, and input from the residents of any  particular areas are received, it may be useful and beneficial for these groups  to utilize local improvement/metro districts.
reservations for this event are required and space is limited.
if comments are sent as an attachment to the  e-mail message, please submit them in microsoft word (ms-word) format in a  common font such as "times."
and for the young ones who like to hear scary stories, friends of the library will be reading them.
after sept. 7, 1980, a veteran must have served for 24 continuous months of active military service, or have been released under special circumstances (under special va or military policies and regulations).
start now thinking about how you can win a very nice prize.
st. patrick's is at 225 s. pagosa blvd., just south of mary fisher clinic.
final 2004 campaign results will be announced in february at united way's  campaign celebration event.
i am  going to need some real flesh bombs to soothe me.
likewise, numbers from the "southeast district," which includes chromo and the upper and lower blanco areas, showed a 12-percent total, meaning at least 122 additional surveys are needed from this district.
the purpose has  always been to raise money for the local library.
bob honts' and billy joe "red" mccombs' village at wolf creek is  more like pillage at wolf creek.
the advertising  creeps across the floor of consciousness like the backwash from a clogged sewer  line.
the project included straightening of the dangerous devil's creek curve.
by karl isberg staff writer the pirates continued their unbeaten streak in the intermountain league friday night with a 3-0 win at monte vista.
pfff provides love and care for pets in their home or in the pet sitter's home.
free theatre ticket fort lewis college provides a 10-percent discount on groups of 14, with one free ticket to the sponsor setting it up/collecting the funds.
she jumped from her car while dialing 911 on her cell  phone and managed to engage in a foot pursuit of the suspects.
mark your calendars for nov. 13 at the parish hall.
all games will be played at the elementary school fields, so come support youth soccer.
there will also be three public open house forums on october 26-28 where more can be learned about the deis.
but our population has grown so much that the absolute  "protection" of private property rights has been eroding what is good  for the community as a whole.
by windsor chacey special to the sun civic education influences how knowledgeable citizens are, how attentive  they are to public issues, how regularly they vote, how active they are in  politics, how engaged they are in their communities, and how tolerant they are  of the free expression of unpopular political views.
if you haven't been inundated by a flood of meatball political advertising, you either live in a plywood shack miles from civilization or you are one of those effete bozos who gloats about a television-free life.
the start of the new school year is meatball season - as a growing number  of parents assail school teachers and administrators whenever an assessment of  the wee one does not harmonize with their own skewed visions.
we need zoning in archuleta county, and we need it now.
however, as of wednesday, the numbers of completed surveys returned to the planning department from residents within each proposed district were well below target levels.
volunteers came from several organizations and dozens of individuals, from  the local mounted ranger troop, and even from several individuals and groups  who donated cookies and doughnuts so those waiting in line would have  sustenance.
civic club raffle tickets will also be available at six for  $5 or $1 each.
a number of tickets have already been sold for this event, so don't tarry,  tickets will sell out very quickly as it has done every year, and you will be  exceedingly sad to miss such a lovely affair.
the only county employee that should appropriately be managed by the board  of county commissioners is the county administrator, because the board is the  only entity to which the county administrator is accountable.
this film won at  the cannes film festival for best picture a few years ago.
with pagosa in front 23-7, bayfield put three points on the board, only one of them earned.
one in six women already has enough mercury in her body to risk brain damage, mental retardation, blindness, seizures and speech impediments in her child.
these two wonderful men went above and beyond and truly exhibited the  spirit of pagosa.
i believe the new advisory board  should include airport users, business people from the community, and at least  one of the bocc commissioners as an ex-officio board member.
with feeder cattle, one persistently infected animal can cause a  loss of more than $10,000 per exposed pen.
please call donna at 731-9042 if you would like to volunteer to help with this event.
he married his second wife, altha j. mccaw in durango on january 11, 1990.
brash, arrogant and brave to the  degree that he was willing to risk not only his own life but the lives of those  under his command, arnold became immediately a "hero" with the defeat  of the british at fort ticonderoga.
" localslocals kyle bell kyle robert christopher bell, son of dianna richardson and jim bell of pagosa springs will graduate nov. 1 from the anaconda job corps.
start doing it  now and none of us will want a "big-box."
i am not a road maintenance operator, nor a solid waste specialist, nor  vehicle registration specialist.
two young men jumped us, threw my friend to the ground and tried to rob us.
many va benefits, including the popular va health care program, are available to veterans who have been discharged for or released from active military service under other than dishonorable conditions.
richard and leanne goebel haunting honts dear editor: after reading comments by bob honts of the village at wolf creek  development corporation last week in the sun, i want to thank him.
i am not a road maintenance operator, nor a solid waste specialist, nor vehicle registration specialist.
we can only imagine what our ancestors' thoughts were as they perceived this phenomenon.
it's the  meatball nation, alive with cliché, plagued by one-dimensional  sloganeering, rife with a hostility antithetic to a necessary solidarity as a  people, accompanied by the sound of people's hands patting their own backs.
new brand book compiled for archuleta, la plata counties the la plata county cowbelles have compiled a new brand book for archuleta and la plata counties.
granted, the crush at the polling place on election day can be tedious.
but i  am not going that route.
the calves are quarantined and tested immediately after birth.
i was camped  out at kenney flats and had property stolen from my camp this week.
tim walsworth, president and ceo, said, "the early success of the annual drive indicates to me that our community trusts united way to solve local problems by investing their hard earned donations in the best nonprofit organizations.
i spoke with citizens who are discouraged with complaints of situations that allegedly are not being investigated or addressed.
the total eclipse is not only a visually stunning  display of the cosmos but an opportunity for education of the young and old  alike.
" to develop in such a beautiful area is counterproductive: you wind up  destroying what attracted you to the area in the first place.
a gray or dark brown moon is indicative of  recent volcanic activity with airborne dust or ash in the atmosphere.
the drawing will be held at 4 p.m. on the day of the  bazaar.
he created the event and has staged it every  memorial day for 25 years.
creating metro districts involves costs, time and cooperation.
the commissioners should lead the activities of the county under the  vision, goals, and strategic plan they put in place.
for instance, his "clear skies" initiative would allow 300 percent more mercury emissions into our air and water over existing rules.
kim braselman earns a free sundowner card for recruiting rachel.
" kennedy's position is a joint appointment between the colorado department of agriculture and colorado state university veterinary diagnostic lab.
monte got points on serve and setting errors but gave away the last two points to pagosa with hitting and passing mistakes.
obviously honts and mccombs are  only interested in money.
commissioner roles question: what do you believe to be the management roles of a commissioner with respect to the level of administrative oversight and communication/cooperation between county departments?
still, it proved the geometry was correct, added credibility to the idea it was possible a thousand years ago other people could have marked the same event and interpreted it as important.
the period aug. 2, 1990 through a date to be set by  law or presidential proclamation.
with respect to the issue of "communication/cooperation between county  departments," certainly that is to be encouraged and facilitated however  possible.
after 9/11 they beautifully created the atmosphere of insecurity,  reinforcing it with a macho pseudo-patriotism which called for us to fly the  flag on the pickup and wear a flag lapel pin or be declared un-american, a sort  of return to the goldwater era slogan of "america: love it (our way) or  leave it."
nov. 19 - gala holiday gallery tour in pagosa springs, 5-7:30 p.m.
doors will open at 11:45 a.m., lunch is served at noon and  the fashion show begins shortly thereafter.
outdoors village at wolf creek deis comment period opens
often well-meaning fellow veterans, friends  and family members offer advice on va benefits for which they may not be fully  informed.
please give them a call at 264-5232 if you would like  to offer a hand that night.
steen scored twice - once on a successful back-row attack - monte continued to misfire on its side of the net and pagosa was up 18-9.
on day two, drive to  san carlos, visit the arenal volcano, and swim in tabacón hot springs.
you can view betty's art at the center during the month of november by appointment.
contemporary art are you a contemporary artist?
yet the draft eis from the forest service mentions an influx of 1,200 workers.
with loving support for pagosa springs and the new place i love to call  "home.
there will be many festivities for all the little spooks and goblins  including a costume contest as well as the food, games and activities with  prizes galore.
i'm  ready to go to work again!
aspen springs metro district changes meeting hour the time for regular meetings of the aspen springs metropolitan district  has been changed from 7 p.m. to 6 p.m. for the months november through march.
county voters living within the boundaries of the san juan water conservancy district will decide whether to provide funds to purchase land for a reservoir.
we have seen this strategy used very effectively by republicans time and again during the last two decades.
in many regions of the world, as human populations continually increase, so too does the demand for additional housing, related infrastructure, energy and essential services.
those are just the games; then to frighten any loose wits about you, the teen center will host a haunted house and sherry smith will conduct a graveyard tour and the senior center will preside over a mystery box that invites you to put your hand inside.
if you need to talk to us, our doors are always open.
" abiquiu's importance as a trading center increased during the years of the mexican republic because abiquiu was the eastern gateway of the old spanish trail to california.
among them, a quilt, an oil painting and cash prizes.
what is the strategy of local  businesses to retain and increase their share of the local market?
"i believe passionately in realizing the  potential of our children," he says.
those little cocktail pellets will work no magic when i'm dealing with profound ennui.
being a teacher is not required.
aspen springs metro district changes meeting hour the time for regular meetings of the aspen springs metropolitan district has been changed from 7 p.m. to 6 p.m. for the months november through march.
people preview profile davona benzelpeople preview profile davona benzel front desk receptionist, archuleta county human resources where were you born?
another misguided enterprise even closer to home would give the publicly-owned 350-acre job corps site to a midwestern developer in exchange for two distant private in-holdings of virtually half the total acreage and, in my opinion as a real estate appraiser, far less the value.
for updates on current fire danger and federal fire restrictions, call the pagosa ranger district office at 264-2268.
one minute, honts says that this development will be for the people who  already ski at wolf creek.
over 99 percent of donations  stay in our community, with less than 1 percent paying dues to united way of  america.
all of those wonderful people were angels of mercy.
the door prizes donated by our local merchants at this luncheon are always outstanding and feel free to call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at 731-5429 if you would like to donate an item or two.
land-use and zoning regulations must be implemented and enforced that will  give equal importance to both of these issues that are at the heart of what  archuleta county is all about.
from start to finish, the eclipse will last approximately three hours and 40 minutes.
bosley was able to pull over at a local service station.
october 21, 2004 front page commissioner hopefuls state by tom carosello staff writer election day is less than two weeks away - do you know each candidate's  stance on the issues?
there must also be a  strong strategic plan with specific actions that must take place within a  definite time-line to make sure that vision is achieved.
we have fine medical practitioners, but  most of us struggle to obtain or maintain adequate catastrophic care insurance  or a cash reserve to meet unexpected medical bills.
tickets can be mailed or available at will call allowing patrons to arrive for  the show as they wish, and not as a group.
department heads, elected officials and the county administrator, all  should have defined responsibilities and authority to carry out the tasks  necessary within their areas of expertise to accomplish what is needed.
another save by forrest, two solo blocks by gill and a keagan smith shot wide left preceded the only penalty of the game, a yellow card to moe webb with just 2:02 remaining.
" hunters with either-sex licenses need to be aware of the regulations.
volunteers are needed to unpack and arrange clothing through friday prior to the giveaway.
so, why do people move to the pagosa area?
weatherweather date high low precipitation type depth moisture 10/13 52 28 r - .02 10/14 59 24 r - .01 10/15 65 27 - - - 10/16 63 28 - - - 10/17 56 36 r - .13 10/18 47 38 r - .13 10/19 50 36 - - - forecast: old man winter headed this way
contact jules masterjohn at 382-0756 and join decaf (durango exhibitions and contemporary arts forum).
residents who would like to fill out hard copies of the survey can obtain them at the county building and planning department, 527 a san juan st. until the completion deadline of nov. 5, 4 p.m., surveys will also be distributed at the county commissioners' office, county clerk's office, county extension building, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant, chromo mercantile, pagosa springs post office, ruby sisson library, turkey springs trading post and the silver foxes den senior center (inside the community center).
records show that mr. cheney only presided over the senate twice in four years.
bayfield scored four points in a row, the first on a serve error, the second on a ball hit out by the pirates, the third and fourth points on aces muffed by a sluggish pirate back row.
all this for the  benefit of companies which don't care about the values we share in archuleta  county.
knudtsen, the economic consultant, suggested pagosa needed to continue to work to increase total personal income, focus on market potential to fill holes currently present in downtown as far as retail, restaurants and amenities and look to additional fiscal revenue sources.
then, on monday night, i experimented with watching from far away from the stadium, far enough were i could not hear any of the commands given the kids by parents and coaches.
there is plenty on the voters' plates this year.
tutors are needed in each of the five areas: language arts, reading, writing, social studies, science and mathematics.
"if our daughters are to flower," she says, "they need optimal growing conditions.
the  challenge is to balance between preserving the small-town character and  constructing, "capital improvements necessary to improve the  experience," especially when people say that includes natural amenities  and access.
many institutions help to develop and shape our civic knowledge, skills, character and commitments.
i also know that a committee needs to have a task or mission that states  what the purpose is and a time line to work toward.
or did these people use their architecture to create a calendar of sorts?
inflow, dollars coming into pagosa from other communities, was not measured in this survey.
karl isberg pacing pagosapacing pagosa i flu through the line in 2 hours by richard walter staff writer
playoff times, dates and foes were yet to be decided (see separate story).
he suggested that perhaps these were the dwellings of the builders, the contractors of sorts who traveled from chaco to chimney rock to set up this "observatory." then, around 1125, the people closed that chapter of their lives, leaving both chimney rock and chaco canyon for other destinations.
whether or not, he  certainly applied this strategy in his letter to this column two weeks ago.
perhaps i write from the viewpoint of a curmudgeon because i am certainly one of those who has no tolerance for scurrilous behavior.
if laughter is a cure, teen center's a hospital by karen carpenter special to the preview the teen center is a second home for some of our kids in pagosa.
the teen center is open to ages 13-19 and is located in the community  center on hot springs boulevard.
today, as in the past, the corps is confident that, "if the army and navy ever look on heaven's scenes, they will find the streets guarded by united states marines."
the roads are the financial responsibility of the county and we have to  make informed decisions as to how best to protect and promote our  infrastructure.
the percentage of required surveys submitted from this district  stands at just 19 percent.
if the veteran was in service on dec. 31, 1946, continuous service before july 26, 1947, is considered world war ii service.
last summer we needed to purchase a couple of large ticket items.
"life is beautiful," 1 p.m.; monday, oct, 25 - medicare and drug card counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.;  medicare questions and answers, 1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1 p.m.; tuesday, oct, 26 - yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; basic computer class, 10:30;  dance club, 3 p.m.; wednesday, oct. 27 - canasta, 1 p.m.; friday, oct 29 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11; blood pressure  check, noon; celebrate halloween and birthdays, noon; pinochle, 1 p.m. menu friday, oct. 22 - roast beef with gravy, baked potato, green  beans/mushrooms, roll and citrus cup.
with the help of decorations borrowed from the catholic church, community center staff and volunteers will transform the multipurpose room into a phantasmagoria of halloween imagery to be enjoyed by all, 5-7 p.m. oct. 29.
one can follow the eating pattern of starting in the kitchen and ending at the bake sale table.
bell, 20, entered the program in september 2002, earned both his ged and high school diploma, and completed the heavy equipment operating trade course.
by windsor chacey special to the sun civic education influences how knowledgeable citizens are, how attentive they are to public issues, how regularly they vote, how active they are in politics, how engaged they are in their communities, and how tolerant they are of the free expression of unpopular political views.
when implanted in a mom's womb, these little people can grow to be normal human beings, and several happy children are alive today who were conceived this way because someone cared about adopting a frozen embryo.
contact foothills art center at (303) 279-3922 or e-mail fac@foothillsartcenter.org or check out their web site at www.foothillsartcenter.org.
further information
i also specialize in child care and i ensure the clientele flow is productive."
this procedure, of course, ends the life of the child.
" hunters should keep in mind that there are different rules for atv use  depending upon what agency controls the land.
this is a place where young people can share fun, new experiences,  friendships and what's going on in their lives.
this year the bazaar will open at 9 a.m. and close at 4 p.m. the drawing for the raffle will be at 4 p.m. and one doesn't have to be present to win.
the lodge at keyah grande is open friday and saturday evenings 6-8 p.m. to local clientele, and can accommodate private parties.
each had two or three cameras to capture the event.
his songs spring from those experiences, sometimes like joyful cries, sometimes like aching wails.
this presents a problem not only for us, but just as much for the  majority of the local clerics who want just as much peace for their people as  does our clergy.
" in other action, the board: - heard a presentation from fred schmidt and gene tautges of san juan water  conservancy district regarding the upcoming mill levy ballot issue for purchase  of a new reservoir site.
it has relaxed key regulation in the clean air act and has sought funding cuts for the clean water act.
director gerald smith took exception to what he called esterly's "mischaracterization of the initiative" and read into the record the preamble and summary thereof.
atkinson is a resident of pagosa springs.
are in our good fortune.
"people seemed to go on with their ordinary lives," malville said, "with perhaps some kind of cultural memory of the event." then, in 1074, the moon would have appeared again between the pillars.
my chain of associations takes me to bedrock.
bosley has been married to his wife, francie, for 40 years and has five children and nine grandchildren.
the trail, on the san juan national forest northeast of pagosa springs, begins about three miles up the west fork trail and climbs to the continental divide trail.
" the whistle pig concert series is pleased to present this remarkable  musician "up close and personal" in the living room of the hudson  house, 446 loma st. in downtown pagosa springs.
i suggested that we find a committee member that is opposed to the airport to serve on this committee; i feel this would help to find solutions, and to look at the problems from different views.
tutors in each of these areas are needed to work one-on-one with  students preparing to take their ged test.
the higher-end skier who will fly in commercially or on their own planes.
the forest service is seeking  public input on the alternatives presented in the deis, as well as their  associated impacts.
just having general knowledge in these subject areas and two to three hours a week to volunteer is all that is needed.
here in town snow fell sunday afternoon, but melted almost as fast as it fell.
himself, mr. mccombs, a few privileged realtors?
it's just about time for the civic club bazaar, and your opportunity to  pick up items for the coming holiday season.
everyone is welcome to come and get free clothing.
applications must be received by oct. 22.
basketry for gardeners, 9 a.m.- 4 p.m. saturday, oct. 23.
to the meat i add half a white onion finely minced and one or two cloves of garlic, finely minced, then mashed.
the pirate attack was on track much of the time, led by senior middle hitters caitlyn jewell and bri scott, and senior outside hitter courtney steen.
if the cost is too much, come and  enjoy the evening anyway.
i'd also like to offer a heart felt thank you to local physicians for being so attentive and thorough with pam on wednesday.
with loving support for pagosa springs and the new place i love to call "home.
this is an excellent opportunity for everyone to learn and enjoy the wonders of our universe.
" senior news by laura bedard sun columnist wow, oktoberfest was a blast and so very well attended with an even higher  attendance than the previous two years.
this is an area that again i stress the need for a citizens advisory committee, to assist in the research and recommendations to the bocc as well as to assist in the distribution of information to the public.
private-property rights must also be protected as we grow, as well as our environment.
total rainfall for this month stands at 2.49 inches.
this movie is subtitled and rated "r." a suggested $3 donation will benefit the friends of the library.
for more information about division of wildlife go to: http://wildlife.state.co.us.
entries may be submitted in slide or digital form.
fifty-nine percent of respondents were over 45 with the average age at about 47.
this year's drive is led by campaign chairs dick babillis and bonnie masters.
it turns out that there is indisputable evidence that the vice president has met the senator at least twice, first at the senator's swearing in and later at a prayer breakfast where the two were photographed chatting.
i take my clue from hermes trismegistus: as above, so below.
then began the familiar litany of pirate games - solo block by levi gill; two in a row.
"i believe we could go to each district and say, 'ok, this is what  we've got, but we still want you to tell us what you think so we can make this  as valid and legitimate as possible,'" said baker.
many institutions help to develop and shape our civic knowledge, skills,  character and commitments.
wartime not necessary nothing could be further from the truth.
all of  those wonderful people were angels of mercy.
last week our video camera crew got to film shadow dancing, hip hop and some of the oktoberfest dances and folk costumes.
he captured the viking throw-in, however, and had another shot attempt thwarted by an interference calls on center.
one such legend holds that there are more births during a lunar eclipse.
nov. 1 - enrollment deadline for costa rican adventure tour with cynthia padilla.
commissioner roles question: what do you believe to be the management roles of a commissioner  with respect to the level of administrative oversight and  communication/cooperation between county departments?
the days are getting shorter and cooler, so this is the perfect opportunity to dance.
dr. kim malville, an astronomer with the university of colorado-boulder, who first proposed a link between chimney rock and important dates reflected in the skies above, stopped in pagosa springs tuesday to talk about the connection he first demonstrated in 1988, the last time the moon rose between the two rock spires as seen only from the great house pueblo on the high mesa 1,000 feet above the valley floor.
in addition to completing the requirements in the first two levels, individual tests must be completed on all animals in the herd.
while he was working  on pam, a pharmacist graciously met me after hours at the pharmacy to provide  pain medication to help her get through the next few hours a little more  comfortably.
don't forget to wear your best halloween costume oct. 29 to celebrate  halloween.
still the people didn't seem to take much notice.
the t.a. grant was to be a community grant.
students must pass five tests to obtain their ged certificate.
potential donors must have valid identification and can sign up online at  www.unitedblood services.org.
all departments must define goals, establish action plans, submit reports,  and conduct periodic reviews, while administering available resources  effectively.
for further information, and to make reservations, contact lindsay morgan,  program manager 264-2287 (daytime) 731-1280 (evenings).
or, at best, need to get more of it.
hunters who use atvs are also asked to be courteous to other hunters regardless of the rules in the area.
that he envisions the tri-county area of archuleta, rio grande and mineral counties to be the next jackson hole.
so you can spend a lot of time browsing.
denny bell dear editor: as a living historian, i find it fascinating how often history repeats  itself.
the pirates converted a fourth and two to keep their scoring chance alive, armijo hit shaffer at the 2 to set up first and goal, and craig schutz snared a fourth-and-goal pass from armijo to trim the lead to 27-13 at 4:20.
perspective students must work in a quick-drying medium.
we certainly hope you all plan to join the big halloween party at the  community center 5-7 p.m. friday, oct. 29.
in goes some thyme, black pepper, a touch of oregano, a bay leaf and two  cups of sturdy beef broth.
and, but for an mistimed leap by caleb forrest, that might have held up as the game winner.
members also support other worthwhile community  programs from other sale profits and dues.
i believe this comes from having balanced input from  involved parties.
"but only if we feel we can get more surveys by doing so."
they trek happily to the local stadium, they tune their televisions and radios to games on the weekends.
you can call them at 731-0779 or (800) 494-6857, or check out their web site at presidenthomes.com.
for pagosa it was a regular season 10-game winning streak after five consecutive losses to open the year, three against state ranked teams.
the  club supports the sisson library with proceeds from the annual bazaar booth  rent and raffle ticket sales.
this workshop  builds on the basics of watercolor - beginners i and uses everything students  learned in that class.
i was driving up put hill and slowed down a bit in the 45 mph zone because  of construction project and had a citizen shake his fist and flip me the bird
bower has been a key figure in the district for 24 years.
volunteers needed looking for a rewarding way to spend a few free hours?
with no  scientific fact to collaborate, this finding remains an urban legend.
for electronically mailed comments the sender should normally receive an automated acknowledgment from the agency as a confirmation of receipt.
the parents of these kids accompanied them and also helped with the roadway clean-up.
they were able to perform an interior attack on the  blaze that contained major damage to the kitchen, dining room and living room.
you want a meatball extravaganza?
i take the meatballs six at a  time and brown them in olive oil over medium high heat in a heavy pan.
" ahh šthere's the rub š money!
a microsoft excel class taught by dick babillis is being offered oct. 25-nov. 10 on mondays and wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. fun holiday ideas, a computer class especially designed to help you with your holiday newsletter or other publishing needs, is being offered tuesday and wednesday, nov. 9-10, 6-8 p.m.
by richard walter staff writer the first tie-breaker - goals allowed against common league opponents - gave pagosa springs the championship and no. 1 seed in southwest mountain league soccer.
the total eclipse begins with the penumbral phase, which is followed by a  partial eclipse, then the full eclipse.
coming off the completion of his sixth album, buddy's songs have continued  to mature and to explore a wide range of subjects and emotions.
- heard a treasurer's report indication that, as of sept. 30, $918,000 or 91.1 percent of the total dues assessment of $1,008,000 has been collected, the rate of receipt 1.2 percent ahead of 2003.
this is a sad situation.
we can learn from each other, then educate our children on the whats, ifs and whys of recreational sports rules and regulations.
he said that nowhere in it does it say the board will force changes of covenants or rules and regulations on property owners.
for more information, call the pagosa ranger district offices at 264-2268.
located a little  more than two miles up piedra road on the right, the site now sits in the way  of the developer's access to substantial property he's acquired adjacent to  stevens reservoir, which he hopes to subdivide into numerous high-dollar  residential lots.
anyone registered to vote should participate - if not voting early or absentee, they should show up at the polls nov. 2.
the sample size for these self-selected respondents was 321.
ebeling and bohl replied the tanks are a "fact of life" in rural  areas and "when everyone has them, they aren't a distraction.
results from this district indicate only 14 percent of the needed surveys have been submitted, to date.
in their one solid run of the night, the monte players scored three consecutive points with a kill, a free ball to the back line and a solo block.
in our  engrossment with material things, we do not fear or listen to the idea of  inexhaustibility, but continue to pursue the goal of more affluence."
our time, fuel and frustration are worth a lot of dollars that can be  captured by the local economy.
local merchants need to formulate a strategy to meet this competition now, not just simply oppose it coming to their doorstep in a last ditch effort to survive.
the balls are formed.
it is from her mother that a girl learns to be a woman;  it is from her father that she learns what to expect from men in the way of  love and respect.
rampant development in the wilderness a threat to nature's balance by chuck mcguire sun columnist it is autumn and the winds of change are sweeping over this great land of ours.
could these events have all been missed?
if mr. cheney will lie about such an insignificant issue where he can be so  easily proven wrong, what will he do when he is shielded from exposure?
and the survey says protecting natural recreational opportunities like the riverwalk, reservoir hill and open space is most important to local residents.
what about our  teachers?
public works is working diligently to compile the information necessary for the bocc to make sound decisions in this area.
vanderbeek with a rainbows den, aspen springs metropolitan district, alan  schutz with pagosa springs golf club, doris green with pagosa springs arts  council, wade duncan with genesis mortgage, bruce spruce ranch, lyn delange  with cse advertising specialties and pagosa springs welcoming service, dan  aupperle with citizens bank of pagosa springs, junction restaurant, kim t. ha  with shanghai chinese restaurant, shirley luhnow with just gourd-jus® and  associate member elmer schettler.
today, as we watch this presidential election process unfold, it is interesting the similarities of one event in america's fight for independence to the record of one of today's presidential candidates.
during total eclipses, one can expect to see colors ranging from red to  yellow, bright orange to gray.
and, as such, we  need to consider, and implement, what is good for the community as a whole.
yes, our property values will increase, but so will our taxes.
they arrived sometime around 1050 a.d. and left about 100 years later.
national studies confirm that roadside checkpoints increase the perception  of "risk of apprehension" thereby reducing the number of alcohol  related traffic crashes.
older youths often commit more serious acts such as damaging vehicles or machinery, burglary, arson or theft.
it would be a pity to unintentionally lose the charm and many of the small  businesses that attract us to this special place.
susi, we miss you and hope you are well and home  soon.
the raffle is a good deal - 20 items or more.
things visitors liked least were "stores do not carry  what i need," "parking inconvenient/hard to find" and "too  much traffic."
this occurs when pregnant cows are exposed to the virus, and the unborn calf becomes infected.
bower has helped move the district from 15 volunteer firefighters to now  over 75.
what are the most enjoyable and least enjoyable aspects of your job?
675 flu shots given in first countywide clinic; balance available 8-10  a.m. friday for others
if these are your  reasons for living here, you have two compelling reasons to elect democrats  nov. 2 or by voting early.
but alamosa's derek russel blocked the pat, and the mean moose answered with a nine-play, 68-yard scoring drive capped by a 30-yard touchdown run by yohn to give the home team a 34-13 lead with under a minute to play in the third.
final team placings in order are: aztec hidden valley with 309 points; dalton ranch, 304; piñon hills, 297 1/2; hillcrest, 295; san juan, 290; riverview, 287 1/2; pagosa springs, 278 and cortez conquistador, 242 1/2.
if you haven't been inundated by a flood of meatball political advertising,  you either live in a plywood shack miles from civilization or you are one of  those effete bozos who gloats about a television-free life.
volleyball leagues this is the last week to sign up for coed 4-on-4 volleyball.
the archuleta county education center is seeking volunteer tutors for their general education development (ged) classes.
there have been a few lost hunters, and all to date have shown up safely.
our income levels and housing costs are not on par with the rest of  colorado.
they are in charge of most campaign organizations; they write the speeches, manipulate the sound bites, spin the news.
i was going to get there early, grab a spot in the line before the crowd gathered, and then be back at work in 45 minutes or so.
was this a copy of the heavens on earth?
gallery gift shop the gift shop at the gallery in town park is available to local artisans.
for instance, his "clear skies" initiative would allow 300 percent  more mercury emissions into our air and water over existing rules.
having said that, i want to make clear that my door would always be open to  hearing from any individual county employee concerning work-related concerns or  problems.
atkinson said now that the survey was complete, the key would be to make it a "living, dynamic document," used in developing marketing strategies, community consensus building and as a springboard for planning effects.
now i don't expect anyone's going to change their vote based on  this letter, but if gwb is reelected you might think about writing, e-mailing  or calling the white house and asking him to stop relaxing environmental  standards.
commissioners should establish clear policies and guidelines that will assist and not inhibit administrators and department heads in performing their jobs.
for ranchers to attain level 3 status, their herds must be free of all persistently infected cattle.
we are experiencing an epidemic of meatballs raising meatballs-to-be.
for pagosa, steen killed from outside and tipped for a point; scott came up big again and, with her team ahead 24-18, walkup put a precise shot to the back corner of the court to end game and match.
i'm very optimistic that united way will raise its highest amount ever this year for people in need in southwest colorado."
i believe the county commissioners must play a role in  ensuring that the environment, scenery and life-style are protected.
rather, he asked that the board work on one such covenant (7-1) which he feels should never have been deleted.
the response time of the ambulance and police was amazingly quick.
totality is when the moon is in full eclipse.
it will be offered 8-10 a.m. friday in the department offices at 502 s. 8th st., pagosa springs.
well, i've got to admit i have gotten flu shots as long as they've been available, and i've never had a case of the flu.
it is hard to predict what information might yet surface in the presidential race, what events might take place prior to nov. 2 that could tempt the uncommitted voter to lean one way or the other.
i saute the  vegetables for a couple minutes then i add a handful of crushed tomato, cooking  the tomato until it darkens and emits that oh-yeah-it's-caramelizing smell.
for bower's involvement and commitment she is a recipient of the sda 2004  distinguished manager award.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, every monday  and wednesday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., at the fairfield activities center.
tickets go fast and the event is always a sellout, so don't wait.
because of the higher building costs, we have enough to build the structure but will still need to raise more money for added bookshelves, computers, furniture and accessories.
"i was a k-2 teacher's aide for 11 1/2 years.
this is a presentation you will want to  attend, as the drug card issue can be complicated and harold, nedra and patti  can help you with any problems you may have with medicare.
then volunteer to help  out at the gallery in town park.
superintendent duane noggle said his comment on a decline from nine to four  was in preschool special education, not k-12.
true, the trip demands some extra effort.
with buttery words from his honey tongue, he mesmerizes his audience with  promises of wonderment.
then he says that this development is for the  higher-end skier, the type of people who don't already come here - the type who  will fly in on their private planes.
cu develops competitive graduates for the industries that will drive colorado's future prosperity, turns one dollar of state money into sixteen dollars in gross state product and returns more in colorado taxes than is invested by the state.
i also served pagosa springs as a  police officer and police chief in the '70s.
they played against piñon hills golf club and picked up 26 1/2 points.
"what's this place called?" he asked the station attendant.
if you are willing to fill a vital need in our community, please call musetta at 264-2167.
bvd reduces productivity and increases death loss in a cattle herd.
"i enjoy working with the public.
honts, we don't want to be jackson hole or vail or aspen.
coaches 5-6 division, 7-8 division josh severs, chris andresen, chris pitcher, wally lankford, brock gorman, ian weerstra/ david gabel, tom greenly, john egan, duane breman, susan kuhns, bob haynes, tammy romain/liz watuzack, lori lucero/kristen reinhardt, matt chavez.
following a period of emotional  paralysis, she telephones an old friend who has always been in love with her,  and tells him his chance has come at last.
he is a property owner and a substantial citizen.
education in civics and government is essential to the preservation and improvement of american constitutional democracy.
i see him talking to me
i can brown the meatballs in a pan then finish them off in the oven
an "intercept" survey allowed for people to be randomly surveyed on the street and at special events.
but there are also certain "intangible" qualities associated with the landscape that simply cannot be defined in monetary terms.
early this month, the county completed a mass mailing of "postcard  reminders" to boost survey participation and awareness levels, and current  efforts include advertisements and press releases in the local media.
for information call  264-2835.
i am confident my background, education, and experience will provide the  best solutions to this problem.
classes will be held nov. 5,12 and 19, 1:30-5 p.m.
scott led the way in the first game, converting effectively from the middle against a weak monte vista block.
that he envisions the tri-county area of  archuleta, rio grande and mineral counties to be the next jackson hole.
there are no larger or more obnoxious groups of meatballs than the  political crowd and a certain type of parent.
oct. 23 - writer's group meets at jerry hannah's from noon-5 p.m. oct. 23 - how to get your book published, 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. oct. 24 - salon at jerry hannah's with local writers, artists, musicians  begins at 1 p.m.
they are in  charge of most campaign organizations; they write the speeches, manipulate the  sound bites, spin the news.
telluride's first shot, in the 22nd minute, was a blast by lane smith that was wide right.
refreshments will be served.
as said, responsible  growth and development are not the issue, but we can no longer afford to turn a  blind eye to those impetuous plans by out-of-state "entrepreneurs,"  solely for the sake of making them large sums of money, without genuine concern  for the well-being of the community overall.
these are the feelings that overwhelm us as we behold the untouched pristine places of our natural surroundings.
now why would a pacer put himself in that kind of situation?
claudia smith radicalization dear editor:
do you want to get together with other contemporary artists for  exhibitions, performances, happenings and educational events?
in those same 32 years, we know of no one who moved here for extraordinary  health care or health care benefits.
john graves will  provide piano music and straight from the stage there will be ballerinas.
each generation needs a deep understanding of the ideas within  the constitution, bill of rights, federalist papers, and declaration of  independence as a basis to help citizens resolve differences and address  increasing complex policy issues.
kerry has stated that he will lift the bans on the hideous practices of  partial birth abortion and embryonic stem cell research.
according to a recent report, at least 80 percent of all cancer cases are linked to environmental causes.
around the same time, the taurus supernova appeared.
a load that demands study in order to make informed and intelligent choices.
give rachel a call at 731-8900 to get the lowdown on what she can do for your pet.
" that's right, instead of a well-integrated community like pagosa springs is now, you will have a stratified, class society and all of its associated problems.
quoting abraham lincoln, "in this and like communities, public sentiment is everything.
results showed the two were very similar.
local improvement/metro districts could be used for non-county maintained  roads as an option for those who want improvements faster than the county can  provide them.
summary kills/attacks: steen 8-19, walkup 8-18, jewell 6-19 ace serves: kelley 3, jewell 2 assists: kelley 18, walkup 10 solo blocks: forrest 1, jewell 1 digs: scott 10, steen 9, forrest 8 pirates trampled by mean moose in 41-19 loss by tom carosello staff writer will the real pagosa springs pirates please stand up?
next up is an in-home business, president homes and galen erin.
legacies 90 years agolegacies 90 years ago taken from pagosa springs new era files of oct. 23, 1914 robert a. howe, republican candidate for surveyor, is one of the best known citizens of archuleta county.
roads are a complex and expensive issue for archuleta county.
volunteers came from several organizations and dozens of individuals, from the local mounted ranger troop, and even from several individuals and groups who donated cookies and doughnuts so those waiting in line would have sustenance.
no prior federal administration has gone to the extremes that the current  one has to invade delicate public lands for the short-term benefit of oil and  gas companies.
he has always taken an active interest in every move made to advance the prosperity of archuleta county.
many va benefits, including the popular va health care program, are  available to veterans who have been discharged for or released from active  military service under other than dishonorable conditions.
by tess noel baker staff writer
summary kills/attacks: walkup 11-15, steen 7-17, jewell 5-11 ace serves: jewell 3, forrest 2 solo blocks: jewell 2, walkup 1 assists: walkup 12, kelley 11 digs: steen 9, kelley 5 ladies golf association finishes league season by lynne allison special to the sun the pagosa women's golf association sent eight of its lowest handicap players to san juan country club oct. 7 for final league match play and an awards luncheon.
local chatterlocal chatter woman's civic club keeps bazaar alive by kate terry sun columnist the annual holiday bazaar, sponsored by the woman's civic club of pagosa springs, is just two weeks off - saturday, nov. 6 - and will be held at the community center.
to find out how you can support united way, call 247-9444 or visit united  way's web site at www.unitedway-swco.org.
sda annually presents the distinguished board member award to a special district board member who has demonstrated outstanding leadership, dedication and service to their district.
even today, in a broad open  meadow across the highway from home, a new road has just been cut where, for  months over the past several winters, a large herd of elk has spent afternoons  and evenings scraping through the snowpack to vital forage beneath.
the ged tutoring program operates monday through thursday from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m., and monday and wednesday from 5 to 8 p.m. if you are interested in helping out, call the education center at 264-2835 or drop by the center at 4th and lewis streets.
rachel is currently undergoing oral chemotherapy to battle breast cancer  which has now spread to her lymphatic system, spine and hip.
this type of parent demands a dilution of standards in the classroom,  refusing to accept any but the highest rewards for their child's half-hearted  efforts
" the survey, which requires an estimated 35-45 minutes to complete, asks  residents to weigh in on a variety of crucial regulation issues that will be  used to evaluate future development proposals within five proposed county  "planning districts."
the federal government is apportioning skimpy reserves on a "most needed" basis, but there were reports this week that aventis-pasteur, the lone american producer and the one from which pagosa's supply came, may be able to produce millions more doses before the flu season reaches its peak.
volunteers will have the opportunity to work one-on-one with students who are preparing to take their ged tests.
i will be finding ways to work with all of our departments, employees, and elected officials to find time saving and cost effective solutions to our issues.
we have fine medical practitioners, but most of us struggle to obtain or maintain adequate catastrophic care insurance or a cash reserve to meet unexpected medical bills.
land grants were issued by spain prior to mexico becoming an independent nation in 1822, and by the mexican government after 1822.
again, it was almost 15 minutes before offense bested defense.
from far away i hear, "wake up, dear.
we can only imagine what our ancestors' thoughts were as they perceived  this phenomenon.
in any case, said baker, survey results will be implemented into the new  code, but unless participation reaches minimum levels, survey feedback will not  weigh as heavily as would be the case otherwise.
the performance-based code that will be established from the results of the  survey helps us to protect private property rights under the transfer of  development rights program, which encourages open space.
the  atmosphere is relaxed, with individual help from instructors during the  painting sessions, and detailed handouts.
the opening reception will be 5-7 p.m. feb. 5.
next production is "skins," nov. 4, 5, 6, 11 and 13 at 7:30 p.m. and nov. 14 at 2:30 p.m. in the mainstage theatre, fort lewis college.
our children are such a  precious commodity.
"vaccinations are an integral part of any control or eradication  program but will not control the disease alone," said kennedy.
steen killed for a fourth point and the teams exchanged scores with errors before faber put a ball to the floor from outside to give her team an 8-4 advantage.
our schools will be overcrowded.
in implementing policy, county employees should be accountable to their department managers, not directly to the board of county commissioners.
whatever happened to our sleepy little town when i sat in the police car at 3 a.m. and saw only an occasional dog out looking for something to eat or an occasional skunk?
extension viewpointsextension viewpoints measures recommended to control bvd in cattle
to find out how you can support united way, call 247-9444 or visit united way's web site at www.unitedway-swco.org.
items should range in price from $15-$350.
a number of tickets have already been sold for this event, so don't tarry, tickets will sell out very quickly as it has done every year, and you will be exceedingly sad to miss such a lovely affair.
- learned three applicants have replied to board invitations for membership  on the environmental control committee.
huge strides have been made since may in the analysis and inventory of our road system.
by tom carosello staff writer it's getting down to crunch time.
he's worked the canneries and fishing boats, hunted on the arctic tundra and lived among the many diverse cultures that coexist on the "last frontier."
the outer shadow is known as the penumbra.
he is one of the pioneers of this section and has been a resident of pagosa for thirty years.
these meatballs are no strangers to  shame, but remain oblivious to its stain.
- volunteers of america.
it is quite rewarding.
"blue," starring juliette binoche, is a penetrating, hypnotic  meditation on liberty and loss, and the rehabilitation of a human spirit after  a painful tragedy.
the sauce is syrupy and coats the meatballs.
please call donna at 731-9042 if you would like to volunteer to help with  this event.
know that we love and appreciate you more than we could every tell you.
it is from her mother that a girl learns to be a woman; it is from her father that she learns what to expect from men in the way of love and respect.
he is proud of his ability to fix cracks up to 24 inches, so give him a call at 731-9237 if you need a little help with you windshield.
they were able to perform an interior attack on the blaze that contained major damage to the kitchen, dining room and living room.
this may open up an opportunity for discussion and possibly measures to  reduce further radicalization, and less conflict, but it will take a different  less confrontational approach than thus far.
now, who comes to town but a slick promoter who uses words to create an illusion of reality.
perspective for all media, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 10-12 at the community center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
the kids will love it, and you can feel sure that parents will be equally as pleased to hang out and watch all the fun.
we are only as good as our membership and you make us great!veteran's corner veterans served - and not just during war time by andy fautheree sun columnist my semiannual subject this week is, who is a veteran?
the "drive-in" market, those within a  200-mile radius, account for 27 percent of visitors.
further, what does his record on the hill say about his own engagement with  congress?
it is an uplifting film about an italian family that faces hardships at the hands of nazis, but manages to keep a positive attitude.
i'm not sure that rob has made it into town yet, but if you're in the neighborhood, drop by and say "hi!"
the community is welcome to stop by, see the changes made, speak with staff and find out what's new.
thank you, thank you, thank you diplomats for all you do for us.
jim lincoln 'big box' vision dear editor: the decision to allow a 'big box' into pagosa springs deserves careful
bryan and mary sickbert pay to write dear editor: don't you think it's about time that john feazel and jim sawicki start  paying for the space that they take up in the sun?
this juried sale will feature fine crafts and arts in the barbara  conrad gallery.
the least leakage occurred in the areas of groceries and personal care, prescriptions, hardware and building supplies, and entertainment and restaurants.
the races for president, u.s. senate and house are in a state of flux, for all but the blindered partisan voter.
now is the time for local photographers to start making their selections and preparing their photos for display.
if such communication and cooperation is not actually occurring among  departments, the problems that stem from that lack of communication will,  eventually, percolate all the way up to the board of county commissioners, who  should ultimately be held responsible for the consequences - by the voters.
the rio grande national forest (rgnf) recently published the application  for transportation and utility systems and facilities for the village at wolf  creek draft environmental impact statement (deis).
the community survey, commissioned by the town of pagosa springs and the vision council, was prepared and conducted by rrc associates, of boulder.
"it's a multi-level program  that encompasses biosecurity, vaccinations and strategic testing.
she felt they should have been seen at different times.
to better inform local voters, the sun recently asked archuleta county  board of commissioners candidates nan rowe, robin schiro and ronnie zaday to  respond to a set of questions addressing four issues relevant to this year's  race.
the entire tri-county  area as a jackson hole.
rather than "recreating the wheel" at every aspect of our county,  i see several committees working closely with the bocc to give recommendations  and finding solutions to the issues.
the only question during the match was how many earned points monte vista would put on the board before the action ended.
crime will  increase.
day four travel to santa rosa park and stay in a jungle lodge, take a  hike or go horseback riding.
be her hero  as she enjoys the princess treatment.
fun on the run perspective on tourism traveling through new england, a motorist stopped for gas in a tiny village.
completed surveys can be submitted at the following locations: county planning office, county clerk's office, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant, chromo mercantile, ruby sisson library and turkey springs trading post.
"reading, crafts and decorating.
they left the following report concerning their observations.
if the child were fully  delivered from the birth canal, this would amount to murder under the law.
the days are getting shorter and cooler, so this is the perfect opportunity  to dance.
a neighbor called 9-1-1.
it was like watching your favorite movie, with your child in a starring role.
for electronically mailed comments the sender should normally receive an  automated acknowledgment from the agency as a confirmation of receipt.
according to the survey, the average full-time pagosa springs resident is  older, less affluent and family-oriented.
and then the sound comes loud.
at lower elevations, intermittent rain has been the norm, but recent forecasts provided by the national weather service office in grand junction suggest areas closer to town may receive their first measurable snowfall of the season within the next few days.
different cultures at different times perceived this as a spiritual venue.
at 5:50 p.m., tuesday, oct. 5, we were victims of a violent crime outside of alco.
shifts are from noon-3 p.m. or 3-6 p.m.
this must include looking at administrative costs versus direct costs used towards road improvement and maintenance and this includes fair pay for the operators, mechanics and first-line supervisors.
fire chief warren grams said firefighters were called to 207 oakridge drive around 6:30 p.m. monday.
the ingredients get mixed by hand  until a whisper this side of emulsified.
folk legend townes van zandt called buddy "a player and a poet."
i believe the county commissioners must play a role in ensuring that the environment, scenery and life-style are protected.
the refrain "there's nothing for kids to do" is not true.
cu regent candidate overcomes rude welcome
" "honts š is confident the village would have a positive impact on  income levels and quality of life in surrounding communities.
spirit in hand holiday exhibit and sale at the durango arts center, dec.  14-24.
superintendent duane noggle said his comment on a decline from nine to four was in preschool special education, not k-12.
tickets are  still only $18 and can be purchased at the chamber of commerce.
i would hope that the process would involve the submission of applications directly to the board of county commissioners, not to the airport manager or to the county administrator.
according to archuleta county building and planning department staff,  participation in a countywide survey that will be used to aid development of  new county land-use regulations is in need of a boost.
determining if those findings match our vision of  pagosa's future is vital to avoid making a decision we later regret.
in archuleta county, over $14,000 has been donated toward the county goal  of $62,000.
just like a cancer, a noxious weed, or an invasive species.
by this i mean that they should provide a well-defined vision of the direction of archuleta county and how we'll get there.
inside the suninside
i mix equal parts of finely ground beef, veal and pork.
these committees need to include people that have experience and knowledge  of the issues, as well as concerned citizens that have differing opinions, (to  work with roads, transfer development rights, airport, vision and planning, to  name just a few).
the "drive-in" market, those within a 200-mile radius, account for 27 percent of visitors.
that's why most of us were drawn here, whether it was two years ago, 10 years ago, or two generations ago.
it's time for all of us to awake from our slumber and look with sober eyes on the world before us.
the more the merrier.
he is at present confined to his home with a broken thigh, but friends will no doubt look after his interests on election day.
texans and californians  stay the longest, on average about five days.
likewise, numbers from the "southeast district," which includes  chromo and the upper and lower blanco areas, showed a 12-percent total, meaning  at least 122 additional surveys are needed from this district.
pagosa would answer with a ground attack on its next drive, and was able cut the lead to 21-7 on a 60-yard scoring run from armijo followed by daniel aupperle's point-after kick at 6:24.
we did not have enough players to play the visiting dulce team so myles called together enough players to accommodate our neighbors from the south with a practice game against the children who didn't travel.
when  comparing marital status, opposition to big boxes was stronger among singles  and couples without children.
a roughing the punter call on fourth and long enabled the mean moose to extend their next drive to the pirate red zone, but the march ended at the 17 when pagosa's juan martinez pounced on a fumble to give the pirates a late chance with 1:49 to play.
such an advisory board is clearly needed to apprise the county  commissioners of the airport's ongoing activities and business, in order to  enable the bocc to formulate policy concerning the airport.
the  office number is 264-8375, fax is 264-8376, and e-mail  afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
texas, new mexico, arizona and california followed.
calendar through oct. 30 - trio exhibit: joycelyn audette, katherine barr, and lisa  pedolsky at durango arts center.
it can affect your family, friends, property, community and your pocketbook.
he's shouting, "he stole those words from franklin delano roosevelt, son.
how about  "five years in the sun"?
does this make sense?
brett rodgers, with mr. rodgers windshield repair, is our next new member.
a 45-day public comment period began with the publication of a notice of availability in the federal register oct. 8.
" the whistle pig concert series is pleased to present this remarkable musician "up close and personal" in the living room of the hudson house, 446 loma st. in downtown pagosa springs.
now i don't expect anyone's going to change their vote based on this letter, but if gwb is reelected you might think about writing, e-mailing or calling the white house and asking him to stop relaxing environmental standards.
honts: "i see pagosa springs, south fork ...
henry buslepp end of an era dear editor: maybe five years is not an era, but it is long enough to get in comfortable  habits.
schiro and rowe are vying for the district 1 board seat.
i realize i'm kind of a meatball myself.
for more information call 970-728-9799 or check out www.telluride library.org/wits.
project hotline for the lonesome dove work is (719) 850-2553 and for the  other two projects, the hotline is (719) 873-2221.
according to survey findings, well over half of residents' monthly  expenditures on clothing, household furnishings, automobiles, appliances and  children's items are spent outside of pagosa springs.
a rising tide can cause erosion of the landscape, just as the  village will erode the landscape of the wolf creek area.
as always, the show will be held at  moonlight books, starting feb. 5 and running through feb. 26.
director ebeling's motion to have the association donate $50 toward defraying costs of advertising the issue died for lack of a second.
in order to obtain a ged, students must pass tests in five areas of  education: language arts reading, writing, social studies, science and  mathematics.
edelia archuleta edelia archuleta (daughter of sinonita maez and lazaro archuleta) and a native of archuleta county, passed away sept. 27, 2004, in alamosa, colo. born in pagosa junction on dec. 6, 1924, her last residence was in center.
no serious accidents have been reported in this immediate area that have been attributable to the hunting season.
he is  proud of his ability to fix cracks up to 24 inches, so give him a call at  731-9237 if you need a little help with you windshield.
as sigurd olson once said, "nature is always in a state of equilibrium, and only when we manipulate it for our own purposes do we contribute toward imbalance.
comments should be e-mailed to comments-rockymountain-sanjuan-pagosa@fs.fed.us or faxed to attn: rick jewell, at fax number 264-1538 or mailed to district ranger, pagosa ranger district, po box 310, pagosa springs, co 88147.
visitors to the show will not only be able to view the immense talent pool that resides in the pagosa area, but they can also vote for the people's choice award.
jackisch drug has new owners and big plans.
the federal government is apportioning skimpy reserves on a "most  needed" basis, but there were reports this week that aventis-pasteur, the  lone american producer and the one from which pagosa's supply came, may be able  to produce millions more doses before the flu season reaches its peak.
i am not sure at this time that creating a handful of metro districts is  cost effective to the county or to the taxpayers.
the three crossed the finish back-to-back-to-back in third through fifth place.
kelley cut the march short, however, dumping the ball off the pass to an empty spot on the floor and scott followed up with a kill from the middle.
the agenda includes: - call to order/roll call at 7 p.m. - public hearing for public comment for proposed changes to section 25 outdoor lighting of the land use regulations.
a similar workshop, aimed at providing additional survey information and  addressing related questions, is set for oct. 28, 7 p.m. inside the county  extension building.
at the recent workshop regarding this issue, i asked that the advisory  committee for the airport include not just all pilots or airport enthusiasts.
against ignacio we've got to get our block up, especially on the outside.
if i was in a truly "fine" mood i'd demolish the onion and garlic in the food processor, reducing the vegetables to a nearly liquid and highly flavorful state.
special events have generated nearly $78,000 to date.
- vietnam era - the period aug. 5, 1964 (feb. 28, 1961 for veterans who served "in country" before aug. 5, 1964) and ending may 7, 1975.
and, he said, he feels the purpose of the board is to enhance property values and asked that it commence proper enforcement, stating he feels the association is doing nothing to help the situation.
kerry has repeatedly pointed to his war record as a hero for a lost cause in vietnam, but has ignored the truth that his very actions after his service helped to bring about the eventual defeat of american forces and the murder of more than one million "undesirables" when the communists took over the south.
you can make a difference in the life of  our seniors, so please call and volunteer.
then, mr. cheney said that he hadn't met senator edwards until the day of the debate.
freshman isaiah warren took the fourth spot on pagosa's team with a 20:51 showing, claiming 53rd.
the only one of those grants directly affecting archuleta county and pagosa country was the tierra amarilla land grant.
when implanted in a mom's womb, these little people can grow to be normal  human beings, and several happy children are alive today who were conceived  this way because someone cared about adopting a frozen embryo.
they had seating inside for 180 people and the seats were filled all the time as people shuttled in and out.
the total eclipse begins with the penumbral phase, which is followed by a partial eclipse, then the full eclipse.
then, i add a beaten egg, a mess of breadcrumbs to bind the mix, salt and freshly ground black pepper, some chopped parsley, a pinch of ground nutmeg and a tablespoon or so of either water or milk.
i should not be disturbed by mean-spirited and aggressive behavior.
today its objective is to continue to support the public library and give  assistance to other civic projects when possible.
with respect to the issue of "communication/cooperation between county departments," certainly that is to be encouraged and facilitated however possible.
the next most-important items dealt with enjoyment of the natural  amenities, including trails, parks and plazas.
veterans discharged early for a  service-connected disability would also be exempt from active duty eligibility.
special ed count down in preschool, not districtwide special education numbers districtwide are not down this year, as might  have been indicated last week in school board coverage.
john kerry has an excellent record in the senate on voting for the environment.
pagosa merchants need a "don't drive to durango" campaign backed  up by a solid service and pricing strategy.
extension viewpoints measures recommended to control bvd in cattle
there are meatballs everywhere you look.
the tie-breaker decision went to pagosa, which allowed 12 goals in the league to 13 surrendered by crested butte.
and for the young  ones who like to hear scary stories, friends of the library will be reading  them.
we offer adult classes as well as a variety of classes at the  elementary, intermediate and junior high schools.
the books are available for sale at boot hill tack and feed in pagosa springs for $6.50.outdoors village at wolf creek deis comment period opens
for more  information call 970-728-9799 or check out www.telluride library.org/wits.
reams of material have been written about the t.a. grant which, by fair means or foul, ended up in the control of thomas catron, a new mexico lawyer who was the largest land owner in the u.s. for some time.
the man-made depression is located near the great kiva and other structures below the great house.
there is only one pagosa  springs, one south fork.
like a tennis player who tries to slam or spin the ball in hopes his opponent will fail to return it, words are used to attack or put a creative spin on reality in the hopes the speaker will look good and his opponent off balance and out of sync.
for others, fall is a festive season.
"success appears to be fair to good overall, although there are hot  spots experiencing a lot of harvest, and other areas where hunters are not  encountering any elk," wagner said.
both also ranked high in state lists with moe second in class 3a to devin gendreau of weld central (26) and shan fourth with 16.
junior paul hostetter, 55th, will round out the varsity for post-season competition, finishing in (20:53).
wednesday, oct 27 - lasagna, italian vegetables, tossed salad, bread stick and fruited gelatin.
the total eclipse is visible to the  naked eye; however, a good pair of binoculars will enhance your viewing  experience.
registration started on monday, oct. 11, and will continue through friday, oct. 22.
to be sure, the only ones benefiting from such ill-conceived ideas are those spending the money and exercising the power necessary to drive them through the obviously inadequate approval system of local and federal governments.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g,  durango, co 81301.
the topics range widely, from an amendment dealing with construction liability to an increase in tobacco tax, from a proposed change in the way the state's electoral votes are designated to a renewable energy proposal, from changes to the state personnel system to removal of obsolete constitutional elements.
the archuleta county  golf tournament, sponsored by bootjack ranch, netted $9,300 and the trail ride,  supported by matt poma, doubled its total to $4,126.
"if our daughters are to flower," she says, "they need  optimal growing conditions.
our long list of renewals includes; sky ute casino and lodge, august vanderbeek with a rainbows den, aspen springs metropolitan district, alan schutz with pagosa springs golf club, doris green with pagosa springs arts council, wade duncan with genesis mortgage, bruce spruce ranch, lyn delange with cse advertising specialties and pagosa springs welcoming service, dan aupperle with citizens bank of pagosa springs, junction restaurant, kim t. ha with shanghai chinese restaurant, shirley luhnow with just gourd-jus® and associate member elmer schettler.
the house contains eleven rooms, besides two large bath rooms, and water is piped in from an infallible spring.
the largest structure on that ridge, malville said, is exactly due west of the two rocks.
results from the "pagosa lakes district" are more favorable,  suggesting 54 percent of the needed number of surveys have been submitted.
an example is searching the paper every week for "cruising with  cruse."
support our local businesses and artists and purchase fabulous,  one-of-a-kind holiday gifts.
what is the difference between partially delivering the child or fully delivering it?
finally, after these actions are taken, and input from the residents of any particular areas are received, it may be useful and beneficial for these groups to utilize local improvement/metro districts.
other than leaving the world a safer place, what could be more important  than leaving a cleaner, more healthy planet for our children and grandchildren?
choosing prudently will insure the decision reflects what is best for the future of our town.
the expansion of settled territory in new mexico prior to the 1846 u.s. takeover of that territory was accomplished by issuing land grants.
william bennett words distort
when a batch is finished, i remove it to a paper towel on a heated plate and start on the next batch.
something else is needed.
yet, while global society fails to embrace "zero  growth" as a viable alternative to rampant expansion, the consequential  strain on the environment, and the inevitable depletion of natural resources,  will certainly bring our industrial civilization to a grinding halt.
raffle, bake sale set for pagosa cancer victim friends and supporters of pagosa cancer victim rachel howe are planning a 9  a.m. bake sale and raffle saturday at city market west.
i feel myself shaken, gently shaken.
our local race for county commissioner has the potential for new and surprising turns before election day.
adventure tour join artist cynthia padilla for a tour of costa rica.
it's just about time for the civic club bazaar, and your opportunity to pick up items for the coming holiday season.
among new members, we welcome allen miller with performance cycle located  at 2017 eagle dr. performance cycle offers atv, snowmobile and motorcycle  service, repair, parts and accessories in american and metric.
bower has helped move the district from 15 volunteer firefighters to now over 75.
"the nutcracker" remember that saturday, nov. 13, is the annual immaculate heart of mary  fashion show and luncheon beginning at noon at the parish hall.
but there  are also certain "intangible" qualities associated with the landscape  that simply cannot be defined in monetary terms.
the performance-based code that will be established from the results of the survey helps us to protect private property rights under the transfer of development rights program, which encourages open space.
" the chances for both teams to make the trip to colorado springs later this month will be decided in a second week of races at monte vista saturday.
"we started strong," said coach penné hamilton, "but we kind of fizzled at the end.
harvest fest set at powerhouse sunday, oct. 31 harvest fest - the 22nd annual event of fun, food, and free games ...
there are thousands of resorts with these amenities do we need more?
then it was ormonde over the top, shan webb wide left and a solo block by gill.
i have a bit of glace de viand on hand.
an eclipse of the moon only occurs during a full moon, and only when it  passes through some portion of the earth's shadow.
denny bell truth ignored dear editor: as a living historian, i find it fascinating how often history repeats itself.
this occurs  when pregnant cows are exposed to the virus, and the unborn calf becomes  infected.
"do you mean by them that has to live in this ugly, moth-eaten, dust-covered dump, or by them that's merely enjoying its quaint and picturesque rustic charms for a short spell?
i wish to acknowledge a group of youngsters who, last sunday, spent the afternoon picking up trash in and around the core area of pagosa lakes.
nov. 5 - outsider art: visions from the edge, reception with the artists,  durango arts center 5-7 p.m. nov. 11-12 - perspective workshop, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center.
to help, or for more information, call nita niece at 731-9088 or patsy harvey at 799-4603.
come fall, there are meatballs everywhere.
san luis valley dow biologist chuck wagner reports good elk hunting conditions in the san luis valley during the first season with some light precipitation keeping vegetation moist, making for decent stalking conditions.
currently, "historic" access is through private land, and deed-restricts development to as few as three residential lots.
having been taught that strategy long ago and now reading mr. sawicki's letter, i believe it is more important than ever to carefully examine what the salesman is trying to sell rather than to buy it on brand name alone or appearance.
william r. gray was a writer, editor, photographer, and publisher for more than thirty years with the national geographic society.
if you  have any suggestions for next month's movie, call laura at 264-2167.
surely, there exists analysis of a big box's impact on towns similar in  size to pagosa springs.
calendar through oct. 30 - trio exhibit: joycelyn audette, katherine barr, and lisa pedolsky at durango arts center.
if the child were fully delivered from the birth canal, this would amount to murder under the law.
additionally, over 600 individuals in archuleta county have been asked  to lend their support to united way's efforts.
tickets  are available now.
the door prizes donated by our local merchants at this luncheon are always  outstanding and feel free to call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at  731-5429 if you would like to donate an item or two.
we don't have to deal with traffic and sprawl and we get to enjoy hiking and fishing and the beauty that god created.
reprinted with permission from guidelines for children's sports, r. martens and v. seefeldt (eds.)., washington, d.c. american alliance for health, physical education, recreation and dance, 1979.
gill had a block and forrest his toughest save on a dive to his right for a shot by lance kipfer.
it starts at 1 p.m. in the lounge, and popcorn is only 25 cents.
if you embarrass cu, you can't go to school here.
rowe: i certainly think the incoming board of county commissioners should  explore more fully than have their predecessors the issues surrounding the  formation of more local improvement or metro districts to handle road  maintenance.
in the second step, strategic testing is used to identify animals that are persistently infected, which is a primary source of bvd infection.
" bosley stands behind cu president hoffman.
rather, he said, "the board is trying to ascertain what the majority of the property owners want and to act on their wishes.
the pirates went into hurry-up mode, and armijo carried twice to move the ball into mean moose territory, then threw to flanker paul przybylski racing down the alamosa sideline for a 45-yard touchdown to get pagosa back in the game with 49 seconds to play.
education in civics and government is  essential to the preservation and improvement of american constitutional  democracy.
the candidate indicates he is comfortable with the current system of  electing regents - two at-large and one from each of colorado's seven  congressional districts.
the ged program operates 1:30-3:30 p.m. monday through thursday and 5-8 p.m. monday and wednesday.
honts: "i think i'm doing you a good thing by bringing red (mccombs)  into this area.
coming off the completion of his sixth album, buddy's songs have continued to mature and to explore a wide range of subjects and emotions.
then came a delayed, curious call from the officiating crew - with both teams lined up for the extra-point attempt, the officials huddled momentarily near the 15-yard line, then littered the field with penalty flags.
democrat john salazar is slugging it out with republican greg walcher for the right to represent our u.s. congressional district.
with feeder cattle, one persistently infected animal can cause a loss of more than $10,000 per exposed pen.
membership our membership news this week includes four new members, one new owner and  14 renewals.
the architect and colorado jaynes are in agreement that we should not rush  the project.
the proposal would move the line from the last proposed route and would have a  lock-and-key system to allow entry for property owners only.
we also value service, selection, price and convenience.
last week i did this for the last time - with regret.
i also know that a committee needs to have a task or mission that states what the purpose is and a time line to work toward.
" bosley says he will take a "proactive" role to spread the word  about the dire state of cu's financial health and, "when the state's  elected leaders agree upon a solution, to actively campaign statewide in  support of the solution."
all of the raffle items are currently on display at the library.
i especially want to thank don heitkamp who also volunteers his time to  oversee the project.
as we grow, open space will become more and more valuable in meeting this important objective.
government can only do so much to control growth.
where did you go to school?
daytime lane restrictions in all three construction projects will remain.
" jana aikman environment woe dear editor: we really don't know which of the presidential candidates will make america a safer place to live, but we have a very clear choice on the environment.
i am not about to retreat to the tried and true tomato sauce; i have been dealing with the mundane to the point of exhaustion and i refuse to opt for the lowest common denominator.
675 flu shots given in first countywide clinic; balance available 8-10 a.m. friday for others
this will be a breathtaking show if the weather cooperates and clear skies are in our good fortune.
our thanks to all our members, new and old.
the colorado art open is an all-colorado artists, all-media exhibition  offered biennially at foothills.
and again, it was the webb brothers producing the goal.
"next to the sun and the moon, it would have been the brightest thing in the sky," malville said.
in those same 32 years, we know of no one who moved here for extraordinary health care or health care benefits.
she has gotten the district on sound financial footing with a healthy  reserve and a waiting list of potential firefighters.
for example, they could custom buy over the internet and get fast delivery as a customer service or, let us buy direct from them (with a built in service fee) from their own web site addresses plastered all over town.
the pirates play their final iml match of the regular season tonight, oct. 21, against ignacio in the pshs gym.
schiro: i am in favor of policies that encourage the private formation of  local improvement/metro districts, but not to shift some of the financial  burden for maintenance away from the county.
"state funding for higher eduction is at a level that now jeopardizes cu's ability to meet its responsibilities and fulfill its essential and future economic roles.
in my opinion, one of the linchpins of a community plan is the  implementation of some form of zoning.
the concert begins at 7 p.m. and seating is limited to 45 people, so advance reservations are strongly recommended by calling bill and clarissa hudson at 264-2491.
as far as big box development of superstores goes, 59 percent of respondents "don't support big box development under any circumstances," while another 30 percent would support it only with some sort of controls.
food for thought meatballs versus meatballs:
they celebrate oktoberfest and  halloween.
we will pick a regent for the university of colorado.
"perhaps this was some sort of ceremonial or rebuilding ritual the people went through," he added.
citizens immediately came to our rescue.
honts will bring his crews from texas, pay them texas wages and expect them to be able to afford to live here.
slade owns and oversees the blanco dove artist and writer's retreat center on the lower blanco road.
"cu has a critical role in the future economic vitality of our state and makes a significant positive economic impact on colorado.
i got to see a number of old friends i don't always visit with.
the commissioners should lead the activities of the county under the vision, goals, and strategic plan they put in place.
- community connections.
this year's theme is "the nutcracker" and will feature musical and dancing entertainment as well as the latest fashions.
it goes without saying most political candidates are meatballs, so the situation is unbearable.
the latest reports indicate a wet and cold low-pressure system is expected to hover over the four corners region today and tomorrow, then begin to move east by saturday afternoon.
ron has been conducting research at chimney rock for the last two years and is an expert on the northern lunar standstill and its relationship to the chimney rock spires.
the lonesome dove-windy point job at the east base of the pass is where the overnight closures have ended.
richard and leanne goebel haunting honts dear editor: after reading comments by bob honts of the village at wolf creek development corporation last week in the sun, i want to thank him.
the pirates and the bobcats meet tonight with c team matches beginning at 7 p.m.
in some cases, for  as little as one day of active duty service, if the veteran served before  september 7, 1980.
hunters who don't  get out of their vehicle or off of their atvs are seeing the sights, but very  little else.
if you don't get a call you expect, keep on playing.
for more information contact jewell at 264-1509.
but, maybe this is the year we should take our time.
call 264-2835 to volunteer or  for more information.
for information on these and other veterans benefits please call or stop by the veterans' service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
students will need to bring their own brushes, acrylic and watercolor paints.
i take the meatballs six at a time and brown them in olive oil over medium high heat in a heavy pan.
for ranchers to attain level 3 status, their herds must be free of all  persistently infected cattle.
"there were long lines and very few complaints.
the board's job is to make policy, and the county staff's job is to implement that policy.
anyone wishing to help set up another work day, please call me at 264-4151, ext.
events friday, oct 22 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; pinochle, 1 p.m.; free movie day -
the date when traders first traveled the entire route is uncertain, but by 1835, the trade route was well established.
back-to-back steals by paul muirhead opened pirate scoring drives that were turned aside by viking defenders.
the community center will sponsor a costume contest with categories as  follows - most original, most gruesome and most elaborate.
a graduate of the university of colorado, he  received an honorary doctorate from the institution last may. bosley claims he has "the experience, qualifications, commitment and  passion" to help lead cu.
schmidt told the board the levy will be tied to  purchase of the land and therefore won't be put into place for up to 10-15  years, or until the property owner wants to close escrow.
i could be prissy and  strain the sauce, but in my angst-riddled state i don't care enough to do it.
according to a map in the archuleta county land use  plan, the job corps site is apparently part of a major migratory route and  "severe" winter range for deer and elk.
bayfield saw its final point go up on the board when a pirate committed a line violation.
in order to complete and submit the survey, residents should go to www.archuletacounty.org and click on the link near the bottom of the page titled "2004 land use planning survey," then follow the instructions provided.
a total  of 487 responded in this manner.
she is a heroine in the truest sense of the word.
"we are still well short of the numbers required to validate the results.
to test the quality of the random survey, income levels and ages of respondents were compared to income figures in the 2000 u.s. census.
group tickets need to be purchased prior to show dates, with payment sent to flc at one time.
the moon in full eclipse creates its own color palette.
he told the board it is his opinion no  court gives the board permission to remove trash can screening.
arnold, a military hero for both sides in the same war, seems to be a near perfect foreshadow of john kerry.
choosing prudently  will insure the decision reflects what is best for the future of our town.
of the five bulls i saw harvested on opening day,  only one was close enough to a trail to be brought out whole.
this class  still has spaces available and is being held on mondays and wednesdays oct.  25-nov. 3 from 6 p.m.-8 p.m.
this year's delightful theme is "the nutcracker" featuring music provided by john graves with dancing honors performed by local ballerinas.
on the other side, this area of colorado and the southwest came into existence thanks to the hard work and perseverance of the early families that settled here.
we currently have  two openings and need substitutes too.
our free movie on friday is "life is beautiful."
land-use and zoning regulations must be implemented and enforced that will give equal importance to both of these issues that are at the heart of what archuleta county is all about.
early this month, the county completed a mass mailing of "postcard reminders" to boost survey participation and awareness levels, and current efforts include advertisements and press releases in the local media.
this is also the time of year to work on budgets, to project, to plan and to look forward to a good coming year.
bosley was president of the former bank of boulder for 24 years during a 35-year career in the banking and finance industry, but his most noted claim to fame is his role as founder of the world-famous bolder boulder, the fourth largest foot race in the u.s.
the pagosa boys finished sixth overall at monte vista's invitational and third in the league.
"i take a lot of the blame for that; we were probably not as focused this week during practice as we should've been," he added.
right to proper preparation for participation in sports; 8.
i will be involved in setting up better communications within our county,  as well as with other entities, i.e., the town of pagosa springs, paws, upper  san juan health service district, pagosa fire and school districts as well as  la plata, hinsdale, mineral and rio grand counties.
photography contest the time for the 17th annual pagosa springs arts council photography  contest is fast approaching.
along with a broken watch, her face, chest, knees, arms and hands were  badly scratched and bruised.
whatever happened to our sleepy little town when i sat in the police car at  3 a.m. and saw only an occasional dog out looking for something to eat or an  occasional skunk?
president bush supports adult stem cell research, which shows to be much more effective that the embryo kind, and no one has to die to obtain adult stem cells.
- boy scouts of america, great southwest council.
the woodland where i ran free as a child is, today, a housing  development, and the vacant lot nearby, where i played ball for hours on end,  is now a large power generating station.
" to claim the team title, the pirates put three runners in the top five.
the advertising creeps across the floor of consciousness like the backwash from a clogged sewer line.
we open our hearts and our space to these young people and what a happy  place we have become.
" hunters should keep in mind that there are different rules for atv use depending upon what agency controls the land.
the office number is 264-8375, fax is 264-8376, and e-mail afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
other  items will be on hand to paint such as checkbook covers, floor coverings,  lampshades, and tote bags.
i feel almost buddhist.
for one to appreciate what is being visualized is to truly understand  what is occurring during this event.
for more information on how to enter the show, drop by moonlight books and  pick up the rules and regulations.
all citizens,  young and old, need to understand the political process - from issues and  governmental procedures to the positions of individual candidates - in order to  participate effectively.
students will be treated like adults and will be held accountable for their  actions.
we will also be celebrating october birthdays, so if you have a birthday this month, have lunch with us and we'll serve some frightful cake.
the archuleta county golf tournament, sponsored by bootjack ranch, netted $9,300 and the trail ride, supported by matt poma, doubled its total to $4,126.
four alternatives are considered in the deis and, as required by law, a preferred alternative is identified.
you live in the mountains, not by the ocean.
angela atkinson and chris cares, of rrc associates, and andy knudtsen, of eps, an economic consultant, presented the survey findings.
"blue," starring juliette binoche, is a penetrating, hypnotic meditation on liberty and loss, and the rehabilitation of a human spirit after a painful tragedy.
what about the regular people  who live here and struggle to make ends meet?
nov. 5-dec. 10 - outsider art: visions from the edge at durango arts center.
jewell crushed a monte overpass at the start of the game then wrapped things up at game's end with scores on two kills and one solo block.
it also marks chimney rock as perhaps the earliest of a series of 100 to 150 outliers connected to the larger community at chaco.
according to a recent  report, at least 80 percent of all cancer cases are linked to environmental  causes.
i  would hope that the process would involve the submission of applications  directly to the board of county commissioners, not to the airport manager or to  the county administrator.
patty tillerson will be here on the same day to check your blood pressure, so make her guess who you are.
yes, zoning regulations restrict private property rights to varying degrees, depending upon the specific regulations in question.
- seeds of learning.
it would be more accurate to say that for some kids, the will or desire to get involved with positive developmental activities is lacking.
this is the time of year to watch leaves fall, feel the weather turn cold and get all wrapped up with school fall sports.
then they need to allow those employees to perform their jobs while encouraging them, and providing oversight without unnecessary interference.
"she can't change the  university's culture without an active and supportive board of regents."
motivated by despair, i've opened an australian shiraz and i'm working on my second glass of the stuff.
the united way drive has seen some early successes.
if the meat is not  ground fine enough at the market, i run it through the teensy disk on my  porkert fleischacker 10.
the tunnel project on the east side narrows has delays possible from 5 a.m.  to 10 p.m.
copies may be picked up in person at national forest offices in monte vista, del norte, and pagosa springs.
bri scott scored one earned point in the spree with a kill from the middle, steen the second point from outside.
rob hooper will be the new man  in charge and while i don't want to spoil the surprise, you'll be seeing some  exciting changes going on in the future.
when i have finished balling up all the meat, i put the balls in the fridge for a few minutes.
in colorado, more than 20 percent of cowherds are diagnosed with bvd annually, which has a devastating economic impact on the cattle industry.
any teen who would like to help out can just stop  in and there will be a job for them.
a similar workshop, aimed at providing additional survey information and addressing related questions, is set for oct. 28, 7 p.m. inside the county extension building.
county airport question: with reference to county airport issues, do you view the potential reestablishment of an advisory committee similar to the former "airport authority" as a worthwhile venture?
it is all practice and getting comfortable with the tools of the trade.
we tend to agree with our colleagues at the denver post.
since that beginning the united states marines have fought in every climb and place from the american revolution through belleau wood, guadalcanal, inchon, khe san, kuwait, afghanistan and in the present iraq campaign.
this allows people to get  involved and be part of the solutions, knowing what the task is before them; as  opposed to being appointed to a committee for a term with no direction, that  type of committee gets old fast, members lose interest and little is  accomplished.
special ed count down in preschool, not districtwide special education numbers districtwide are not down this year, as might have been indicated last week in school board coverage.
national studies confirm that roadside checkpoints increase the perception of "risk of apprehension" thereby reducing the number of alcohol related traffic crashes.
an account has been set up at the bank of colorado for donations to offset  the staggering costs of her treatment.
on the other end of the scale, just 20 percent of respondents were under age 34.
on the other side, this area of colorado and the southwest came into  existence thanks to the hard work and perseverance of the early families that  settled here.
because of the higher building costs, we have enough to build the structure  but will still need to raise more money for added bookshelves, computers,  furniture and accessories.
wally lankford, ged coordinator, will match your skills with a student who needs your help.
it also saw the pirates struggle offensively, getting a lone shot on goal - by freshman kevin blue - in the 12-minute stretch.
there is only one pagosa springs, one south fork.
buddy drives his original compositions like a man driving his pickup truck through the alaskan wilderness.
chamber newschamber news luncheon salutes efforts of diplomats by doug trowbridge sun columnist those amazing ladies you see on the preview cover this week are two of an extraordinary corps of folks affectionately referred to as chamber diplomats.
now i  want to take that same passion to contribute again, to help lead, revitalize  and assure cu's stable future.
mr. mccaw was born june 1, 1921 in durango, the son of wayne and blanche mccaw.
a third option, according to baker, would be to consolidate the number of  planning districts down to three if survey participation continues to lag.
steen served for seven points in mid game.
the portion of trail from the top of the first switchbacks to beaver meadows will be closed until further notice for safety reasons.
sda annually presents the distinguished board member award to a special  district board member who has demonstrated outstanding leadership, dedication  and service to their district.
traits such as public involvement, civility, respect for law, critical thinking, and a willingness to negotiate and compromise are indispensable if the american form of self-government is to continue to succeed.
there is certainly evidence that they can work effectively, as can be seen  by successful programs already within the county.
beaver creek trail closed for safety reasons a section of the beaver creek trail, no. 560, has been closed by the u.s. forest service due to dangerous rock slides and washouts.
many of these families still have descendents exhibiting this same spirit.
she and jewell killed for points on the way to a 16-3 lead; jewell served two aces as well.
the teens have made this a great place to work
shots on goal, p-18, t-6; saves, t-kvale, 12; p-forrest, 6.
"she can't change the university's culture without an active and supportive board of regents."
then, mr. cheney said that he hadn't met  senator edwards until the day of the debate.
the least leakage occurred in the areas of groceries and personal care,  prescriptions, hardware and building supplies, and entertainment and  restaurants.
it is ridiculous to ask for, or expect more funding of any type, without  first knowing what is currently being spent and where we can make cost-saving  improvements.
the sauce is  syrupy and coats the meatballs.
on the ensuing possession, gill intercepted and fired from 30 only to see it go over the net.
i stumble to the kitchen and whip a basic ball, one that can be cloaked in  a variety of ways.
music will be provided by kpcl's own ole blomberg and the center will provide desserts.
president bush supports adult stem cell research, which shows to be much  more effective that the embryo kind, and no one has to die to obtain adult stem  cells.
featured will be baked goods, beauty, bath and body products, cosmetics,  fragrances, handmade gifts, homemade candy, jewelry, western arts and crafts,  candles, candy, crafts, embroidered goods, health care products, homemade  cookies, skin care products wool crafts and - of course - refreshments
with the center keeper charging right at him, webb flicked it over his head, then swept past him for an unimpeded shot and the last goal of the game.
i hope to create a new road advisory committee of informed and committed  citizens to provide input to the board on all possible strategies for improving  and maintaining our county's roads.
"making people happy.
experienced a good first season in terms of hunter success.
along with a broken watch, her face, chest, knees, arms and hands were badly scratched and bruised.
i believe chief volger is doing a good job with the tremendous change i see each time i visit pagosa.
please, please don't make me do this again, bring your talent to our next amateur half hour nov. 9.
summary: scoring: 2:47, p-s. webb, assist m. webb; 15:14, c-jiminez, ua on free kick; 30:07, p-s. webb, assist m. webb.
the forest service is required by law to provide reasonable access to  private property across national forest lands and is responding to an  application request.
the following are the  questions and the candidates' responses to each.
the site will be community united methodist church, 434 lewis st.
wednesday, oct 27 - lasagna, italian vegetables, tossed salad, bread stick  and fruited gelatin.
registered voters can request absentee ballots to be mailed to them up to oct. 26 and can pick up absentee ballots at the county clerk's office until oct. 29.
but the vikings kept the pressure on and forrest was called on to make three consecutive saves, the last tipping a blistering drive to his left and off the post to avoid the tying score.
sometimes this will actually happen in the daylight.
in a less guarded moment president bush conceded that you can never totally  eliminate terrorism and senator kerry added that likewise prostitution and  alcoholism can never be wiped out, but that all can be reduced to a nuisance  rather then drive our daily lives.
president homes is an owner-involved building program offering 45 home packages with stick-built panelized walls, high quality name-brand materials, professional guidance and support for our customers and 100 percent home/land financing.
it is cheap but drinkable, and i use some of it to deglaze my pan.
as always, the show will be held at moonlight books, starting feb. 5 and running through feb. 26.
reservations are required for dinner and must be made no later than nov. 6.
pag - armijo 60 run (aupperle kick) third quarter ala - bolt 15 pass from garcia (kick failed)
i feel that the current task before public works is to update the inventory  which had been neglected over many years and to project the costs of bringing  all roads into the system.
malville said evidence in chaco canyon sites points to the people rebuilding or reconstructing their kivas or ceremonial sites about every 20 years - "or perhaps every 18.6 years," malville said.
after a solo block by nobles, center lost the ball at midfield to pirate sophomore caleb ormonde who beat three defenders for an open shot that sailed high.
the bush administration has refused to reinstate the superfund tax to make  polluters pay for toxic waste site cleanup.
pam and i received during our crisis.
in what can only be viewed as good news for area drivers the last scheduled full closure of wolf creek pass for the season has passed.
the former "airport authority" made decisions, not recommendations regarding the airport; the decision-making needs to be made by an informed bocc.
james w. sanders already a threat dear editor: we are pagosa "part-timers" who own a home in alpha and will move to pagosa permanently next year.
since 1949, the national cattlemen's beef association, the america hereford association, the american angus association, the american scotch highland breeders association, and the american quarter horse association.
once again the ladies of the fashion show committee are hard at work planning another festive event.
i should care about greater things, about greater ideas and souls.
when communication breakdowns occur, i believe it is the role of the  commissioners to step in and provide the leadership to pull the different areas  together, break down any obstacles, and provide the appropriate resources to  get things moving in the overall defined direction.
i take the pan in which the meat is browned and i toss in a bit more olive  oil and a mire poix - finely diced onion, carrot and celery.
the third annual arboles holiday bazaar is scheduled 9 a.m.-3 p.m. nov. 20 at arboles catholic church on colo. 151 just west of the arboles community.
by tess noel baker staff writer the pagosa pirates set the tone for a successful cross country post season saturday by bringing home team first-place honors.
learn the elements of - and how to write - a convincing query letter; the fundamentals of a compelling book proposal; how to find and deal with a literary agent; which publishers to approach for different genres of books; the basics of a publishing contract -advances, rights, royalties, copyright, sales, marketing, etc.; and much more.
this is the region where earth blocks some (but not the entirety ) of the sun's rays.
according to those visitors surveyed, the top downtown draws are the  "friendly atmosphere," "the riverwalk" and "events and  festivals."
bring your dancing shoes and your favorite music and kick up your heels.
" schiro: i believe the management role of commissioners should be one of providing strong leadership to the county administrative functions and county departments.
civic club bazaar slated nov. 6 to benefit library mark your calendars for saturday, nov. 6, and remember it's less than two weeks away.
for instance, six months  of military service for military reserve training purposes does not count  toward active duty service in most cases.
esterly responded, referring to information packets he had distributed to the board that morning, that he had talked to area fire officials and they feel "we can meet the codes and still screen propane tanks from view."
while we are disappointed that the project is not under way, it has been a learning experience for all concerned.
moe webb got the rebound and kvale stopped him, too.
oh, the creativity is  booming, but it's a secret.
the archuleta county  education center is seeking volunteer tutors for their general education  development (ged) classes.
i am a goose down comforter too large for my last benefactor to be  effective and useful.
while this will obviously be a  considerable loss to the general public as a practical, and easily-accessible,  year-round recreation site, it will also serve as yet another detriment to our  coexistence with wildlife.
david bohl, board president, reviewed resolutions 87-7 and 87-8 which  removed the screening requirement for trash receptacles and propane tanks in  july 1987.
many of these families still have descendents exhibiting this  same spirit.
perhaps they left much behind, for the lunar ties to the heavens are just the beginning of what could have been happening at chimney rock.
we are truly in a fiscal  crisis," he says.
our summer volunteers have left for the season and we need more help in getting meals out to our homebound seniors.
this year is a presidential election year and, as such, it is a prime breeding ground for the political meatballs.
as originally conceived, the t.a. grant included an area bounded by the las nutritas river on the south, the navajo river on the north, the crest of mountains forming the skyline on the east, and a north-south line roughly following today's u.s. 84 on the west.
"the first season was good down here," said dow biologist scott wait.
there will be many festivities for all the little spooks and goblins including a costume contest as well as the food, games and activities with prizes galore.
and, he reminded them the game plan had been to use the middle of the field to establish pattern, see the field and play the lanes.
the third annual arboles holiday bazaar is scheduled 9 a.m.-3 p.m. nov. 20  at arboles catholic church on colo. 151 just west of the arboles community.
i am very proud of the board of trustees, the building committee, the architect and representatives of colorado jaynes who have all worked hard to overcome the many unexpected circumstances that have cropped up along the way.
commissioners should establish clear policies and guidelines that will  assist and not inhibit administrators and department heads in performing their  jobs.
lenore bright and  others always have a station at the bake sale table.
i could be prissy and strain the sauce, but in my angst-riddled state i don't care enough to do it.
rowe: i don't believe the appropriate role of a county commissioner is  "management."
one can follow the eating pattern of starting in the kitchen and ending at the  bake sale table.
this will be a breathtaking show if the weather cooperates and clear skies
the bocc needs to have the confidence in them to deal with the day to day county business, while the bocc is preparing for tomorrow.
this could be the key to our problems.
ideas wanted the calendar of events is getting shorter which signifies that fall is  here.
pagosa is fortunate enough to be involved in one of the celebratory as well  as educational venues.
as a general statement, 88 percent said future development, "should  respect pagosa's established architectural scale, small-town character and  historic identity."
following successes gained him promotions  to the rank of major general and great favor with general george washington.
please provide clothes on hangers if possible.
it was also protected in someway by a second structure that would have blocked the causeway to the great house.
brash, arrogant and brave to the degree that he was willing to risk not only his own life but the lives of those under his command, arnold became immediately a "hero" with the defeat of the british at fort ticonderoga.
these pagosa springs/archuleta county organizations are helping to ensure  civic education in our county by volunteering their members to assist kids  voting students at the polls nov. 2 in the following precincts: 1 - kiwanis; 2 - democratic party; 3 - archuleta county 4-h program; 4 -  arboles, mitch appenzeller; 5 - aspen springs community; 6 - league of women  voters; 7 - rotary; and 8 - republican women's club.
the project ea is also available on the san juan national forest web site at www.fs.fed.us/r2/sanjuan/projects.shtml.
while growth is economically good for a community, unforeseen problems can  taint the splendor of it.
in fact, he said, the district is "concerned with the huge growth in  the number of high-needs students and that is why we added a teacher and an  aide at the intermediate school."
when asked if he felt his team was physically dominated during the contest, "i don't think we were dominated physically, but they were certainly prepared to play much better than we were," said o'donnell after the game.
approximately 675 shots were administered, kleckner said, and vaccine also was distributed for the patients in pine ridge extended care nursing home.
these two wonderful men went above and beyond and truly exhibited the spirit of pagosa.
our time, fuel and frustration are worth a lot of dollars that can be captured by the local economy.
the "big boxes" in durango, and even farmington, are already a threat to local business, as is the internet.
surveys are also expected to be available near polling locations during  this year's nov. 2 general election.
we don't  have to deal with traffic and sprawl and we get to enjoy hiking and fishing and  the beauty that god created.
it has been light reading.
any teen who would like to help out can just stop in and there will be a job for them.
they will stoop to any level to get their way, concoct any story that serves their purposes, distort any information as it suits them.
that sent the viking faithful into cheers of delight and spurred the squad into continued pressure on the pirates.
the rules for distribution will be the same as those for monday's mass  clinic - only the at-risk population is eligible.
the longer survey was also made available online or in paper copy for  people to voluntarily complete.
with the start of a new school season, the wreckage of the child-dominated family washes up on our cultural shore, debris produced by a terrible disaster.
during total eclipses, one can expect to see colors ranging from red to yellow, bright orange to gray.
pagosa is fortunate enough to be involved in one of the celebratory as well as educational venues.
as seen from the southernmost structure, the chimneys line up, one on top of the other, and the sun rises above them on the summer solstice.
his body language was that of a child enjoying the true nature of recreational sport.
this was an attempt on his part to acquire a private rather than a community grant.
scott scored again, forrest mauled an over-pass and jewell nailed a point.
to prove his point, he said that as president of the senate, he is on capitol hill nearly every tuesday while congress is in session.
232, or 946-2810, monday through friday, 1-5 p.m. editorial take our timeeditorial take our time the 2004 general election is underway, with early voting taking place and absentee ballots being sent out.
rachel hellwege joins us with paws, feathers, fins and friends pet sitting service (pfff).
"because our student count is so close this year to zero growth or  even negative growth, we are watching even the smallest student count numbers,  special education preschool included," he said.
for more information, please contact fort lewis college extended studies  program at 247-7385, or visit them on campus at 450 berndt hall, e-mail  monson_m@fortlewis.edu or logon to www.fortlewis.edu, click on community &  culture then extended studies.
nov. 3-5 - watercolor basics ii, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center.
if you have any suggestions for next month's movie, call laura at 264-2167.
similar forecasts for saturday through tuesday predict fewer clouds, a 20-percent chance for scattered rain or snow showers, highs in the 50s and lows around 20.
students will be treated like adults and will be held accountable for their actions.
then i remind myself most meatballs are amusing.
it is an uplifting  film about an italian family that faces hardships at the hands of nazis, but  manages to keep a positive attitude.
as in year's past, there will  be a $50 money basket, a $50 money wreath and one of margaret wilson's  handknitted stoles.
united way has the following partner agencies in archuleta county: - american red cross, southwest colorado chapter.
these kids had taken some big rocks and smashed one of the floating dock sections; by the time a plpoa employee arrived they had left the scene.
please call 264-4151, ext. 231, for an appointment.
schiro: i am in favor of an airport advisory board to work with the board  of county commissioners.
if you have a topic you are interested in and  would like to teach it or have someone else teach it, give me your ideas and  we'll try to make a class out of it.
results  showed the two were very similar.
following the 45-day comment period, the comments will be reviewed and the final environmental impact statement will be prepared and available in early 2005.
you must enroll by nov. 1.
additionally, over 600 individuals in archuleta county have been asked to lend their support to united way's efforts.
because, i guess, i impeded his journey.
of course, while we were there we purchased a number of other smaller items  that we would normally buy in pagosa, despite higher prices.
forrest, sure he had the ball, stayed planted but somehow misjudged the timing on his leap and the ball sailed over his 6-8 frame and into the upper right corner.
what he got was a rock to the head, tossed through the open window of his truck by an unidentified local youngster.
land-use regulations question: which of the following aspects of land-use regulation do you  currently believe to be a higher priority for the county, and why - policies  that focus on the preservation of open space, or policies that focus on  protecting private-property rights?
the former "airport authority" made decisions, not  recommendations regarding the airport; the decision-making needs to be made by  an informed bocc.
our hitting was better tonight and we'll need it when we play ignacio thursday (tonight).
the project ea is also available on the san juan national  forest web site at www.fs.fed.us/r2/sanjuan/projects.shtml.
- received a letter from a village lake family regarding the controversy over buoy line placement which will be forwarded to legal counsel for comment.
i will make sure that the best interest of the citizens of archuleta county is being served by having qualified and capable people handling the jobs they are hired for.
on day two, drive to san carlos, visit the arenal volcano, and swim in tabacón hot springs.
the concert begins at 7 p.m. and seating is limited to 45 people, so  advance reservations are strongly recommended by calling bill and clarissa  hudson at 264-2491.
and we have to ready for any kind of ball coming back at us.
this allows people to get involved and be part of the solutions, knowing what the task is before them; as opposed to being appointed to a committee for a term with no direction, that type of committee gets old fast, members lose interest and little is accomplished.
the county first must identify what the true costs are for road maintenance  and then reduce ineffective spending.
after reviewing the 2004 budget, and seeing the progress and local help, we have ordered more surface material to cover the remaining boxes in the park.
it is all practice and getting comfortable with the tools  of the trade.
in fact, many people complimented us on the organization of the vaccine distribution process and the professionalism of those assisting us."
this year it's a  good-looking quilt made and donated by the members of the pagosa piecemakers  quilt club.
call john graves at 731-9863 for additional information.
since we want daughters to feel like princesses, we are asking for both dads and daughters to dress up, and "sunday dress" is just fine.
i'm using the word to label the goofballs who turn out in greater numbers in the fall than at any other time of the year: pinheads, yahoos, nincompoops, featherbrains, mooncalves, loud simpletons of all sorts.
over half of all crimes associated with vandalism occur in high schools.
he was followed by junior orion sandoval in 29th (19:33) and riley lynch in 32nd (19:54).
photography contest the time for the 17th annual pagosa springs arts council photography contest is fast approaching.
special district association cites diane bower diane bower, district manager of the pagosa fire protection district, has been honored with the 2004 distinguished manager award by the special district association of colorado (sda).
memorial contributions may be made to the la plata county cattlemen's scholarship program.
in particular, those young people who are registered to vote in their first general election, or their first presidential election, should make a point of exercising their right.
a series of unexpected roadblocks played havoc with our time line  and cost estimates.
with growth virtually unavoidable, we must strive to place policies in  place and utilize land-use regulations that will preserve the environmental  quality and "small-town" atmosphere that we love.
however, in my experience as a past 19-year resident of vail, colorado, i am more inclined to compare such ventures with a rising storm surge, which typically inundates local inhabitants, often drowning them, or leaving them crying for help.
arnold was given command of west point in 1780 but immediately began  to conspire with lord henry clinton, (i'm not making it up), to hand over its  3,000 defenders and the fort for 20,000 pounds sterling, (about $1 million in  today's currency).
and, as such, we need to consider, and implement, what is good for the community as a whole.
i encourage each of you to fill out the survey online at www.archuleta.org or contact the planning department at 264-5851.
a third option, according to baker, would be to consolidate the number of planning districts down to three if survey participation continues to lag.
arnold was given command of west point in 1780 but immediately began to conspire with lord henry clinton, (i'm not making it up), to hand over its 3,000 defenders and the fort for 20,000 pounds sterling, (about $1 million in today's currency).
but, we are also accustomed to the retail conveniences of the urban setting.
according to archuleta county building and planning department staff, participation in a countywide survey that will be used to aid development of new county land-use regulations is in need of a boost.
kerry has accomplished what arnold did, by becoming a hero for both  sides in the same war.
the small and prolific creek, which  served as a proving ground in my evolution as a flyfisherman, is presently  flanked by row upon row of houses, hotels and condominiums, and their  associated parking lots and trash containers.
those are just a smattering of the results gleaned from a summer-long survey of residents and visitors alike aimed at marketing, planning and the local economy and presented thursday to members of the pagosa vision council, a group of public and private representatives working to develop a downtown master plan recommendation.
it came just 2:47 into the contest when shan webb stole a viking outlet pass at midfield, passed to older brother moe, and then broke on the right wing for a return.
pfff provides love and care for pets in their home or in the  pet sitter's home.
call 731-8060 to reserve a spot for only $25.
then came four consecutive solo blocks by gill before forrest was called on for his second save.
cost is $130 or $123.50 for psac  members.
i'm using the word to  label the goofballs who turn out in greater numbers in the fall than at any  other time of the year: pinheads, yahoos, nincompoops, featherbrains,  mooncalves, loud simpletons of all sorts.
early on, it appeared the contest would be another low-scoring affair as both teams struggled to find an offensive rhythm.
the woodland where i ran free as a child is, today, a housing development, and the vacant lot nearby, where i played ball for hours on end, is now a large power generating station.
perhaps i write from the viewpoint of a curmudgeon because i am certainly  one of those who has no tolerance for scurrilous behavior.
the quickest part of the day was the shot.
i think pagosa is being flooded with dyslexic people or people are coming here who are used to california-style driving.
the church is accepting clean, usable, gently worn clothing, linens, bedding items, children's clothes, shoes, and accessories for the giveaway.
the center is encouraging "surrogate dads" to bring a special young lady to this event who may not have a father in her life.
therefore, by nature, we oppose development that would radically alter the character this place.
i spoke  with citizens who are discouraged with complaints of situations that allegedly  are not being investigated or addressed.
however, as o'donnell told his 5-2 team after the defeat, if the pirates want to win the iml title outright to ensure they host a first-round game of the class 2a playoffs, the snooze button must remain out of reach for the rest of the season.
that includes: - children ages 6 to 23 months; - adults 65 and older; - persons ages 2-64 with underlying chronic medical conditions; - all women who will be pregnant during influenza season; - children ages 6 months to 18 years who are on chronic aspirin therapy; - health care workers with direct patient care; and - childcare providers and household contacts of children under 6 months of age.
"the public was so cooperative, no one was turned away, and the volunteers were great."
let us not be rushed into a decision whose ramifications we don't yet fully  understand.
come if you are interested in the process and wish to stay informed.
young was 27th, in 23:36.
in it goes and the  concoction is reduced by two thirds over medium heat, with the seasonings  boosted along the way.
the bush administration has refused to reinstate the superfund tax to make polluters pay for toxic waste site cleanup.
land-use survey response lags, more participants needed
"for every negative there are two positives," honts said.
what a special treat and thank you, charlotte.
local merchants can prevent pagosa's growing, affluent "ex-urban" market from spending a day a month in durango buying saws and skis and stocking up on sand paper and socks.
i am going to be informed of what is going on in all departments; however the actual day to day functions are why we have department heads.
walkup scored, forrest served an ace, jewell and walkup stuffed a bayfield hitter and walkup put a ball down from the right side.
rowe: i certainly think the incoming board of county commissioners should explore more fully than have their predecessors the issues surrounding the formation of more local improvement or metro districts to handle road maintenance.
all this for the benefit of companies which don't care about the values we share in archuleta county.
when the board reached the old business portion of the agenda, the  discussion returned to trash receptacle screening.
rather, they  are human-caused, and seem motivated by self-absorbed materialism and a desire  to accumulate wealth, at whatever the cost to our natural environment.
to help, or for more information, call nita niece at 731-9088 or patsy  harvey at 799-4603.
this decision may be one of the four alternatives or a  combination of any of them.
in 32 years of living in archuleta county, we've known a few lucky people who came here for a good job.
tuesday, oct. 26 - tuna salad sandwich, lettuce/tomato, tomato soup, orange wedges and cookie.
early voting began monday and continues at the county clerk's office until 4 p.m. oct. 29.
i believe assigning the tasks and monitoring the progress through  communication is the best way that i can serve the citizens of archuleta  county.
do you want to get together with other contemporary artists for exhibitions, performances, happenings and educational events?
father-daughter purity ball set by pregnancy center
we also didn't get any talented souls for our amateur half hour, so i was forced to show off my juggling skills, which only took about 20 seconds.
perspective  students must work in a quick-drying medium.
i hope to create a new road advisory committee of informed and committed citizens to provide input to the board on all possible strategies for improving and maintaining our county's roads.
baker indicated another option would be to hold public workshops within each district to publicize the survey process and evaluate the survey comments already received.
i believe that we need to look at the priority of both open space and private property rights.
if totals still fall short of what is needed by planning staff at the deadline, "we can definitely consider extending the deadline," said baker.
pirates beat bayfield, stay unbeaten in league play
i grew up as both the daughter and sister of u.s. marine corps fighter  pilots, so i've been exposed, to a superficial degree, to the myriad complex  issues that surround the aviation business.
it is the beginning of the school sports season, during which the most rabid and demented meatballs roll forth, spewing their warped criticism and bile, demeaning the efforts of coaches and of players clearly more skilled than their child.
selections are market-driven with ingredients flown in from domestic and international sources and all menu items are prepared in-house.
the roads are the financial responsibility of the county and we have to make informed decisions as to how best to protect and promote our infrastructure.
his plan discovered, arnold escaped and later led devastating attacks against colonial forces.
call the education center today to learn more about all of our after-hours classes.
my fixation on the meatball  phenomenon is leading me to a dark, dark place.
it started saturday at the town park, watching the 5- and 6-year-olds, playing the game in its purest form: running, laughing, waving, and sometimes even going the right direction.
if laughing is a cure for what ails you, then we are a  hospital.
watching the young athletes walking around with a participation medal around their necks brought a smile to my face.
a gray or dark brown moon is indicative of recent volcanic activity with airborne dust or ash in the atmosphere.
no prior federal administration has gone to the extremes that the current one has to invade delicate public lands for the short-term benefit of oil and gas companies.
in some cases, for as little as one day of active duty service, if the veteran served before september 7, 1980.
the current land use survey that is underway is  very important in answering the questions of where our county is heading in  protecting open space and private property rights.
with this in mind, an argument can be made for controlled growth and  responsible development, when it is necessary to sustain quality of human life.
i grew up as both the daughter and sister of u.s. marine corps fighter pilots, so i've been exposed, to a superficial degree, to the myriad complex issues that surround the aviation business.
this juried sale will feature fine crafts and arts in the barbara conrad gallery.
the exhibition showcases approximately 90 artists with an expected attendance of over 8,000 people from throughout the region and beyond.
as members of pet sitters international,  they are insured and bonded.
judging by reports from colorado division of wildlife (dow) biologists throughout the state, colorado's first rifle elk season seemed to provide success rates equal to or better than last year.
while this will obviously be a considerable loss to the general public as a practical, and easily-accessible, year-round recreation site, it will also serve as yet another detriment to our coexistence with wildlife.
we currently have two openings and need substitutes too.
we can't get away from them.
yet, while global society fails to embrace "zero growth" as a viable alternative to rampant expansion, the consequential strain on the environment, and the inevitable depletion of natural resources, will certainly bring our industrial civilization to a grinding halt.
it should not be turned over to a single individual to act in their place.
a 45-day public comment period began with the publication of a notice of  availability in the federal register oct. 8.
day four travel to santa rosa park and stay in a jungle lodge, take a hike or go horseback riding.
steen accounted for three points with two kills and a tip.
of course, if the trade proposal submitted to the usfs is granted, the  developer will have unrestricted access to his land, and will almost certainly  develop it and the job corps site as well.
for further information, and to make reservations, contact lindsay morgan, program manager 264-2287 (daytime) 731-1280 (evenings).
let us consider the enigma of benedict arnold and john kerry.
plan to come to the community center on hot springs boulevard next to town  hall saturday, nov. 6, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. come early, stay late and enjoy visiting  with good friends while taking advantage of the bargains at this fun event.
with public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it  nothing can succeed.
to be sure, the only ones benefiting from such  ill-conceived ideas are those spending the money and exercising the power  necessary to drive them through the obviously inadequate approval system of  local and federal governments.
we have seen this strategy used very effectively by republicans time and  again during the last two decades.
firefighters  stopped the flames in the living room and dining room, however, the rest of the  structure sustained heavy smoke and heat damage.
i'm very optimistic that united way will raise its highest  amount ever this year for people in need in southwest colorado."
with the help of decorations borrowed from the catholic church, community  center staff and volunteers will transform the multipurpose room into a  phantasmagoria of halloween imagery to be enjoyed by all, 5-7 p.m. oct. 29.
second-homeowners who  responded to pagosa's survey proved to be older and more affluent than the  full-time population, reporting average income levels of over $116,000 compared  to average household income of about $49,000 among full-time residents.
all pre-planned local clinics were canceled and use of the community center  optioned to create one mass inoculation center.
there are many kids who play on a traveling team.
bayfield managed one more point on another pagosa serve mistake.
was this the place that let people know when to travel to certain festivals, when to plant, when to celebrate?
kelley stepped up for a kill, faber tipped for a point and the pirates were in front 12-7.
included will be a review of  aerial perspective and proportion.
this is a request for the planning commission to review the sketch plan for  the re-plat of pineview drive to vacate approximately 125 feet at the west end  of the platted road right-of-way and for the consolidation of lots 45 and 46,  incorporating the vacated portion of pineview drive.
i drink it and pour another.
the 6-4 sophomore looped a crossing pass to blue racing the left wing, but his shot was wide left.
i feel myself transported to the  sea and being rocked gently in a boat that is rising with tide along with all  the other boats.
the shadow is comprised of two cone shaped parts, one cradled inside the other.
we place value on buying local to support  our community.
i don't know what it is with people driving like a bat out of you know  where, and speeding right straight to the doctor, the mortuary, or to pay a  fine.
i steam a couple sweet potatoes and puree them, adding butter, a dab of honey, salt and pepper.
land-use regulations question: which of the following aspects of land-use regulation do you currently believe to be a higher priority for the county, and why - policies that focus on the preservation of open space, or policies that focus on protecting private-property rights?
the colorado art open is an all-colorado artists, all-media exhibition offered biennially at foothills.
close to 50 artisans representing a wide range of talents will have booths to ply you with baked treats, pottery, jewelry, decorations, and other handmade goods.
the serve error dogged the pirates at the outset of the third game, with three mistakes surrendering points as bayfield went ahead 5-3.
continue to work together, making it easy for you to create independently.
there will be a 30 minute break at noon.
lori walkup tipped for a score, steen put another ball down from outside and liza kelley dumped a ball to the floor off a pass.
they are joined there by two referendums urging changes to the constitution.
lori walkup added two kills to the pirate total; kari faber put a ball to the floor from outside.
it's time for all of us to awake from our slumber and look with sober eyes  on the world before us.
fifty-nine percent of respondents  were over 45 with the average age at about 47.
the following are the questions and the candidates' responses to each.
he is the ultimate medicine man pulling his wagon full of magic elixir that, he promises, will cure destitution, loneliness, complacency, isolation, economic hardship, as well as a general feeling of being out of touch.
aguilera was stopped by forrest on the opening play of the half and moments later a center player's (no roster was given pagosa or the press) shot on an indirect kick was over the net.
the tunnel project is still scheduled for completion this month, the paving  project in early november and the lonesome dove work is to be finished before  year's end.
the show will feature the san juan festival dancers under the direction of stephanie jones, giving an excerpt or two from the "nutcracker" ballet.
we did not have a large attendance for our workshop on "how to make  your dreams work for you."
after the u.s. occupied new mexico by military force in 1846, and as a condition of governing the newly acquired territory, the u.s. agreed to recognize qualified land grants.
the award was presented at the sda annual awards  luncheon, attended by more than 1,100 special district board members, managers  and spouses.
the house is located in one of the most picturesque spots on the upper san juan, fronting toward scenery that cannot be excelled even in beautiful colorado.
these meatballs roll on, seeking someone to blame, finding fault everywhere but close to home, anywhere but between their own ears.
blood drive slated here on oct. 28 united blood services will conduct a blood drive in pagosa springs 2-6 p.m. thursday, oct. 28.
the ball is for single girls at least 11 years old or older, and feel free to bring all of your daughters.
submit your workshop ideas, proposals, and recommendations to the pagosa  springs arts council and let's fill out that calendar.
if the  veteran was in service on dec. 31, 1946, continuous service before july 26,  1947, is considered world war ii service.
the kiwanis club will have hot dogs and punch, swap is doing an apple bobbing event and bonnie nyre from slices of nature will bring her hot caramel cider and pumpkin flavored coffee.
the award was presented at the sda annual awards luncheon, attended by more than 1,100 special district board members, managers and spouses.
"state funding for higher eduction is at a level that now jeopardizes  cu's ability to meet its responsibilities and fulfill its essential and future  economic roles.
day seven, return to san jose for dinner and prepare for your return to denver on day eight.
while, at the same time, allowing the child to indulge the garbage of  contemporary entertainment at will.
the rio grande national forest (rgnf) recently published the application for transportation and utility systems and facilities for the village at wolf creek draft environmental impact statement (deis).
partial birth abortion is the gruesome procedure of partially delivering the baby, then killing the child and taking its organs for medical purposes.
hunting pressure was  spotty with some areas nearly hunter free and others with many camps.
all races take place on the monte vista municipal golf course, a fast, flat course especially suited for spectators.
it is curious to us that the reports in the sun have contained little  direct comment from the business community in pagosa.
three different survey instruments were used.
or, if we should spot a bear foraging in its natural environment, we  delight in its antics and appreciate the rarity of such encounters.
such an advisory board would be a  great asset for the board of county commissioners.
fortunately, it's worth every spin.
certainly, encouraging the formation of more local improvement and metro districts in the county is one option.
va pensions are granted only  to those veterans who served during wartime.
sobriety checkpoint planned the pagosa springs police department, in conjunction with the archuleta county sheriff's department and colorado state patrol will conduct a sobriety checkpoint saturday, oct. 30.
what are your other interests?
it was so bright, it could be seen in the sky during the day for almost two weeks.
as always, she said, any marketing attempts should including tracking  results through future research to determine if efforts are successful.
since that beginning the united states marines have fought in every climb  and place from the american revolution through belleau wood, guadalcanal,  inchon, khe san, kuwait, afghanistan and in the present iraq campaign.
this may open up an opportunity for discussion and possibly measures to reduce further radicalization, and less conflict, but it will take a different less confrontational approach than thus far.
comments received in response to this solicitation, including names and addresses of those who comment, will be considered part of the public record on this proposed action and will be available for public inspection.
team captain sanborn said, "we did struggle at times this year, and we hope to do better next year."
please consider your vote carefully.
in what can only be viewed as good news for area drivers the last scheduled  full closure of wolf creek pass for the season has passed.
at least 159 additional surveys are needed from the "northwest district," which includes the aspen springs and chimney rock areas.
and all the while the implied emphasis is that only a conservative republican administration is able or willing to keep us safe in these insecure times.
"and when you play a good football team like alamosa, you can't wait to decide the game should mean something to you, even if it's nonconference, then make as many mistakes as we did and expect to compete," said o'donnell.
right to be treated with dignity; and 10.
if we need to wait until the town's vision is more clearly defined, so be it.
for me, it is meatball season.
i'm hopeful that our tragedy can help to inspire more to be done to keep every child from getting lost to a life of crime.
after a thorough review in april, may and june, 31 nonprofit organizations in southwest colorado passed united way's rigorous tests and were selected as partner agencies for 2005.
wolverines sari sunblom and steve flint captured runner of the year awards by hitting the tape first in their varsity races.
schools, however, bear a special and historic responsibility for the  development of civic competence and responsibility.
all pre-planned local clinics were canceled and use of the community center optioned to create one mass inoculation center.
"decorated war hero," kerry, having returned from the vietnam,  immediately began to conspire with the north viet nam communists and viet cong.
schiro, a republican, defeated republican incumbent bill downey in the aug. 10 primary election, earning the right to face rowe, an unaffiliated candidate.
people stationed there would have easily been able to control access to the site if ceremonies or rituals were taking place.
as always, there will be many prizes from local merchants and if you should  want to contribute a gift, call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at  731-5429.
our phone number is 264-4152, ext. 31.
if such communication and cooperation is not actually occurring among departments, the problems that stem from that lack of communication will, eventually, percolate all the way up to the board of county commissioners, who should ultimately be held responsible for the consequences - by the voters.
anyone who wants to look ghastly can receive a face painting by the arts  council or get a temporary tattoo that glows in the dark from rotary members.
sophomore laurel reinhardt was just 11 seconds behind, claiming fourth.
you can make a difference in the life of our seniors, so please call and volunteer.
honts, describing the village as "an opportunity for 'a tremendous  interchange of money that isn't coming here today.'
pagosa's real advantage in the process, he said, was that community leaders were in a proactive mode instead of a reactionary one where people were already divided.
, then there was another wait to get into the gymnasium where the shots were being administered.
the film to be screened and discussed will be the first of krzysztof  kieslowski's polish-french trilogy "three colors: blue, white, and  red" (english title).
this is an area that again i stress the need for a citizens advisory  committee, to assist in the research and recommendations to the bocc as well as  to assist in the distribution of information to the public.
our children are such a precious commodity.
rather, he asked that the board work on one such covenant (7-1) which he  feels should never have been deleted.
and with a very sparse population in our county, that was ok.
shooting an arrow in his butt sounds revolting but i'm all for giving him a  good old-fashioned american punch in the nose ... figuratively speaking.
by richard walter staff writer an otherwise fairly routine session of the pagosa lakes property owners association board of directors was punctuated oct. 14 by several confrontations with property owner george esterly.
"i have two daughters and a son."
i will be involved in setting up better communications within our county, as well as with other entities, i.e., the town of pagosa springs, paws, upper san juan health service district, pagosa fire and school districts as well as la plata, hinsdale, mineral and rio grand counties.
i steam some green beans and  dress them with butter, freshly ground black pepper and lemon juice.
he makes  excellent arguments on why not to build this project.
i am confident my background, education, and experience will provide the best solutions to this problem.
state funding for higher education is at a level  that now jeopardizes cu's ability to meet its responsibilities of its essential  future economic role in the state.
the pirates had 10 serve errors during the match.
"decorated war hero," kerry, having returned from the vietnam, immediately began to conspire with the north viet nam communists and viet cong.
each year, on the march 21 and september 21 equinoxes, the sun rises between the pillars as seen from the site of that structure.
we will learn two new games this week: "farkel" and  "sequence."
the forest service is seeking public input on the alternatives presented in the deis, as well as their associated impacts.
by joe lister jr. sun columnist the rest rooms in town park and south pagosa park will close this week.
we sometimes hear talk of land grant property in archuleta county other than the t.a. grant, but no such grants ever existed.
as a 30-year educator who watched a tiny community evolve into an overpopulated suburb, and a person who has lived with "big city crime," it would be my sincerest wish that the responsible youth, church directors, schools, police, senior citizens and parents of pagosa will act in tandem and recognize that pagosa's youth may need more attention.
oktoberfest 2004 was dedicated to our fearless leader and event coordinator, susi cochran.
play will begin in early november.
don't miss your spot.
he cites his skills in collaborative leadership and creative problem solving and highlights that he is "an experience-toughened businessman who has the ability to understand large operations, complex budgets and organizations" possessing "the toughness, determination, fairness and wisdom to help make the right things happen."
for example, results from the "southwest district," which includes the arboles area, indicated only 6 percent of the required total of surveys from this district had been received by the planning department - at least 149 completed surveys are still needed.
because of the natural beauty and the extensive protected lands of our national forest.
we are preparing our haunted house for oct. 29.
that was susie kleckner, director of the pagosa springs office of san juan  basin health department, describing the four-hour flu vaccine clinic conducted  monday in the pagosa springs community center.
the whistle pig concert series is sponsored by artstream cultural resources, a local nonprofit arts organization which promotes educational and cultural arts events and classes in the pagosa springs area.
betty slade will demonstrate how to paint a signature christmas card and other gifts.
compensation is $10-$25 per game depending on age group and experience.
the first petition for the t.a. grant was made in 1814 by marcial montoya and others while mexico and new mexico were ruled by spain.
he cites his skills in collaborative leadership  and creative problem solving and highlights that he is "an  experience-toughened businessman who has the ability to understand large  operations, complex budgets and organizations" possessing "the  toughness, determination, fairness and šwisdom to help make the right  things happen."
the tunnel project is still scheduled for completion this month, the paving project in early november and the lonesome dove work is to be finished before year's end.
mr. sawicki suggests that only a leadership possessing the proper amount of testosterone can preserve america, and insinuates that democrats don't have it or, at best, need to get more of it.
the rules for distribution will be the same as those for monday's mass clinic - only the at-risk population is eligible.
we are currently facing many changes in our county and our land use  regulations need to be set in place, to deal with the future on a long-term  plan not just "putting out the fires.
betty slade will demonstrate how to  paint a signature christmas card and other gifts.
following successes gained him promotions to the rank of major general and great favor with general george washington.
instead of everyone coming on one night, different night purchases are allowed, but all tickets must be ordered at the same time.
that's why we live here.
road maintenance question: with regard to road maintenance, are you in favor of policies  that encourage the private formation of local improvement/metro districts to  shift some of the financial burden for maintenance away from the county?
i hired, trained and sent your  present police chief, don volger, to the colorado law enforcement training  academy.
the event is sponsored by pagosa area churches, first baptist, restoration  fellowship, pagosa bible and mountain heights baptist church.
it is a profoundly gloomy time.
it is cheap but drinkable, and i use some of it  to deglaze my pan.
the film to be screened and discussed will be the first of krzysztof kieslowski's polish-french trilogy "three colors: blue, white, and red" (english title).
i'd be reduced to a stay-at-home statistic if i got the flu and couldn't go out because i might transmit it to someone else.
they will stoop to any level to get their way,  concoct any story that serves their purposes, distort any information as it  suits them.
almost always this means being lovingly cared for by mother and father.
instead, telluride came out in a strong defensive stance and pagosa, though on the attack repeatedly, was not able to establish its normal offensive pattern.
sept. 11 was a horrendous shock, but that is now more then three years ago,  and in that period no other attack occurred, homeland security gives much  better warning and protection, and in perspective 50 times more persons were  horribly killed in traffic accidents than died on 9/11.
the dish simmers, covered, until the balls are cooked through.
from start to finish, the  eclipse will last approximately three hours and 40 minutes.
there are hundreds of thousands of these embryos that were brought to life during the clinton years and are now frozen, waiting to be adopted.
good results on first season elk hunt here
the third seed from the league will be center, which finished 5-5 and will be on the road for regional play.
what is the strategy of local businesses to retain and increase their share of the local market?
betty will have many fun ideas to create.
we must maintain close communication with the federal aviation  administration and must be able to respond with fiscal responsibility to the  users of the airport as well as the people we put in place to administer the  airport and ultimately the public.
martínez claimed he lacked sufficient agricultural land to bequeath his children.
the deis is also available on-line at: www.fs.fed.us/r2/riogrande/planning/planning.htm.
respondents were also asked what type of commercial development they would  like to see in pagosa.
eventually, all seedstock producers will be expected to provide  documentation of the bvd status of the animals they sell.
the minimum number of surveys still needed from the "northeast district," which includes the holiday acres and loma linda subdivisions, amounts to 149.
i take evasive action.
and if it is lacking, what can parents do about it?
i'd never get to see the fallen leaves gather in the parks and on the country trails.
50 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 22, 1954 last week saw the start of the big game season with probably more hunters in this area than in previous years.
working at a newspaper gives me a unique perspective on the meatball phenomenon and it affects me adversely.
almost always this means being lovingly cared for  by mother and father.
participants should plan to have a minimum of 12 items in the sale, with additional back stock available.
i observed one of my most enjoyable weeks of soccer in pagosa last week.
kerry has stated that he will lift the bans on the hideous practices of partial birth abortion and embryonic stem cell research.
" what did you do before you arrived here?
these pagosa springs/archuleta county organizations are helping to ensure civic education in our county by volunteering their members to assist kids voting students at the polls nov. 2 in the following precincts: 1 - kiwanis; 2 - democratic party; 3 - archuleta county 4-h program; 4 - arboles, mitch appenzeller; 5 - aspen springs community; 6 - league of women voters; 7 - rotary; and 8 - republican women's club.
"i'm just so proud of our community," kleckner said.
there are several diplomats who have served faithfully for a number of  years, but joan and barbara are the unequivocal queens of longevity, and we  want to acknowledge their significant contribution to this chamber and to  pagosa springs.
further, what does his record on the hill say about his own engagement with congress?
it is ridiculous to ask for, or expect more funding of any type, without first knowing what is currently being spent and where we can make cost-saving improvements.
they bob for apples and gobble bratwurst.
forrest had a save on a soft roller and moe webb was stopped by kvale.
as of friday we had the shady pines 4-h club doing a bean bag toss, plpoa  and heather hunt of school within a school both doing fishing booths of  different kinds, the lutheran school doing a putt putt golf game, nora doing a  shark toss and bootjack ranch sponsoring an inflatable house.
for pagosa springs, i have this to say: god bless you and keep you safe and  secure from the evil that is filtering in with all the good.
secondly, roads need to be identified and categorized correctly (not just taken off of the maintenance lists), so that we can accurately report and receive all of the funds due to the county from the highway users tax funds from the state that are due to us.
inside the sun exploding ammo hampers firemen in aspen springs
the "big boxes" in durango, and even farmington, are already a  threat to local business, as is the internet.
what do you like best about the community?
peter clark, forest supervisor for the rio grande national forest, will make the final decision.
something else  is needed.
trash container screening tiff pits resident vs. plpoa
rachel is currently undergoing oral chemotherapy to battle breast cancer which has now spread to her lymphatic system, spine and hip.
following a period of emotional paralysis, she telephones an old friend who has always been in love with her, and tells him his chance has come at last.
dear editor: those of us who watched the presidential debates witnessed how words can be  used to evade questions and distort actual fact.
we suspect that we are not dissimilar from many "newcomers" to pagosa relatively affluent and appreciative of a new quality of life for urban dwellers searching for respite from the rat race.
the minimum number of surveys still needed from the "northeast  district," which includes the holiday acres and loma linda subdivisions,  amounts to 149.
basketball skills assessment day will be dec. 4 with the elks club shootout on dec. 11.
cost is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
this  year's drive is led by campaign chairs dick babillis and bonnie masters.
there are hundreds of thousands of these embryos that  were brought to life during the clinton years and are now frozen, waiting to be  adopted.
let us not be rushed into a decision whose ramifications we don't yet fully understand.
you'll need all the materials from before, and just a few  more things.
i am not about to retreat to the tried and true tomato sauce; i have been  dealing with the mundane to the point of exhaustion and i refuse to opt for the  lowest common denominator.
of least importance among  respondents was man-made features.
buddy drives his original compositions like a man driving his pickup truck  through the alaskan wilderness.
the u.s. department of agriculture describes regional drought conditions as "moderate."
bosley was president of the former bank of boulder for 24 years during a  35-year career in the banking and finance industry, but his most noted claim to  fame is his role as founder of the world-famous bolder boulder, the fourth  largest foot race in the u.s.
kleckner said the number of doses delivered leaves a short supply on hand.
"i created the bolder boulder  memorial day road race for the sole purpose of serving the community.
no doubt, there is true value in real estate, and its greatest fiscal  return most often involves utilization at its highest and best use.
they could be chartered to  provide input on issues such as growth, maintenance, safety, long-range  planning and costs.
as president, george w. bush has a terrible record on environmental issues.
or stop by the center to receive a complete schedule of fall events.
john kerry has an excellent record in the senate on voting for the  environment.
please make all checks payable to chimney rock interpretive association.
we must maintain close communication with the federal aviation administration and must be able to respond with fiscal responsibility to the users of the airport as well as the people we put in place to administer the airport and ultimately the public.
the candidate indicates he is comfortable with the current system of electing regents - two at-large and one from each of colorado's seven congressional districts.
the stores will include astara's  boutique, happy trails, satori boutique, silverado western wear, goodman's  department store, switchback, upscale retail and a shoe or two.
i believe communication with the citizens is the only way to create and know the public sentiment.
monday, oct. 25 - beef burrito, black beans, zucchini olé, lettuce,  tomato and fruit compote.
and nov. 14 at 2:30 p.m. in the mainstage theatre, fort lewis college.
we will hold several complete classes  during november and early december.
civic education also ensures that people have the necessary knowledge,  skills and character to play an active role in society and government.
ammunition left in the house was exploding, making extinguishing the blaze a little more complicated.
in the second step, strategic testing is used to identify animals that are  persistently infected, which is a primary source of bvd infection.
if you know anything about this criminal act, please call the association office at 731-5635.
bad news for the pirates continued early in the second half - after holding pagosa to three and out, the mean moose took a 27-7 lead two minutes into the third quarter on a 15-yard touchdown pass from garcia to bolt.
but how these advisory board members are selected is also important.
you will study and do exercises in one, two  and three point perspective.
a series of unexpected roadblocks played havoc with our time line and cost estimates.
over $182,000 has been raised toward the goal of $560,000.
the cost of attaining a level 2 status is less than $150 plus the fees for sample collection.
cards, p-m. webb, yellow pirate soccer champs will host quarterfinal; foe, date still unknown
why is it, i wonder as i cradle my head in my hands, that more nonsense is dispensed in the fall?
atkinson is a  resident of pagosa springs.
as said, responsible growth and development are not the issue, but we can no longer afford to turn a blind eye to those impetuous plans by out-of-state "entrepreneurs," solely for the sake of making them large sums of money, without genuine concern for the well-being of the community overall.
purpose of the ball is for fathers to pledge commitments to protect their daughters while daughters pledge commitments to purity.
the exhibition showcases approximately 90  artists with an expected attendance of over 8,000 people from throughout the  region and beyond.
remember, take your kids to vote tuesday, nov. 2.
knudtsen, the economic consultant, suggested pagosa needed to continue to  work to increase total personal income, focus on market potential to fill holes  currently present in downtown as far as retail, restaurants and amenities and  look to additional fiscal revenue sources.
bonnie thrasher was the first person on the scene.
part-time residents were analyzed separately for marketing purposes.
it was not the typical pirate action in which they score early and then work ball possession and strategically impose their will on the opponent.
what  more could a kid want š is planned 6-8 p.m. sunday, oct. 31, at the  powerhouse gym.
how can it not be amusing to watch the meatball circus of meatball endeavor, set off as it is against the backdrop of transience?
locals who were randomly stopped were asked to  complete a longer, follow-up survey.
25 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 25, 1979 a storm last weekend brought about eight to ten inches of new snow in the high country and on wolf creek pass.
wally lankford, ged coordinator, will match  your skills with a student who needs your help.
there is a calendar available for sign-up, and training is included for new volunteers.
all citizens, young and old, need to understand the political process - from issues and governmental procedures to the positions of individual candidates - in order to participate effectively.
three more blocks by gill and a center shot over the net followed.
the celebration will include the traditional cutting of the birthday cake.
the successful petition was submitted by manuel martín in 1834 after mexico had won independence.
the territorial deputation agreed with the town over martínez's strenuous protests, leaving the pastures, roads and watering places "free according to the customs prevailing in all settlements."
kerry has accomplished what arnold did, by becoming a hero for both sides in the same war.
pagosa shot out to a 4-0 lead in the second game with jewell beginning the run with a kill of an errant monte vista pass.
they trek happily to the local  stadium, they tune their televisions and radios to games on the weekends.
"atvs are very useful for getting into the back country, but animals can hear someone approaching from a long ways away.
meanwhile, migratory birds and waterfowl are gathering for another arduous journey south as the mule deer and elk have begun moving to lower winter range.
"we have no idea whether they noted it or whether it changed their lives or not."
currently, the anaconda job corps ranks 34th of 118 centers throughout the country.
pagosa's moe webb was the league's leading scorer with 23 goals this season.
comments submitted anonymously will be accepted and considered; however, those who submit anonymous comments will not have standing to appeal the subsequent decision.
but it's not input that i would actively seek out from employees - managerial or not, with the exception of the county administrator.
do we need red mccombs?
these are the ones who go about their business of growing up, schooling, athletics, etc., quietly trying their best.
an open house will be held 5:30-7 p.m. wednesday, oct. 27, in the building at 475 s. 8th st.
shooting an arrow in his butt sounds revolting but i'm all for giving him a good old-fashioned american punch in the nose ... figuratively speaking.
by tess noel baker staff writer a fire in aspen springs monday evening gutted part of a single-family home before it could be extinguished.
"the bottom line is, we are still going to write a new code even if we don't get the numbers back we're looking for," said baker.
this gives the public an opportunity to learn more about lunar eclipse, the night sky and other related phenomenon.
a few, unfortunately, are evil - those who persistently seek to harm others, whose malevolence is fired by a psychotic inability to reckon with their own failures and limitations, who cannot scan the arid desert of their own lives with a clear and honest eye.
i remind myself that one's disappointments are not the result of what others do, but of unfair expectations that can't be met.
in the interim, a mostly midfield scrum, blue was stopped twice.
mr. mccaw attended grade school in oxford and graduated from durango high school in 1938.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for  registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in  the vso office.
"there  were long lines and very few complaints.
some  ceremonies were performed to scare dragons from swallowing the moon or to ward  off evil omens.
" true, a rising tide can lift boats š right out of their docks where  they were secure.
and also, there by the  table, the items to be raffled will be on display.
it is autumn, and we recognize this seasonal shift in everything natural  that surrounds us.
commissioners need to ensure that well-qualified people are hired, trained and supported.
gifted with a gritty,  honest voice and a solid grasp of country blues guitar, the alaska-based tabor  plies his talents to weigh in on topics ranging from love ... to the  exploitation of child labor ... to the nuclear annihilation of our planet ...
" bosley says he will take a "proactive" role to spread the word about the dire state of cu's financial health and, "when the state's elected leaders agree upon a solution, to actively campaign statewide in support of the solution."
but the ultimate benefits to our community as a whole, i am convinced, will far outweigh the disadvantages.
" civic education isn't just for kids
the lodge also offers diners an extensive wine list.
they have not only served, but have done so with amazing good nature,  cheerfulness and professionalism and take this opportunity to salute them and  thank them for their great gift to this chamber.
a funeral service was scheduled 10 a.m. wednesday, oct. 20, 2004, at hood mortuary in durango, with chaplain myron darmour officiating.
leading the trio was junior emilie schur who crossed the finish in 20 minutes, 47 seconds.
how can meatballs not be amusing, with their transparent motives and their  high-decibel noise?
autumn finds them most active, their paranoic eyes darting back and forth, their fevered brows knit, their fangs bared.
the call led to a disheartening chain of events for pagosa as six points came off the scoreboard, pirate fans erupted in stark protest, alamosa intercepted on the next play and the half ended with a crestfallen pagosa team trailing by 14.
there are many avenues for our young people to get involved: school-sponsored activities, town-sponsored programs, service organization opportunities, church activities, and the list goes on.
st. patrick's episcopal church, in cooperation with the pagosa outreach  connection and other service organizations, will be giving clothes away 9  a.m.-3 p.m. saturday.
day three travel north to the caño negro lake and wildlife reserve where you will enjoy a boat trip with exotic birds such as osprey, storks, and herons.
it is estimated that the moon  in totality will last 81 minutes during this eclipse.
i saute the vegetables for a couple minutes then i add a handful of crushed tomato, cooking the tomato until it darkens and emits that oh-yeah-it's-caramelizing smell.
9-10 division, 11-13 division jim brinkman, steve koneman, todd shelton, chris smith/mike church, jeff baserra, todd ormonde, gary fisher, jeff laydon, cliff lucero/craig vrazel, jack searle, josh bramble, bob brown, kent lord.
perspective for all media, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 10-12 at the community  center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
martin witkamp lunar eclipse event set for oct. 27 by jim super special to the preview the last of the spectacular celestial events for 2004 will occur wednesday,  oct. 27, with the total lunar eclipse.
you can also  reserve an entire table for 10, but you must buy the tickets first, then call  mary daltroff at 731-5121 and reserve the table.
that nominal level of exposure revealed just enough knowledge to me to make me realize that a board of non-pilots, such as the board of county commissioners, is not qualified to make all decisions concerning our local airport without regular input from those who actually fly and are actively engaged in the operation of the airport.
kim braselman earns a free sundowner card for  recruiting rachel.
one minute, honts says that this development will be for the people who already ski at wolf creek.
the trail, on the san juan national forest northeast of pagosa springs,  begins about three miles up the west fork trail and climbs to the continental  divide trail.
an account has been set up at the bank of colorado for donations to offset the staggering costs of her treatment.
where are all the volleyball players in pagosa springs?
emergency medical  services responded; bosley's wound was bandaged and he carried on, heading for  another in a series of last-minute visits to western colorado towns and  newspapers.
what about our small business owners?
remember why you moved here.
(the latest being a sudden lake in the  crawl space due to the high level of ground water this year.)
this is a place where young people can share fun, new experiences, friendships and what's going on in their lives.
"i warned them about the ceiling," she said.
at least, tree-ring dating of wood found inside the east kiva of the chacoan great house - the largest building at chimney rock - which stands on the high mesa, puts initial construction about 1076 a.d.
chimney rock interpretive association has invited all to a fall fund-raiser  to view the lunar eclipse.
the pass was icy early monday morning and there was a serious truck accident just below the san juan overlook.
as usual, dahrl henley is planning an outstanding lunch menu.
the lodge at keyah grande is located west of pagosa springs on u.s. 160.
what is especially notable about joan cortright and barbara palmer is that  they have been coming to work at the chamber for over 20 years.
today, as we watch this presidential election process unfold, it is  interesting the similarities of one event in america's fight for independence  to the record of one of today's presidential candidates.
if you are willing to fill a  vital need in our community, please call musetta at 264-2167.
he also believes the university must "demonstrate it is not wasting the taxpayer's money."
"but we think everyone would be a lot better off if they help us determine how to regulate their districts and keep as much guess work as possible out of the process," he concluded.
oh, the creativity is booming, but it's a secret.
rsvp by calling the center at 264-5963 or e-mail response to  pregcntr@pagosa.net.
one out of three reported incomes of $25,000 or less and families outnumbered other marital status categories.
contact jules masterjohn at 382-0756 and join decaf (durango exhibitions  and contemporary arts forum).
and every year there is one big item.
i'm sure chief volger remembers i did what i did to keep our town in control and the crooks in jail.
next, i remember that the meatballs' nastiness, their shallow shadow play,  is futile, of no value when compared to that which endures, to that which is  absolutely important.
growth is a multifaceted situation that has a domino effect on every member of the population.
two seconds behind her, sophomore jessica lynch claimed fifth.
watkins finished the day 26th, in 23:35.
i feel like i'm  firing right out of the tanakh.
as i write this, there is a proposal before neighboring mineral county  officials and the united states forest service (usfs) which, if approved, will  allow leavell-mccombs joint venture, headed by texas billionaire red mccombs,  to establish a high-density alpine metropolis adjacent to wolf creek ski area.
i'm thinking all this as i sit in my living room on a rainy day, waiting for the skylight to leak.
this year's pace setters (local businesses that run their campaigns in advance of most others) have raised over $49,000 for united way and include all city market stores, ups, wal-mart in cortez and durango, xto energy, bank of colorado, citizens state bank in cortez, empire electric, mcdonald's in cortez, and every united way partner agency.
along a nearby ridge, called peterson gulch ridge or the piedra overlook, is yet another series of buildings with ties to the skies.
honts, describing the village as "an opportunity for 'a tremendous interchange of money that isn't coming here today.'
consideration before expiration of the current moratorium.
he was elected to two six-year terms on the school board.
please consider consigning your original work in our store.
in our engrossment with material things, we do not fear or listen to the idea of inexhaustibility, but continue to pursue the goal of more affluence."
now is the time for local photographers to start making their selections  and preparing their photos for display.
will we let it in, let it "develop" and spread, or will we stop it while we still can?
"vaccinations are an integral part of any control or eradication program but will not control the disease alone," said kennedy.
it is also important that the commissioners do not relinquish their leadership role in identifying, approving, and carrying out the overall county plans.
in fact, many people complimented us  on the organization of the vaccine distribution process and the professionalism  of those assisting us."
crafts will be on sale and the prices will be reasonable.
certainly, encouraging the formation of more local improvement and metro  districts in the county is one option.
other visitor data collected showed 30 percent of visitor traffic  in the summer comes to pagosa from within colorado.
the other four  successful hunters had walked back in a ways and were boning out their animals  in the field or using pack animals to retrieve their elk.
what he really  means is that if your income level isn't high enough you won't be able to  afford the quality of life here.
the club supports the sisson library with proceeds from the annual bazaar booth rent and raffle ticket sales.
my fixation on the meatball phenomenon is leading me to a dark, dark place.
the forest service is required by law to provide reasonable access to private property across national forest lands and is responding to an application request.
the issues of open space and private-property rights are both critical, and  must go hand-in-hand in order to manage our growth while protecting our  wonderful quality of life.
moe webb came out of midfield with a cross from chris baum and went wide left, suddenly stopping and dropping a cross to shan.
this class still has spaces available and is being held on mondays and wednesdays oct. 25-nov. 3 from 6 p.m.-8 p.m.
spirit in hand holiday exhibit and sale at the durango arts center, dec. 14-24.
this is your opportunity to support our local artists and find presents to fill out your shopping list.
on the other end of the scale,  just 20 percent of respondents were under age 34.
this year is a presidential election year and, as such, it is a prime  breeding ground for the political meatballs.
anyone wishing to donate clothing and unable to deliver to the church are welcome to call 731-5801 for pick-up.
please do not complain or make a scene on the fields, in front of the children, where we as adults are modeling behavior for our children.
as addressed in the property owner involvement and input initiative, he  said, the board cannot be a change agent for covenants.
this bill has been used by a number of national organizations as a guideline for administrators, coaches and parents: 1.
you will not see me out fixing roads, planning  landfills or supervising clerks.
one in six  women already has enough mercury in her body to risk brain damage, mental  retardation, blindness, seizures and speech impediments in her child.
tutors in each of these areas are needed to work one-on-one with students preparing to take their ged test.
the proposal would move the line from the last proposed route and would have a lock-and-key system to allow entry for property owners only.
truly, this is  not the stuff to make a kinder, gentler america or to shape america's attitudes  toward the rest of humanity.
with regard to his team's final two iml games of the season, "the bottom line is, if we don't win our next two games, we're not league champs and we don't get to host a playoff game," said the coach.
how to participate the survey is available for completion and submittal online at the county's web site.
the clinic resulted from a nationwide shortage of vaccine occurring after  the product of an english firm, which was to provide 48 million doses, was  found contaminated and all the product ruled not fit for use.
oct. 23 - writer's group meets at jerry hannah's from noon-5 p.m. oct. 23 - how to get your book published, 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. oct. 24 - salon at jerry hannah's with local writers, artists, musicians begins at 1 p.m.
this will be one of the largest houses in this county.
a total of 22 firefighters with five tankers, two engines and two support vehicles were on scene.
" many of us love this area because of the openness and the vast beauty surrounding us.
for more information about the forums, contact the rio grande national forest at: (719) 852-5941.
if you have a topic you are interested in and would like to teach it or have someone else teach it, give me your ideas and we'll try to make a class out of it.
" what are your job responsibilities?
the family religious institutions, the media and  community groups all exert important influences.
establishing advisory committees for the airport and for other issues that affect our county is imperative.
" many of us love this area because of the openness and the vast beauty  surrounding us.
the supply packet will include cards and envelopes, book makers and gift tags.
" when the board reached the recurring business section of the agenda, discussion of the property owner involvement and input initiative produced another confrontation.
contact leanne 731-1841 for more information.
it will take a blend of approaches to provide the level of roads that county residents deserve.
as sigurd olson once said, "nature is always in a state of  equilibrium, and only when we manipulate it for our own purposes do we  contribute toward imbalance.
we are currently facing many changes in our county and our land use regulations need to be set in place, to deal with the future on a long-term plan not just "putting out the fires.
signature gift and greeting card workshop with betty slade, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 18 at the community center.
for ranchers, the first step is to develop a quality biosecurity program that involves good herdsmanship, record keeping and appropriate vaccinations.
and, just because we may have been fortunate to find this heaven on earth  earlier rather then later, it doesn't give us a right to now close and lock the  gate.
results from the "pagosa lakes district" are more favorable, suggesting 54 percent of the needed number of surveys have been submitted.
all in all, quite a load.
we  will also be celebrating october birthdays, so if you have a birthday this  month, have lunch with us and we'll serve some frightful cake.
that's why most of us were drawn here, whether it was two years ago, 10 years  ago, or two generations ago.
whether or not, he certainly applied this strategy in his letter to this column two weeks ago.
mr. sawicki suggests that only a leadership possessing the proper amount of  testosterone can preserve america, and insinuates that democrats don't have it
pirates take fifth iml match at monte vista
i also served pagosa springs as a police officer and police chief in the '70s.
i'd never get to see the state high school sports playoff action.
four alternatives are considered in the deis and, as required by law, a  preferred alternative is identified.
in fact, it was a nailbiter for an entirely scoreless second half, the pirates protecting a 2-1 first-half lead against a savage viking attack.
malville pointed to known activity on the site during the lunar cycles as further food for thought.
let's not destroy its unique character by trying to imitate other "developments.
july 24 - home and garden tour.
st. patrick's episcopal church, in cooperation with the pagosa outreach connection and other service organizations, will be giving clothes away 9 a.m.-3 p.m. saturday.
susi, we miss you and hope you are well and home soon.
our county departments all work for each of you and it is absolutely necessary that the bocc has administrative oversight, which means just that, oversight.
how can meatballs not be amusing, with their transparent motives and their high-decibel noise?
republican robin schiro and independent nan rowe are contending for the archuleta county commission seat from district 1.
the atmosphere is  relaxed, with individual help from instructors during the painting sessions,  and detailed handouts.
the office is open 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday  through thursday, friday by appointment.
what evidence they might have left has been covered up.
in order to complete and submit the survey, residents should go to  www.archuletacounty.org and click on the link near the bottom of the page  titled "2004 land use planning survey," then follow the instructions  provided.
back in 1988, malville said, he and some graduate students climbed up the steep, rocky trail to see if his theory about the moon rising between the rocks during the northern standstill could hold true.
the remainder of pagosa's runners included: freshman dell greer (25:57); sophomore julianna whipple (26:46); senior pau alves (26:59); senior esther gordon (29:43); and freshman mackenzie kitson (34:40).
- pagosa outreach connection.
scott scored with four kills and added another two points with blocks.
summary scoring: 28:31, p-k. smith, assist s. webb; 49:36, p-ormonde, ua; 62:16, p- k. smith, assist baum.
pick up a brochure at the gallery in town park.
the center is set up for over night guest, artist and  writer workshops and groups who want to pull away and create.
therefore, by nature, we oppose development that would radically alter the  character this place.
we have learned about  presidents, history, and various tidbits probably off the internet.
the fact that an overseas producer shorted the u.s. 48 million doses by allowing its production facilities to be contaminated and causing the medication to be banned had nothing to do with it.
our county departments all work for  each of you and it is absolutely necessary that the bocc has administrative  oversight, which means just that, oversight.
" that's right, instead of a well-integrated community like pagosa springs is  now, you will have a stratified, class society and all of its associated  problems.
at the time of martínez's petition, abiquiu still dominated commerce in the chama river valley.
the event is sponsored by pagosa area churches, first baptist, restoration fellowship, pagosa bible and mountain heights baptist church.
but our population has grown so much that the absolute "protection" of private property rights has been eroding what is good for the community as a whole.
for more information about division of wildlife go to:  http://wildlife.state.co.us.
and i thank them for that.
could it have been mere circumstances that aligned these buildings with the sky?
(no oil paint, please).
volunteers are needed.
another great week at your chamber!
" "honts is confident the village would have a positive impact on income levels and quality of life in surrounding communities.
two reasons jump out: fall is the traditional political season, and fall is  when children are sent back to school.
library news we can't build until spring by lenore bright sun columnist time has run out on our plan to start on the new library addition this fall.
- heard an animal control report for september indicating two reports  taken; four dogs impounded; one cat impounded; five dogs returned to owners;  nine verbal warnings issued; three written warnings given; 17 miscellaneous  citizen contacts made; and 14 calls from dispatch to animal control for service.
the cost is a recommended $25 per couple.
probably all of us value job creation, a higher  minimum wage and equal pay for equivalent job performance, but it probably  didn't drive our decision to live in pagosa.
the pirates and crested butte each finished with 9-1 records in the league, the lone loss for each being a 3-2 overtime defeat by the other.
more income does not necessarily  lead to a higher quality of life.
shan webb's reverse header off a kevin blue corner kick popped off kvale's gloves where paul muirhead got the rebound but fired wide left.
right to participate at a level commensurate with each child's maturity and ability; 3.
sponsors agape gifts, jann pitcher realty, pagosa custom homes, concrete connection, mud shaver car wash, brighton custom homes, co timber ridge ranch, bootjack ranch, edward jones investments, design-a-sign, m&m drop service, a affordable storage, strohecker asphalt & paving, alpine electric.
"the first season was good down here," said dow biologist scott  wait.
mike mcteigue 'v.p. gone' dear editor: during the vice presidential debate, mr. cheney challenged senator edward's  attendance record, noting that a north carolina newspaper called him,  "senator gone."
the ged program operates 1:30-3:30 p.m. monday through thursday and 5-8  p.m. monday and wednesday.
how is a homeowners association that will not pay municipal taxes to support fire, police, emts, hospitals, trash disposal and schools a good thing?
it's sad to think  people believe them.
tutors are  needed in each of the five areas: language arts, reading, writing, social  studies, science and mathematics.
arboles holiday bazaar is nov. 20
the percentage of required surveys submitted from this district stands at just 19 percent.
i pour another glass of the shiraz.
in pagosa springs, active and former marines, former navy medical  personnel, families and friends of marines will celebrate the 229th birthday of  the marines friday, nov. 12, at montezuma's restaurant.
those who followed the rules and ventured off major roads and trails
he was a member and probably headed the infamous santa fe ring, a group of u.s. transplants in new mexico who managed to acquire large land grant acreages following the mexican-american war.
but it's not input that i would actively seek out from employees -  managerial or not, with the exception of the county administrator.
now is  the time to quit with the words and drive his show wagon from our town.
- review of the aug.11, 2004, planning commission minutes.
each afternoon, you will create - in your favorite medium - a work that includes the lessons of the morning.
cost is $35 for the class and $5 for supplies.
things visitors liked least were "stores do not carry what i need," "parking inconvenient/hard to find" and "too much traffic."
this is the region where  earth blocks some (but not the entirety ) of the sun's rays.
journal, draw, paint, photograph or just enjoy this tropical paradise march 19-26.
the kids will love it, and you can feel sure that parents will be equally  as pleased to hang out and watch all the fun.
ed center needs volunteers for ged program looking for a rewarding way to spend some extra time?
monday, oct. 25 - beef burrito, black beans, zucchini olé, lettuce, tomato and fruit compote.
the eclipse in its continuum will end  with a partial followed by a penumbral eclipse.
i believe the new advisory board should include airport users, business people from the community, and at least one of the bocc commissioners as an ex-officio board member.
" schiro: i believe the management role of commissioners should be one of  providing strong leadership to the county administrative functions and county  departments.
as we grow, open space will become more and more valuable in meeting this  important objective.
"life is beautiful," 1 p.m.; monday, oct, 25 - medicare and drug card counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.; medicare questions and answers, 1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1 p.m.; tuesday, oct, 26 - yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; basic computer class, 10:30; dance club, 3 p.m.; wednesday, oct. 27 - canasta, 1 p.m.; friday, oct 29 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11; blood pressure check, noon; celebrate halloween and birthdays, noon; pinochle, 1 p.m. menu friday, oct. 22 - roast beef with gravy, baked potato, green beans/mushrooms, roll and citrus cup.
"in general, we handled it better than they did."
we open our hearts and our space to these young people and what a happy place we have become.
rowe: i don't believe the appropriate role of a county commissioner is "management."
for  instance, many veterans served in europe or here in the united states during a  wartime period.
"most animals shy away from any roads or atv trails," said  wagner.
or, if we should spot a bear foraging in its natural environment, we delight in its antics and appreciate the rarity of such encounters.
close to 50 artisans representing  a wide range of talents will have booths to ply you with baked treats, pottery,  jewelry, decorations, and other handmade goods.
fifteen of these agencies are helping to solve problems people in archuleta county are experiencing.
"and our kids definitely know that, so hopefully we can get back to business this week," concluded o'donnell.
the building blocks of watercolor, nov. 3-5, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
for some, autumn is a colorful season, time for motor trips to view the  leaves and their brilliant hues.
by john m. motter sun columnist
a microsoft excel class taught by dick babillis is  being offered oct. 25-nov. 10 on mondays and wednesdays from 6-8 p.m. fun holiday ideas, a computer class especially designed to help you with  your holiday newsletter or other publishing needs, is being offered tuesday and  wednesday, nov. 9-10, 6-8 p.m.
all proceeds  will be used to support chimney rock interpretive association, a nonprofit  organization working in partnership with the u.s. forest service, san juan  national forest.
then, up to the elementary fields to watch the older kids play.
but as the signs are increasingly clear, ill-advised growth, merely for the sake of conquest or personal riches, is plainly not in society's best interest.
for information on these and other veterans benefits please call or stop by  the veterans' service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
if the goal is reached, it will be the highest amount raised in united way's history.
this show never fails to impress, so mark your calendars and plan on  visiting moonlight books to check it out.
"we're grateful to everyone who has completed the survey thus far, but  we know we need quite a bit more, " said marcus baker, associate county  planner.
according to a map in the archuleta county land use plan, the job corps site is apparently part of a major migratory route and "severe" winter range for deer and elk.
the boulder republican is running for an at-large seat on the board against democrat jennifer mello, who visited pagosa springs last month.
many absentee voters have received their ballots and have until nov. 2 to return them.
march 19-16 - costa rican adventure tour with cynthia padilla.
"they pretty much shut monte vista down.
thank you to archuleta county and all its visitors for your support in another successful year.
mind you, they have  been doing this for many, many years and are simply the heart and soul of our  visitor center and could never, never be repaid for all they do.
we are still looking for other organizations, businesses (thank you schmidt chiropractic for the monetary donation) and individuals to join with us in sponsoring a game or food booth or some type of appropriate activity.
various groups routinely form in celebration of lunar eclipses with  festivities to celebrate one of the best shows in celesta.
members also support other worthwhile community programs from other sale profits and dues.
this time does not include the penumbral phase, which is difficult to detect with an untrained eye and devoid of interest to most outside of the scientific community.
oct. 22 - application deadline for spirit in hand holiday boutique at  durango art center.
local law enforcement authorities strongly encourage motorists not to drink and drive.
all bayfield could do was put together a single point at a time as pagosa extended the advantage to 21-6.
the county roads are a county financial responsibility.
one out of three reported  incomes of $25,000 or less and families outnumbered other marital status  categories.
and then, at 62:16, pagosa hiked the lead to 3-0 when baum found keagan smith on right wing with a reverse drop and the senior drilled his second goal of the game and third of the season.
"the bottom line is, we are still going to write a new code even if we  don't get the numbers back we're looking for," said baker.
henry buslepp end of an era dear editor: maybe five years is not an era, but it is long enough to get in comfortable habits.
better things endure.
various groups routinely form in celebration of lunar eclipses with festivities to celebrate one of the best shows in celesta.
surveys are also expected to be available near polling locations during this year's nov. 2 general election.
everybody's going to have to turn in a good race next week.
" senior newssenior news record attendance for oktoberfest by laura bedard sun columnist wow, oktoberfest was a blast and so very well attended with an even higher attendance than the previous two years.
do you remember that while the president's father campaigned for a kinder, gentler america his promoters pounded away on the willy horton theme and making the world liberal profane, as though a liberal administration would empty the prisons making it unsafe to be anywhere outside your won house?
the pirates were ahead 16-7 bayfield managed two points in a row, courtesy pirate errors, with the one noticeable flaw in pagosa's game - the service error - accounting for one of the points.
but near the end of the scoreless first frame, sluggish coverage from pagosa allowed alamosa's jason espinoza to return a punt to the mean moose 47-yard line, and the home team posted a 6-0 lead with two minutes gone in the second quarter after espinoza took a sweep 40-yards to the end zone.
in many regions of the world, as human populations continually increase, so  too does the demand for additional housing, related infrastructure, energy and  essential services.
however, the veteran did not have  to actually be in combat, only have served during a period of wartime.
she thanked all the pagosa team players who participated this year and said she looks forward to successful results when play resumes in april.
he was a demolay as a youth.
lunar eclipses have been recorded in ancient history along  with involved myths and legends to explain this lunar phenomenon.
it started with moe webb slashing right up the middle, taking a blow from behind as he passed to ormonde.
education newseducation news space available for first aid and cpr classes by livia cloman lynch preview columnist space is still available in the nov. 8-9 first aid and cpr classes being offered at the archuleta county education center, at 4th and lewis streets in downtown pagosa springs.
right to an equal opportunity to strive for success; 9.
- received a letter from a village lake family regarding the controversy  over buoy line placement which will be forwarded to legal counsel for comment.
perhaps, we should call him "v.p. gone!"
for those without internet access, paper copies  will be available at town hall on hot springs boulevard.
when the committee of the territorial deputation consulted with the abiquiu town council concerning the martínez petition, the council stated that the lands of tierra amarilla were of excellent quality and could support 500 families.
on the way, kelley scored with a power dink to an empty spot in the bayfield defense, jewell went outside for a kill, walkup crushed an errant wolverine pass and that was followed by a similar play from jewell.
when did you arrive in pagosa springs?
angela atkinson and chris cares, of rrc associates, and andy knudtsen, of  eps, an economic consultant, presented the survey findings.
hiring referees the recreation department continues to seek individuals interested in officiating soccer, basketball, volleyball and baseball.
a local dentist met us at the clinic tuesday evening.
government can only do so  much to control growth.
" wait went on to report that there were no access problems and that many  hunters reported bulls still bugling.
using the surname martínez, martín filed on behalf of himself and 10 children he said wished to accompany him.
" to develop in such a beautiful area is counterproductive: you wind up destroying what attracted you to the area in the first place.
i remember contracting with an able-bodied man, some forty years of age, agreeing to pay him all he asked, an advance of two dollars, and giving him, after reaching california, a hat, a shirt, and a pair of shoes; the negotiation, which was closed on the spot, occupied less time than it takes to write this paragraph.
after 9/11 they beautifully created the atmosphere of insecurity, reinforcing it with a macho pseudo-patriotism which called for us to fly the flag on the pickup and wear a flag lapel pin or be declared un-american, a sort of return to the goldwater era slogan of "america: love it (our way) or leave it."
" in other action, the board: - heard a presentation from fred schmidt and gene tautges of san juan water conservancy district regarding the upcoming mill levy ballot issue for purchase of a new reservoir site.
the tour departs from denver and arrives in san jose.
tuesday, oct. 26 - tuna salad sandwich, lettuce/tomato, tomato soup, orange  wedges and cookie.
there were other factors which made it a wise decision.
our mountains, lakes, streams, meadows add more quality to our life than more condos will.
you can call them at 731-0779 or (800) 494-6857, or check out their  web site at presidenthomes.com.
for those without internet access, paper copies will be available at town hall on hot springs boulevard.
"do you mean by them that  has to live in this ugly, moth-eaten, dust-covered dump, or by them that's  merely enjoying its quaint and picturesque rustic charms for a short  spell?
community investment volunteers in each county have already determined which nonprofit groups in their community are most worthy of donations to this year's fund-raising drive.
the pirates finish the regular season schedule at montrose saturday, playing 4a montrose at 9 a.m. and 3a olathe immediately after.
our pagosa merchants will supply the very latest fashions, and dahrl henley can always be counted upon to serve only the finest and tastiest food around.
rowe: i totally support the re-creation of a county airport advisory board to the board of county commissioners.
that nominal level of exposure revealed just enough knowledge to me to make  me realize that a board of non-pilots, such as the board of county  commissioners, is not qualified to make all decisions concerning our local  airport without regular input from those who actually fly and are actively  engaged in the operation of the airport.
volunteers needed want to earn $5 per hour credit toward an art class?
the colorado voluntary bvd program has three levels.
right of children to share in the leadership and decision-making of their sport participation; 6.
a social hour begins at 1800 hours (6 p.m. if you are no longer on military time) and dinner follows at 1700.
finally, at 28:31, pagosa broke the scoring drought with senior midfielder keagan smith scoring from the right wing off a crossing pass from shan webb.
afternoons will be spent painting, using the morning's lessons.
commissioner hopefuls state their positions by tom carosello staff writer election day is less than two weeks away - do you know each candidate's stance on the issues?
the largest age group arrested for vandalism is between 13 and 14.
this can be done, says bosley, by establishing  "a state of mind in which the regents, the administration, faculty and  staff look for new ways to do anything and everything better, to reduce costs  without cutting programs, faculty and salaries.
unfortunately security outside of the u.s. in particular muslim countries  has decreased as a result of increased radicalization of the younger  generation.
george w. bush has proven he has what it takes to lead our country through  these dark days, because he puts his trust in jesus christ.
the girls outdistanced bayfield by one point to capture the league title and the top finish at the monte vista meet which included 3a, 2a and 1a schools.
for reservations and information, call moe mollender at 731-2279, robert  dobbins at 731-2482, don macnamee at 731-0306 or sepp ramsperger at 731-4824.
right to have qualified adult leadership; 4.
our income levels and housing costs are not on par with the rest of colorado.
veterans discharged early for a service-connected disability would also be exempt from active duty eligibility.
for some, autumn is a colorful season, time for motor trips to view the leaves and their brilliant hues.
the exhibition opens jan. 14 and runs through march 13 at foothills art center in golden.
united way's overhead rate is only 16 percent.
entry fee is $15 for dac members and $30 for nonmembers.
i tell myself i should not be bothered by those who mind other peoples' business.
put your teams together now for the upcoming season.
we understand and anticipate such transformation and, in fact, have come to love it as part of the true glory in mountain living.
for more information about the forums,  contact the rio grande national forest at: (719) 852-5941.
unfortunately security outside of the u.s. in particular muslim countries has decreased as a result of increased radicalization of the younger generation.
i feel that we definitely need to have a citizen's advisory committee immediately to research the areas that might consider metro districts and get the information of costs and time involved to see if it would be proactive to consider this option.
i believe chief volger is doing a good job with the tremendous change i see  each time i visit pagosa.
private-property rights must also be  protected as we grow, as well as our environment.
group tickets  need to be purchased prior to show dates, with payment sent to flc at one time.
our county is fortunate to have the resource of many very talented people;  many of these are retirees; some local and some from other areas with a vast  array of experience at solving problems.
i'm sure chief  volger remembers i did what i did to keep our town in control and the crooks in  jail.
fun on the run traveling through new england, a motorist stopped for gas in a tiny village.
"we found these people living in a very primitive fashion, footloose and free, unencumbered with worldly goods and ready, at an hour's notice, to accompany us on our travels.
i wanted no part in setting a new record.
if the sender does not receive an automated acknowledgment of receipt, it is the sender's responsibility to insure timely receipt by other means.
when comparing marital status, opposition to big boxes was stronger among singles and couples without children.
there are less than 100 miles  of roads that would be removed from the current county maintenance list and  these roads are in several different areas.
and, that one-day active duty service may have nothing to do with wartime service.
this movie is subtitled and rated "r." a suggested $3 donation  will benefit the friends of the library.
this is evidenced not only by legions of adolescent dimwits walking around with cell phones glued to their ears, clad in baggy pants and so empty headed they have no idea how to wear their hats, but by parents whose behaviors mirror an inability to accept their responsibilities, to admit the limitations of their children, to endure any criticism that strips them of the chance to live out their illusions through their offspring.
they celebrate oktoberfest and halloween.
"šhonts says the village could create 2,000-3,000 jobs during its  20- to 30-year proposed build-out scenario, as well as "a hundred or more  joint venture' possibilities.
our county is fortunate to have the resource of many very talented people; many of these are retirees; some local and some from other areas with a vast array of experience at solving problems.
- habitat for humanity of archuleta county.
director ebeling's  motion to have the association donate $50 toward defraying costs of advertising  the issue died for lack of a second.
results from this district indicate only 14 percent of the needed surveys have  been submitted, to date.
this class is for anyone who wants to learn more about perspective and is open to all quick drying media.
the pirates led 17-12.
a  neighbor called 9-1-1.
dear editor: those of us who watched the presidential debates witnessed how words can be used to evade questions and distort actual fact.
as in year's past, there will be a $50 money basket, a $50 money wreath and one of margaret wilson's handknitted stoles.
dr. a.j. nossaman, republican candidate for coroner, is another well known citizen of the county.
by karl isberg staff writer it was a short and basically sweet experience for the pirate volleyball team, with a 3-0 victory over bayfield tuesday at the pshs gym.
shan webb was blanked again and ormonde stopped by kvale off a corner kick.
the information for this subject is taken from "pobladores," written by frances leon quintana.
after sept. 7, 1980, a veteran must have served for 24 continuous months of  active military service, or have been released under special circumstances  (under special va or military policies and regulations).
by tess noel baker staff writer a fire in aspen springs monday evening gutted part of a single-family home  before it could be extinguished.
comments  submitted anonymously will be accepted and considered; however, those who  submit anonymous comments will not have standing to appeal the subsequent  decision.
included will be a review of aerial perspective and proportion.
choose jesus christ.
- san juan basin area agency on aging.
we must respect this great tradition.
jewell halted any bayfield momentum with a solo block and forrest killed for a point.
you can't take anything for granted."
"it's a multi-level program that encompasses biosecurity, vaccinations and strategic testing.
the deis analyzes the environmental impacts of the applicant's proposal to  authorize the construction and use of road and utility corridors across land  administered by the rio grande national forest to access the applicant's  private land.
reservations are required and can be made by calling 731-1160.
"we are still well short of the numbers required to validate the  results.
jim hicklin a tough sell dear editor: many years ago i attended a sales training seminar sponsored by one of our country's largest corporations in which the facilitator stressed the point that if you can create enough anxiety in a person's mind you can sell him/her almost anything.
of course, if the trade proposal submitted to the usfs is granted, the developer will have unrestricted access to his land, and will almost certainly develop it and the job corps site as well.
"i think it will be a remarkable experience," malville said.
"you must have been dreaming," she says.
following the 45-day comment period, the comments will be  reviewed and the final environmental impact statement will be prepared and  available in early 2005.
friday, oct 29 - salisbury steak, mashed potatoes and gravy, brussels sprouts, melon in season and cake.
i'm thinking all this as i sit in my living room on a rainy day, waiting  for the skylight to leak.
people who fly in on private planes  will not shop at our little gift shops or eat in our restaurants.
having been taught that strategy long ago and now reading mr. sawicki's  letter, i believe it is more important than ever to carefully examine what the  salesman is trying to sell rather than to buy it on brand name alone or  appearance.
they will not, however, be rerouted through new mexico to reach  destinations in the san luis valley.
our projects could not wait, so we drove to  durango and purchased the items at a store, in stock, from a wide selection for  about 20 percent less than we would have paid locally.
kickoff in golden peaks stadium is set for 7 p.m. summary pagosa 0 21 13 7-41 alamosa 0 7 6 6-19 second quarter ala - espinoza 40 run (kick failed) ala - yohn 7 run (garcia pass to bolt for 2)
in both cases, the items were not in  stock or brands we wanted not carried.
usually the calves don't show signs of disease, but they shed the  virus in such large amounts that even vaccinated members of the herd become  infected.
another mystery is a series of houses built along the winding trail to the top of the mesa.
statewide, moe finished fifth, behind joel trainer of liberty in 4a with 28, seth benzinger of montrose in 4a with 25 and kyle huntstiger of durango in 5a with 24.
i got to kibitz with sheriff tom richards and his wife, wyoma, teasingly chastising him for referring to her as "granny," and i exchanged early pagosa memories with dewey lattin.
walkup responded by killing off the pass and steen put a ball out off the wolverine block.
the same can be said of our senate and house races; there is time yet for change in the picture.
it is indicative of the less than average bull harvest locally last year and the carryover to this year."
however, in my experience as a past 19-year resident of vail,  colorado, i am more inclined to compare such ventures with a rising storm  surge, which typically inundates local inhabitants, often drowning them, or  leaving them crying for help.
if i was in a truly "fine" mood  i'd demolish the onion and garlic in the food processor, reducing the  vegetables to a nearly liquid and highly flavorful state.
of least importance among respondents was man-made features.
for example, results from the "southwest district," which  includes the arboles area, indicated only 6 percent of the required total of  surveys from this district had been received by the planning department - at  least 149 completed surveys are still needed.
bubba martinez recorded eight tackles to lead the defense, followed by armijo with six and jake reding with five.
this board would provide input to the bocc.
according to those visitors surveyed, the top downtown draws are the "friendly atmosphere," "the riverwalk" and "events and festivals."
the action starts with c team matches at 4 p.m. saturday, pagosa is on the road at montrose for a 9 a.m. match against the 4a indians and a match immediately after with 3a olathe.
but there are other, less apparent, changes in the landscape, which are not engendered by earthly movement or inherent biological function.
the community survey, commissioned by the town of pagosa springs and the  vision council, was prepared and conducted by rrc associates, of boulder.
second, a colorado senate seat up for grabs, fought for by democrat ken salazar and republican peter coors.
music will be provided by kpcl's own ole blomberg and  the center will provide desserts.
i will not sacrifice one for the other.
read the razor-sharp political commentary in most letters columns in newspapers; listen to the average radio talk show.
the why is left to the imagination - and science.
the active presence of a father in the life of his daughter is important for her future.
for the most part, that work consists of spraying a thick film of venom and  nonsense on everything and everyone in range.
the clinic resulted from a nationwide shortage of vaccine occurring after the product of an english firm, which was to provide 48 million doses, was found contaminated and all the product ruled not fit for use.
" true, a rising tide can lift boats right out of their docks where they were secure.
he is survived by altha mccaw (spouse) of oxford; paul mccaw (son) of farmington, n.m.; martha nelson (daughter) of kirtland, n.m.; dean mccaw (son) of oxford; four granddaughters, two grandsons, one great-granddaughter, and six great-grandsons.
we  haven't found one positive yet.
it  goes without saying most political candidates are meatballs, so the situation  is unbearable.
i'm just having too much fun in life to want to be knocked down by some foreign bug with a quivering sticker.
for reservations and information, call moe mollender at 731-2279, robert dobbins at 731-2482, don macnamee at 731-0306 or sepp ramsperger at 731-4824.
starting late this year and continuing through 2008, nature will put on a display that forms the basis of one of the scientific theories on chimney rock - that it could have been a place of pilgrimage and of trade for the people of chaco canyon, a large community 93 miles south as the crow flies, and perhaps more importantly, the source of a calendar to unite a growing number of small outliers.
not one of the malicious ones, but meaty at times, nonetheless.
it embraces proposals to reduce protection of federal wetlands.
the quality and tempo of league play is improving as the season ends and monte vista did some things in the home gym they did not do when they played at pagosa.
ebeling and bohl replied the tanks are a "fact of life" in rural areas and "when everyone has them, they aren't a distraction.
" hamilton's concern about the low ceiling and rafters at the monte vista gym was relayed to her players before the match.
i will not sacrifice one for the  other.
the civic club members also put on a delicious lunch
sports pagesports page pirate girls capture iml cross country laurels
this film won at the cannes film festival for best picture a few years ago.
"village employees, said honts, would more than likely reside in off-site 'moderate-income housing' and be bused to and from the workplace.
"but if we don't get enough surveys, consolidating in order to arrive at valid numbers is a distinct possibility."
he participated in a variety of recreational activities offered by the center.
and it featured, among other things, four of the 14 solo blocks recorded in the game by pirate senior sweeper levi gill.
they have been invited to attend  committee meetings to gain first-hand knowledge of its operations and if they  wish to pursue their actions after such attendance their names will be  submitted to the board for interviews and possible appointment.
beaver creek trail closed for safety reasons a section of the beaver creek trail, no. 560, has been closed by the u.s.  forest service due to dangerous rock slides and washouts.
join quartz ridge fine arts gallery (claire goldrick), pagosa photography, moonlight books, taminah gallery, astara's boutique, handcrafted interiors, lantern dancer and the rocky mountain wildlife park and gallery for the tour.
he is the ultimate medicine man pulling his wagon full of  magic elixir that, he promises, will cure destitution, loneliness, complacency,  isolation, economic hardship, as well as a general feeling of being out of  touch.
slade owns and oversees the blanco dove artist and writer's retreat center  on the lower blanco road.
tuition and materials are $45 for first aid and cpr combined, $35 for  first aid only and $30 for cpr only.
honts: "a rising tide will lift all boats.
the stores will include astara's boutique, happy trails, satori boutique, silverado western wear, goodman's department store, switchback, upscale retail and a shoe or two.
he's worked the canneries and  fishing boats, hunted on the arctic tundra and lived among the many diverse  cultures that coexist on the "last frontier."
because of the natural beauty  and the extensive protected lands of our national forest.
mind you, they have been doing this for many, many years and are simply the heart and soul of our visitor center and could never, never be repaid for all they do.
however, there is no typical vandal.
marine corps birthday fete set nov. 12 on nov. 10, 1775, the continental congress authorized the raising of two  battalions of american marines to help fight the british.
some minor difficulties were experienced by a few motorists, but generally travel posed no problem.
friday, oct 29 - salisbury steak, mashed potatoes and gravy, brussels  sprouts, melon in season and cake.
was it a place for people to ascend closer to the heavens, closer to the things that were at the spiritual center of their lives?
besides being the builder of the physical he-man attributes it is  the fuel of male dominance and aggression, shaping attitudes of superiority  that weaken bonds of love and attachment.
it's part of the romance, the pull, the intrigue of the archeological area 15 miles west and three miles south of pagosa springs and the two rock towers that mark its place.
this certification verifies that all cattle within the herd have been tested  and have been found negative of bvd pi with the exception of any unborn calves.
caleb ormonde, on the first possession was stopped by miner keeper walter kvale on a shot he nubbed.
civic education also ensures that people have the necessary knowledge, skills and character to play an active role in society and government.
i remind myself that one's  disappointments are not the result of what others do, but of unfair  expectations that can't be met.
author evelyn bassoff, ph.d., makes this statement in her book, "cherishing our daughters: how parents can raise girls to become strong and loving women."
as addressed in the property owner involvement and input initiative, he said, the board cannot be a change agent for covenants.
by setting the performance-based plan in place now, we encourage and create  incentives for open space, while allowing flexibility for growth.
if mr. cheney will lie about such an insignificant issue where he can be so easily proven wrong, what will he do when he is shielded from exposure?
i strongly disagree with their position, and i'm extremely concerned about both the economic and environmental consequences to our community if their position is allowed to prevail.
these feelings bring balance to our busy lives,  and nature is why we're here.
pauline and mercy at the community center will still welcome donations and sponsors for the party.
the county first must identify what the true costs are for road maintenance and then reduce ineffective spending.
as has been pointed out in the past, the safe, warm, dry environment of the community center is a vast improvement over the potential rain, cold and darkness involved in trooping the little ones around the neighborhood.
i feel like i'm firing right out of the tanakh.
bayfield trailed by one point but could not sustain the effort: a wolverine serve error gave up a point and forrest came back with a kill.
the large room being about twenty-five by thirty-five feet in size, and containing a fireplace, faced with native stone, that will take a stick of wood six-feet long.
it has relaxed key regulation in  the clean air act and has sought funding cuts for the clean water act.
this is an open meeting ...
when  city market expanded, they brought in crews to do the construction.
john kerry, on the other hand, will never earn the respect of our troops because of his vietnam record and his lack of commitment to our soldiers in iraq.
plan to attend this  wonderful annual luncheon and bring all your friends.
day six is a free beach day or choose to take a snorkeling excursion.
and we are, indeed, a community.
schiro, a  republican, defeated republican incumbent bill downey in the aug. 10 primary  election, earning the right to face rowe, an unaffiliated candidate.
when city market expanded, they brought in crews to do the construction.
charlotte archuleta forgot to join us for amateur half hour, but came in friday and played the piano and her old accordion.
she jumped from her car while dialing 911 on her cell phone and managed to engage in a foot pursuit of the suspects.
please choose a time and sign the volunteer sheet in the narthex.
before the fans were settled in their seats, the pirates had an 8-3 lead in the second game, all points but two handed over on wolverine errors.
i am a goose down comforter too large for my last benefactor to be effective and useful.
there has also been an increase in the number of high-needs students in the  high school, he said.
should you want to put together a table of 10, you must first purchase the tickets, then call mary daltroff at 731-5121 to reserve the table in your name.
if laughing is a cure for what ails you, then we are a hospital.
day three travel north to the caño negro lake and wildlife reserve where  you will enjoy a boat trip with exotic birds such as osprey, storks, and  herons.
rob hooper will be the new man in charge and while i don't want to spoil the surprise, you'll be seeing some exciting changes going on in the future.
the survey also looked at economic indicators for the community, such as "leakage," dollars flowing to other communities - and the "big box" issue.
for more information contact leanne at 731-1841 or e-mail at lgoebel@centurytel.net.
the balance of the half featured solo blocks by chris nobles and gill and a save by jesse morris for pagosa while baldo aguilera was wide left on one shot and over the top on another.
an autumn ritual by karl isberg sun columnist we are well into autumn.
he's already stated that we are economically  deprived.
i believe that we need to look at the priority of both open space  and private property rights.
personalize your gifts and packages this  year with watercolor and acrylic images.
the lonesome dove-windy point job at the east base of the pass is where the  overnight closures have ended.
but then suddenly someone grabs my ear pinching hard.
texas, new mexico, arizona  and california followed.
the project site is in mineral county and the pre-decisional environmental  assessment (ea) is now available for public review by calling the ranger  district at 264-1509.
growth is a multifaceted situation that has a domino  effect on every member of the population.
i believe my role as county commissioner will be to work to identify and maintain this delicate, but crucial balance.
this year it's a good-looking quilt made and donated by the members of the pagosa piecemakers quilt club.
citizens also need to believe their participation can influence policy-making and community decisions, and they need to act on that belief.
by karl isberg staff writer when steve bosley, candidate for a seat on the university of colorado board  of regents, finally made it over wolf creek pass friday, he was ready to stop  in town for some campaigning.
my letter is not necessarily all praise and filled with compliments.
meetings will be held the second tuesday of each month as originally scheduled in the aspen springs metropolitan district building at 216 metro drive.
for more  information about artstream, call 264-2491.
profits from the past two years helped install a new ceramic tile entry, a  vinyl tile kitchen floor and carpeted a stairway at the parish hall.
they have been invited to attend committee meetings to gain first-hand knowledge of its operations and if they wish to pursue their actions after such attendance their names will be submitted to the board for interviews and possible appointment.
you may wear costumes; but not those that portray evil.
if we need to wait until the town's vision is more clearly defined, so be  it.
instead of everyone coming on one  night, different night purchases are allowed, but all tickets must be ordered  at the same time.
at the recent workshop regarding this issue, i asked that the advisory committee for the airport include not just all pilots or airport enthusiasts.
junior heather dahm will round out the girl's varsity team for regionals and state this year.
artists may enter up to  four submissions for $10 per artwork.
senator edwards actually presided over the senate three times during the  same period, one more than the v.p.
on the current path, cu will not have any public funding in less than a decade, i will help find innovative solutions, lobby for reform and coalesce the university's many constituencies.
we will start construction as soon as weather permits.
and, as the game wore down, keagan smith was stopped, max smith had a steal and baum's bid for his second goal of the season was over the top.
our projects could not wait, so we drove to durango and purchased the items at a store, in stock, from a wide selection for about 20 percent less than we would have paid locally.
we are only as good as our  membership and you make us great!
then he says that this development is for the higher-end skier, the type of people who don't already come here - the type who will fly in on their private planes.
do you remember that while the president's  father campaigned for a kinder, gentler america his promoters pounded away on  the willy horton theme and making the world liberal profane, as though a  liberal administration would empty the prisons making it unsafe to be anywhere  outside your won house?
a maximum of four slides or photographs must be submitted for the selection process.
"laurel has been running well all year," anderson said.
this is a presentation you will want to attend, as the drug card issue can be complicated and harold, nedra and patti can help you with any problems you may have with medicare.
the financial impact of the disease is estimated to cost the rancher $10 to $24 per cow.
my thanks to del greer, cela white, kelsey anderson, rachel jensen, mackenzie kitson, teale kitson and sydney aragon.
fortunately, most are practically benign.
the drawing will be held at 4 p.m. on the day of the bazaar.
i have lived a lifetime outdoors and, throughout, have witnessed the steady erosion of untouched places to a rising tide of human expansion and urban sprawl.
of the five bulls i saw harvested on opening day, only one was close enough to a trail to be brought out whole.
" pagosa's fourth runner, and the third sophomore on the varsity, jen shearston, crossed the line in 22:06, finishing 12th.
i hired, trained and sent your present police chief, don volger, to the colorado law enforcement training academy.
journal, draw, paint,  photograph or just enjoy this tropical paradise march 19-26.
assessing the economic value of moments like these is impossible, but each  of us knows the intangible values inherent in those experiences which move us  emotionally, influence our happiness, and otherwise make life worthwhile.
it  embraces proposals to reduce protection of federal wetlands.
for instance, six months of military service for military reserve training purposes does not count toward active duty service in most cases.
what is your family background?
we need to transition right into our offense - do something with the pass and hit at them again."
talbot and kamozawa encourage guests to arrive early to enjoy the fire pit and the great room.
this most likely will not be the last time you'll read about vandalism in my column.
that includes: - children ages 6 to 23 months; - adults 65 and older; - persons ages 2-64 with underlying chronic medical conditions; - all women who will be pregnant during influenza season; - children ages 6 months to 18 years who are on chronic aspirin therapy; - health care workers with direct patient care; and - childcare providers and household contacts of children under 6 months of  age.
contact foothills art center at (303)  279-3922 or e-mail fac@foothillsartcenter.org or check out their web site at  www.foothillsartcenter.org.
as members of pet sitters international, they are insured and bonded.
this procedure, of course, ends  the life of the child.
lunar eclipses have been recorded in ancient history along with involved myths and legends to explain this lunar phenomenon.
i tell myself i should not be bothered by those who mind other peoples'  business.
the period dec. 7, 1941 through december 31, 1946.
in colorado, more than 20 percent of cowherds are diagnosed with bvd annually,  which has a devastating economic impact on the cattle industry.
it improves my attitude.
department managers should be accountable to the county administrator, not directly to the board of county commissioners.
granted, san juan basin health planned well for the clinic, picking the most logical place, pagosa springs community center, that could handle a crowd that size.
ranchers can choose from a variety of testing procedures and options.
it turns out that there is  indisputable evidence that the vice president has met the senator at least  twice, first at the senator's swearing in and later at a prayer breakfast where  the two were photographed chatting.
the comment period ends 30 days after publication of opportunity to comment notice.
admission is $10 and includes homemade desserts, coffee and  tea during intermission.
planning commission the archuleta county planning commission will hold its regular meeting 7 p.m. wednesday, oct, 27, in the county commissioners' meeting room in the county courthouse.
i am not sure at this time that creating a handful of metro districts is cost effective to the county or to the taxpayers.
ron has been conducting research at chimney rock for the last two years and is  an expert on the northern lunar standstill and its relationship to the chimney  rock spires.
the denouement of this cold, heart-chilling, yet stunningly beautiful film reaches an unexpected conclusion.
day five, journey to the guanacaste, one of the last tropical dry forests on the planet, stop at santa rosa national park, and then arrive at your seaside hotel.
medicare counselors will be here 11 a.m.-1 p.m. monday, oct. 25, to answer questions and at 1 p.m. they will answer general or specific questions you may have about the medicare drug card.
veteran's corner veterans served - and not just during war time by andy fautheree sun columnist my semiannual subject this week is, who is a veteran?
"that's just the kind of community pagosa is," said kleckner.
people who fly in on private planes will not shop at our little gift shops or eat in our restaurants.
after a thorough review in april, may and june, 31 nonprofit organizations in  southwest colorado passed united way's rigorous tests and were selected as  partner agencies for 2005.
domestic violence, as well as other violent crimes, most often occurs where a male demonstrates a high blood level of testosterone, and a woman is most dangerous during the part of her cycle when her estrogen levels fall and testosterone effects appear.
we will have a prize for the best costume.
our monthly dance club will meet 3 p.m. oct. 26 in the dining room.
there are less than 100 miles of roads that would be removed from the current county maintenance list and these roads are in several different areas.
for instance, as we gaze upon a lofty snow-covered mountain range glowing in the afternoon sun, we can't help but marvel at the various shades of light and shadow which give depth and a sense of enormity to the scene.
senior otis rand crossed the line first for pagosa, finishing 15th in 19:05.
"we know each other well," coach scott anderson said of the pirates and the wolverines.
given the utter lack of civility and concern for the truth exhibited in  nearly all that advertising, affiliations aside, a plywood shack looks mighty  appealing.
for pagosa those two minutes were a drill in ball protection.
first, some cleansing breaths (i've been watching "judy's yoga hour" every morning on satellite tv).
the civic club bazaar has a long history and grows better each year.
tickets will be available nov. 1 at wolftracks, moonlight books, the chamber, and the psac gallery for $10 ($8 for psac members).
for the most part, that work consists of spraying a thick film of venom and nonsense on everything and everyone in range.
by this i mean that they should provide a well-defined vision of the  direction of archuleta county and how we'll get there.
residents who would like to fill out hard copies of the survey can obtain  them at the county building and planning department, 527 a san juan st. until the completion deadline of nov. 5, 4 p.m., surveys will also be  distributed at the county commissioners' office, county clerk's office, county  extension building, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant, chromo mercantile,  pagosa springs post office, ruby sisson library, turkey springs trading post  and the silver foxes den senior center (inside the community center).
you will not see me out fixing roads, planning landfills or supervising clerks.
he's shouting, "he stole those  words from franklin delano roosevelt, son.
commissioners  need to ensure that well-qualified people are hired, trained and supported.
i especially want to thank don heitkamp who also volunteers his time to oversee the project.
ala - espinoza 50 interception return (gallegos kick)
local merchants need to formulate  a strategy to meet this competition now, not just simply oppose it coming to  their doorstep in a last ditch effort to survive.
the viewpoint that private property rights completely and absolutely trump  the rights of the surrounding community is epitomized by the plan to erect a  massive "village" up at wolf creek.
comments received in response to this solicitation, including names and  addresses of those who comment, will be considered part of the public record on  this proposed action and will be available for public inspection.
now, who comes to town but a slick promoter who uses words to create an  illusion of reality.
when communication breakdowns occur, i believe it is the role of the commissioners to step in and provide the leadership to pull the different areas together, break down any obstacles, and provide the appropriate resources to get things moving in the overall defined direction.
jim lincoln 'big box' vision dear editor: the decision to allow a 'big box' into pagosa springs deserves careful consideration before expiration of the current moratorium.
today, as in the past, the corps is confident that, "if the army and  navy ever look on heaven's scenes, they will find the streets guarded by united  states marines."
such "interchange" of money would certainly  degrade the quality of life we have today in this area.
local merchants can prevent pagosa's growing,  affluent "ex-urban" market from spending a day a month in durango  buying saws and skis and stocking up on sand paper and socks.
community investment  volunteers in each county have already determined which nonprofit groups in  their community are most worthy of donations to this year's fund-raising drive.
for the majority of these license holders, cows, calves and four-point bulls or larger are legal.
blocks by shan webb and derek monks stymied viking attacks and then ormonde was stopped from 20 yards on a header off a muirhead cross.
pirates get soccer scare from center but win ninth straight by richard walter staff writer the pagosa springs pirate soccer team reeled off its ninth victory in a row oct. 14 in center - but it wasn't easy.
the health department, of course, had no control over the weather and many of us stood outside in the rain for up to half an hour waiting just to get inside the door.
the landowner and his developer contend that they have the ultimate right to build whatever - and as much - as they desire, simply because the parcel of land in question is privately owned.
raffle tickets are $1 each and 6 for $5 and can be purchased at sisson library or from civic club members or at the bazaar itself.
i am going to be informed of what is going on in all departments; however  the actual day to day functions are why we have department heads.
give us all this and we will pay a reasonable premium to buy in pagosa.
back in go the meatballs, out comes the bay leaf.
with growth of population in pagosa and archuleta county you are certainly counting climbing numbers of scurrilous and rapacious individuals.
i really don't know how a person could knowingly choose to vote for a political candidate who promotes so many detestable acts in his platform, but if all the kerry-edwards supporters were brought together and laid end to end around the equator of the earth, the rest of us would be much better off.
"i believe we could go to each district and say, 'ok, this is what we've got, but we still want you to tell us what you think so we can make this as valid and legitimate as possible,'" said baker.
kerry's treason was as arnold's, not of a principled man but rather that of a selfish and ambitious one.
in colorado, there are 2.4 million cattle and calves across the state.
the first game flew by as the pirates attacked relentlessly at the start, firing out to a 6- 1 lead with a solo block by senior middle caitlyn jewell, two kills by senior outside hitter courtney steen and an ace from junior caitlin forrest.
what became a fierce defensive struggle then continued for more than 13 minutes.
we've gone back to the drawing board and have arrived at a design that will stay within our budget and provide all of the options we wanted in the original plan.
donations to united way's work in archuleta county support 15 local  programs for children, youth, families and the elderly who are in need.
this workshop builds on the basics of watercolor - beginners i and uses everything students learned in that class.
our mountains, lakes, streams, meadows add  more quality to our life than more condos will.
the ball is for single girls at least 11 years old or older, and feel free  to bring all of your daughters.
the community center will sponsor a cupcake walk.
he attended fort lewis college at hesperus and what is now arizona state university at tempe.
pagosa merchants need a "don't drive to durango" campaign backed up by a solid service and pricing strategy.
road maintenance question: with regard to road maintenance, are you in favor of policies that encourage the private formation of local improvement/metro districts to shift some of the financial burden for maintenance away from the county?
it is autumn, and we recognize this seasonal shift in everything natural that surrounds us.
police chief don volger said the checkpoint will be in the 800 block of san  juan street (u.s. 160).
john kerry, on the other hand, will never earn the respect of our troops  because of his vietnam record and his lack of commitment to our soldiers in  iraq.
va pensions are granted only to those veterans who served during wartime.
"i believe passionately in realizing the potential of our children," he says.
as a community, we must band together and shoot a whole lot more arrows in  the butt of this preposterous idea.
john w. porco dear editor: this letter is addressed to all kerry democrats: ask any recent volunteer to the armed forces who they are voting for and  the answer will be president bush.
doors will open at 11:45 a.m., lunch is served at noon and the fashion show begins shortly thereafter.
these  are the feelings that overwhelm us as we behold the untouched pristine places  of our natural surroundings.
even today, in a broad open meadow across the highway from home, a new road has just been cut where, for months over the past several winters, a large herd of elk has spent afternoons and evenings scraping through the snowpack to vital forage beneath.
it came on a steal in the offensive zone by ormonde who scored unassisted at 49:36 to increase the pirate lead to 2-0 with a soft looper over kvale's head.
this year the bazaar will open at 9 a.m. and close at 4 p.m. the drawing  for the raffle will be at 4 p.m. and one doesn't have to be present to win.
at different times during the year, the sun can be seen rising between the rocks from homes built all along that ridge.
tickets are $10 general admission, $8 seniors, $8 faculty and staff, and $5 students.
now is the time to quit with the words and drive his show wagon from our town.
the bocc needs to have the confidence in them to deal with the day to day  county business, while the bocc is preparing for tomorrow.
the people of chimney rock left behind no writing, no pictures, no libraries to help us understand their culture, only the pieces of what they ate, what tools they used, what clothing they wore and some of the buildings they constructed.
this issue will be one of the first priorities for the new board's attention very soon after being seated in january.
plans for allowing people to see it - at least in real time from the visitor center since space is so limited on the high mesa - have been in the works for over a year.
adobe photoshop, 5:30-9:30 p.m. monday and wednesday, oct. 25 and 27.
while we are disappointed that the project is not under way, it has been a  learning experience for all concerned.
purpose of the ball is for fathers to pledge commitments to protect their  daughters while daughters pledge commitments to purity.
such an advisory board would be a great asset for the board of county commissioners.
we also didn't get any talented souls for our amateur half hour, so i was  forced to show off my juggling skills, which only took about 20 seconds.
phone number is 247-2214.
the popular babysitter's workshop is being offered for youngsters in grades  5-8 on three friday afternoons in november.
know that  we love and appreciate you more than we could every tell you.
for more information call 264-2484.
as a 30-year educator who watched  a tiny community evolve into an overpopulated suburb, and a person who has  lived with "big city crime," it would be my sincerest wish that the  responsible youth, church directors, schools, police, senior citizens and  parents of pagosa will act in tandem and recognize that pagosa's youth may need  more attention.
pagosa's real advantage in the process, he said, was that community leaders  were in a proactive mode instead of a reactionary one where people were already  divided.
in this case, since i wish to forestall the return of  my sour mood, the meatballs will be large, maybe two inches in diameter.
i'm hopeful that our tragedy can help to inspire more to be done to keep  every child from getting lost to a life of crime.
meanwhile, migratory birds and waterfowl are  gathering for another arduous journey south as the mule deer and elk have begun  moving to lower winter range.
to qualify for standing to appeal the subsequent decision of this project  an individual or group must submit "substantive comments" during the  30-day comment period.
earlier periods are also considered wartime such as world war i, mexican border war, spanish-american war and indian wars, but have very limited application to veterans or survivors living today.
our long list of renewals includes; sky ute casino and lodge, august
one of the teams had a lasagna lunch for the players after a season-ending game.
i was camped out at kenney flats and had property stolen from my camp this week.
such "interchange" of money would certainly degrade the quality of life we have today in this area.
given the utter lack of civility and concern for the truth exhibited in nearly all that advertising, affiliations aside, a plywood shack looks mighty appealing.
last year this senseless crime cost united states citizens over $1 billion.
fire chief warren grams said firefighters were called to 207 oakridge drive  around 6:30 p.m. monday.
embryonic stem cell research takes cells from children who are conceived in laboratory conditions, known as embryo farms.
we will hold several complete classes during november and early december.
the books are available for sale at boot hill tack and feed in pagosa  springs for $6.50.
what a special treat and  thank you, charlotte.
kerry's treason was as arnold's, not of a principled man but rather that of a  selfish and ambitious one.
to better inform local voters, the sun recently asked archuleta county board of commissioners candidates nan rowe, robin schiro and ronnie zaday to respond to a set of questions addressing four issues relevant to this year's race.
honts: "i think i'm doing you a good thing by bringing red (mccombs) into this area.
folk legend townes van zandt called buddy "a  player and a poet."
the property is at 238 and 101 pineview drive off of easy street in continental estates subdivision.
answers to road questions in the past: "there isn't enough money" and "we need to create metro districts" have not been justified by an analysis of the information.
contact psac at 264-5020 for more information.
artist opportunities colorado art open 2005 entries are due oct. 29.
a total of 51 locals randomly sampled also  responded to the longer version.
elk season is in full swing and hunter success has picked up a bit since the weekend storm.
almost hypnotized, i feel drawn closer to his wagon to  better hear and maybe even obtain a bottle.
you did as much for her spirit as her body.
center would never get another shot and neither team was able to launch an offensive drive.
state funding for higher education is at a level that now jeopardizes cu's ability to meet its responsibilities of its essential future economic role in the state.
i strongly disagree with their position, and i'm extremely concerned about  both the economic and environmental consequences to our community if their  position is allowed to prevail.
no doubt, there is true value in real estate, and its greatest fiscal return most often involves utilization at its highest and best use.
all brands registered with the state of colorado in both counties are listed in the new book.
it  is indicative of the less than average bull harvest locally last year and the  carryover to this year.
so, my suggestion to you is try backing off and just watching, maybe even put headphones on so you do not hear anything.
and, anyone standing at the stone basin on the morning of the summer solstice can see the sun come up over the north wall of the great house pueblo above.
for ranchers, the  first step is to develop a quality biosecurity program that involves good  herdsmanship, record keeping and appropriate vaccinations.
this facility is geothermally heated and is in a great location for the public.
the village will have 12 restaurants and enough retail space for two super walmarts.
schiro: to me this question is like asking the emergency doctor "what is more important, to keep the patient breathing or to keep his heart beating?" archuleta county is a uniquely beautiful and attractive place to live.
recent reports from wolf creek ski area offer further proof - telling of midway snow depths exceeding five inches.
i often repeat this information in this column because time and time again  i visit with former members of the u.s. military who think they are not  veterans because they didn't go off to war in some far corner of the world.
and now there's the department of homeland security which routinely bounces  us up and down with announcements of red, yellow and orange levels of  insecurity, information which would be more aptly provided only to those in  charge of maintaining "security."
arts line holiday gallery tour scheduled nov. 19 by leanne goebel preview columnist the second annual gala holiday gallery tour will be 5-7 p.m. friday, nov.  19.
two reasons jump out: fall is the traditional political season, and fall is when children are sent back to school.
you too will see your child just being a kid.
that was followed by 81 percent highlighting open space acquisitions, 76 percent choosing to assure public access along the river and 71 percent wanting to optimize recreational resources on reservoir hill.
civic club members man the kitchen offering chili, beans, hot dogs, etc.
call the education center today to learn more about all of our after-hours  classes.
honts will  bring his crews from texas, pay them texas wages and expect them to be able to  afford to live here.
the ged tutoring program operates monday through thursday from 1:30 to 3:30  p.m., and monday and wednesday from 5 to 8 p.m. if you are interested in  helping out, call the education center at 264-2835 or drop by the center at 4th  and lewis streets.
but i am not going that route.
the final quarter was no kinder to pagosa - alamosa tallied its final points of the game with a blocked punt for a touchdown just 47 seconds in, gallegos kicked the pat and the mean moose led by 28.
signs alerting forest visitors to the trail closure are posted at the west fork trailhead.
she risked bodily injury to herself in an attempt to help us.
other dateable material shows the great house pueblo at chimney rock was rebuilt around 1093, at another time when the moon was rising between the spires.
this year's theme is "the nutcracker" and will feature musical  and dancing entertainment as well as the latest fashions.
it's always a beautifully executed event and tons of fun.
the teams exchanged two-point runs, then single points.
oct. 25 and 27 - adobe photoshop classes at flc extended studies.
it truly does "take a village to  raise a child" and therefore it takes effort from every citizen to avoid  the pitfalls that can wreak havoc on its citizens.
- update on archuleta county land use survey.
fine craft items are  the focus of the sale.
another misguided enterprise even closer to home would give the  publicly-owned 350-acre job corps site to a midwestern developer in exchange  for two distant private in-holdings of virtually half the total acreage and, in  my opinion as a real estate appraiser, far less the value.
schools, however, bear a special and historic responsibility for the development of civic competence and responsibility.
and, of course, our thanks and a free sundowner card go to kathryn heilhecker for recruiting president homes into the chamber family.
youth soccer coaches, sponsors special thanks go out to the coaches and businesses that committed to coach and sponsor children in our youth soccer league.
rowe: i totally support the re-creation of a county airport advisory board  to the board of county commissioners.
my letter is not necessarily all praise and filled  with compliments.
the current land use survey that is underway is very important in answering the questions of where our county is heading in protecting open space and private property rights.
the town and region is growing as more folks like us arrive and we applaud the efforts that are now underway, particularly in reference to the "big box" issue, to manage this growth.
new brand book compiled for archuleta, la plata counties the la plata county cowbelles have compiled a new brand book for archuleta  and la plata counties.
the inevitable was delayed slightly as pagosa surrendered a number of points with miscues but jewell slid to the outside for a kill and liza kelley hit an ace to extend the pirate lead to 23-12.
once again the ladies of the fashion show committee are hard at work  planning another festive event.
zaday defeated fellow republican and incumbent alden ecker for the district 2 slot in the aug. 10 primary, and since there is no unaffiliated or democratic candidate on the general election ballot, in effect zaday is running unopposed as commissioner-elect from district 2, needing just one vote nov. 2 to secure her board seat.
when it reaches these extremes, it pauses for several years and then starts the journey back the other way.
answers to road questions in the past: "there isn't enough money"  and "we need to create metro districts" have not been justified by an  analysis of the information.
then, i add a beaten egg, a mess of breadcrumbs to bind the mix, salt and  freshly ground black pepper, some chopped parsley, a pinch of ground nutmeg and  a tablespoon or so of either water or milk.
fifteen of these agencies are helping to solve  problems people in archuleta county are experiencing.
film society changes dates, sets trilogy review the pagosa springs film society is moving to a new night and a new time.
"success appears to be fair to good overall, although there are hot spots experiencing a lot of harvest, and other areas where hunters are not encountering any elk," wagner said.
the atmosphere is relaxed, with individual help from instructors during the painting sessions, and detailed handouts.
what about the regular people who live here and struggle to make ends meet?
chimney rock archeological area, a 1,400 acre site, is operated by the chimney rock interpretive association, a nonprofit partner of the u.s. forest service.
the town and region is growing as more folks like us arrive
leonard gallegos flora vista, n.m. pillage village dear editor: how is 1,200 rooms in three hotels, 129 lots for single-family homes, 1,661 multifamily units, 4,525 covered parking spaces, 222,000 square feet of commercial space - and a population of 10,000 year-round at an ultra-exclusive resort on 297 acres a good thing?
and, he said, he feels the purpose of the board is to enhance property  values and asked that it commence proper enforcement, stating he feels the  association is doing nothing to help the situation.
i see a lot of unlawful activity going on in town and out in far reaches of  the county and i suppose law enforcement people are far outnumbered.
i'll brown them in the pan, then allow them to cook through while they swim in some kind of sauce.
leonard gallegos pillage village dear editor: how is 1,200 rooms in three hotels, 129 lots for single-family homes, 1,661  multifamily units, 4,525 covered parking spaces, 222,000 square feet of  commercial space - and a population of 10,000 year-round at an ultra-exclusive  resort on 297 acres a good thing?
shan webb was stopped by kvale and gill had a block.
mencor valdez, also of the sheriff's staff, joked that neither he nor i could claim we were "gone fishin," something we once did with regularity as youngsters in pagosa country.
public works is working diligently to compile the information necessary for  the bocc to make sound decisions in this area.
these feelings bring balance to our busy lives, and nature is why we're here.
she also initiated the firehouse newsletter to provide a tool for  communication with the taxpayers of the district.
each generation needs a deep understanding of the ideas within the constitution, bill of rights, federalist papers, and declaration of independence as a basis to help citizens resolve differences and address increasing complex policy issues.
the location of the supernova in 1054 - before the great house was built - is exactly in line with the south wall of the great house with the walls meeting at the site of the stone basin if projected that far.
tops on the list were small, independently-owned  restaurants, more grocery stores, a conference/performing arts center,  educational facilities and independently-owned retail stores.
"we know we're going to face them the next two weekends and nobody is going to raise a white flag, but we feel the competition is only going to make us better going into the last two races of the year.
so you can spend a lot  of time browsing.
surely, there exists analysis of a big box's impact on towns similar in size to pagosa springs.
at the community center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
i was driving up put hill and slowed down a bit in the 45 mph zone because of construction project and had a citizen shake his fist and flip me the bird because, i guess, i impeded his journey.
arnold, a military hero for both sides in the same war, seems to be a near  perfect foreshadow of john kerry.
the total eclipse is visible to the naked eye; however, a good pair of binoculars will enhance your viewing experience.
"the kitchen was completely destroyed," grams said.
volunteers are needed to unpack and arrange clothing through friday prior  to the giveaway.
submit your workshop ideas, proposals, and recommendations to the pagosa springs arts council and let's fill out that calendar.
in a less guarded moment president bush conceded that you can never totally eliminate terrorism and senator kerry added that likewise prostitution and alcoholism can never be wiped out, but that all can be reduced to a nuisance rather then drive our daily lives.
the game was knotted at 15:14 when center's moises jeminez, the coach's son, looped a high soft drive on a free kick from 30 yards.
i have spent a great deal of time over the past two months meeting  with the public works department and getting informed of the "real  road" situation.
another block by gill led to a pirate corner kick and ormonde's shot hit the crossbar with shan webb wide left on the rebound effort.
they're three weeks into the process, and they've received nearly 200  responses - but need a whole lot more before the deadline expires at 4 p.m.,  nov. 5.
as of monday, wolf creek's snow total for the month had reportedly surpassed the 11-inch mark.
in general, they are those fellow citizens whose behavior and ideas make you question the value of the human species.
- heard an animal control report for september indicating two reports taken; four dogs impounded; one cat impounded; five dogs returned to owners; nine verbal warnings issued; three written warnings given; 17 miscellaneous citizen contacts made; and 14 calls from dispatch to animal control for service.
well, if that is true, he must be spending a lot of time just wandering around the capitol.
and guess what š  "big-boxes" won't want us either!
at build-out, the development would accommodate 10,000 largely affluent residents, or roughly two-thirds the population of durango.
writers in the sky at the wilkinson library in telluride, nov. 6.
state semifinals begin nov. 6 with finals to be played nov. 9.
our pagosa merchants will supply the very latest fashions, and dahrl henley  can always be counted upon to serve only the finest and tastiest food around.
however, at least 90 additional completed surveys are still needed from this  district.
while he was working on pam, a pharmacist graciously met me after hours at the pharmacy to provide pain medication to help her get through the next few hours a little more comfortably.
the pirates best scoring chance of the second half came next and a pretty three-man give-and-go attack.
"we've established the colorado voluntary bvd program earlier this  year to control the disease," said jim kennedy, veterinarian at the  veterinary diagnostic lab in rocky ford, colo.
anyone who wants to look ghastly can receive a face painting by the arts council or get a temporary tattoo that glows in the dark from rotary members.
of course, while we were there we purchased a number of other smaller items that we would normally buy in pagosa, despite higher prices.
rowe: until very recently, the higher priority of the two posed has clearly  been the protection of private property rights in archuleta county.
local law enforcement authorities strongly encourage motorists not to drink  and drive.
for more information, contact kennedy at (719) 254-6382.
they could be chartered to provide input on issues such as growth, maintenance, safety, long-range planning and costs.
warren's time and performance are impressive for a freshman, anderson said.
the finals are scheduled to start at 11:30 a.m. saturday, oct. 30.
but, right now, it's premature for me to be able to commit toward or away  from this option until i've had an opportunity to more thoroughly research and  consider whether any other options might also be feasible.
embryonic stem cell research takes cells from children who are conceived in  laboratory conditions, known as embryo farms.
we live in such a wonderful area and are blessed with many wonderful volunteers; there is a special thank you for you in another part of the paper.
spirit in hand is an opportunity for fine craftspeople and local artists to share their inspired and creative work with the community during the holiday season.
when the board reached the old business portion of the agenda, the discussion returned to trash receptacle screening.
we have learned about presidents, history, and various tidbits probably off the internet.
mr. mccaw was a charter member of the la plata county cattleman's association as well as a charter member of basin co-op.
but i can't  hear him.
since we want daughters to feel like  princesses, we are asking for both dads and daughters to dress up, and  "sunday dress" is just fine.
don't forget to wear your best halloween costume oct. 29 to celebrate halloween.
perhaps it was then, malville said, that word of the events reached chaco canyon.
the village will have 12 restaurants and enough retail space for two  super walmarts.
" kennedy's position is a joint appointment between the colorado department  of agriculture and colorado state university veterinary diagnostic lab.
currently, "historic" access is through private  land, and deed-restricts development to as few as three residential lots.
residents can also request surveys be mailed to their households by calling  the planning department office at 264-5851 or 264-4785.
as always, she said, any marketing attempts should including tracking results through future research to determine if efforts are successful.
honts: "the goal is to make the village a year-round attraction, 'the  premiere mountain-recreation village in the world,' complete with timeshares,  spa facilities and, eventually, a companion golf village and the possibility  for a 'university conference center.'
the pirates briefly showed signs of life on their next possession as josh hoffman returned the mean moose kickoff to the pagosa 37, then quarterback paul armijo hit wideout jordan shaffer for a first-down gain to the alamosa 49.
these meatballs are no strangers to shame, but remain oblivious to its stain.
youth basketball this is the last week to sign up for 7-8 youth basketball.
baker indicated another option would be to hold public workshops within  each district to publicize the survey process and evaluate the survey comments  already received.
mr. mccaw had operated the family ranch near oxford on his own since 1951.
they welcome both locals and tourists who need someone to watch out for their furry friends.
meetings will be held the second tuesday of each month as originally  scheduled in the aspen springs metropolitan district building at 216 metro  drive.
today its objective is to continue to support the public library and give assistance to other civic projects when possible.
motivated by despair, i've opened an australian shiraz and i'm working on  my second glass of the stuff.
autumn is the meatballs' favorite time of year.
what is the difference between partially delivering the child or fully  delivering it?
cakes for the cake walk or any baked goods will be appreciated.
this rising tide will flood the land and drive us from our home.
this will be the last blood draw in pagosa springs this month.
second-homeowners who responded to pagosa's survey proved to be older and more affluent than the full-time population, reporting average income levels of over $116,000 compared to average household income of about $49,000 among full-time residents.
meatballs obviously run most of the ad agencies in america.
this type of parent demands a dilution of standards in the classroom, refusing to accept any but the highest rewards for their child's half-hearted efforts
they welcome both locals and tourists who need someone to  watch out for their furry friends.
as far as big box development of superstores goes, 59 percent of  respondents "don't support big box development under any  circumstances," while another 30 percent would support it only with some  sort of controls.
or stop by the center at 4th and lewis streets.
this month's meeting in the unitarian universalist fellowship hall will be  7:30 p.m. monday, oct. 25, instead of the previous 7 p.m. tuesday meeting time.
what more could a kid want is planned 6-8 p.m. sunday, oct. 31, at the powerhouse gym.
spirit in hand is an opportunity for fine craftspeople and local artists to  share their inspired and creative work with the community during the holiday  season.
we invite everyone with a stake in the project to help us reach this final goal.
i'm ready to go to work again!
the answer was not many, as pagosa ended the brief affair 25-9, 25-15, 25-18 allowing the hosts only 16 earned scores in monte's total 42 match points.
this includes students in county jail.
"but if we don't get enough surveys, consolidating in order to  arrive at valid numbers is a distinct possibility."
however, at least 90 additional completed surveys are still needed from this district.
in pagosa springs, active and former marines, former navy medical personnel, families and friends of marines will celebrate the 229th birthday of the marines friday, nov. 12, at montezuma's restaurant.
schiro: i am in favor of policies that encourage the private formation of local improvement/metro districts, but not to shift some of the financial burden for maintenance away from the county.
pagosa took the lead 3-0 in the third game with an ace by kari faber putting one of the points on the scoreboard.
the comment period ends 30 days after publication of opportunity to comment  notice.
will  we let it in, let it "develop" and spread, or will we stop it while  we still can?
some of the items that will be available are hand painted stationary, book markers and gift tags.
the roadway may still be reduced to one lane of travel between mile markers  179 and 181 at night, so motorists may expect delays.
the tunnel project on the east side narrows has delays possible from 5 a.m. to 10 p.m.
give rachel a call at 731-8900 to get the lowdown  on what she can do for your pet.
we need to set our plan for the future into place and develop  our regulations to protect areas, while planning for the needs of affordable  housing, senior housing, health, education, law enforcement and administration  facilities, as well as parks and recreation.
i would urge all veterans to check with this office for the latest  and correct information.
all agreed to participate in the sun's forum.
in both cases, the items were not in stock or brands we wanted not carried.
complaints, suggestions if you are a parent, grandparent or coach and have a complaint or suggestion please come to our organizational meetings, or if you have complaints call our offices.
signs alerting forest visitors to the trail closure are posted at the west  fork trailhead.
san luis valley dow biologist chuck wagner reports good elk hunting conditions in the san  luis valley during the first season with some light precipitation keeping  vegetation moist, making for decent stalking conditions.
with better than a week of hunting season still left there will undoubtedly be more hunters arriving and there should be considerably more game taken.
among new members, we welcome allen miller with performance cycle located at 2017 eagle dr. performance cycle offers atv, snowmobile and motorcycle service, repair, parts and accessories in american and metric.
the tickets are $30  per person, with coffee and specialty desserts included with the price of  admission.
he's already stated that we are economically deprived.
"the nutcracker" remember that saturday, nov. 13, is the annual immaculate heart of mary fashion show and luncheon beginning at noon at the parish hall.
then arrive at your seaside hotel.
in general, they are those fellow  citizens whose behavior and ideas make you question the value of the human  species.
but does mr. sawicki understand  testosterone?
anyway, i am sure this is one of many letters thanking the paper for running the cruse column.
people without scientific knowledge created stories and legends as their way of explaining lunar eclipses.
alamosa's point-after kick missed wide left, but the pirates failed to gain a first down on their next possession and were back-pedaling again after espinoza returned the resulting punt to the pagosa 7.
food for thoughtfood for thought meatballs versus meatballs:
we haven't found one positive yet.
"because our student count is so close this year to zero growth or even negative growth, we are watching even the smallest student count numbers, special education preschool included," he said.
summertime visitors to pagosa springs showed an average age of 48 and an average household income of about $81,000, higher than residents in both categories.
if the cost is too much, come and enjoy the evening anyway.
in colorado, there are 2.4 million  cattle and calves across the state.
copies may be picked up in person at national forest offices in monte vista,  del norte, and pagosa springs.
such an advisory board is clearly needed to apprise the county commissioners of the airport's ongoing activities and business, in order to enable the bocc to formulate policy concerning the airport.
with the start of a new school season, the wreckage of the child-dominated  family washes up on our cultural shore, debris produced by a terrible disaster.
each stone, timber and chinking had to be carried from the valley floor.
i scoop up a palm full of the meat mix, shape it, then roll it into a  uniform ball.
" i see the world differently than honts.
entry fee is $15 for dac  members and $30 for nonmembers.
armijo totaled 133 yards rushing on 14 carries in the loss, while hoffman added 66 yards on 18 totes.
active service most va benefits do relate to active duty service.
a few, unfortunately, are evil - those who persistently seek to harm  others, whose malevolence is fired by a psychotic inability to reckon with  their own failures and limitations, who cannot scan the arid desert of their  own lives with a clear and honest eye.
how is destroying a rare fen wetland a good  thing?
the supply packet will include cards and envelopes, book makers  and gift tags.
author evelyn bassoff, ph.d., makes this statement in her book,  "cherishing our daughters: how parents can raise girls to become strong  and loving women."
those "right things," says bosley, include dealing with what he  calls the "perfect storm" financial crisis created by the  "convergence of tabor and amendment 23.
each year we blow out all the water lines to prevent freezing at the public facilities.
those are just the games; then to frighten any loose wits about you, the  teen center will host a haunted house and sherry smith will conduct a graveyard  tour and the senior center will preside over a mystery box that invites you to  put your hand inside.
call psac at 264-5020 for more  information.
this time i open my eyes and see my mother smiling at me.
- big brothers big sisters.
"cu has a critical role in the future economic vitality of our state  and makes a significant positive economic impact on colorado.
this is your  opportunity to support our local artists and find presents to fill out your  shopping list.
"we'd like to keep the number of districts at four or five," said  baker.
located a little more than two miles up piedra road on the right, the site now sits in the way of the developer's access to substantial property he's acquired adjacent to stevens reservoir, which he hopes to subdivide into numerous high-dollar residential lots.
marine corps birthday fete set nov. 12 on nov. 10, 1775, the continental congress authorized the raising of two battalions of american marines to help fight the british.
domestic violence, as well as other  violent crimes, most often occurs where a male demonstrates a high blood level  of testosterone, and a woman is most dangerous during the part of her cycle  when her estrogen levels fall and testosterone effects appear.
all of the raffle items are currently on  display at the library.
this is a request for the planning commission to review the sketch plan for the re-plat of pineview drive to vacate approximately 125 feet at the west end of the platted road right-of-way and for the consolidation of lots 45 and 46, incorporating the vacated portion of pineview drive.
according to census data, 23 percent of homes in archuleta county are inhabited for "seasonal, recreational or occasional use."
i feel that we definitely need to have a citizen's  advisory committee immediately to research the areas that might consider metro  districts and get the information of costs and time involved to see if it would  be proactive to consider this option.
these are independent of those caused by lifestyle, i.e. smoking, etc.
i feel myself transported to the sea and being rocked gently in a boat that is rising with tide along with all the other boats.
how can it not be amusing to watch the meatball circus of  meatball endeavor, set off as it is against the backdrop of transience?
" and while the remaining supply is small, there is a possibility more vaccine will be available down the line.
in order to obtain a ged, students must pass tests in five areas of education: language arts reading, writing, social studies, science and mathematics.
summertime visitors to pagosa springs showed an average age of 48 and an  average household income of about $81,000, higher than residents in both  categories.
support our local businesses and artists and purchase fabulous, one-of-a-kind holiday gifts.
constitutional democracy cannot accomplish its purposes unless its citizens participate thoughtfully in public affairs.
today we would have made him senator or president.
in addition to completing the requirements in the  first two levels, individual tests must be completed on all animals in the  herd.
burial was to be in oxford cemetery in oxford.
the uu fellowship hall is unit 15, greenbriar plaza, which is located on greenbriar drive, off north pagosa boulevard.
they emerge from the gray  background in overwhelming numbers and proceed to do their distressing work.
the ingredients get mixed by hand until a whisper this side of emulsified.
could it be that jim sawicki attended a similar seminar?
tuition and materials are $45 for first aid and cpr combined, $35 for first aid only and $30 for cpr only.
arnold who  was an ardent patriot at the beginning of america's fight for independence,  soon became disenchanted with the effort, as his personal ambition for power  and success was not meeting his expectations.
but, right now, it's premature for me to be able to commit toward or away from this option until i've had an opportunity to more thoroughly research and consider whether any other options might also be feasible.
we certainly hope you all plan to join the big halloween party at the community center 5-7 p.m. friday, oct. 29.
i take the pan in which the meat is browned and i toss in a bit more olive oil and a mire poix - finely diced onion, carrot and celery.
"atvs are very useful for getting into the back country, but  animals can hear someone approaching from a long ways away.
i am very proud of the board of  trustees, the building committee, the architect and representatives of colorado  jaynes who have all worked hard to overcome the many unexpected circumstances  that have cropped up along the way.
it would be a pity to unintentionally lose the charm and many of the small businesses that attract us to this special place.
the property is at 238 and 101 pineview drive off of easy street in  continental estates subdivision.
highs today should top out in the 50s, evening lows are forecast in the 20s.
join quartz ridge fine arts gallery (claire goldrick), pagosa photography,  moonlight books, taminah gallery, astara's boutique, handcrafted interiors,  lantern dancer and the rocky mountain wildlife park and gallery for the tour.
he also said he has been informed the lp tank setback enforcement is the jurisdiction of the department of covenant control and it needs to vigorously enforce the statute because the tanks "distract from the total view of the home."
some of these stories continue today.
head start sets oct. 27 open house a remodeled and expanded facility is the new pride of head start of pagosa springs and officials are inviting the public to see it.
from far away i hear, "wake up,  dear.
play will begin on oct. 25 so get your teams together and contact the recreation office today.
united way is currently working with over 100 local businesses to ask their  employees to make a small, per-paycheck donation.
in fact, very few va benefits are limited to veterans who served during war time.
a rising tide can cause erosion of the landscape, just as the village will erode the landscape of the wolf creek area.
a little history: the woman's civic club of pagosa springs was started in 1910 to take over the actual operation of the pagosa springs library with a collection of 202 books.
be her hero as she enjoys the princess treatment.
if the meat is not ground fine enough at the market, i run it through the teensy disk on my porkert fleischacker 10.
i'd like to believe that for every single misdirected young person in our country, there are 50 or more good kids.
the higher-end skier who will fly in  commercially or on their own planes.
the shadow is comprised of two cone shaped parts, one cradled inside the  other.
it was housed in the basement of the methodist church.
'the nutcracker' will highlight your fall calendar
this certification verifies that all cattle within the herd have been tested and have been found negative of bvd pi with the exception of any unborn calves.
how about "five years in the sun"?
for  the majority of these license holders, cows, calves and four-point bulls or  larger are legal.
start doing it now and none of us will want a "big-box."
should you want to put together a table of 10, you must first purchase the  tickets, then call mary daltroff at 731-5121 to reserve the table in your name.
teen-agers with growing-up problems act destructively by misusing vehicles, spray-painting graffiti on public places, etc.
and now there's the department of homeland security which routinely bounces us up and down with announcements of red, yellow and orange levels of insecurity, information which would be more aptly provided only to those in charge of maintaining "security."
tickets are available now.
rather, he said, "the board is trying to ascertain what the majority  of the property owners want and to act on their wishes.
"i love the small, hometown feeling and my wonderful church family."
grams said the residents were not home at the time and food left behind on a hot stove apparently caused the blaze.
as always, there will be many prizes from local merchants and if you should want to contribute a gift, call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at 731-5429.
yes, zoning regulations restrict private property rights to varying  degrees, depending upon the specific regulations in question.
with growth virtually unavoidable, we must strive to place policies in place and utilize land-use regulations that will preserve the environmental quality and "small-town" atmosphere that we love.
what he really means is that if your income level isn't high enough you won't be able to afford the quality of life here.
medicare counselors will be here 11 a.m.-1 p.m. monday, oct. 25, to answer  questions and at 1 p.m. they will answer general or specific questions you may  have about the medicare drug card.
south pagosa park all the improvements by the park crew and volunteers has started the ball rolling on more improvements.
the tickets are $30 per person, with coffee and specialty desserts included with the price of admission.
the period aug. 2, 1990 through a date to be set by law or presidential proclamation.
the community is welcome to stop by, see the changes made, speak with staff  and find out what's new.
but  there are other, less apparent, changes in the landscape, which are not  engendered by earthly movement or inherent biological function.
the sample size for these self-selected  respondents was 321.
we are truly in a fiscal crisis," he says.
by doing this, the airport would become a working part of our county rather  than a side issue with expensive surprises.
mornings will feature lessons and exercises about shapes,  composition and design, choosing subjects, further study about value and color,  and advanced techniques such as lifting, scraping, masking, glazing, working  with sponges, salt, saran wrap, and waxed paper.
monte scored six more points - five unearned.
buddy tabor: 'a player and a poet' at whistle pig by bill hudson special to the preview noted alaskan folksinger and songwriter buddy tabor will be offering up his  gritty, country-blues-inspired songs at this week's whistle pig house concert,  7 p.m. saturday, at the hudson house.
the archuleta county education center is seeking volunteer tutors for the general educational development (ged) classes.
the first came in the public comments portion when esterly first thanked members of the board for serving in that capacity and then asked them to reconsider the board position regarding trash can screening.
buddy tabor: 'a player and a poet' at whistle pig by bill hudson special to the preview noted alaskan folksinger and songwriter buddy tabor will be offering up his gritty, country-blues-inspired songs at this week's whistle pig house concert, 7 p.m. saturday, at the hudson house.
featured will be baked goods, beauty, bath and body products, cosmetics, fragrances, handmade gifts, homemade candy, jewelry, western arts and crafts, candles, candy, crafts, embroidered goods, health care products, homemade cookies, skin care products wool crafts and - of course - refreshments for more information, call jan schell at 883-2571 or lois wright at 247-4708.
friday is movie night.
in addition, he was a member of the colorado cattlemen's association.
participants should plan to have  a minimum of 12 items in the sale, with additional back stock available.
- learned three applicants have replied to board invitations for membership on the environmental control committee.
the community center will sponsor a  cupcake walk.
visitors to the show will  not only be able to view the immense talent pool that resides in the pagosa  area, but they can also vote for the people's choice award.
in this case, since i wish to forestall the return of my sour mood, the meatballs will be large, maybe two inches in diameter.
according to survey findings, well over half of residents' monthly expenditures on clothing, household furnishings, automobiles, appliances and children's items are spent outside of pagosa springs.
i have lived a lifetime outdoors and, throughout, have witnessed the steady  erosion of untouched places to a rising tide of human expansion and urban  sprawl.
respondents were also asked what type of commercial development they would like to see in pagosa.
high school students may apply.
schiro: to me this question is like asking the emergency doctor "what  is more important, to keep the patient breathing or to keep his heart  beating?" archuleta county is a uniquely beautiful and attractive place to live.
nov. 1 - enrollment deadline for costa rican adventure tour with cynthia  padilla.
just having general knowledge in these  subject areas and two to three hours a week to volunteer is all that is needed.
they emerge from the gray background in overwhelming numbers and proceed to do their distressing work.
gill opened the second half with another solo block, jesse morris was wide right on a header off a rebound and blue, ormonde and moe webb all were stopped by kvale before pagosa broke the drought.
cynde jackson will be the instructor for this  fun class.
for instance, many veterans served in europe or here in the united states during a wartime period.
obituariesobituaries merle c. mccaw merle c. mccaw, 83, died friday, october 15, 2004, at four corners health care center in durango, colorado.
it will take  a blend of approaches to provide the level of roads that county residents  deserve.
autumn finds them most active, their paranoic eyes darting back and  forth, their fevered brows knit, their fangs bared.
market forces, largely influenced by the response of the private sector, are at least as important.
the kiwanis club will have hot dogs and punch, swap is doing  an apple bobbing event and bonnie nyre from slices of nature will bring her hot  caramel cider and pumpkin flavored coffee.
nov. 5 - outsider art: visions from the edge, reception with the artists, durango arts center 5-7 p.m. nov. 11-12 - perspective workshop, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center.
the cameramen are comedians with the commentary.
as a general statement, 88 percent said future development, "should respect pagosa's established architectural scale, small-town character and historic identity."
county airport question: with reference to county airport issues, do you view the  potential reestablishment of an advisory committee similar to the former  "airport authority" as a worthwhile venture?
martin witkamp community newscommunity news lunar eclipse event set for oct. 27 by jim super special to the preview the last of the spectacular celestial events for 2004 will occur wednesday, oct. 27, with the total lunar eclipse.
comments should be e-mailed to  comments-rockymountain-sanjuan-pagosa@fs.fed.us or faxed to attn: rick jewell,  at fax number 264-1538 or mailed to district ranger, pagosa ranger district, po  box 310, pagosa springs, co 88147.
those "right things," says bosley, include dealing with what he calls the "perfect storm" financial crisis created by the "convergence of tabor and amendment 23.
the fishing piers are expensive items and were paid for by all of the property owners in pagosa lakes.
we continue to offer 24-hour rest room services at the bell tower park.
texans and californians stay the longest, on average about five days.
rowe: until very recently, the higher priority of the two posed has clearly been the protection of private property rights in archuleta county.
- southwest colorado mental health center.
why is it, i wonder as i cradle my head in my hands, that more nonsense is  dispensed in the fall?
eligibilities differ an exception to the wartime military service requirement would be for a veteran's pension claim based on limited income.
75 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 25, 1929 e.b. hoke leaves this week to spend the winter at albuquerque, new mexico.
eligibilities differ an exception to the wartime military service requirement would be for a  veteran's pension claim based on limited income.
right to participate in safe and healthy environments; 7.
as we have seen recently, inattention to the airport issues can be extremely expensive to the taxpayers of archuleta county.
yep, these two have been a part of us for all those years and continue to come back every spring to put in more hours serving every chamber member and business in this community.
cynde jackson will be the instructor for this fun class.
according to census data, 23 percent of homes in archuleta county are inhabited  for "seasonal, recreational or occasional use."
bill of rights for young athletes the bill of rights for young athletes was developed in the 1980s by dr. vern seefeldt, professor emeritus at the institute for the study of youth sports, and dr. rainier martens, in response to growing concerns regarding the abuse of young athletes in the hope of creating guidelines to maximize the beneficial effects of athletic participation for all.
"village employees, said honts, would more than likely reside in  off-site 'moderate-income housing' and be bused to and from the workplace.
- southwest youth corps.
with no scientific fact to collaborate, this finding remains an urban legend.
as a result, the pirates draw a regional round bye and will host a quarterfinal playoff game next week in golden peaks stadium.
an open house will be held 5:30-7 p.m. wednesday, oct. 27, in the building  at 475 s. 8th st.
he requested that access to the grant's pastures, roads, and watering places be limited to the grantees.
by bill nobles sun columnist tuesday, oct. 26 - 4-h council elections, extension building, 6 p.m. bovine virus diarrhea (bvd) is a disease that affects cattle of all ages.
" does this sound pompous to you?
mary meyer, fashion coordinator, assures the local shops will present the very newest in fall and winter styles.
this class is a must for anyone who wants to learn how to be a competent babysitter.
center's carlos marino and clemente sandoval each was stopped on breakaways by forrest, and gill picked up another solo block.
computer classes currently being offered at the education center include  microsoft publisher taught by computer specialist cynde jackson.
all voters in the county will have a say on whether to retain district court judges greg lyman and jefferey wilson as well as several appeals court judges.
to obtain a copy of the deis by mail, send a request to tetra tech inc.,  5205 leesburg pike, suite 1400, falls church, va 22041 or call: (703) 931-9301.
please choose a time and sign the volunteer sheet in the  narthex.
first aid certification is for three years and cpr certification is for two  years.
the major block was the rise in building prices in the last few months.
many great  philosophical minds of today, and earlier generations, have warned of this, and  all agree, that only by establishing and maintaining balance between culture  and nature, can man hope to survive another millennium.
first aid certification is for three years and cpr certification is for two years.
here at the chamber, we are about the business of celebrating all those  special people in addition to barbara and joan who keep us afloat - our beloved  chamber diplomats.
honts suggests there will be a "tremendous interchange of money."
i am going to need some real flesh bombs to soothe me.
"he's dealing with the pressure well."
it's sad to think people believe them.
call  731-8060 to reserve a spot for only $25.
police chief don volger said the checkpoint will be in the 800 block of san juan street (u.s. 160).
" when the board reached the recurring business section of the agenda,  discussion of the property owner involvement and input initiative produced  another confrontation.
walkup killed, bayfield gave away two points with errant hits, jewell put the ball down from the middle and a bayfield player crossed the line to end the second game.
and, much as i dislike the idea, i'm now in that group of older americans who were recommended as most in need of the shots.
pagosa managed a four-point run and looked to be on the way to the win.
united way drive off to "tremendous" start the 2004 united way of southwest colorado fund-raising campaign is off to a tremendous start with several events and pace setter campaigns already concluded.
and, just because we may have been fortunate to find this heaven on earth earlier rather then later, it doesn't give us a right to now close and lock the gate.
united way is currently working with over 100 local businesses to ask their employees to make a small, per-paycheck donation.
by richard walter staff writer an otherwise fairly routine session of the pagosa lakes property owners  association board of directors was punctuated oct. 14 by several confrontations  with property owner george esterly.
today, kerry's photo is proudly displayed in the communist war museum in ho  chi minh city, vietnam, as a hero for the communist cause in the war against  america.
every 18.6 years, the moon travels from north to south along the horizon, actually outdistancing the sun at the far ends.
he was preceded in death by his father, wayne mccaw, his mother blanche mccaw, and one son.
st. patrick's is at 225 s. pagosa blvd.,
taxpayers within the county are not getting the value in regard to road maintenance and improvement that they are already paying for.
something good is happening, that was apparent from the wonderful response
one of the principal routes of that trail passed through what is now archuleta county.
i feel that the current task before public works is to update the inventory which had been neglected over many years and to project the costs of bringing all roads into the system.
yet the  draft eis from the forest service mentions an influx of 1,200 workers.
chamber news luncheon salutes efforts of diplomats by doug trowbridge sun columnist those amazing ladies you see on the preview cover this week are two of an  extraordinary corps of folks affectionately referred to as chamber diplomats.
taxpayers within  the county are not getting the value in regard to road maintenance and  improvement that they are already paying for.
- archuleta county victims assistance program.
this show never fails to impress, so mark your calendars and plan on visiting moonlight books to check it out.
we live in such a wonderful area and are blessed with many wonderful  volunteers; there is a special thank you for you in another part of the paper.
for many years, the woman's (and please notice the singular spelling of woman)
it is curious to us that the reports in the sun have contained little direct comment from the business community in pagosa.
the 9-1 league record tied them with crested butte for first place, each having defeated the other 3-2 in overtime on the home-team's field.
blue was awarded a direct kick from 35 yards but it, too, sailed to the left.
each game got a bit closer, but most of it was due to our own errors.
there has also been an increase in the number of high-needs students in the high school, he said.
we checked out products at local stores.
then, at 30:07, pagosa took the lead it would never surrender.
we are experiencing an epidemic of meatballs  raising meatballs-to-be.
honts: stating the aim is "to bring in the type of people who, today, don't come to the area ...
all departments must define goals, establish action plans, submit reports, and conduct periodic reviews, while administering available resources effectively.
james w. sanders already a threat dear editor: we are pagosa "part-timers" who own a home in alpha and will move  to pagosa permanently next year.
how is destroying a rare fen wetland a good thing?
still, standing in the rain and then waiting another 45 minutes inside triggered thoughts of "this is a good way to get the flu."
the show will feature the san juan festival dancers under the direction of  stephanie jones, giving an excerpt or two from the "nutcracker"  ballet.
after a blast by webb hit the right corner of the net and smith was wide left with a rebound, gill blocked the next two miner attacks.
it ended in a tie, with an overtime, and then a five-player shootout.
they provide education  about the core democratic values that are embodied in our founding documents,  which underlie our system of government.
the winds of change are sweeping over this great land of ours, but if we  can turn indifference to legitimate concern, and if we can generate sincere  political involvement among the ranks, then we can temper the force of the  blow, and steer it in a direction of our choosing.
- vietnam era - the period aug. 5, 1964 (feb. 28, 1961 for veterans who  served "in country" before aug. 5, 1964) and ending may 7, 1975.
other items will be on hand to paint such as checkbook covers, floor coverings, lampshades, and tote bags.
one  such legend holds that there are more births during a lunar eclipse.
for one to appreciate what is being visualized is to truly understand what is occurring during this event.
then the pirates got a lift when junior bubba martinez blocked the extra-point attempt, and gained further momentum when hoffman returned the kickoff to the alamosa 38.
in fact, a recent community survey in pagosa springs showed 85 percent of respondents ranked protecting the river corridor tops on the list of capital improvements for the future.
for many years, the woman's (and please notice the singular spelling of  woman)
the denouement of this cold,  heart-chilling, yet stunningly beautiful film reaches an unexpected conclusion.
an older woman preceding me in line was livid that both young children and the older people were brought to the same place at the same time.
in  actuality, no two eclipses are alike, and all are a marvel to witness.
the leaves of vast aspen stands, once ablaze with dazzling shades of gold and orange, are now the newest layer of duff on the forest floor.
"hunters who get out on foot or wait patiently on a vantage point tend to have the best chance to harvest an animal," said dow biologist chuck wagner.
inflow, dollars coming into pagosa from other communities, was not  measured in this survey.
the financial impact of the disease is estimated to cost the rancher $10 to  $24 per cow.
for more information contact leanne at 731-1841 or e-mail at  lgoebel@centurytel.net.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, every monday and wednesday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., at the fairfield activities center.
working at a newspaper gives me  a unique perspective on the meatball phenomenon and it affects me adversely.
"if testing protocols are carefully selected with goals established before testing begins, the additional cost to move from level 2 to level 3 should be minimal."
the center is set up for over night guest, artist and writer workshops and groups who want to pull away and create.
establishing advisory committees for the airport and for other  issues that affect our county is imperative.
free clothing saturday at st. patrick's the leaves have turned gold, and the nights are really getting cold ... must be winter time again.
however, a veteran may qualify for  benefits while in the military reserves if they were called up to active duty  and completed the term for which they were called, and who were granted an  other than dishonorable discharge.
"if  testing protocols are carefully selected with goals established before testing  begins, the additional cost to move from level 2 to level 3 should be  minimal."
the uu fellowship hall is unit 15, greenbriar plaza, which is located on  greenbriar drive, off north pagosa boulevard.
then, webb was wide left on a reverse from the middle.
faber then gave her team a 13-11 lead with a successful attack from the left side.
more income does not necessarily lead to a higher quality of life.
"hunters who get out on foot or wait patiently on a vantage point tend  to have the best chance to harvest an animal," said dow biologist chuck  wagner.
other times it happen in the wee hours of the night.
"most animals shy away from any roads or atv trails," said wagner.
there's nothing like a meatball to make you yearn for winter.
i often repeat this information in this column because time and time again i visit with former members of the u.s. military who think they are not veterans because they didn't go off to war in some far corner of the world.
please make all checks  payable to chimney rock interpretive association.
but i have a lot of  stories, praise and wonderful memories of the pathways and efforts of guys like  bill downey, herb browning, judd cooney, tom richards, roy vega, ernie rivas  and many, many other fine officers of the law who, together and cohesively,  kept the town and county under control and the crooks on the run.
this gives the public an opportunity to learn more about lunar  eclipse, the night sky and other related phenomenon.
completed surveys can be submitted at the following locations: county  planning office, county clerk's office, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant,  chromo mercantile, ruby sisson library and turkey springs trading post.
this month's meeting in the unitarian universalist fellowship hall will be 7:30 p.m. monday, oct. 25, instead of the previous 7 p.m. tuesday meeting time.
practices will begin dec. 13 with games beginning jan, 4.
popular after-school  programs, updating and redefining new and more aggressive drug programs, and  more city and church sponsored "family oriented" activities are just  a few of the things that can help young people successfully navigate their way  to adulthood.
the average low was 32.
as has been pointed out in the past, the safe, warm, dry environment of the  community center is a vast improvement over the potential rain, cold and  darkness involved in trooping the little ones around the neighborhood.
"all depends," the native drawled.
complete survey results are available to the public at www.townofpagosasprings.com.
which is only appropriate, since buddy has called alaska home for the past 30-some years.
raffle, bake sale set for pagosa cancer victim friends and supporters of pagosa cancer victim rachel howe are planning a 9 a.m. bake sale and raffle saturday at city market west.
bryan and mary sickbert pay to write dear editor: don't you think it's about time that john feazel and jim sawicki start paying for the space that they take up in the sun?
these meatballs roll on, seeking someone to  blame, finding fault everywhere but close to home, anywhere but between their  own ears.
for more information, contact the pagosa ranger district at 264-2268.
we suspect that we are not dissimilar from  many "newcomers" to pagosa š relatively affluent and  appreciative of a new quality of life for urban dwellers searching for respite  from the rat race.
a lamentable number of votes flow from unexamined partisan reasons, and many of those votes will be cast before nov. 2, if they have not been cast by the time you read this.
communication and cooperation is one of the most important parts of running an effective and efficient county.
this response was fairly even over all income levels.
it is estimated that the moon in totality will last 81 minutes during this eclipse.
patty tillerson will be here on  the same day to check your blood pressure, so make her guess who you are.
"we'd like to keep the number of districts at four or five," said baker.
they inhabit every nook and cranny of the political flophouse.
next, i remember that the meatballs' nastiness, their shallow shadow play, is futile, of no value when compared to that which endures, to that which is absolutely important.
these, and other disconcerting schemes presently emerging in and around  pagosa springs, if allowed to proceed unabated, will indubitably result in  higher living costs for us all, while diminishing recreational opportunities  and the otherwise tranquil quality of life we know today.
obviously, mr. honts has not had much experience with rising tides.
this class is for anyone who  wants to learn more about perspective and is open to all quick drying media.
peter clark, forest supervisor for the rio grande national forest, will  make the final decision.
next production is "skins," nov. 4, 5, 6, 11 and 13 at 7:30 p.m.
other visitor data collected showed 30 percent of visitor traffic in the summer comes to pagosa from within colorado.
obviously, mr. honts  has not had much experience with rising tides.
mike mcteigue 'v.p. gone' dear editor: during the vice presidential debate, mr. cheney challenged senator edward's attendance record, noting that a north carolina newspaper called him, "senator gone."
according to the survey, the average full-time pagosa springs resident is older, less affluent and family-oriented.
"this is the only bedrock basin of this sort found outside chaco canyon," malville said.
but espinoza stepped in front of an errant pass on the next snap, returning it for a 50-yard touchdown and alamosa led 21-0 after a successful point-after kick by michael gallegos with 8:30 to play in the half.
sobriety checkpoint planned the pagosa springs police department, in conjunction with the archuleta  county sheriff's department and colorado state patrol will conduct a sobriety  checkpoint saturday, oct. 30.
black bears,  which have been feeding frenetically for weeks, are fattening and will soon den  for their long winter sleep.
this must be  prevented in the future.
artists creating original, unique gift items in ceramics,  jewelry, fiber, metal, glass, wood, paper, calligraphy, photography, sculpture,  printmaking, painting, and drawing are invited to apply.
but i can't hear him.
those of you who loves to bake, we need donations of cupcakes for  this event.
contact victoria at 264-5020.
americans in 1780 would have rewarded the treasonous arnold with a hangman's noose.
united way drive off to "tremendous" start the 2004 united way of southwest colorado fund-raising campaign is off to a  tremendous start with several events and pace setter campaigns already  concluded.
the west-side paving project may also require temporary lane closures with up to 20-minute delays possible on weekdays and a 12-foot width restriction is in effect through the construction zone.
what is not to enjoy about the goings on in the ego snakepit, the arena of the meatball's barely masked self-serving thrashing?
there are  thousands of resorts with these amenities š do we need more?
the least enjoyable aspect of my job is not being able to help someone."
we can afford to live here.
first, a contentious and apparently close presidential race.
kari faber gave the team its 21st point with a kill.
but as the signs are increasingly clear, ill-advised growth, merely for the  sake of conquest or personal riches, is plainly not in society's best interest.
with buttery words from his honey tongue, he mesmerizes his audience with promises of wonderment.
the win over the wolverines gave pagosa a 7-0 iml mark (12-4 overall) and assured them of the top seed at the district tournament a week from friday in ignacio.
the archuleta county education center is seeking volunteer tutors for the  general educational development (ged) classes.
i am a firm believer that one of the biggest mistakes commissioners make is  in trying to micro-manage the day-to-day functions of the county.
we readers have been treated to insights about pagosa country and  self-deprecating accounts of exploits and adventures.
this is also the most  beautiful stage for anyone who has witnessed its splendor.
"we've established the colorado voluntary bvd program earlier this year to control the disease," said jim kennedy, veterinarian at the veterinary diagnostic lab in rocky ford, colo.
there were slightly more than 1,500 licenses sold here in town by the first of the week.
the foe and the playing date and time will not be known until after a sunday seeding meeting involving all 3a qualifiers statewide.
what is known is that pagosa will be in the top eight of the sweet 16 and as such will draw a foe from the lower eight.
let's not destroy its  unique character by trying to imitate other "developments.
students will need to bring their own brushes, acrylic and  watercolor paints.
those who followed the rules and ventured off major roads and trails experienced a good first season in terms of hunter success.
in 32 years of living in archuleta county, we've known a few lucky people  who came here for a good job.
black bears, which have been feeding frenetically for weeks, are fattening and will soon den for their long winter sleep.
citizens also need to believe their participation can  influence policy-making and community decisions, and they need to act on that  belief.
they have not only served, but have done so with amazing good nature, cheerfulness and professionalism and take this opportunity to salute them and thank them for their great gift to this chamber.
director fred ebeling said inspectors do enforce if trash cans are left out  in the street and bohl said, as a general rule, the receptacles are put away  because most residents are well aware of the bear problem.
esterly responded, referring to information packets he had distributed to  the board that morning, that he had talked to area fire officials and they feel  "we can meet the codes and still screen propane tanks from view."
"honts says the village could create 2,000-3,000 jobs during its 20- to 30-year proposed build-out scenario, as well as "a hundred or more joint venture' possibilities.
what about our teachers?
each afternoon, you will create - in your favorite  medium - a work that includes the lessons of the morning.
it has been  light reading.
we invite  everyone with a stake in the project to help us reach this final goal.
yep, these two have been a part of us for all those years and continue to  come back every spring to put in more hours serving every chamber member and  business in this community.
esterly believes the code deleted in 1987 needs to be reinstated to improve the area.
this is also the most beautiful stage for anyone who has witnessed its splendor.
rsvp by calling the center at 264-5963 or e-mail response to pregcntr@pagosa.net.
this must include looking at administrative costs versus direct costs used  towards road improvement and maintenance and this includes fair pay for the  operators, mechanics and first-line supervisors.
curmudgery has not come easy to me or without knocks.
saves, p-forrest, 9; c-8.
the boulder republican is running for an at-large seat on the board against  democrat jennifer mello, who visited pagosa springs last month.
and we applaud the efforts that are now underway, particularly in reference to  the "big box" issue, to manage this growth.
john w. porco detestable acts dear editor: this letter is addressed to all kerry democrats: ask any recent volunteer to the armed forces who they are voting for and the answer will be president bush.
classes will be held nov. 5,12 and  19, 1:30-5 p.m. this class is a must for anyone who wants to learn how to be a  competent babysitter.
how is the 450,000 gallons a water a day it will take to flush the toilets at  the village a good thing?
call psac at 264-5020 for more information.
the moon in full  eclipse creates its own color palette.
no one was injured in the fire.
though little went as planned for head coach sean o'donnell's squad, one of the game's few positives is the fact the nonconference loss had no bearing on pagosa's playoff hopes or grip on first place in the iml.
freshman forrest rackham will be the alternate.
they provide education about the core democratic values that are embodied in our founding documents, which underlie our system of government.
day six is a free beach day or choose to  take a snorkeling excursion.
these, and other disconcerting schemes presently emerging in and around pagosa springs, if allowed to proceed unabated, will indubitably result in higher living costs for us all, while diminishing recreational opportunities and the otherwise tranquil quality of life we know today.
" how many jackson holes does the world need?
the start of the new school year is meatball season - as a growing number of parents assail school teachers and administrators whenever an assessment of the wee one does not harmonize with their own skewed visions.
for additional information concerning any of the pagosa springs recreation department adult or youth sports programs, contact myles gabel, recreation supervisor, 264-4151, ext.
an "intercept" survey allowed  for people to be randomly surveyed on the street and at special events.
firefighters stopped the flames in the living room and dining room, however, the rest of the structure sustained heavy smoke and heat damage.
oct. 29 - deadline for entry to the colorado art open.
if you are interested, please contact laura at 264-2167.
those little cocktail pellets  will work no magic when i'm dealing with profound ennui.
to qualify for standing to appeal the subsequent decision of this project an individual or group must submit "substantive comments" during the 30-day comment period.
i am a firm believer that one of the biggest mistakes commissioners make is in trying to micro-manage the day-to-day functions of the county.
it is the  beginning of the school sports season, during which the most rabid and demented  meatballs roll forth, spewing their warped criticism and bile, demeaning the  efforts of coaches and of players clearly more skilled than their child.
the small and prolific creek, which served as a proving ground in my evolution as a flyfisherman, is presently flanked by row upon row of houses, hotels and condominiums, and their associated parking lots and trash containers.
today, kerry's photo is proudly displayed in the communist war museum in ho chi minh city, vietnam, as a hero for the communist cause in the war against america.
after i take those breaths and distance myself from the icky mass of meatball humanity, i turn to self-analysis.
in goes some thyme, black pepper, a touch of oregano, a bay leaf and two cups of sturdy beef broth.
all of the entries are connected with the t.a. grant.
a little history: the woman's civic club of pagosa springs was started in  1910 to take over the actual operation of the pagosa springs library with a  collection of 202 books.
as of friday we had the shady pines 4-h club doing a bean bag toss, plpoa and heather hunt of school within a school both doing fishing booths of different kinds, the lutheran school doing a putt putt golf game, nora doing a shark toss and bootjack ranch sponsoring an inflatable house.
a total of 22 firefighters with five tankers, two engines and two support  vehicles were on scene.
bob honts, a texas real estate developer and president of the village at  wolf creek development corporation, claims nearby communities will benefit  economically from the development, suggesting, "a rising tide will lift  all boats."
all brands registered with the state of colorado in both counties are  listed in the new book.
contact dac at 259-2606 or e-mail info@durangoarts.org.
our summer volunteers have left for the season and we need more help  in getting meals out to our homebound seniors.
something good is happening, that was apparent from the  wonderful response
some of the items that will  be available are hand painted stationary, book markers and gift tags.
while, at the same time, allowing the child to indulge the garbage of contemporary entertainment at will.
his brother, shan, was second with 16.
those who voted early the first three days of this week missed our candidate interviews in this issue.
- archuleta county education center.
honts said he would use "every local resource we can."
other than leaving the world a safer place, what could be more important than leaving a cleaner, more healthy planet for our children and grandchildren?
this time i open my eyes and see my mother smiling  at me.
partial birth abortion  is the gruesome procedure of partially delivering the baby, then killing the  child and taking its organs for medical purposes.
all proceeds will be used to support chimney rock interpretive association, a nonprofit organization working in partnership with the u.s. forest service, san juan national forest.
"almost a kind of contact with the people who lived here before.
people without scientific knowledge created stories and legends as their  way of explaining lunar eclipses.
one week after looking like title contenders and playing with controlled rage to hand intermountain league foe monte vista its first setback of the season, the pirates came out as flat as the san luis valley friday at alamosa and got trampled by the mean moose in a 41-19 loss.
i think pagosa is  being flooded with dyslexic people or people are coming here who are used to  california-style driving.
the final push will be to raise another $50,000 for these items.
moisture totals for the week amounted to just under .30 inches.
don't think the environment is important?
the lakes and amenities are maintained for all property owners and their guests to enjoy and any and all acts of vandalism will cost us all dearly.
honts envisions increased income levels and quality of life.
jewell followed with a kill to the back line and kelley ended it all with an attack from the right side.
to obtain a copy of the deis by mail, send a request to tetra tech inc., 5205 leesburg pike, suite 1400, falls church, va 22041 or call: (703) 931-9301.
the umbral, or  inner shadow, is the region where earth blocks all of the sun's rays from  reflecting off the moon.
gusty conditions are in the mix for southwest colorado today and tomorrow as well, and winds are predicted to accelerate to at least 20 miles per hour by this afternoon.
100 percent home/land  financing.
but the ultimate benefits to our community as a whole, i am convinced, will  far outweigh the disadvantages.
local improvement/metro districts could be used for non-county maintained roads as an option for those who want improvements faster than the county can provide them.
the popular babysitter's workshop is being offered for youngsters in grades 5-8 on three friday afternoons in november.
on the current path, cu will not have any public funding in  less than a decade, i will help find innovative solutions, lobby for reform and  coalesce the university's many constituencies.
a reading of archuleta county properties recorded in the courthouse will reveal a large number of entries by catron prior to 1900.
these costs were "budget breakers," and we could not afford the  severe hike in prices.
only one of the cameras captured a readable image.
profits from the past two years helped install a new ceramic tile entry, a vinyl tile kitchen floor and carpeted a stairway at the parish hall.
this group of remarkable volunteers hosts our visitor center  seven days a week during the summer months and on the weekends during the  winter with absolutely no thought of anything in return.
but i'm not yet prepared to conclude that that's the only possible solution  until i've had a chance to hear from some of our county's long-standing experts  on the issue - both from within and outside the county government.
to the meat i add half a white onion finely minced and one or two cloves of  garlic, finely minced, then mashed.
overnight closures end on wolf creek
sometime in the 1930s, the forest service built a fire tower right on top of what was a fire pit used by long-ago people, scraping away remnants of activity there.
and whether you wish to remain part of it.
"we're right there on the bubble," anderson said.
at the 38 minute mark, caleb forrest got his first save for pagosa on telluride's first chance to get to goal, a looper by jessie lamb.
the program begins at 7 p.m. with the full eclipse at 9.
"the higher the level of our play, the deeper into the season we get, the more other teams will block and dig our attacks.
popular after-school programs, updating and redefining new and more aggressive drug programs, and more city and church sponsored "family oriented" activities are just a few of the things that can help young people successfully navigate their way to adulthood.
this issue will be one of the first priorities for the new board's  attention very soon after being seated in january.
by doing this, the airport would become a working part of our county rather than a side issue with expensive surprises.
chimney rock interpretive association has invited all to a fall fund-raiser to view the lunar eclipse.
and it is unmistakably chacoan in style, malville said.
for more information, call jan schell at 883-2571 or lois wright at  247-4708.
personalize your gifts and packages this year with watercolor and acrylic images.
listen to the promises made by candidates, at all levels.
each participating gallery will feature local artists and handcrafted  items, food, drink and possibly music.
having said that, i want to make clear that my door would always be open to hearing from any individual county employee concerning work-related concerns or problems.
bonnie thrasher was the first  person on the scene.
but, we are also accustomed to the retail conveniences of  the urban setting.
the eclipse in its continuum will end with a partial followed by a penumbral eclipse.
as i write this, there is a proposal before neighboring mineral county officials and the united states forest service (usfs) which, if approved, will allow leavell-mccombs joint venture, headed by texas billionaire red mccombs, to establish a high-density alpine metropolis adjacent to wolf creek ski area.
i will make  sure that the best interest of the citizens of archuleta county is being served  by having qualified and capable people handling the jobs they are hired for.
kerry has repeatedly pointed to his war record as a hero for a lost cause  in vietnam, but has ignored the truth that his very actions after his service  helped to bring about the eventual defeat of american forces and the murder of  more than one million "undesirables" when the communists took over  the south.
i  suggested that we find a committee member that is opposed to the airport to  serve on this committee; i feel this would help to find solutions, and to look  at the problems from different views.
the longer survey was also made available online or in paper copy for people to voluntarily complete.
if it should snow, much of the game will be forced to lower altitudes and the kill will increase greatly.
first, some cleansing breaths (i've been watching "judy's yoga  hour" every morning on satellite tv).
plan to come to the community center on hot springs boulevard next to town hall saturday, nov. 6, 9 a.m.-4 p.m. come early, stay late and enjoy visiting with good friends while taking advantage of the bargains at this fun event.
with this in mind, an argument can be made for controlled growth and responsible development, when it is necessary to sustain quality of human life.
"here i think you have an excellent opportunity where the community  can come together ahead of time and chart the course," he said.
the lodge is modeled after a family estate and the restaurant offers a four-course menu with two set courses, a choice of three entrees and a cheese or dessert course.
if we are lucky enough to have clear visibility during the eclipse, we are  in for one of the universe's great shows.
sept. 11 was a horrendous shock, but that is now more then three years ago, and in that period no other attack occurred, homeland security gives much better warning and protection, and in perspective 50 times more persons were horribly killed in traffic accidents than died on 9/11.
meetings are open to the public.
a  maximum of four slides or photographs must be submitted for the selection  process.
give us  all this and we will pay a reasonable premium to buy in pagosa.
grams said the residents were not home at  the time and food left behind on a hot stove apparently caused the blaze.
he also believes the university must "demonstrate it is not wasting  the taxpayer's money."
secondly, roads need to be identified and categorized correctly (not just  taken off of the maintenance lists), so that we can accurately report and  receive all of the funds due to the county from the highway users tax funds  from the state that are due to us.
rampant development in the wilderness a threat to nature's balance by chuck mcguire sun columnist it is autumn and the winds of change are sweeping over this great land of  ours.
with public sentiment, nothing can fail; without it nothing can succeed.
an eclipse of the moon only occurs during a full moon, and only when it passes through some portion of the earth's shadow.
this can be done, says bosley, by establishing "a state of mind in which the regents, the administration, faculty and staff look for new ways to do anything and everything better, to reduce costs without cutting programs, faculty and salaries.
"jessica is coming back to where she needs to be following an injury.
she finished 18th (22:26) in regional competition.
here's a chance for the young and the young at heart to dress up and have fun.
arts linearts line holiday gallery tour scheduled nov. 19 by leanne goebel preview columnist the second annual gala holiday gallery tour will be 5-7 p.m. friday, nov. 19.
- continental estates ii — sketch plan review re-plat of pineview dr.  and lots 45 and 46.
within a  herd, the effect can be seen through infertility, abortions, stillborn calves,  birth deformities and calves that are persistently infected with the disease.
the challenge is to balance between preserving the small-town character and constructing, "capital improvements necessary to improve the experience," especially when people say that includes natural amenities and access.
i'm not referring to the meatballs you cook and eat.
residents can also request surveys be mailed to their households by calling the planning department office at 264-5851 or 264-4785.
we place value on buying local to support our community.
the council urged rejection of martínez' request for limited access, recommending that roads, pastures, and watering places be left open to all residents of the abiquiu jurisdiction.
head start sets oct. 27 open house a remodeled and expanded facility is the new pride of head start of pagosa  springs and officials are inviting the public to see it.
so, the pirates tried a new attack.
when a  batch is finished, i remove it to a paper towel on a heated plate and start on  the next batch.
according to archaeologists, agriculturalists began moving into what is now southwest colorado sometime in the 1050s, probably ascending the slopes above stolsteimer creek to attempt dryland farming.
it was reached in action oct. 15 in telluride when the pirates blanked the much improved miners 3-0 in a hard-fought southwest mountain league contest.
i have spent a great deal of time over the past two months meeting with the public works department and getting informed of the "real road" situation.
upcoming workshops beginners ii:
the cameramen are comedians  with the commentary.
if comments are sent as an attachment to the e-mail message, please submit them in microsoft word (ms-word) format in a common font such as "times."
the river's historic median flow for the week of oct. 21 is roughly 70 cubic feet per second.
as we have seen recently, inattention to the airport issues can be  extremely expensive to the taxpayers of archuleta county.
charlotte archuleta forgot to join us for amateur half hour, but came in  friday and played the piano and her old accordion.
rather, they are human-caused, and seem motivated by self-absorbed materialism and a desire to accumulate wealth, at whatever the cost to our natural environment.
honts, we don't want to be jackson hole or  vail or aspen.
the umbral, or inner shadow, is the region where earth blocks all of the sun's rays from reflecting off the moon.
the pirates got a touchdown with 13 seconds to play on a 62-yard pass from backup quarterback adam trujillo to przybylski, but the game ended 41-19 in favor of the mean moose after pagosa misfired on a two-point conversion try.
these should be committees of concerned and involved citizens that would  research and make recommendations to the board of county commissioners (bocc).
the period june 27, 1950 through jan. 31, 1955.
moe webb was wide left with a shot and then stopped on a breakaway by telluride's walker tatum before he could get a shot off.
in fact, very few va benefits are  limited to veterans who served during war time.
i love being able to direct people in need to the right sources for help.
the whistle pig concert series is sponsored by artstream cultural  resources, a local nonprofit arts organization which promotes educational and  cultural arts events and classes in the pagosa springs area.
in fact, a recent community survey in pagosa springs showed 85 percent of  respondents ranked protecting the river corridor tops on the list of capital  improvements for the future.
often well-meaning fellow veterans, friends and family members offer advice on va benefits for which they may not be fully informed.
ron sutcliffe, archeo-astronomer, will be the guest speaker for the night.
"hunters should locate promising areas ahead of time and then plan on arriving well before first light in the morning, or be settled in on a stand several hours before dusk.
the west-side paving project may also require temporary lane closures with  up to 20-minute delays possible on weekdays and a 12-foot width restriction is  in effect through the construction zone.
united way works in archuleta, dolores, la plata, montezuma and san juan  counties to solve each community's human problems.
the teen center is open to ages 13-19 and is located in the community center on hot springs boulevard.
"hunters should locate promising areas ahead of time and then plan  on arriving well before first light in the morning, or be settled in on a stand  several hours before dusk.
as planned, it would include 1,200 hotel rooms, 222,000 square feet of commercial space (or the equivalent of 10 big-box stores), 129 single-family lots, and 1,643 multifamily units, all on 287.5 acres of private land surrounded by national forest.
honts: "the goal is to make the village a year-round attraction, 'the premiere mountain-recreation village in the world,' complete with timeshares, spa facilities and, eventually, a companion golf village and the possibility for a 'university conference center.'
for information call 264-2835.
archeologists also uncovered a stone basin ground into the bedrock at chimney rock.
a total of 487 responded in this manner.
we did not have a large attendance for our workshop on "how to make your dreams work for you."
she paints in oils, watercolors, acrylics and pastels.
civic club of pagosa springs has sponsored the bazaar.
bayfield did edge out pagosa - and everyone else - in individual competition.
it is also important that the commissioners do not relinquish their  leadership role in identifying, approving, and carrying out the overall county  plans.
he told the board it is his opinion no court gives the board permission to remove trash can screening.
for more information, please contact fort lewis college extended studies program at 247-7385, or visit them on campus at 450 berndt hall, e-mail monson_m@fortlewis.edu or logon to www.fortlewis.edu, click on community & culture then extended studies.
i realize i'm cruising for emotional trouble.
in fact, some believe him to be here already, as evidenced by the ghostly shroud that has draped the san juan mountains in a thickening layer of white over the past few days.
mornings will feature lessons and exercises about shapes, composition and design, choosing subjects, further study about value and color, and advanced techniques such as lifting, scraping, masking, glazing, working with sponges, salt, saran wrap, and waxed paper.
yet others recognize it as football season.
honts: š stating the aim is "to bring in the type of people who,  today, don't come to the area ...
in fact, he said, the district is "concerned with the huge growth in the number of high-needs students and that is why we added a teacher and an aide at the intermediate school."
the one universal piece of hunting advice that dow biologists are telling hunters who are looking to be successful during the second, third and fourth seasons is for them to get away from the roads and the major trails.
it should not be turned over to a single individual to act in their  place.
in actuality, no two eclipses are alike, and all are a marvel to witness.
tickets will be available nov. 1 at wolftracks, moonlight books, the  chamber, and the psac gallery for $10 ($8 for psac members).
quoting abraham lincoln, "in this and like communities, public  sentiment is everything.
final 2004 campaign results will be announced in february at united way's campaign celebration event.
in archuleta county, over $14,000 has been donated toward the county goal of $62,000.
he also said he has been informed the lp tank setback enforcement is  the jurisdiction of the department of covenant control and it needs to  vigorously enforce the statute because the tanks "distract from the total  view of the home."
"lots of bulls were harvested and there have been some good ones.
that's why we choose to live here.
business newsbusiness news the lodge at keyah grande h. alexander talbot and aki kamozawa have been directors and chefs at the lodge at keyah grande since january 2003.
raffle tickets are $1 each and 6 for $5 and can be purchased at sisson  library or from civic club members or at the bazaar itself.
nov. 18 - signature gift and greeting card workshop with betty slade, 9  a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center.
i scoop up a palm full of the meat mix, shape it, then roll it into a uniform ball.
also notify the sheriff's office.
the first came in the public comments portion when esterly first thanked  members of the board for serving in that capacity and then asked them to  reconsider the board position regarding trash can screening.
i steam some green beans and dress them with butter, freshly ground black pepper and lemon juice.
eventually, all seedstock producers will be expected to provide documentation of the bvd status of the animals they sell.
the job corps program is the largest and most comprehensive educational/vocational training opportunity for young adults in the nation.
i'm not sure that rob has made it into  town yet, but if you're in the neighborhood, drop by and say "hi!"
the pagosa ranger district rates the area fire danger as "low."
the office is open 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday through thursday, friday by appointment.
by setting the performance-based plan in place now, we encourage and create incentives for open space, while allowing flexibility for growth.
emergency medical services responded; bosley's wound was bandaged and he carried on, heading for another in a series of last-minute visits to western colorado towns and newspapers.
call 264-2835 to volunteer or for more information.
"i created the bolder boulder memorial day road race for the sole purpose of serving the community.
at 5:50 p.m., tuesday, oct. 5, we were victims of a violent crime outside  of alco.
- girl scouts of chaparral council.
we will host a  luncheon in their honor this week, and many grateful businesses have sent over  tokens of their appreciation to put in their "goody bags" presented  the day of the luncheon.
director fred ebeling said inspectors do enforce if trash cans are left out in the street and bohl said, as a general rule, the receptacles are put away because most residents are well aware of the bear problem.
judging by reports from colorado division of wildlife (dow) biologists  throughout the state, colorado's first rifle elk season seemed to provide  success rates equal to or better than last year.
one of our seniors has a freebie to dispense - "adopt me!
just south of mary fisher clinic.
start now thinking  about how you can win a very nice prize.
yeah, i lived in california at one time, too.
we were told they could be ordered, but it would take at least two weeks.
she also initiated the firehouse newsletter to provide a tool for communication with the taxpayers of the district.
zaday defeated fellow republican and incumbent alden ecker for the district  2 slot in the aug. 10 primary, and since there is no unaffiliated or democratic  candidate on the general election ballot, in effect zaday is running unopposed  as commissioner-elect from district 2, needing just one vote nov. 2 to secure  her board seat.
oct. 22 - application deadline for spirit in hand holiday boutique at durango art center.
the roadway may still be reduced to one lane of travel between mile markers 179 and 181 at night, so motorists may expect delays.
call mercy or pauline at 264-5232 to take part in this fun event.
pag - schutz 2 pass from armijo (kick failed) ala - yohn 30 run (gallegos kick) fourth quarter ala - russel blocked punt for td (kick failed) pag - przybylski 62 pass from trujillo (2-pt. try failed) parks & recparks & rec seeing youth sports at purest level
alamosa's sonny yohn tiptoed into the end zone one play later, and the mean moose led 14-0 after a two-point conversion toss from clay garcia to dustin bolt.
the deis is also available on-line at:  www.fs.fed.us/r2/riogrande/planning/planning.htm.
this decision may be one of the four alternatives or a combination of any of them.
i  realize i'm kind of a meatball myself.
steen then stepped up to crush a ball down the line and pagosa was ahead, 6-5.
clinical signs include ulcers in the lining of the mouth and intestines,  diarrhea, lower weight gains and diminished reproductive performance.
we offer adult classes as well as a variety of classes at the elementary, intermediate and junior high schools.
they both ran a good race, but we'll be trying to squeeze a little more out of them over the next two weekends.
" dads, this is a special event for both you and your daughter.
pauline and mercy at the community center will still welcome donations and  sponsors for the party.
the board's job is to make policy, and the county staff's job is to  implement that policy.
the house is wired for electricity, and a plant will be installed in the spring.
the only county employee that should appropriately be managed by the board of county commissioners is the county administrator, because the board is the only entity to which the county administrator is accountable.
each morning's lessons and exercises are aimed at helping you learn to draw objects - including buildings - in perspective.
and if, in the future, you see any suspicious activity at the pier or around any of the lakes, please inform the office and association employees will respond in person.
take a gander at a lot of what passes for parenting in many families.
the deis analyzes the environmental impacts of the applicant's proposal to authorize the construction and use of road and utility corridors across land administered by the rio grande national forest to access the applicant's private land.
within a herd, the effect can be seen through infertility, abortions, stillborn calves, birth deformities and calves that are persistently infected with the disease.
the evening would have been shorter yet, if the pirates had not lost their intensity in the third game of the 25-10, 25-11, 25-20 win.
two young men jumped us, threw my friend to the ground and tried to  rob us.
the issues of open space and private-property rights are both critical, and must go hand-in-hand in order to manage our growth while protecting our wonderful quality of life.
schmidt told the board the levy will be tied to purchase of the land and therefore won't be put into place for up to 10-15 years, or until the property owner wants to close escrow.
" jana aikman environment woe dear editor: we really don't know which of the presidential candidates will make america  a safer place to live, but we have a very clear choice on the environment.
tops on the list were small, independently-owned restaurants, more grocery stores, a conference/performing arts center, educational facilities and independently-owned retail stores.
rather than "recreating the wheel" at every aspect of our county, i see several committees working closely with the bocc to give recommendations and finding solutions to the issues.
bayfield provided a charity point with a hitting error and walkup made it 20-10 when she went to the right side for a cross-court attack.
bob honts, a texas real estate developer and president of the village at wolf creek development corporation, claims nearby communities will benefit economically from the development, suggesting, "a rising tide will lift all boats."
by tom carosello staff writer pagosa country residents beware - old man winter has been spotted, and he's heading this way.
there is a vital link between education and citizenship.
the bocc is ultimately responsible for the smooth operation of the airport,  so they should also be responsible for the makeup of the advisory board.
we've gone back to the drawing board and have arrived at a design that will  stay within our budget and provide all of the options we wanted in the original  plan.
i  should care about greater things, about greater ideas and souls.
the sun will rise at the same point on the horizon each year on the solstice and equinox dates, marking the longest and shortest days of the year.
events friday, oct 22 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; pinochle, 1  p.m.; free movie day -
regional action oct. 23 begins at 9:30 a.m. for the girls and 10:15 a.m. for the boys.
there are so many unanswered questions for me personally, that i will be seeking to educate myself on this issue.
george w. bush has proven he has what it takes to lead our country through these dark days, because he puts his trust in jesus christ.
more next week relating the history of northern new mexico to the history of pagosa country.
you did  as much for her spirit as her body.
turn east on greenbriar drive off of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the parking lot and look for the big sign.
supporting businesses in archuleta county include la plata electric  association, school district 50 joint, bank of the san juans, wells fargo bank,  citizens bank of pagosa springs, bank of colorado, old west press and several  others.
these should be committees of concerned and involved citizens that would research and make recommendations to the board of county commissioners (bocc).
"at about 2 a.m. i and a number of skeptical students of mine saw a very brilliant, diamondlike bit of light appearing between the double chimneys," he said.
day five, journey to the guanacaste, one of the  last tropical dry forests on the planet, stop at santa rosa national park, and
last week our video camera crew got to film shadow dancing, hip hop and  some of the oktoberfest dances and folk costumes.
that was susie kleckner, director of the pagosa springs office of san juan basin health department, describing the four-hour flu vaccine clinic conducted monday in the pagosa springs community center.
"everyone pulling together for the good of all.
- other business that may come before the commission.
i believe my role as county commissioner will be to work to identify and  maintain this delicate, but crucial balance.
here's a chance for the young and the young at heart to dress up and have  fun.
the fund-raising event will take place in a private residence in pagosa.
we plan to finish this phase of the resurfacing by late october.
"but we think everyone would be a lot better off if they help us  determine how to regulate their districts and keep as much guess work as  possible out of the process," he concluded.
moe webb's long drive on the short field hit a house behind the endline and ormonde was stopped again by kvale.
usually the calves don't show signs of disease, but they shed the virus in such large amounts that even vaccinated members of the herd become infected.
thank you parents for being positive partners for your children.
the family religious institutions, the media and community groups all exert important influences.
halloween party plans moving ahead by pauline benetti special to the preview plans for the first community center halloween party are moving right along.
she risked  bodily injury to herself in an attempt to help us.
"here i think you have an excellent opportunity where the community can come together ahead of time and chart the course," he said.
he said that nowhere in it does it say the board will force changes of  covenants or rules and regulations on property owners.
i'm warm and fuzzy and looking for a new home where warmth and comfort are needed and will be accepted.
she is a heroine in the  truest sense of the word.
this is a very special time between daughters and daddies.
this year's pace  setters (local businesses that run their campaigns in advance of most others)  have raised over $49,000 for united way and include all city market stores,  ups, wal-mart in cortez and durango, xto energy, bank of colorado, citizens  state bank in cortez, empire electric, mcdonald's in cortez, and every united  way partner agency.
" ahh there's the rub money!
it's all speculation today, part of a mystery that will most likely never be solved.
obviously honts and mccombs are only interested in money.
it appeared the wolverines would score again as their serve hit the tape at the top of the net and rolled to the pirates' side.
we will learn two new games this week: "farkel" and "sequence."
we are still looking for other organizations, businesses (thank you schmidt  chiropractic for the monetary donation) and individuals to join with us in  sponsoring a game or food booth or some type of appropriate activity.
for more information about artstream, call 264-2491.
by karl isberg staff writer when steve bosley, candidate for a seat on the university of colorado board of regents, finally made it over wolf creek pass friday, he was ready to stop in town for some campaigning.
this time does not  include the penumbral phase, which is difficult to detect with an untrained eye  and devoid of interest to most outside of the scientific community.
at least 159 additional surveys are needed from the "northwest  district," which includes the aspen springs and chimney rock areas.
i think there were problems with the makeup and level of empowerment with  the previous "airport authority."
wait went on to report that there were no access problems and that many hunters reported bulls still bugling.
rachel hellwege joins us with paws, feathers, fins and friends pet sitting  service (pfff).
for pagosa springs, i have this to say: god bless you and keep you safe and secure from the evil that is filtering in with all the good.
many great philosophical minds of today, and earlier generations, have warned of this, and all agree, that only by establishing and maintaining balance between culture and nature, can man hope to survive another millennium.
he makes excellent arguments on why not to build this project.
determining if those findings match our vision of pagosa's future is vital to avoid making a decision we later regret.
gill turned in another solo block, moe webb was wide right and kevin blue's direct kick from 25 yards sailed over the net before webb, turned defender, blocked another telluride shot.
in it goes and the concoction is reduced by two thirds over medium heat, with the seasonings boosted along the way.
i will be finding ways to work with all of our  departments, employees, and elected officials to find time saving and cost  effective solutions to our issues.
hunters need to be sure to identify their target  before they shoot.
if we are lucky enough to have clear visibility during the eclipse, we are in for one of the universe's great shows.
tend your own garden, you know?
computer classes currently being offered at the education center include microsoft publisher taught by computer specialist cynde jackson.
however, the veteran did not have to actually be in combat, only have served during a period of wartime.
" and while the remaining supply is small, there is a possibility more  vaccine will be available down the line.
in 1054, although near the end of its cycle, the moon would have still been rising between the two pillars as seen from the high mesa, a natural observatory, malville said.
approximately 675 shots were administered, kleckner said, and vaccine also  was distributed for the patients in pine ridge extended care nursing home.
vandals can be good or bad students, girls or boys, white or black, rich or poor.
she has gotten the district on sound financial footing with a healthy reserve and a waiting list of potential firefighters.
there is a calendar available for sign-up, and training is included for new  volunteers.
a total of 51 locals randomly sampled also responded to the longer version.
for instance, the cycle between full moons takes about a month.
we had $5,000 budgeted for resurfacing some of the boxes.
cu develops  competitive graduates for the industries that will drive colorado's future  prosperity, turns one dollar of state money into sixteen dollars in gross state  product and returns more in colorado taxes than is invested by the state.
we need to hit the ball with authority on offense."
education news space available for first aid and cpr classes by livia cloman lynch preview columnist space is still available in the nov. 8-9 first aid and cpr classes being  offered at the archuleta county education center, at 4th and lewis streets in  downtown pagosa springs.
there are several diplomats who have served faithfully for a number of years, but joan and barbara are the unequivocal queens of longevity, and we want to acknowledge their significant contribution to this chamber and to pagosa springs.
the viewpoint that private property rights completely and absolutely trump the rights of the surrounding community is epitomized by the plan to erect a massive "village" up at wolf creek.
right to participate in sports; 2.
at build-out, the development would accommodate  10,000 largely affluent residents, or roughly two-thirds the population of  durango.
these committees need to include people that have experience and knowledge of the issues, as well as concerned citizens that have differing opinions, (to work with roads, transfer development rights, airport, vision and planning, to name just a few).
then volunteer to help out at the gallery in town park.
but starting this year, people can once again see the moon rise between the rocks and think, even believe, the possibilities.
bayfield managed a two-point run before the pirates went back to work, running off five consecutive points.
featuresfeatures the twin towers astronomers, volunteers prepare for lunar standstill at chimney rock by tess noel baker staff writer the mystery of the people who inhabited chimney rock 1,000 years ago isn't going away anytime soon.
now i want to take that same passion to contribute again, to help lead, revitalize and assure cu's stable future.
call them at 731-1480 for more information.
department managers should be accountable to the county administrator, not  directly to the board of county commissioners.
letters heroine, heroes dear editor: i'd like to take this opportunity to thank so many of the wonderful  citizens of pagosa springs for helping my friend, pam richmond, and i get  through a very scary ordeal.
locals who were randomly stopped were asked to complete a longer, follow-up survey.
many voters have probably made up their minds, picked their candidates, decided how they will vote on the state ballot measures.
there are four initiatives proposing amendments to the colorado constitution.
the entire tri-county area as a jackson hole.
an example is searching the paper every week for "cruising with cruse."
she owned her own signature art gallery in albuquerque,  was active with the dallas wholesale show for many years and is the owner of  the hi slade publishing company which prints and publishes serigraph and  lithograph prints and cards.
when all the meatballs are browned, a choice must be made.
bob honts' and billy joe "red" mccombs' village at wolf creek is more like pillage at wolf creek.
hunters need to be sure to identify their target before they shoot.
for instance, as we gaze upon  a lofty snow-covered mountain range glowing in the afternoon sun, we can't help  but marvel at the various shades of light and shadow which give depth and a  sense of enormity to the scene.
she had five sisters: marina, andreitta, cordelia, melia and el utilia, and a brother, lazaro.
he is a practicing physician, a large property holder and one of the most public-spirited men in the san juan basin.
but moe knew where shan was and his cross to the right insured the goal.
the portion of trail from the top of the first switchbacks to beaver  meadows will be closed until further notice for safety reasons.
the property is legally described as section 32, township 35 north, range 1 west, n.m.p.m., archuleta county, co.
at any rate, the great house pueblo at chimney rock was not easy to build.
the vandalized pier will be difficult to repair and once damaged to that extent, will never be quite as strong.
however, as of wednesday, the numbers of completed surveys returned to the  planning department from residents within each proposed district were well  below target levels.
it will be offered 8-10 a.m. friday in the department offices at 502 s. 8th  st., pagosa springs.
right to have fun in sports.
the one universal piece of hunting advice that dow biologists are telling  hunters who are looking to be successful during the second, third and fourth  seasons is for them to get away from the roads and the major trails.
if these are your reasons for living here, you have two compelling reasons to elect democrats nov. 2 or by voting early.
the church is accepting clean, usable, gently worn clothing, linens,  bedding items, children's clothes, shoes, and accessories for the giveaway.
letters heroine, heroesletters heroine, heroes dear editor: i'd like to take this opportunity to thank so many of the wonderful citizens of pagosa springs for helping my friend, pam richmond, and i get through a very scary ordeal.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
constitutional democracy cannot accomplish its purposes unless its citizens  participate thoughtfully in public affairs.
with growth of population in pagosa and archuleta county you are certainly  counting climbing numbers of scurrilous and rapacious individuals.
to prove his point, he said that as president of the senate, he is on  capitol hill nearly every tuesday while congress is in session.
troubled youth are a nationwide problem.
creating metro districts involves  costs, time and cooperation.
we also invite other interesting ideas.
perhaps he should visit florida during the hurricane season.
pagosa was up 20-15, but there was no quit in the wolverines.
and also, there by the table, the items to be raffled will be on display.
time to get into the closets and try on your winter woolies.
ideas wanted the calendar of events is getting shorter which signifies that fall is here.
what is  not to enjoy about the goings on in the ego snakepit, the arena of the  meatball's barely masked self-serving thrashing?
assessing the economic value of moments like these is impossible, but each of us knows the intangible values inherent in those experiences which move us emotionally, influence our happiness, and otherwise make life worthwhile.
several other directors said they could not be sure their constituencies support the issue.
i'll brown them in the pan, then allow them to cook  through while they swim in some kind of sauce.
volunteers do not need to be teachers, just have a good general knowledge  in their chosen subject area and two to three hours per week to volunteer.
if elected, bosley says he will make a maximum effort to stay in touch with the residents of colorado.
the total eclipse is not only a visually stunning display of the cosmos but an opportunity for education of the young and old alike.
fine craft items are the focus of the sale.
what he got was a rock to the head, tossed through the open window of his  truck by an unidentified local youngster.
we readers have been treated to insights about pagosa country and self-deprecating accounts of exploits and adventures.
artists creating original, unique gift items in ceramics, jewelry, fiber, metal, glass, wood, paper, calligraphy, photography, sculpture, printmaking, painting, and drawing are invited to apply.
blood drive slated here on oct. 28 united blood services will conduct a blood drive in pagosa springs 2-6 p.m.  thursday, oct. 28.
americans in 1780 would have rewarded the treasonous arnold with a hangman's  noose.
the property is legally described as section 32, township 35 north, range 1  west, n.m.p.m., archuleta county, co.
" in terms of changing cu's image as a party school, bosley see things  "in simple terms.
oct. 22-24 - durango arts and crafts style conference at the strater hotel.
traits such as public involvement,  civility, respect for law, critical thinking, and a willingness to negotiate  and compromise are indispensable if the american form of self-government is to  continue to succeed.
those of you who loves to bake, we need donations of cupcakes for this event.
the southern ute tribal council announced today it has granted right-of-way to the state highway department to make possible improvement to highway 160 in the vicinity of chimney rock.
planning commission the archuleta county planning commission will hold its regular meeting 7  p.m. wednesday, oct, 27, in the county commissioners' meeting room in the  county courthouse.
bob honts is the quintessential, smooth-spoken snake oil salesman.
president  homes is an owner-involved building™ program offering 45 home packages  with stick-built panelized walls, high quality name-brand materials,  professional guidance and support for our customers and
fourmile trailhead upgrade planned; comment invited the pagosa ranger district is requesting comments on the proposed fourmile  trailhead improvement project designed to provide adequate horse trailer  parking, car parking and improving sanitation by installing toilets.
among them, a quilt,  an oil painting and cash prizes.
we are expecting the new materials to be delivered within the next couple of weeks.
next up for the pirates is a homecoming battle friday with visiting ignacio.
i really don't know how a person could knowingly choose to vote for a  political candidate who promotes so many detestable acts in his platform, but  if all the kerry-edwards supporters were brought together and laid end to end  around the equator of the earth, the rest of us would be much better off.
besides being the builder of the physical he-man attributes it is the fuel of male dominance and aggression, shaping attitudes of superiority that weaken bonds of love and attachment.
vandalism is a problem that gets to everyone in some form or another.
to the delight of alamosa fans, pagosa's touchdown was subsequently disallowed, apparently because game officials had suddenly realized przybylski had been bumped out of bounds before receiving armijo's pass, and in doing so became an ineligible receiver.
except that several hundred others had the same idea monday for the one and only flu shot clinic to be held in pagosa springs - to the best of our knowledge.
william r. gray was a writer, editor,  photographer, and publisher for more than thirty years with the national  geographic society.
volunteers will have the opportunity to work one-on-one with students who  are preparing to take their ged tests.
plan to attend this wonderful annual luncheon and bring all your friends.
he created the event and has staged it every memorial day for 25 years.
but congress and other commanders saw him as arrogant, insubordinate, and reckless.
then they need to allow those employees to perform their jobs while  encouraging them, and providing oversight without unnecessary interference.
here at the chamber, we are about the business of celebrating all those special people in addition to barbara and joan who keep us afloat - our beloved chamber diplomats.
the goal of civic education in the k-12 curriculum today should develop a  common bond to unite people of different regions, religions, languages, ages  and ethnicities.
a social hour begins at  1800 hours (6 p.m. if you are no longer on military time) and dinner follows at  1700.
tickets are still only $18 and can be purchased at the chamber of commerce.
those are just a smattering of the results gleaned from a summer-long  survey of residents and visitors alike aimed at marketing, planning and the  local economy and presented thursday to members of the pagosa vision council, a  group of public and private representatives working to develop a downtown  master plan recommendation.
we  checked out products at local stores.
two consecutive viking drives ended with wide-right shots, followed by another forrest save.
pagosa owned the net during the match, beating monte with height and strength, allowing few direct attacks on the pirate defense.
as planned, it would include 1,200 hotel rooms, 222,000 square feet of  commercial space (or the equivalent of 10 big-box stores), 129 single-family  lots, and 1,643 multifamily units, all on 287.5 acres of private land  surrounded by national forest.
you'll need all the materials from before, and just a few more things.
but the second half started with center showing the offensive thrust.
this presents a problem not only for us, but just as much for the majority of the local clerics who want just as much peace for their people as does our clergy.
i don't know what it is with people driving like a bat out of you know where, and speeding right straight to the doctor, the mortuary, or to pay a fine.
please consider volunteering.
lenore bright and others always have a station at the bake sale table.
how is a homeowners association that will not pay municipal taxes to  support fire, police, emts, hospitals, trash disposal and schools a good thing?
communication and cooperation is one of the most important parts of  running an effective and efficient county.
efolkmusic.com reviewer bob barlow, writing about buddy's third album, wrote: "blinding flash of light" is a cd poised so evenly on the knife-edge between hope and despair that it takes several listens just to determine where buddy tabor stands on the big questions he has chosen to tackle.
signature gift and greeting card workshop with betty slade, 9 a.m.-3:30  p.m. nov. 18 at the community center.
call them at  731-1480 for more information.
it's the meatball nation, alive with cliché, plagued by one-dimensional sloganeering, rife with a hostility antithetic to a necessary solidarity as a people, accompanied by the sound of people's hands patting their own backs.
the pregnancy support center will host a father-daughter purity ball 6-9  p.m. oct. 30 in the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
but congress and other commanders saw him as arrogant, insubordinate, and  reckless.
public comment is welcome and encouraged.
by richard walter staff writer
sign ups for 9-10 and 11-12 basketball will begin nov. 1 and continue through nov. 26.
i would urge all veterans to check with this office for the latest and correct information.
tim walsworth, president and ceo, said, "the early success of the  annual drive indicates to me that our community trusts united way to solve  local problems by investing their hard earned donations in the best nonprofit  organizations.
free theatre ticket fort lewis college provides a 10-percent discount on groups of 14, with one  free ticket to the sponsor setting it up/collecting the funds.
when i have finished balling up all the meat, i put the balls in  the fridge for a few minutes.
several other directors said they could  not be sure their constituencies support the issue.
he reports the large house of w.d. turner at saddleback ranch on east fork is about completed.
mark bergon reasons to vote dear editor:
please give them a call at 264-5232 if you would like to offer a hand that night.
betty slade has been painting since 1965.
mary meyer, fashion coordinator, assures the local shops will present the  very newest in fall and winter styles.
"we're grateful to everyone who has completed the survey thus far, but we know we need quite a bit more, " said marcus baker, associate county planner.
vandalism is a growing national problem.
walkup ended the run with an ace.
the leaves of vast aspen stands, once ablaze with dazzling shades of gold  and orange, are now the newest layer of duff on the forest floor.
reliable information certainly va benefits for any veteran may be based on individual  circumstances of military service, or the specific rules for the va benefit,  which vary from benefit to benefit.
there are no larger or more obnoxious groups of meatballs than the political crowd and a certain type of parent.
perhaps he should visit florida  during the hurricane season.
senator edwards actually presided over the senate three times during the same period, one more than the v.p.
wednesday is the japanese club meeting.
this must be prevented in the future.
anyone wishing to donate clothing and unable to deliver to the church are  welcome to call 731-5801 for pick-up.
and, of course, our thanks and a free sundowner  card go to kathryn heilhecker for recruiting president homes into the chamber  family.
the pagosa lakes property owners association's annual budget meeting will be held 1:30 p.m. monday, oct. 25 at the clubhouse.
the sweetness will be complete should the pirates manage to win their final intermountain league victory of the season against ignacio on the home court tonight.
the victory hiked the pirate record to 9-5 overall, 8-1 in the southwest mountain league with just a friday contest in telluride remaining in the regular season.
those contests end the regular season schedule.
an anglo party enroute from taos to southern california in 1843 along the old spanish trail passed through abiquiu.
pirate kickers blank telluride 3-0, extend winning streak to 10 by richard walter staff writer ten is a very definitive number, especially when it sets the latest parameter of a pagosa pirate soccer winning streak.
this is an excellent opportunity for everyone to learn and enjoy the  wonders of our universe.
i look and see my father.
the moon also has a longer cycle.
each morning's lessons and exercises are aimed at helping you learn to draw  objects - including buildings - in perspective.
three  different survey instruments were used.
hunters who don't get out of their vehicle or off of their atvs are seeing the sights, but very little else.
i stumble to the kitchen and whip a basic ball, one that can be cloaked in a variety of ways.
we need to set our plan for the future into place and develop our regulations to protect areas, while planning for the needs of affordable housing, senior housing, health, education, law enforcement and administration facilities, as well as parks and recreation.
we will host a luncheon in their honor this week, and many grateful businesses have sent over tokens of their appreciation to put in their "goody bags" presented the day of the luncheon.
the landowner and his developer contend that they have the ultimate right  to build whatever - and as much - as they desire, simply because the parcel of  land in question is privately owned.
i believe this comes from having balanced input from involved parties.
tickets can be mailed or available at will call allowing patrons to arrive for the show as they wish, and not as a group.
how to participate the survey is available for completion and submittal online at the county's  web site.
" in terms of changing cu's image as a party school, bosley see things "in simple terms.
owners who complete the requirements of level 3 are certified bvd pi free.
in my opinion, one of the linchpins of a community plan is the implementation of some form of zoning.
it truly does "take a village to raise a child" and therefore it takes effort from every citizen to avoid the pitfalls that can wreak havoc on its citizens.
"they blocked a few balls," said hamilton of monte vista.
we understand and anticipate such transformation and, in  fact, have come to love it as part of the true glory in mountain living.
" the survey, which requires an estimated 35-45 minutes to complete, asks residents to weigh in on a variety of crucial regulation issues that will be used to evaluate future development proposals within five proposed county "planning districts."
the average high temperature recorded last week in pagosa springs was 57 degrees.
recreation the recreation department is winding down toward our annual youth soccer tournament.
in implementing policy, county employees should be  accountable to their department managers, not directly to the board of county  commissioners.
"the girls came out strong and dominated the first game," said coach penné hamilton.
to have any commissioner(s) attempting to manage the county staff would be redundant, demoralizing and counterproductive to the policy-making role that is appropriately the responsibility of the bocc.
this year's delightful theme is "the nutcracker" featuring music  provided by john graves with dancing honors performed by local ballerinas.
rain and/or wet snow chances are listed at 70 percent.
the sun exploding ammo hampers firemen in aspen springs
the other four successful hunters had walked back in a ways and were boning out their animals in the field or using pack animals to retrieve their elk.
potential donors must have valid identification and can sign up online at www.unitedblood services.org.
these costs were "budget breakers," and we could not afford the severe hike in prices.
the building blocks of watercolor, nov. 3-5, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. at the community center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
i steam a couple sweet potatoes and puree them,  adding butter, a dab of honey, salt and pepper.
in that year, the son of an interpreter to the utes, manuel gregorio torres, of abiquiu, offered a piece of land as security for payment for a captive indian woman, promising full payment as soon as he returned from a trip to california.
local chatter woman's civic club keeps bazaar alive by kate terry sun columnist the annual holiday bazaar, sponsored by the woman's civic club of pagosa  springs, is just two weeks off - saturday, nov. 6 - and will be held at the  community center.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g, durango, co 81301.
pagosa's pastpagosa's past tierra amarilla land grant covered part of this county
coloradans average just about one  night.
free clothing saturday at st. patrick's the leaves have turned gold, and the nights are really getting cold ...
also, to all the assistant coaches, team moms and parents: we couldn't have had such a successful league without your generous sacrifices and tremendous help.
the purpose has always been to raise money for the local library.
but does mr. sawicki understand testosterone?
hunting pressure was spotty with some areas nearly hunter free and others with many camps.
this is evidenced not only by legions of adolescent dimwits walking around with  cell phones glued to their ears, clad in baggy pants and so empty headed they  have no idea how to wear their hats, but by parents whose behaviors mirror an  inability to accept their responsibilities, to admit the limitations of their  children, to endure any criticism that strips them of the chance to live out  their illusions through their offspring.
while growth is economically good for a community, unforeseen problems can taint the splendor of it.
" starting with the winter solstice dec. 26 and 27, the moon will rise between the rocks in different phases, from full moon to new moon and back, a couple times each month for three or four years.
fourmile trailhead upgrade planned; comment invited the pagosa ranger district is requesting comments on the proposed fourmile trailhead improvement project designed to provide adequate horse trailer parking, car parking and improving sanitation by installing toilets.
truly, this is not the stuff to make a kinder, gentler america or to shape america's attitudes toward the rest of humanity.
the pirate frustration extended to a new name when chris baum's drive off a corner from blue was stopped by kvale as the first half ended.
and all the while the implied  emphasis is that only a conservative republican administration is able or  willing to keep us safe in these insecure times.
the pregnancy support center will host a father-daughter purity ball 6-9 p.m. oct. 30 in the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
oktoberfest 2004 was dedicated to our fearless leader and event  coordinator, susi cochran.
probably all of us value job creation, a higher minimum wage and equal pay for equivalent job performance, but it probably didn't drive our decision to live in pagosa.
maybe it's time for another book.
volunteers do not need to be teachers, just have a good general knowledge in their chosen subject area and two to three hours per week to volunteer.
almost hypnotized, i feel drawn closer to his wagon to better hear and maybe even obtain a bottle.
jim hicklin a tough sell dear editor: many years ago i attended a sales training seminar sponsored by one of our  country's largest corporations in which the facilitator stressed the point that  if you can create enough anxiety in a person's mind you can sell him/her almost  anything.
the active presence of a father in the life of his daughter is important  for her future.
cost is $35 for the class and $5  for supplies.
the exhibition opens jan.  14 and runs through march 13 at foothills art center in golden.
but i'm not yet prepared to conclude that that's the only possible solution until i've had a chance to hear from some of our county's long-standing experts on the issue - both from within and outside the county government.
i think there were problems with the makeup and level of empowerment with the previous "airport authority."
the community center will sponsor a costume contest with categories as follows - most original, most gruesome and most elaborate.
supporting businesses in archuleta county include la plata electric association, school district 50 joint, bank of the san juans, wells fargo bank, citizens bank of pagosa springs, bank of colorado, old west press and several others.
an exchange of points on mistakes and a kill by scott gave the pirates the 18-4 advantage.
but i have a lot of stories, praise and wonderful memories of the pathways and efforts of guys like bill downey, herb browning, judd cooney, tom richards, roy vega, ernie rivas and many, many other fine officers of the law who, together and cohesively, kept the town and county under control and the crooks on the run.
with steep dropoffs on both sides and constant traffic, "this would have been no place to raise a family," malville said.
if totals still fall short of what is needed by planning staff at the  deadline, "we can definitely consider extending the deadline," said  baker.
then the irrepressible gill was credited with consecutive solo saves before forrest made a fine diving stop on a shot by sandoval.
ammunition left in the house  was exploding, making extinguishing the blaze a little more complicated.
explain why, or why not.
along the way, the place has  changed and so has the time and date, but the past two years the holiday bazaar  has been the first saturday in november at the pagosa springs community center.
gifted with a gritty, honest voice and a solid grasp of country blues guitar, the alaska-based tabor plies his talents to weigh in on topics ranging from love ... to the exploitation of child labor ... to the nuclear annihilation of our planet ...
pam had a front tooth broken off at the gum line and another broken in  half.
the center in the southwestern mountains of montana is operated by u.s. forest service.
day seven, return to san jose for dinner and  prepare for your return to denver on day eight.
huge strides have been made  since may in the analysis and inventory of our road system.
san juan river flow through town ranged from a low of about 140 cubic feet per second to a high of approximately 240 cubic feet per second last week.
and guess what "big-boxes" won't want us either!
they even started a little early because of the huge crowd which had gathered and the fact many were disabled.
esterly believes the code deleted in 1987 needs to be reinstated to improve  the area.
the goal of civic education in the k-12 curriculum today should develop a common bond to unite people of different regions, religions, languages, ages and ethnicities.
they're three weeks into the process, and they've received nearly 200 responses - but need a whole lot more before the deadline expires at 4 p.m., nov. 5.