i noticed  my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
so time was spent tidying up and enjoying what's there.
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for them in the front garden.
on monday, my day off, not much time was given to rest.
well the jungle is now tame enough for me to attend to details.
i have been bringing young  plants in at night and forgot.
being a water moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and coriander today.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year they are very busy multiplying.
i'm very excited about this as i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
this reminded me of how far i've come.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs as well as cabbage.
whatever happens outside,  nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
true to  capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my  potatoes.
the aubergines in the  greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
the moon is waning once again.
indeed this was  the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
borage flowers were also picked.
i  decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already  self seeded.
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my shallots and onions.
so today i'm pricking  out last month's sowings.
waning moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today and tomorrow are good days for it.
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils,  hyacinths and irises.
18/08/11 i love this time of year.
4/04/11 yesterday was the new moon so the moon is now waxing.
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant  in half and pot up both pieces.
leek and  chicken pie-
this is a fungus  which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in  summer.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the  allotment the last few days.
but i'm  also checking the garden.
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
this is truly what spring is all about!!
still, at least i'm not  worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with  weeds.
one of them is so high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
although, virgo being a  working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show on radio london.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means  delicate seedlings are lost.
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this year, things will be different.
i've also been checking the  turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
when these touch the soil, they form roots.
whatever happens outside, nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
being an earth moon, i spent time earthing up my potatoes.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent  in the house.
my seed catalogue arrived today.
it also involves caring for the soil with the preparation of natural feed and ways of controlling pests.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in  fire.
some time on  the allotment!
i have never had blight there and have managed to  pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four  gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
being  rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of  taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything  on.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to  catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
my fuchsias were  hit hard by the winter.
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much later than i should.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new plant.
the moon has been in cancer today.
this  is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
maybe in a month's time.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can  feel that i'm on top of things.
21/11/11 the moon is now in the air sign libra.
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a  terrible cold.
i think my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
it has  outgrown its pot.
this is no longer the case and this means  that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees  that are grafted.
the beans i plan to  blanche and then freeze.
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered  the allotment.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been  sitting in the shed for about two months.
i  don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
blackberries are in abundance now.
last year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
they've already decimated my first sowing.
it may not feel like summer but it still feels like a time of great abundance!
it's only its first year so i'm ok with that.
so today is a  day for reading seed catalogues.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is  shining.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries, pear, peach and cherry trees.
they will be weaker having  produced so much fruit.
that is they grew into  sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
while i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
the slugs  and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my  plantings as their personal supermarket!
so today is a day for reading seed catalogues.
this means that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
this relates to the time of year.
so you  can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's fruit.
it is now  january so you will notice that i am late.
i'll start  to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but
consequently, they need less water and i stop feeding them.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
last week i made apple sauce.
i don't remember an april like this for a very long  time.
but i missed  a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll  attend to that today.
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal  with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
the anser is a  combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
this time i planted turnips, an oriental radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
it's been looking a bit anaemic, so to speak.
13/05/11 virgo is a sign  associated with harvest.
in the meantime, today was spent preparing  yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in  leo.
25/11/11 with the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
i had even put my hosepipe away in the back of the shed.
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off  so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
normal tea has too much  tannin which would acidify the compost.
i harvested from the middle of may to  the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again  in september and carried on into early november.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase  your supply.
but i like to use it to wash my face.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
my seed catalogue arrived  today.
it would be  good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
it's nice to still be sowing seeds at this time of year.
the strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still enough for breakfast.
cape gooseberries/ physallis, did very well last year.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up  above the soil.
the cherry and pear have  finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
today i made blackberry jam.
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning moon will promote good root growth.
it's going to be a busy few days.
so i potted my cucumbers on.
so today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants, seedlings and house plants.
there has been some gardening though.
thankfully, with  the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
finally the bramble bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
the fact that the moon is in  an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
the ground is very hard and so today for the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
does anyone know a rain  dance?
seedlings in pots could  also use a drink.
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks, chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
the courgettes came in too.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year  they are very busy multiplying.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine next year.
they know what they like!
actually, i found that i prefer them a little  riper.
so it was that i found myself picking olives.
slugs seem  to love coriander.
remember doing a  rain dance?
just a bit of weeding and they settled in nicely.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be  pricked out.
the abundance of strawberries means that  there is enough to make strawberry jam.
in preparation for the moon in taurus tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more compost from the recycling centre.
it's very frustrating!!!
as for my beans, well they're looking like i had jack's magic bean.
so liquid feeds are best at this  time.
dinner includes courgettes, peas and mangetout- yum!!!!
last year my greatest success were the strawberries.
but i'm also checking the garden.
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs  as well as cabbage.
my angelica is massive!
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since  yesterday.
11/05/11 next week, i'll be  unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
today iraced to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
they came with couch grass attached.
at this time of  year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
we've had some rain in the south east at the weekend but not enough.
this isn't a moon associated with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden, contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for next year.
my  strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together  by the end of the season.
cornflowers in the pumpkin patch-
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that  acid
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant family.
it's fine, they'll just be a  little late.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
olives are too bitter to be eaten fresh.
pumpkin soup has proved to  be delicious and popular with all my students!
so this year, i've decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
aquarius is not the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month  having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
some of the squash and pumpkin harvest
consequently, they need special care.
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
if you have garlic  that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which  didn't get to go in last time.
the moon is in leo and it's waxing now.
rain would now be most welcome!
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl  later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future  frosts.
if you do so, try to do it early in the day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
i diluted it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf vegetables and herbs.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been  drying basil for the winter.
by then even the beans can be sown outdoors.
it's worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so in the past.
this is a  fruit day.
on the other hand, it might be time to tidy things up a little.
but i missed my chance.
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in  virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
being a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more  peas to put in.
strawberries for breakfast  every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
using clear plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also been effective.
last year they survived our coldest  winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready  supply of greens through the winter.
that's coming tomorrow afternoon.
as you might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden has created large compost heaps.
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes  were also brought in.
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the focus today.
during this phase, the earth is more absorbant.
the ground is  more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
in fact  it wins awards every year.
26/08/11 rain and work have kept  me from the allotment for the last few days.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and  borlotti beans.
it  certainly felt abundant.
the other difference is that during the  sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
you may wonder why, but that is  because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring  allotments.
these need  protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
jackets are in the oven as i write.
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my  overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive hypnotherapy course.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still look quite young.
this means that i was planting in the rain.
this  way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out  those that are too tightly packed.
however, there was a fly in the ointment.
february waning moon in aquarius enjoy the garden!
it was an opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
remember that this includes flowering vegetables too.
it's like being in a sweet shop!
these are beautiful, a much more  simple version of gladioli.
my strawberries are threatening to take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow allotment holders.
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them, they should thrive!!!
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to  last year.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had horns.
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow will be a good day to do it.
although i did leave an undersized  one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show  on radio london.
there are some last vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
30/04/11 the moon is now in aries.
the moon is in pisces and waning.
i also include herbal tea bags.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for  the next cold spell.
of course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the sign most associated with hard work!
the next project  is going to focus on soil and slug  control!!!!
thankfully, it has  already begun to shrink.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in the winter
i'm very excited about this as  i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
so i am now turning to the salsify.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on their way to young carrots!
so with the moon in aquarius, and it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of having to provide steaks for each plant.
in winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether  anything is still dry.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i  continued my focus on fruit.
in the meantime, i prepared a  bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
it feels like summer and yet it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
this made it an ideal day to sow flower seeds.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for  biodymanic gardeners.
they throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least  part cover them with earth.
it feels like summer and yet  it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting the sun.
giant beetroot- september middle of august picking raspberries picking spinach beet and swiss chard 1st apple harvest aubergine flower cucumbers ever growing compost heap runner beans squash and pumpkin patch this month in the garden (times listed are based on gmt) 22:01 sunday 12th
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and pinks.
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive  hypnotherapy course.
of late it's leaves have been  losing their vivid green colour.
so i've watered again today.
the peach is still indoors and that needed a feed too.
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
the moon  will be in cancer
i drank the scent of some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
if that's a sign of things to come,  i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my preserves.
otherwise  i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
this is an earth sign so i focused on  earthy matters.
i'm looking  forward to being back there again tomorrow.
the moon is now in scorpio.
this is only the first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
if it rains, i  won't need to.
water moons are foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
thankfully this is a smell
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking  out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
in fact it wins awards every year.
winter arrived early last year.
although i'd have preferred to have done this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
the heat in the last couple of days has changed everything.
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then  digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready to plant in a border.
it was lovely to do  so in warm sunshine for a change!
i shared  it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
the peach already has tiny peaches forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
this time though the moon has  been in gemini.
i had begun to grow impatient and a  little worried that it might be dead!
look out for it, the smell is  simply delicious.
i have never had blight there and have managed to pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
this surprised me as i though it would be too wet.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and flowering vegetables.
i got an  early harvest from a few last week.
having always loved parsnips, i planted many-
if you do so, try to do it early in the  day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
i had hoped to have this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get round to it.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries  but with less regularity.
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay  soil were limited.
i still feel my profound  shock!
if they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
on the subject of tomatoes,  at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were  just beginning to ripen.
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this blog.
the moon was still in libra this afternoon.
water too  much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
i did plant one outdoors though just to see  how it does.
it is now january so you will notice that i am late.
so today was the day.
i ran out of time today but tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
it has been full of seedlings.
yesterday, i picked my first ripe strawberry.
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers were planted on the allotment.
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have grown them in rows.
however, there is a silver lining.
winter signs, signs related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice are signs of ascending energy.
i wasn't worried though as  it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
september- sharing the beauty with a friend.
i'm now happier about my nectarine tree too.
this is the joy of winter.
having said that, it clearly shows my unease over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
central heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to spray them so as to increase humidity.
i will leave it for a while and then when it is suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old  stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
my thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
i've been picking the unaffected  fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's required.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in  the winter but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be  getting the rain.
25/10/11 autumn is the time in which we lay the groundwork for next year.
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if  i did that now, they'd still be ok.
a busy gardening  day today.
25/05/11 today the moon is in pisces.
i'm also going to be sowing some annual  seeds.
at this time of year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
1/11/11 the moon has been in capricorn today.
the moon was still waning in an air moon.
it is still waning so it was a good day to cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
then plant it and you'll find a new  plant growing soon.
i am also providing a gardening calendar each week so that you can plan your gardening week.
as you have read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french  onion soups in the coming months!
the greatest  disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and  snails.
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
i have, however, been thinking and planning.
this year's wonderful  crop were self seeded.
i left a bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit, although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world domination as its aim.
20/07/11 rain, rain and more rain.
this is an air sign so it's a day for flowers.
look out for it, the smell is simply delicious.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and  flowering vegetables.
one thing that has helped is that i've let grass grow over my paths.
the peach already has tiny peaches  forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
as much as i'm looking forward to the start  of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
i find this to be the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
i tried to water the allotment  today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
it's one of the few places where we still find community spirit.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my  misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody  would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
a busy gardening day today.
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have  decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be gooseberry  jam.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's growth.
i feel an experiement coming on.
pumpkin soup has proved to be delicious and popular with all my students!
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach  which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
i wasn't worried though as it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke away, thus creating new plants.
my site isn't that big
this is enough time to take some cuttings from mint and peppermint.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it  with water.
the  currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
they seem to love cabbage  and coriander!
crop rotation is very  necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with  certain crops from building up in the soil.
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today would have been the perfect day.
last year my  greatest success were the strawberries.
5/11/11 those who read  this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle  has been with slugs and snails.
the moon is now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
so this year, i've  decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
liquid seaweed or if you're close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to make it stretch a little.
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the birds away.
being an earth sign, taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
water your house plants and any container plants in the garden that might be in need.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been  expected after two weeks!
driving into the south east from wales, i became very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
they don't stand a chance!!!
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier that a fish might have had a good time!
rain and work have continued to keep me  away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my  fruit.
sweet and creamy beyond any  parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed  her a cleared plot.
this is a waxing moon in leo.
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and  looking lovely.
although last night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana  seedlings left by the slugs!
i'm going to harvest the seed to sow.
the ground is very hard and so today for  the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store them in the same way that i store potatoes.
this means that it was my only  chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
i love the old name (love in a mist), it's so romantic!
i  also sowed another variety of peas.
while  i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
does anyone know a rain dance?
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
so today they were pricked out- planted into  small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
replacements were promptly and generously  offered as she said she had too many.
on monday, my day off,  not much time was given to rest.
they know  what they like!
happily, there is less to do at this time of year.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or carrots?
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
in the meantime my compost heap is more like a hill!
3/09/11 it was wonderful to  have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
so i decided to plant half in the green house  with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be done.
there's usually a second chance for most things.
ideally, i would have done it when the moon was last in capricorn
it was lovely to be in the  sunshine doing this.
the latter were started off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
in fact they had begun to sprout on their own.
i'm loving  the autumn
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and soothing.
so wonderful to have a sunny afternoon as it's been rather gloomy lately.
christmas got in the way last week.
i also spent some time looking after my cabbages.
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much  later than i should.
after teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and courgettes by a friend.
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted shapes.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
i also sowed some more  spring onion seeds.
the moon has been in  aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
well i knew the moon in leo was going to be busy...
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers  were planted on the allotment.
liquid seaweed or if you're  close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
i gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring slugs!!!!
these are very large and growing in containers.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before they ripen.
first  job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
yesterday, my day off, was exceptionally busy!
i'm looking at everything and thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
in addition to my usual blog about astrological events, on this page i am writing about my experiences as a biodynamic gardener in a special blog.
this is a most unexpected and welcome surprise!
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon  in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green which is poisonous.
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour  and ripen for the first time.
it is still waning so it was a good day to  cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants, they will have a dedicated space.
you can plant them very deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas eve.
this year's  crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be  bigger!
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if i did that now, they'd still be ok.
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a  client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want  them to ripen before the frosts.
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that acid
every gardener i know has complained about their over-abundance this year.
this is the other reason why i love being on my allotment.
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the  season.
i also sowed more  parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
i have  larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up  there!
the most i've done is water the house plants.
so i'm looking through the catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
ideally you would have done that earlier in the season though.
30/06/11 today's harvest was gooseberries.
although i did leave an undersized one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
19/04/11 the moon is now waning.
the moon is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon  for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
now my original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a moon for enjoying the garden.
as the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your fruit.
a very new feeling and a very  enjoyable one!
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and herbs.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant, but it it necessary.
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the  potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
today though, i took advantage of the fact that the moon is waning in an air sign.
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few weeks ago.
11/05/11 next week, i'll be unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
they are making delicious apples tarts!!!
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i continued to focus on root vegetables.
in the meantime my compost heap is more  like a hill!
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning  and in sagittarius.
i can hear them shivering already!
then there is the rose  garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun  in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
after putting the wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
february- 17:31 tuesday 21st
1/05/11 as the moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach, nectarine and plum trees.
it was a very satisfying thing  to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
this is obvious as we can see its influence on the tides, which are higher.
flowers need a waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
they need to be  measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
so i decided to plant half in the green house with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
it means that  watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue  to be delicious!
the abundance of strawberries means that there is enough to make strawberry jam.
my breakfasts are changing, and reflecting the end of the season too.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least part cover them with earth.
i find this to be  the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
this is a sign of renewal.
the mild weather so far has meant that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the  rest of my allotment.
with a little protection from the  worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early  spring.
so it was  that i found myself picking olives.
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense  payable by death!
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head  out.
this afternoon  the moon will go into libra.
it has outgrown its pot.
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in  future.
my mouth is already watering!
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and  flowers for the next couple of weeks.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase your supply.
the green ones are ripening on a widow sill.
delicious but confusing!!!
one of my students brought me a bag of apples  from her tree and some apple chutney!
so for example, garlic and onions  should be planted on different beds each year.
my partner went back to the recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
dinner includes courgettes, peas and  mangetout- yum!!!!
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
picking them in the sunshine was heavenly.
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once again.
that is to say, it's too early for all the early  summer crops and the winter crops are done.
this  means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground  and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
more lettuce, coriander  and cabbages.
it is waxing so it's not an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
that's exactly what i  did yesterday.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of  seed.
if you don't you're  leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if  you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room  because the curtains act like a barrier.
have a go and you'll be healthier throug the winter.
but take care that you don't use too much in one meal as it's it's high in oxalic acid.
my strawberries are flowering again!
well i think it's time we did a sun dance!!!
the allotment is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
but i'll enjoy trying.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my  preserves.
i can look forward to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
i'll just check  to see all is as it should be.
i think  i'll put my feet up now!
it's  only its first year so i'm ok with that.
i also bought one of my favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
if you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
the oldest of the heaps is about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when the moon goes into libra.
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to)  the favourite appears to be parsnips.
today  i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and it was very pleasant indeed.
as  you have  read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
the oldest of the heaps is  about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the  planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when  the moon goes into libra.
i  think i might just be in time.
but the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
one of many very large onions!
if you have garlic that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
i have been bringing young plants in at night and forgot.
that's it for the mini greenhouse!
coming home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment again in very hot sun.
i  find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer  weather.
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it  yet, there's still time.
so i'll prick them out today and  put them in the mini-greenhouse.
the same feed that i use for the camellia and magnolia should help.
as a biodynamic gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn to then bury it.
the tomatoes have been fed, as have the olives.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more  vulnerable.
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i  continued to focus on root vegetables.
i  can't believe my luck!
this afternoon the moon will go into libra.
she then looked at my gigantic compost heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of crocus.
and i was getting concerned about losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
happily the harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference, the flavour is still good
if it doesn't  shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do  some thinning myself.
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand some rough treatment.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to  compost.
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants,  they will have a dedicated space.
it's the  first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like something out of a parsnip horror movie!
this is for the benefit of my plants not my dinner.
happily all of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
the  moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been  feeding my fruit.
now, we're enjoying a hot dry spell, we have a reprieve.
i had hoped to have had everything in  order before christmas.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
a waxing moon in a fire sign means it's a planting day.
the moon was still in capricorn this morning
they  then become poisonous.
it was lovely to do so in warm sunshine for a change!
seeds are not good news as the plant will then put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and producing tubers (potatoes).
my fuchsias were hit hard by the winter.
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that  annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
it's all about flowers, including broccoli.
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
waning moons are good for harvesting and preserving.
i'll continue to do so for a bit longer.
the  annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries but with less regularity.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
however, care is needed with young seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
she then looked at my gigantic compost  heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
it's  leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
last  year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
as blackcurrants are rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the smallest sign of colds.
if they peep  above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
blacurrants need the oldest and weakest branches removed.
although we think of these as vegetables what we eat are the plants flowers.
not without visiting the shop first, of course!
these too were  removed.
my thoughts have also been on composting.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent in the house.
it's only because i have taken to covering it at night.
today i plan to finish the job.
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the rest of my allotment.
the moon is in leo, whilst still  waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground  is more absorbant.
if it doesn't shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do some thinning myself.
consequently gardeners often recommend  that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the  harvest.
so i'm looking through the  catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
i  harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a  good supply of pollen for bees.
they too deserved a feed.
wednesday 29th february waxing moon in taurus
thank god it was a dream.
it's an exciting experiement.
i do hope the  slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
tomatoes have  blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
toes to reach the top which is above my head!
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple  sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the  clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the  local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to  make it stretch a little.
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has  revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads  and stir fries.
i need to do the same for my cranberry.
also when there were bowls in the fridge and the fridge was opened, you were hit by the smell of strawberries.
it turned out to be the perfect easter  morning!
26/08/11 rain and work have kept me from the allotment for the last few days.
now my  original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
6/10/11 the moon is in aquarius today.
this makes it easier to plan crop rotation.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone to rot
first month, looking a little bare-
so i cut off the dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful  qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
sadly, my hunt continues.
i'm also planning to make a strawberry sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes, etc.
the bonus yesterday was finding a tiny brown lizard.
they then become poisonous.
i'll let you know the results in due course.
a couple  of days ago it was much smaller!
i'm also planning to make a strawberry  sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes,  etc.
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be
there wasn't any time for gardening
given that i'm late, this could be a good thing.
i'll be harvesting more potatoes, checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new compost heap.
june is the month  when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
when i was a teacher, children were always more hyper around the full moon.
delicious but  confusing!!!
but, things are beginning to wind down now.
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be  far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we  haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
not without visiting  the shop first, of course!
jam, jellies,  tonics, and sauces have been made.
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this  coming week.
i'll be sowing more tomato seeds along with more peas.
redcurrant  jelly next!
that means that this is a  fruit day.
fingers crossed it will all be well!
31/08/11 the moon is in  libra today.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be pricked out.
actually, i found that i prefer them a little riper.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second  crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous  year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's  fruit.
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with rain.
as for the olives, they're a bonus.
i dug them up and put  them in the greenhouse.
so it's well worth the effort!
so  i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth  sign.
these were immediately removed.
with a little protection from the worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early spring.
i'll just check to see all is as it should be.
everyone who ate them, loved  them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
this being a waning water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green house.
last year they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly any light available for them.
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
if you  still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
i've also been checking the turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
this is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
they are late but as they are winter  hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
any fruit trees or shrubs which  are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now  need a feed.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had to start another one.
i'm so glad that i openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
the moon is  now in scorpio.
tricky and  fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
happily it did rain this morning, but not enough.
the other difference is that during the sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into  seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
12/02/12 snow, and another week of my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
she also said that even if the tops go  green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
i'm itching to go back on monday.
i hope they survive the night!
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in  the garden.
being rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into  insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
they need to be measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
it was like having a potting shed, but warmer.
i've also noticed that my olive tree is in bloom.
today was much more pleasant.
descending in energy.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great  joy!
they're looking big and healthy so  should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is shining.
my grapes may well be edible soon!
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed her a cleared plot.
this is ideal for  putting in the bath but i like to use it to wash my face.
my strawberries are threatening to  take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow  allotment holders.
the ground is more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
1/05/11 as the  moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach,  nectarine and plum trees.
1/06/11 today was a quiet day in gardening terms.
with any luck  this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon was in scorpio as they were too small.
so in they will go, with my fingers firmly crossed.
this is enough time to take some  cuttings from mint and peppermint.
9 very heavy bags of "the good stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that  whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb  without division into separate cloves.
i  gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring  slugs!!!!
otherwise i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
as this is my last chance to have these this year,  i think it was worth getting out of bed.
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for them to be out.
on a much more  cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for  focusing on fruit.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana seedlings left by the slugs!
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy  perennial- dianthus.
that will be quite enough  for today.
it was  like having a potting shed, but warmer.
3/11/11 early spring  often is holds a hungry gap.
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy perennial- dianthus.
biodynamic gardening has turned into quite an adventure.
happily my shallots are  ready to be lifted.
my  mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season  as it's about to get very busy indeed.
indeed this was the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
before watering  them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
this year's crop is mine.
but i also did another important job.
if  they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
this week i'm making mincemeat for the  mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
the idea is that between the moon in  capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well  there.
they are an indulgence wich will provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
and i was rewarded when i got home, with some blossom on my nectarine tree!
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them,  they should thrive!!!
15/09/11 the moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been feeding my fruit.
so i soaked the roots in a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a container.
this is a tricky operation as they are in pots.
27/10/11 with the moon in scorpio, the focus is on herbs and leaf vegetables.
so it's lacking in something, probably iron.
of course, i also picked strawberries.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to compost.
they seem to love cabbage and coriander!
the thing is that  today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
but it is also a good time to prune, and feed.
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store  of onions will be dwindling by then.
low light levels are to blame.
although thre isn't much of it at this time of year, i'm looking ahead.
29/04/11 more seed sowing today.
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
i'm getting a bit  desperate.
28/05/11 the moon is still in  aries.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the countryside.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the allotment the last few days.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i continued my focus on fruit.
i also sowed more parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which  believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the season.
instead it's porridge with apples  and cinnamon.
still it is done and already half full of weeds!!!
the bonus came when we were chatting  about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to  the onslaught of slugs and snails.
i'll also be feeding my japanese laurel.
but happily the moon will still be  waxing when it goes into libra next week.
the most i've done is water  the house plants.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening, but these days are just right for enjoyment!
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
aquarius is not  the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air  sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
i also harvested the first lot of onions.
vegetables don’t come clean and prepared from the plot.
i planted more parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots, celeriac and spring onions.
so it's time to feed fruit like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and squashes.
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the  curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
the  moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
having spent all summer last year clearing brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds that were dormant on the plot.
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and  herbs.
i ran out of time today but  tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
i fed the tomatoes, figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
i also fed other fruit like figs and the olives.
18/04/11 a beautiful day today
this  means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other  leaves.
air moons are flower days but as the moon  was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
true to capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my potatoes.
31/08/11 the moon is in libra today.
happily, there is less to do at this time  of year.
a very pleasant hour was spent and they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus was on fruit.
this is an  air sign so it's a day for flowers.
i weeded  around them and applied a dressing of compost.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on  their way to young carrots!
the link  between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a  plant is largely made up of water.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy  yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
my mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season as it's about to get very busy indeed.
this is also the time to cut back autumn  flowering raspberries.
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly  deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake  of my cauliflowers!
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for  next year.
i want it to get bigger before planting it.
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
today the moon has been in cancer.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
last year i battled through wind, rain and mud to harvest in winter.
i'm so glad that i  openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
february waxing moon in pisces new moon 22:34-
the peppers can ripen on the window sill.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been sitting in the shed for about two months.
but everytime the moon was right,  i was too busy and ran out of time.
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the rain is back!!!
i now smell of tomatoes.
water moons are related to foliage plants and these are best delt with on a waning moon.
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds, pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
the potatoes are more than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
however, the beds in which i planted  my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s  life- couch grass.
but i missed a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll attend to that today.
the perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
13/01/11 more fruit went in today.
the apple blossom is exquisite.
the new canes are also quite tall now and needed staking.
this means  that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very  bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects  around to pollinate fully.
i found it in three pieces!
http://www.youtube.com/user/lifeastrologer?feature=mhee 4/10/11 with the moon in capricorn, the emphasis has been on roots.
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will hopefully be fryable by next spring!
air sign days are flower days, so my thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to come.
in the meantime, today was spent preparing yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in leo.
potatoes, that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
i'm also pricking out sweet corn and more tomatoes.
you can already see the little peaches forming on it.
the sun is shining again today.
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and  sowing some now and some in spring.
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will  try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better  time to do it anyway.
the prevents them from growing  so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
having spent all summer last year clearing  brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds  that were dormant on the plot.
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is  slow, gruelling work.
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
i noticed my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or descending in energy.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's  growth.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a change.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great joy!
21/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jh9yoimnvoa the moon has been in pisces today.
the rule is that when the moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf vegetables.
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very  statuesque.
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with  blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening,  but these days are just right for enjoyment!
there are some suckers on my peach tree which need to be removed.
click on the link and enjoy!
also remember  that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
however, during dry periods, i also water on waxing moons.
i found it in  three pieces!
today i've been  planning where everything will be grown next year.
with  the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
the rule is that when the  moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf  vegetables.
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries  indoors 14:29 sunday 26th
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the  focus today.
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons  too.
they would look around  they said and let me know.
the hardest part is done.
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
i covered them with  plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage  around them.
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for  breakfast.
my plot was a jungle of  brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to do.
today the moon is in pisces.
then  that will be it for the winter.
so it's time to feed fruit  like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and  squashes.
after putting the  wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot  which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
the deluge will undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
the moon has been in aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
this is not the best time to deal with fruit.
so with the moon in aquarius, and  it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
a very simple,  necessary and satisfying  job that can be done even with a migraine.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the  countryside.
wonderful as my course was, i missed my allotment!!
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce, spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course which meant that there was no time for gardening.
aquarius is not a great  day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
on the other hand, it  might be time to tidy things up a little.
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my hollyhocks.
today's job was to get rid of the grass.
this is no longer the case and this means that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
actually, that will only happen if the rain  stops.
then you clear it again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in capricorn.
i harvested  more potatoes, some of which are massive.
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce,  spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
this morning i planted  carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
so i'll prick them out today and put them in the mini-greenhouse.
it would be good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this  afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
the allotment  is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
they are late but as they are winter hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
ideally they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
i'd better get started.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready  to plant in a border.
this is because of the shorter days.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and  it was very pleasant indeed.
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold nights.
interestingly, last year this didn't happen.
i'm  so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
in the last few days with  tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be  done.
and i am very spoiled.
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
i tried to water the allotment today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
it's time consuming but at least it helps.
of  course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the  sign most associated with hard work!
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be  possible.
this is an earth sign so i focused on earthy matters.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish planting all fruit.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to  harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward  to something in the future!
i say half, it  sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
so once again, i noticed that some of my  raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
on the subject of tomatoes, at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were just beginning to ripen.
26/10/11 the moon is now in scorpio.
yesterday, with the sunny weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
you may wonder why, but that is because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring allotments.
tulips are expensive but unreliable.
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this  blog.
it was an  opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and  pinks.
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather,  preferably with frost.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips  will be straight this time!
3/11/11 early spring often is holds a hungry gap.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more peas to put in.
i seem to cross my fingers frequently  when gardening!
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to  find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will  hopefully be fryable by next spring!
i'm looking at everything and  thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
i drank the scent of  some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
6/01/12 today the moon has been in gemini.
those going in now will mean an earlier display.
in fact there were four.
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very  thoroughly again today.
this means that everything is soaked about once a week.
the  moon was still waning in an air moon.
so  today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants,  seedlings and house plants.
i had begun to grow impatient and a little worried that it might be dead!
just one more row to bring in.
but i'm also looking forward to spring!
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
as blackcurrants are  rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the  smallest sign of colds.
frosts in october and snow by the end of  november.
i dug them up and put them in the greenhouse.
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so  they are producing seed.
in fact the idea is that if you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then you do it again when the moon is in leo.
i'll wait for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes into libra.
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very statuesque.
i then began to dig  the new compost into the area.
flowers need a  waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant,  but it it necessary.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for the next cold spell.
next, i saw to the tomatoes.
half not believing what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
my partner went back to the  recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
as a biodynamic  gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn  to then bury it.
the only fruit trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
quiet days in the garden are good days to do little jobs.
- guestbook the moon and biodynamics
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard, spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
these are  very large and growing in containers.
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already  prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch  grass.
she also said that even if the tops go green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
today's job is to split the peppermint.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a chance.
24/05/11 being on holiday is wonderful, but coming home is always a delight for me.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's  always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
after quizzical looks, i explained my dilemma.
ideally you would  have done that earlier in the season though.
so i tidied up my sorrel.
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue to be delicious!
i think i'm just ready!
i'm just glad it's alive.
air moons are flower days but as the moon was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
so in they will go, with my fingers  firmly crossed.
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to  help with burns.
this year the focus has been on getting  the allotments in order whilst planting.
this time i planted turnips, an oriental  radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the  experience as the rain was quite soft.
i planted more  parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots,  celeriac and spring onions.
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had  the time to do much with them.
i wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter conjunction!
before watering them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new  plant.
and i'm still thinking about what to do with the  whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
they're looking big and healthy so should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
they would look around they said and let me know.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a daily basis.
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still  picking strawberries and raspberries.
it's  all very exciting!
this is very exciting as i've never made  compost before!
it means that watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it  all looks!
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this  year, things will be different.
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this  year!
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold  nights.
being  a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
these are simply wonderful and there are few pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's day!
i do hope the slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
i'll continue to do so for a bit  longer.
to this end, i spent the better part of yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
crop rotation is very necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with certain crops from building up in the soil.
february- 14:29 sunday 26th
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green  house.
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good  for planting.
so a very busy day ahead!
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful  compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
being an earth sign,  taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
you could also  divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then  pulling the two plants apart.
frosts in october and snow by the end of november.
although last  night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
the moon is now waning in the sign of  leo so it's time to do some pruning.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same reason.
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday in spain!
the moon is in aries.
there's usually a second chance for  most things.
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow  will be a good day to do it.
it may not feel like summer but it still  feels like a time of great abundance!
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries indoors 14:29 sunday 26th february- 02:26
i harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
fingers crossed, i'll have my first harvest this year!
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for this burst of activity.
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers  already visible.
i shared it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
the moon is  indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
this enables the tree to concentrate its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas  eve.
2/08/11 with the moon in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
there are some suckers on my peach tree  which need to be removed.
i can look forward  to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
28/05/11 the moon is still in aries.
the moon was still in aquarius.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
happily the  harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference,  the flavour is still good
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning and in sagittarius.
at the moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
happily my shallots are ready to be lifted.
this way they are big  enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the harvest.
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
it's my first time doing all of  this.
this way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out those that are too tightly packed.
the fact that the moon is in an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
the idea is that between the moon in capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
a seed tray containing half parsnips and  half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
i still feel my profound shock!
so much to do that i'd better get started.
in  the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is  taking refuge from the winter indoors.
30/09/11 moon in  scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used its leaves to make another batch.
fingers crossed once again.
this of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
they taste sweeter like a cross between a melon and a grape.
the battle with slugs continues.
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in future.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed this up.
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend  to flowers.
one of them is so  high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the  rain is back!!!
jam, jellies, tonics, and sauces have been made.
growing them on the allotment made them prone to blight.
it will take a  few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some  overgrown fields.
i have probably left them on the bush a bit longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that everything else had to wait.
the prevents them from growing so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring  them in.
the mild weather has  also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
these are simply wonderful and there are few  pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's  day!
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to  work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as  possible.
i also have a fig and a cranberry that need to be potted on.
also remember that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and borlotti beans.
it  feels like i'm ready for winter.
we can also feel its effect on us .
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to  get the time to be on the allotment.
this means that i can have a continuous supply of peppermint tea next year.
with today's moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
the moon is now waxing again and it's in aquarius.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and  fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still  look quite young.
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but  i wanted to be free!
the mild weather has also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
so a happy medium  is needed.
one thing that has helped is that i've let  grass grow over my paths.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great  time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some  runners.
using clear  plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also  been effective.
redcurrants  will be turned into a jelly
11/04/11 today is a good day to enjoy the garden.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as they are from the same family.
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked  a bit tatty.
a very simple, necessary and satisfying job that can be done even with a migraine.
the cherry and pear have finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
it's been two weeks since i was on  the allotment.
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose  water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
the slugs and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my plantings as their personal supermarket!
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for  them to be out.
they have now been  marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next  year.
it feels as though summer has begun very early too.
water moons are  foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a  waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
it's only  because i have taken to covering it at night.
i had hoped to have had everything in order before christmas.
this week i'm making mincemeat for the mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
in the uk, i've only ever seen these on tv.
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes were also brought in.
little seedlings cropping up all around their bed.
7/05/11 watering the garden needs to be carefully judged.
olives are too  bitter to be eaten fresh.
borage  flowers were also picked.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been expected after two weeks!
i'm looking forward to being back there again tomorrow.
i also collected some marigolds to add to the gel from my aloe vera plant.
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
today with the moon in  capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay soil were limited.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being  frozen.
normal tea has too much tannin which would acidify the compost.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i had no time for gardening.
the problem is that they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
this time i've put them somewhere safe- indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with molluscs!
as for the olives, they're  a bonus.
it's hard to believe now,
you can grow bean sprouts, alfalfa and lettuce.
it is possible to get nemetodes that predate on slugs.
i think i'll try to get a hold of some.
but planting my beans will have to wait as it's a waning moon.
remember that this includes  flowering vegetables too.
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs  have had every plant so far.
still on the subject of fruit, i had my first figs today!
if that's a sign of things to come, i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
if you're  wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a  window sill.
20/08/11 the moon has been in taurus today.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well there.
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's harsh spell.
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
and so it was  that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in  the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the  little crevices cleaned.
the rain is keeping me off the allotment  this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
the deluge will  undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
so perfect for dealing with all fruit matters.
it's a great alternative to spinach in soups, and sauces.
it's been two weeks since i was on the allotment.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy them now.
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs have had every plant so far.
specifically, i needed to check on my peach and nectarine trees.
these are easily grown in  containers.
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow  any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
so i've  watered again today.
water too much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
at the  moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
during this period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of grapes!!!!
i fed the tomatoes,  figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
then plant it and you'll find a new plant growing soon.
since having an allotment, i have developed an interest in biodynamics.
actually the important thing is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these would attract mice and rats.
however, the moon is linked with the earth all the time, so its energy does affect us all the time.
so the potatoes have all been harvested which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and easily accessable.
tomatoes have blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
water moons are related to foliage plants and  these are best delt with on a waning moon.
so liquid feeds are best at this time.
the  sun is shining again today.
the moon is  in pisces and waning.
strawberries for breakfast every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
at least now i'm only weeding the beds!
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it yet, there's still time.
it's nice to be picking  strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are  the apples.
i'll be harvesting more potatoes,  checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new  compost heap.
i think it's reducing in the more established  parts of the plot so there is hope!
i did plant one outdoors though just to see how it does.
but it  is also a good time to prune, and feed.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up above the soil.
this time it was especially so as i returned to ripe strawberries.
you can also sow cress and lettuce that you can pick and eat while growing on the window sill.
tomorrow is my day off.
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need  a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
this means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other leaves.
it was lovely to be in the sunshine doing this.
i think i may have been too late but time will tell.
i'll start to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square metres but very satisfying.
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my  hollyhocks.
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the  moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my  shallots and onions.
then that will be it for the winter.
even my pets seem to have been more needy at this time of the month; and of course we know that some police forces have admitted to having more officers on duty at the time of the full moon because statistically they can see that there are more incidents aroud this time.
scorpio being a water sign, it's a day for dealing with leaf vegetables.
12/02/12 snow, and another week of  my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
6/04/11 what a glorious sunny day!!!
although i'd have preferred  to have done  this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the  plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or
as it's  a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as possible.
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm  chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
with any luck this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
i seem to cross my fingers frequently when gardening!
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning  moon will promote good root growth.
half not believing  what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
in the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is taking refuge from the winter indoors.
this is not the best time for  planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went  to the rhs gardens at wisley.
it's been a while since my last blog, but  i have continued to work on my allotment.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke  away, thus creating new plants.
i think i'll be harvesting  fennel.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy  them now.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple  trees.
spring has been very dry here and the ground is hard.
but happily the moon will still be waxing when it goes into libra next week.
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i  sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce  and radiccio.
however, the two that are on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
i can never leave without a new addition for the  garden.
this is something to look forward to tomorrow.
i planted my last batch in november  but ran out of time.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another  day!
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has decomposed.
you can already see the little peaches  forming on it.
in preparation for the moon in taurus  tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more  compost from the recycling centre.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots  outdoors were dry.
i planted my last batch in november but ran out of time.
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since yesterday.
so you can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
one of my beds needed some attention, clearing weeds, etc.
planting will be done at a more ideal time.
14/09/11 raspberries can be tricky to prune.
consequently i was left with two gooseberries and a handful of redcurrants.
this is the other reason why i love being  on my allotment.
i also planted salsify and some more  red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
february waning moon in scorpio sow some vegetables or herbs indoors, greenhouses or propagators.
with the moon in  a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and  fat in the early spring.
i have probably left them on the bush a bit  longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that  everything else had to wait.
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
my  thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
you might enjoy a little  video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once  again.
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient  in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
so for example, garlic and onions should be planted on different beds each year.
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather, preferably with frost.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries,  pear, peach and cherry trees.
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
well a few of them met their  maker this afternoon.
2/08/11 with the moon  in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees that are grafted.
so once again, i noticed that some of my raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
i had hoped to have  this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get  round to it.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can feel that i'm on top of things.
a couple of days ago it was much smaller!
the same feed that i use for the  camellia and magnolia should help.
but biodynamic preparations also have some links with homeopathic principles.
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want them to ripen before the frosts.
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the experience as the rain was quite soft.
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in the garden.
so  it's time to prune and feed.
these may need watering more frequently if the weather is dry.
i think i found  heaven!
with the moon in a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and fat in the early spring.
the thing is that today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
this is for the benefit of my  plants not my dinner.
perhaps pruning could wait until next week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better time to do it anyway.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it out before planting.
having been up late, i found myself at one in  the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
this means that it was my only chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
although this  appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
this is only the  first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
with the moon in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
this is a fire sign and so there is a link with fruit.
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and looking lovely.
this means that i was  planting in the rain.
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring them in.
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have  grown them in rows.
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which didn't get to go in last time.
my attention was turned to fruit.
that is to say, it's too early for all the early summer crops and the winter crops are done.
this morning i planted carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so  today is a flower day.
there is, however, always weeding.
happily, it all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon  was in scorpio as they were too small.
you know they are at their sweetest when you can pick them easily.
the anser is a combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
but there is a simple rule.
any fruit trees or shrubs which are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now need a feed.
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense payable by death!
two lost parsnips, minimal losses.
last year  they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were  growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly  any light available for them.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible  potatoes.
being outdoors was not an option.
they don't develop deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
driving into the south east from wales, i became  very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
today iraced  to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a terrible cold.
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of  having to provide steaks for each plant.
although, virgo being a working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
winter signs, signs  related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice  are signs of ascending energy.
suckers need to be removed as they drain the tree from its energy.
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday  in spain!
today the moon has been in aries.
this means that i can have a continuous supply  of peppermint tea next year.
still at last there is hope!
with the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
so my beans and two more varieties of squashes went in.
the mild weather so far has meant  that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign  in the garden.
i'm so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
i can't believe my luck!
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign),  today is the day.
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to) the favourite appears to be parsnips.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots outdoors were dry.
it's very large and in a container in the garden.
there has been a big shift with the quality of my strawberries.
i'm looking forward to a little time on the allotment- well about half an hour.
with the moon in capricorn, an  earth sign, roots are the focus.
i have larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
my plot was a jungle of brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
i didn't manage to get everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my allotment planting peas.
they are late but  previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
and good stuff it is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and other rooty delights.
26/06/11 jupiter is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
i also sowed some parsnip and celeriac seeds.
that's why it's a good time to start now for  delicious sensations next year!
i think it's reducing in the more established parts of the plot so there is hope!
actually the important thing  is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these  would attract mice and rats.
runners are the way in which strawberries propagate themselves.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with  young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain  would arrive tonight.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more vulnerable.
but still there are weeds!
i don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
potatoes,  that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
the moon is  in scorpio and this is a water sign.
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be possible.
21st water house plants 02:47 friday 24th
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard,  spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
i  wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter  conjunction!
of late it's leaves have been losing their vivid green colour.
mine were obviously tastier!!!
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun  during the ripening stage.
my garden  is small, but it is walled.
2/11/11 the moon is in aquarius.
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and celery.
i have yet to net them, so they have had little protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
that will be quite enough for today.
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out  their heads all over.
today with the moon in capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had the time to do much with them.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground is more absorbant.
beans and peas could use a boost too.
the rain is keeping me off the allotment this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french onion soups in the coming months!
happily, today moon and time coincided so i  spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's  harsh spell.
this is ideal for putting in the bath
i think i found heaven!
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square  metres but very satisfying.
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and  celery.
consequently gardeners often recommend that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be getting the rain.
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers already visible.
i also planted salsify and some more red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to help with burns.
wednesday 29th february
i'm getting a bit desperate.
if you don't you're leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room because the curtains act like a barrier.
leo moons are a good time to do some weeding.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads and stir fries.
sweet and creamy beyond any parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the  birds away.
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out  of time.
00:56 wednesday 15th
as it's a waning moon though, there isn't much to do.
redcurrants will be turned into a jelly
i'm often asked what goes into my compost bin.
however, the beds in which i planted my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s life- couch grass.
it makes me look forward to next year  already!
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the high winds and rain that we had in june.
i've been picking the unaffected fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
this means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
17/05/11 the moon is waning once again.
ideally, i would have  done it when the moon was last in capricorn
if like me, you are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another day!
19/08/11 with the moon still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
i'm looking forward to having them in the early spring.
30/11/11 today the moon is in aquarius.
it certainly felt abundant.
they will be weaker having produced so much fruit.
it turned out to be the perfect easter morning!
it's been a hot day and it was wonderful to be outdoors.
this is important as it will help air  circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent  spreading of fungus.
i'm also sowing some  turnips.
in the meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by  ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
i wasn't expecting any for another month.
you could also divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then pulling the two plants apart.
19/08/11 with the moon  still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered the allotment.
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some  attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
these are easily grown in containers.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed  to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with  a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for  them in the front garden.
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with compost.
aquarius is not a great day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
ana isabel - life astrologer - home page - ana isabel - astrology - hypnotherapy - media - myspiritradio/lightways - blog - moon/ biodynamicsblog - college of psychic studi - astrology lodge london - readings - workshops - distance learning - talks - spirit and destiny magaz - kindred spirit magazine - find your moon sign - cusp dates - mercury retrograde - testimonials - contact
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store of onions will be dwindling by then.
it just goes to show what poor light levels we've had.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used  its leaves to make another batch.
the peach is still  indoors and that needed a feed too.
so it's time to prune and feed.
so i'll be checking on my herbs.
happily, it  all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
this made it an ideal day  to sow flower seeds.
i decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already self seeded.
so i planted some aquilegias,  also known as columbines.
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring  that there's a bit of root attached to it.
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted  shapes.
tricky and fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
this year the focus has been on getting the allotments in order whilst planting.
slugs seem to love coriander.
my bramley apples are enourmous.
this way they are big enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
this is useful as it encourages strong root growth.
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for  this burst of activity.
being outdoors was not an  option.
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to get the time to be on the allotment.
and i'm still thinking about what to do with the whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a good supply of pollen for bees.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of seed.
this is truly what spring  is all about!!
a second, albeit lesser crop is coming.
this is not the best time for planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went to the rhs gardens at wisley.
the moon  is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant  family.
that is they grew into sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch grass.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of   grapes!!!!
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting  the sun.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a  chance.
the beans  are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we  approach the end of summer.
my attention was  turned to fruit.
i then checked the spinach  beet and swiss chard.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra,  so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always  tomorrow.
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still  plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
i only have two more left ripening on the tree.
but  the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed  me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
however, care is needed with young  seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back  the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
the moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common  vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store  them in the same way that i store potatoes.
yesterday, with the sunny  weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
removing the leaves at this point doesn't  worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or  carrots?
an easier job was the planting of sweet cicely.
in fact the idea is that if  you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then  you do it again when the moon is in leo.
it feels like i'm ready for winter.
planting will be done  at a more ideal time.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for biodymanic gardeners.
water your house plants and any  container plants in the garden that might be in need.
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils, hyacinths and irises.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on  an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a  daily basis.
keeping on top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
my apple trees are laden with little apples.
thankfully, with the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
this means that  everything is soaked about once a week.
there are some last  vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
i think they need  a longer growing season.
well a few of them met their maker this afternoon.
this time though the moon has been in gemini.
today's  job is to split the peppermint.
to come are the blackberries.
the currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend to flowers.
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment and plant it.
i also harvested more potatoes.
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is  considered to have descending energy.
it's been a while since my last blog, but i have continued to work on my allotment.
one of my students brought me a bag of apples from her tree and some apple chutney!
the only fruit  trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
watering on waning water moons is usually enough if necessary.
i harvested from the middle of may to the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again in september and carried on into early november.
june is the month when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
so i took  advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the  allotment.
but take care that you don't use too much  in one meal as it's it's high  in oxalic acid.
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to  do.
16/09/11 today the moon is in taurus.
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into  the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug  population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds,  pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
i won't be watering again until next week.
air sign days are flower days, so my  thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
9 very heavy bags of "the good  stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
it's now very full again!
this isn't a moon associated  with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden,  contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
having been up late, i found myself at one in the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool  and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
this is a way of gardening that takes into account the place of the moon when doing different tasks in the garden.
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is slow, gruelling work.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
redcurrant jelly next!
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow through without much resistance.
so today, i'll water the house plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
last year they survived our coldest winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready supply of greens through the winter.
as you  might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden  has created large compost heaps.
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very  worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good for planting.
the waning moon was just what i needed.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
coming  home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment  again in very hot sun.
still on the subject of fruit, i had my  first figs today!
abundance is everywhere!
finally the bramble  bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too  appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
a seed tray containing half parsnips and half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
i also spent some time  looking after my cabbages.
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to  cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether anything is still dry.
bio we often think about the full moon as having an effect on us.
i then began to dig the new compost into the area.
yesterday i gave strawberry runners to someone else.
so i've got them covered with mini cloches.
yesterday, my day  off, was exceptionally busy!
biodynamic gardening has  turned into quite an adventure.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students  with apples harvested yesterday.
you might enjoy a little video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
today i harvested one that was more like a marrow.
at this time of year, seeds are still  germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to  keep me busy.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine  next year.
30/09/11 moon in scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with  compost.
if you're wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a window sill.
first job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with  molluscs!
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is considered to have descending energy.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they  would leave this batch to me!!!
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked a bit tatty.
so today they were pricked out- planted into small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
i can never leave without a new addition for the garden.
so i cut off the  dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
also i noticed that they are producing seed.
if they peep above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
and good stuff it  is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and  other rooty delights.
although pruning is normally  done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i  pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
that was a real test to my commitment to eat my own produce!!!
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few  weeks ago.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy toes to reach the top which is above my head!
a waxing moon in libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means daffodils and hyacinths.
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes  today.
but i'm  concerned that i'll be too late.
removing the leaves at this point doesn't worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
14/01/11 the moon has gone into virgo today.
they are late but previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
they  throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips will be straight this time!
i finally got the chance to plant my garlic.
my garden is small, but it is walled.
this is a  sign of renewal.
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign), today is the day.
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and sowing some now and some in spring.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means delicate seedlings are lost.
having said that, it clearly shows my unease  over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of  our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
after  teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and  courgettes by a friend.
i also bought one of my  favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the  potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed  this up.
the moon is in scorpio and this is a water sign.
my redcurrant bush was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really nowhere near enough.
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and  soothing.
it's  worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so  in the past.
february- 02:47 friday 24th
this is  what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
perhaps pruning could wait until next  week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
mine  were obviously tastier!!!
it makes me look forward to next year already!
i sowed the seeds last  month and they're doing well.
the moon is in sagittarius.
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it all looks!
i sowed courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut squash.
i sowed the seeds last month and they're doing well.
but there is a price to pay for this glorious spring we've been enjoying.
i'm also going to be sowing some annual seeds.
it was a very satisfying thing to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
i weeded around them and applied a dressing of compost.
remember doing a rain dance?
i would  normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
last year i  was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping  things will be different this year.
but virgo is a forgiving  moon for gardeners.
it is possible to get nemetodes that  predate on slugs.
on a much more cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for focusing on fruit.
as it's a  waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to  increase your stock next year.
i find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer weather.
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next year.
this surprised me as i though  it would be too wet.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me  with wonderful scent when i'm working.
so once the leaves have fallen, i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still have light.
leek and chicken pie-
as it's a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
15/06/11 it's been a very busy few days.
this seemed such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
and i was getting concerned about  losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the  winter.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal  with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't  the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
thankfully, it has already begun to shrink.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia  crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
actually, that will only happen if the rain stops.
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment  and plant it.
february- 05:03 friday 17th february waning moon in sagittarius prune blackcurrant bushes and autumn raspberries.
that's why it's a good time to start now for delicious sensations next year!
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side,  gives you the opportunity to do just that.
i think i'll be harvesting fennel.
i finally planted my leeks.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up there!
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further  losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for  the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
this is also the time to cut back autumn flowering raspberries.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
i also planted more shallots and onions.
so once the leaves have fallen,  i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still  have light.
today the moon is in  sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it  was raining.
the bonus yesterday  was finding a tiny brown lizard.
the new canes are also quite  tall now and needed staking.
however as the moon is  waning, the best job will be pruning.
turnips are one of the few crops at this time of year and they're rather large!
seedlings in pots could also use a drink.
this is useful as it encourages strong  root growth.
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them  together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
if  you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
it's a very cold day and a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i  have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
today i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
have a go and  you'll be healthier throug the winter.
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to last year.
i then checked the spinach beet and swiss chard.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone  to rot
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a  moon for enjoying the garden.
that was a real test to my  commitment to eat my own produce!!!
i also tied back some floppy branches.
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on the allotment.
good job i had some time off this last week.
the bonus came when we were chatting about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to the onslaught of slugs and snails.
for once i worked in comfort on a portable table in my hallway.
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out their heads all over.
cherries often do the same thing.
25/11/11 with  the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
i'm loving the autumn
tomatoes though seem to be slow to ripen this year.
broadbeans are to be planted.
i also tied  back some floppy branches.
these too were removed.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being frozen.
they are now a small size but doing well.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus  was on fruit.
the  nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
the same goes for all currants and gooseberries.
this is what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
rain and work have continued to keep me away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my fruit.
the latter were started  off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
blackcurrants will be turned into a tonic and jam.
also there are beans and squashes that need pricking out.
7/04/11 another glorious day!!!
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of  crocus.
they need  acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
so the potatoes have all been harvested  which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and  easily accessable.
i'm so grateful for my allotment!
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course  which meant that there was no time for gardening.
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after  work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with  rain.
i'll need to keep the slugs off.
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out of time.
we've had some rain in the south east  at the weekend but not enough.
it's now very full  again!
the moon is now waning in the sign of leo so it's time to do some pruning.
interestingly,  last year this didn't happen.
so perfect for dealing with all  fruit matters.
you can plant them very  deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is  to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and  ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
these are beautiful, a much more simple version of gladioli.
the fruit has been worth it!
with today's  moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
21/04/11 like most  people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some  time on the allotment.
so i took advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the allotment.
the greatest disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and snails.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to  plant my new treasures.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have  been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a  good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
they don't develop  deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
the potatoes are more  than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could  wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out  into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
this included purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower.
3/09/11 it was wonderful to have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into very fast growth.
i think they need a longer growing season.
the moon was  still in libra this afternoon.
this  is all i have time for today.
i think  my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand  some rough treatment.
she was so excited for me as she remembered a wilderness!
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer' and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
i'm also sowing some turnips.
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable  quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
however,  there is a silver lining.
i left a  bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit,  although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world  domination as its aim.
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for breakfast.
so i have to keep it in check and then enjoy the fruit.
29/01/12 with the moon in aries, the focus has been on fruit.
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring that there's a bit of root attached to it.
the beans i plan to blanche and then freeze.
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very thoroughly again today.
the annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
a very pleasant hour was spent and  they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
the moon is in leo, whilst still waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
on another note, i'm also going to plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy
wonderful as my course was, i  missed my allotment!!
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some overgrown fields.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible potatoes.
so i'm watering my houseplants
26/06/11 jupiter  is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to  share them with her daughter.
today though, i took advantage of the fact that  the moon is waning in an air sign.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
29/04/11 more  seed sowing today.
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before  they ripen.
this time i've put them somewhere safe-
they have now been marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow  through without much resistance.
and i was rewarded when i got home, with  some blossom on my nectarine tree!
as for aubergines, i was undecided.
so the job has been to clear up the dead leaves.
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's  the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
ideally  they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing  quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
this is a most unexpected and welcome  surprise!
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today  would have been the perfect day.
just one more row to  bring in.
that's exactly what i did yesterday.
i also sowed some more spring onion seeds.
everyone who ate them, loved them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
in fact,  i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
i got an early harvest from a few last week.
but there is a price to pay for this  glorious spring we've been enjoying.
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this coming week.
i gave her some strawberry runners and salsify.
february- 10:28 sunday 19th february waning moon in capricorn good day for weeding, attending to compost heaps plant out garlic that's been started in seedtrays sow carrots, parsnips indoors 10:28 sunday 19th
i have,  however, been thinking and planning.
i say half, it sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
blackberries are in abundance  now.
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the  allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
so i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth sign.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple trees.
this year's wonderful crop were self seeded.
a waxing moon in  libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means  daffodils and hyacinths.
i'll wait  for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes  into libra.
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant  that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra, so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always tomorrow.
i'm also bringing in more of my herbs for drying.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of  time.
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
this is a fungus which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in summer.
my cherries are doing well but could  use a feed.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had  to start another one.
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has  decomposed.
it's fine, they'll just be a little late.
that means that this is a fruit day.
my cherries are doing well but could use a feed.
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun during the ripening stage.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted  material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
being a water  moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and  coriander today.
the moon is  waning once again.
by then even the beans can be  sown outdoors.
however as the moon is waning, the best job will be pruning.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it  out before planting.
and so it was that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the little crevices cleaned.
the moon is  now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
happily all  of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
the moon is now in sagittarius.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a bonfire.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes today.
happily it's all done and i look forward to a crop-
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
however, there was a fly in the  ointment.
maybe  in a month's time.
i don't remember an april like this for a very long time.
the  strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still  enough for breakfast.
virgo is the most useful sign for gardeners.
but i figure that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons too.
the strawberries got a feed too as did the raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as  this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's  required.
with the moon in the  earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
these need protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus  this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a  change.
some also had rust on them.
what a lovely surprise!
this morning i picked more wonderful strawberries!
i have yet to net them, so they have had little  protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
at least before freezing  temperatures return.
my breakfasts are changing, and  reflecting the end of the season too.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i  had no time for gardening.
this being a waning  water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future frosts.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been drying basil for the winter.
the same goes  for all currants and gooseberries.
today's job  was to get rid of the grass.
today the triumph was the blackcurrants though.
tomorrow there will be more seed sowing.
many of you interested in organic gardening will be familiar with some of the principles placing emphasis on the health of the soil.
on another note, i'm also going to  plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
but  there is a simple rule.
but i figure  that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain would arrive tonight.
so it was that despite the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
but i'm concerned that i'll be too late.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow  and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a  bonfire.
this  of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
what a lovely  surprise!
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer'  and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
the  moon is now waning.
my strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together by the end of the season.
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier  that a fish might have had a good time!
at least before freezing temperatures return.
then you clear it  again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in  capricorn.
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces means that today is an easy day.
definately something to avoid.
as much as i'm looking forward to the start of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces  means that today is an easy day.
it's nice to be picking strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are the apples.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the winter.
i sowed  courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut  squash.
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this year!
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so today is a flower day.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green  which is poisonous.
it's leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
it was the first chance i got to deal with it.
plan now for next year's beauty!
26/12/11 it's now been three weeks since i was on the allotment.
so today i'm pricking out last month's sowings.
to say that it stinks is a gross understatement!
central  heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to  spray them so as to increase humidity.
it's my first time doing all of this.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students with apples harvested yesterday.
my bramley apples are  enourmous.
in fact, i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
with the moon in capricorn, an earth sign, roots are the focus.
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like  something out of a parsnip horror movie!
5/11/11 those who read this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle has been with slugs and snails.
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour and ripen for the first time.
in the  meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
a very new feeling and a very enjoyable one!
this year's crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be bigger!
although this appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went  into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
however, the two that are  on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
i think i'll put my feet up now!
so today, i'll water the house  plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
but everytime the moon was right, i was too busy and ran out of time.
they need acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
now, we're enjoying a hot  dry spell, we have a reprieve.
then  again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
as it's a waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to increase your stock next year.
then again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
keeping on  top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
some time on the allotment!
the aubergines in the greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth  sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had  horns.
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
so i soaked the roots in  a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a  container.
although pruning is normally done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
today i've been planning where everything will be grown next year.
today the moon is in sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it was raining.
the moon is now waxing and today it has been in the sign of gemini.
last year i was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping things will be different this year.
with the moon  in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
i'm also going to give my fig a new home today.
waning  moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today  and tomorrow are good days for it.
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to  come.
seeds are not good news as the plant will then  put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and  producing tubers (potatoes).
i ended up filling a shopping bag as well!
waxing  moon in taurus attend  to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
the problem is that  they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into  very fast growth.
i miss it when i can't get out there!
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant in half and pot up both pieces.
the moon is now in gemini.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything on.
instead it's porridge with apples and cinnamon.
as this is an air sign, it was a day for flowers.
this is important as it will help air circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent spreading of fungus.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and  some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was  able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish  planting all fruit.
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward to something in the future!
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and flowers for the next couple of weeks.
the nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
so a happy medium is needed.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very  happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
my redcurrant bush  was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really  nowhere near enough.
in the last few days with tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will  just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for  this year, i had nothing to lose.
mine are still fruiting so i'm leaving them for the time being.
the beans are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we approach the end of summer.
february- 00:56 wednesday 15th
i think this is a  waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of time.
picking them  in the sunshine was heavenly.
in the meantime, i prepared a bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
the moon will be in cancer
with the moon in the earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
more lettuce, coriander and cabbages.
the moon has been in  cancer today.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's  important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
this seemed  such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
i'm looking forward to a little time on  the allotment- well about half an hour.
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the  high winds and rain that we had in june.
so it was that despite  the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning  moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
that taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go out everyday regardless of the weather.
i finally got  the chance to plant my garlic.
attend to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
if like me, you  are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
this is very exciting as i've never made compost before!
i will leave it for a while and then when it is  suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
as  the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your  fruit.
the soft fruit is all in.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as  they are from the same family.
in the meantime, there are seeds to order-
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb without division into separate cloves.
9/05/11 this is going to be a busy day.
at this time of year, seeds are still germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to keep me busy.
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case  we get an indian summer.
it's all very exciting!
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's  collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on  the allotment.
replacements were promptly and generously offered as she said she had too many.
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the  centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too  little time.
when these  touch the soil, they form roots.
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked  out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks,  chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a  while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and  competing plants.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
the  perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head out.
virgo is the most  useful sign for gardeners.
they are an indulgence wich will  provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
i think this is a waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
if it rains, i won't need to.
i covered them with plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage around them.
as this is my last chance to have these this year, i think it was worth getting out of bed.
i also sowed another variety of peas.
the next project is going to focus on soil and slug control!!!!
i would normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
it's one of the few places where we still find community  spirit.
those going in now will mean an earlier  display.
still, at least i'm not worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with weeds.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it with water.
this enables the tree to concentrate  its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
also  when there were bowls in the fridge and  the fridge was opened, you were  hit by the smell of strawberries.
so i planted some aquilegias, also known as columbines.
there has been a big shift with  the quality of my strawberries.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects around to pollinate fully.
with any luck we will get some more so all will be well for another week.
then there is the rose garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for this year, i had nothing to lose.
lemongrass, and sweet marjoram for example can be sown now.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and competing plants.
as for my beans, well they're looking like  i had jack's magic bean.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they would leave this batch to me!!!
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake of my cauliflowers!
13/05/11 virgo is a sign associated with harvest.
the strawberries got a feed too as did the  raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
happily, today moon and time coincided so i spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
low light levels are to  blame.
if you still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
i diluted  it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf  vegetables and herbs.
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side, gives you the opportunity to do just that.
this is all i have time for today.
in  winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
it's the first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
although it's better today, i've still needed quiet.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same  reason.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in fire.
but virgo is a forgiving moon for gardeners.
it will take a few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
i didn't manage to get  everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my  allotment planting peas.
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too little time.
to this end, i spent the better part of  yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
the beginning of the new has put me in a thoughtful mood.
and i have had to remove many.
the moon is indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
i have a half hour window to bring in the last of my potatoes.
i think i might just be in time.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to plant my new treasures.
the link between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a plant is largely made up of water.
21/04/11 like most people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some time on the allotment.
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to share them with her daughter.
that  taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go  out everyday regardless of the weather.
i'd  better get started.
my  strawberries are flowering again!
during this  period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
it is waxing so it's not  an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
i harvested more potatoes, some of which are massive.
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case we get an indian summer.
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or  you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some runners.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign in the garden.
it's a very cold day and  a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce and radiccio.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me with wonderful scent when i'm working.
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so they are producing seed.