thank you..will  certainly return..
i have contacted several other web sites and have not even got a reply!
in rural  scotland, i made that by late next week.
my parts have arrived and are now fitted.
i have now scored thousands of brownie points with the wife!
parts arrived today and were a perfect fit.
no screws were seized so it was a trouble-free replacement job.
as you can see from the  comments here, many people agree that our services are outstanding.
regards, 11 february 2007
regards burnie 20 february 2007 thanks for your help with the below, the basket arrived this afternoon and fitted perfectly.
brilliant web site and functional business operation, a dream from a customer's perspective.
i just wanted to let you know that i found a contractor in northern ireland, marc williams (profix) through your site, who came to my house, priced the job, came back with the parts and fixed my broken oven.
evelyn 30 january 2007 thank you for your help and  assistance in obtaining a replacement element for my tecnik oven, the correct  part arrrived within 2 working days and was straightforward to fit.
thanks for your help and  good service.
i am glad to say they fitted and the our 12 year old washing machine is now back in action!
regards, dave 2 november 2006
jason just a quick thankyou for getting my order to me so  quickly...... brilliant site....... malc's
regards evelyn thanks for all your help.
once again, thanks for the response from yourself, and the guys in the forum on uk whitegoods.
i  will certainly use your service again in the future.
to our astonishment it  arrived this morning.
regards adrian 22 january 2007 hi thank you for your quick response to my email.(i am very impressed and will recommend your company).
very impressed thanks, john 3 january 2007 dear dave, happy new year
i will not hesitate to use your  company again and recommend you to friends.
anonymous 23 october 2006 outstanding website!
i have placed my order today.
thank you so much for your help with my spare glass.
regards, asko drain pump ordered wednesday, received friday!
the old fan came off easily after it was heated (priceless, the forum tips), the case eased out, #$%# , then an hour to pop into town and collect a t-15 torx bit for the rear cover/motor screws.
and thank you for your prompt reply.
regards thanks for all your help.
god bless, mrs mary december 2006 dave, thanks - they  fit perfectly.
a really fast delivery as well  thank you !
robert 9 december 2006 bloody hell - service or what "!!
did a  really professional job and for a very reasonable price.
i was about to post a new forum query but after more searching found my answer.
rgds steve 4 october 2006 hello just wanted to let you know that i've received the icebox door - much quicker than expected! - thank you very much for the excellent customer service!
2 april 2007 parts arrived today and were a perfect fit.
the bearings arrived yesterday,  and the machine is now back up and running...... best wishes.....
hi there recieved  goods this morning, tuesday,delighted with it,what great service.
once again thanks for all your help.
the webste is very informative and the shop easy to use with the goods delivered fast and well packaged.
appreciate his honesty in not coming out and charging me.
best regards douglas 7 october 2006 just a quick note to say thanks for the prompt dispatch, the element fitted perfectly , and you can add this model to the list of pattern replacements for this item.
i have ordered the oven seal.
kind regards, 27 april 2007 hi, i just  want to let you know that your site and postal service are some of the best i  have deal with - i have now fixed my condenser dryer and it is running better  than it has in a long while.
thank you for swift despatch - item arrived yesterday, now everything  back to working order.
hi just would like to say a very big thank you for your advice on my broken dishwasher.
then when i ordered the parts they were delivered  less than 24 hours later - now that is good service, well done!
you have provided an excellent service and i will recommend your company  without hesitation.
thank you paul 18 may 2007
rachel just wanted to say thanks for the great service.
i had exactly the same problem with my fisher & paykel gw608 washing machine as two other users, found the advice needed and saved $200-$300au.
regards robert 23 january 2007 dave just to thank you for getting the part to me so quickly.
many thanks for your efforts to find them.
we did the replacement work together.
annette 21 october 2006 just to let you know the hinges arrived less than 24 hours after i ordered them, and i even managed to fit them myself!!!!
thank you for providing such good customer service.
help & advice about uk whitegoods site articles
just a quick note to say thanks very much  for your kind assistance and prompt service.
i have fitted them and all appears to be normal again.
i phoned whitegoods  mid-afternoon and got you, ordered the fan and was told it was not in stock but  expected by the weekend.
we try to make this all as simple as possible for you and take out any hassle but, sometimes, we know that we all need a little help from the experts.
in rural scotland, i made that by late next week.
while the back was off i stuck a piece of damping foam onto the mount  plate for the lower oven cooling fan (which has rattled since new).
regarding the thermostat - i have bought an oven thermometer and find that both ovens do reach the heat they are set for
i was really grateful for your prompt and pleasant reply and extremely impressed with the level of service you gave me.
john hello, i  would just like to thankyou for your very prompt service, my spare part arrived  yesterday
great quick service as previously - your site is highly  recommended to friends and family!!
the hinge came through my letter box 9am this morning.
many thanks for very prompt delivery of goods.
and i have  added your site to my favourites list!
great quick service as previously - your site is highly recommended to friends and family!!
this is great service and advice and although my custom will never make the company rich i have been speaking to friends who will no doubt try and sort the odd job ourselves.
didn't  realise that taking out the old part and putting in the new one could be so  easy!
thanks again, regards, matthew 13  april 2007 dave, thanks a lot.
regards dave just to thank you for getting the part to me so quickly.
david 4 april 2007 hi, pump arrived wed morning 09:00, fitted, machine working for 09:45 .
that's ィ100 + 1/2 day's work saved on replacing the hood!
soldered this (saturday) afternoon.
the hinge is fitted, and our fridge is better than ever.
chris 11 december 2006 i just wanted to say thanks for drawer fronts my freezer looks new again have a  lovely christmas helen 10 december 2006
got the oven door today and perfect fit :)
we are very, very proud of the services and standards or care that we offer  and we strive to offer the best experience possible.
no screws were seized so it was a trouble-free replacement  job.
xxx joe 31 january 2007
the part that  was advised was ordered on tuesday morning, it flew to my house within 24 hours
while the back was off i stuck a piece of damping foam onto the mount plate for the lower oven cooling fan (which has rattled since new).
jason 8 june 2007 just a quick thankyou for getting my order to me so quickly...... brilliant site....... malc's i just wanted to say how impressed i am with this site!
all the local retailers said i wouldn't find the part and probably would have to buy a whole new cooker!maybe i should direct them to you.
i phoned whitegoods mid-afternoon and got you, ordered the fan and was told it was not in stock but expected by the weekend.
thankyou anonymous at last a company that can deliver.
excellent delivery times make a lot of difference.
will use you again if anything breaks down.
i acknowledge receipt of the cooker door handle and would just like to thank you for the superb service.
received in post today.
hi there recieved goods this morning, tuesday,delighted with it,what great service.
i just wanted to let you know that i found a contractor in  northern ireland, marc williams (profix) through your site, who came to my  house, priced the job, came back with the parts and fixed my broken oven.
received this morning.
really impressed with your fast service - fridge door now has its new hinges installed.
glyn 28 november 2006 fantastic service.
seasons greetings  to you all!
what fantastic service - if only all business was run like this.
thank you..will certainly return..
kind regards, sean 30 november 2006 hi, just thought i take the trouble to thank you for sending over the second pair of replacment brushes so promptly after matching the one i sent you.
what fantastic service -  if only all business was run like this.
back in  place, a test run revealed a perfect fan performance and a rattle-free cooling  fan operation.
if i hear of anyone wanting any  spares i will send them your way...
regards 22 january 2007 hi thank you for your quick response to my email.(i am very impressed and  will recommend your company).
thank you very much dave 12 november 2006 received bottle shelf on friday, thank you for the good service you have given.
buying spare parts for any appliance or getting a service engineer can range from the simplest task in the world to one of the most daunting as you try to pick your way through model numbers, serial numbers, ranges and all sorts of information.
the parts arrived the next morning
and i  installed them in the machine there and then!
to our astonishment it arrived this morning.
part was ordered at 11.20am friday and received at 9.20 am this morning (saturday) - just 22hrs!
i have placed the order via the paypal link, and included the delivery address in the "message to seller" field as requested.
got the  oven door today and perfect fit :)
keep up he good work.
we're thrilled to have just the part we needed to fix it ourselves!
of course we can't print them all, well we could
really impressed  with your fast service - fridge door now has its new hinges installed.
paul 17 february 2007
david pump arrived wed morning 09:00, fitted, machine working for 09:45 .
once more, many thanks... 25 october 2006 thanks dave impressed by service.
many thanks for the great service - i now know where to look if i need any more bits for my various appliances.
thanks for your help and good service.
thanks again, regards, matthew 13 april 2007 dave, thanks a lot.
brilliant thanks very much walter 8 december 2006 what a brilliant service thanks alot dave.
maureen 11 march 2007 superb  service - easily located item on your website, ordered and received it very  quickly - much more quickly than i expected.
a really fast delivery as well thank you !
many thanks for very  prompt delivery of goods.
my mum is over the moon.
and i have been able to repair my appliance, what a top class service
march 2007 28 march 2007 i just wanted to let  you know how much we appreciated your service.
thanks for your help.
regards, ronald 11 february 2007
i have already started tellnig friends about the site and will definitely use it again as a first port of call should i need anything for my whie goods etc.
chris 11 december 2006 i just wanted to say thanks for drawer fronts my freezer looks new again have a lovely christmas helen 10 december 2006
many many thx jon 18 november 2006 received this (saturday) morning.
i will not hesitate to use your company again and recommend you to friends.
i was really grateful for  your prompt and pleasant reply and extremely impressed with the level of  service you gave me.
below you will find the various ways in which you can get in touch with us about spare parts, find an appliance service engineer and get answers as quickly as possible but do please use our contact page or email as a first resort as this allows us time to look up parts for you and find any low cost compatible spares as well, so you get the best options.
service from you and your company has been great.
paul 18 may 2007 thank you so much for your help with my spare glass.
and i have added your site to my favourites list!
arrived first thing ths morning.
i will certainly recommend your website to friends and family.
and i installed them in the machine there and then!
we had been without our oven for 4 months (due to not knowing any reputable repair companies and cost implications of getting someone in to fix it), but thanks to the advice on your website and your parts shop, we have managed to replace the element and now have a fully functioning oven!
regarding the thermostat - i have bought an oven thermometer and find that both  ovens do reach the heat they are set for
just a quick note to say a big thank you for the cooker bottom element you sent out last week.
the part that was advised was ordered on tuesday morning, it flew to my house within 24 hours and i am delighted to report that my husband fitted the ntc tonight and we are all up and running.
kind regards, laura 27 april 2007 hi, i just want to let you know that your site and postal service are some of the best i have deal with - i have now fixed my condenser dryer and it is running better than it has in a long while.
but we don't want to get big-headed and put our competition to shame.
we don't  edit them, we don't' correct grammar or spelling, this is just what people have  told us.
thanks again geraldine 2 december 2006
the bearings arrived yesterday, and the machine is now back up and running...... best wishes.....
the webste is very informative and the  shop easy to use with the goods delivered fast and well packaged.
and i am delighted to report that my husband fitted the ntc tonight and we are  all up and running.
23 november 2006 thank you very much for sorting that out.
then when i ordered the parts they were delivered less than 24 hours later - now that is good service, well done!
regards, denis 30 october 2006 just a quick email to thank you for your excellent website and for the fast delivery of our cooker spare part.
thanks  alot b 1 february 2007
have ordered part thanks to you.
many thanks, dave 27 november 2006 dave once again thank you for the promt service regards mike 24 november 2006 please note this is a new order.
many thanks r g 5 april 2007 hi, received my order two days ago - thanks for the excellent service.
thanks alot b 1 february 2007
i will certainly use your service again in the future.
just a quick thank you.
gordon 4 january 2007 dear dave, our warmest congratulations on a superb service from the whitegoods operation.
if it hadn't been  for your company, we would have had to buy a whole new range.
tanks for an excellent service.
the last order for the same goods was excellent, so i have decided to replace my freezer door
you offer serious  added value to your products and i for one am very grateful.
what people say about uk whitegoods 11  june 2007 what people say about uk whitegoods we have never seen the need to blow our own trumpet all that much, we  prefer to allow our service to speak for itself but we have been asked to  publish some of the comments that we receive and keep on our wall.
that's unbeatable service.
and the d/washer is now as good  as new !!
11 june 2007 been and purchased as recommended.
thanks very much for the great service, i will definately use you  again.
regards russell 19 october 2006 thank you for a fast and hassle free service which did not come at an expensive price robin 10 october 2006 thanks for your assistance once again.
the old fan came  off easily after it was heated (priceless, the forum tips), the case eased out,  #$%# , then an hour to pop into town and collect a t-15 torx bit for the rear  cover/motor screws.
regards thanks  for your help with the below, the basket arrived this afternoon and fitted  perfectly.
derek 10 january 2007 thanks for the efficient and quick despatch.
we're thrilled to  have just the part we needed to fix it ourselves!
we are very, very proud of the services and standards or care that we offer and we strive to offer the best experience possible.
i  acknowledge receipt of the cooker door handle and would just like to thank you  for the superb service.
yesterday i enquired about an oven fan for a 7-year old neff u1721 oven by web contact, just after which the fan died permanently.
thanks for your wonderful and efficient service.
i asked a question as to whether the fridge hinges i'd seen on your site were suitable for my fridge and got a very quick response.
regards, graham 16 february 2007
website notify me of follow-up comments refresh click here for our online appliance spares store email us on spares@ukwhitegoods.co.uk or call on 0845 172 8002
didn't realise that taking out the old part and putting in the new one could be so easy!
i run an online business and my customers find this very  useful.
many  thanks, john 9 march 2007 just  to let you know the part arrived on wednesday
dear dave, part arrived, now fitted , oven working.
if i hear of anyone wanting any spares i will send them your way...
i will definitely recommend your excellent  website to all my friends and family whenever their needs arise
many thanks mick i just want to advise that this sale is entirely as  a result of the excellent people you have on the forums.
the hinge came through my letter  box 9am this morning.
hi, thought i'd drop you a quick note to say i received excellent service and good advice coupled with a great website - many thanks for your help.
the parts arrived on time and are now fitted.
if it hadn't been for your company, we would have had to buy a whole new range.
robert bloody hell - service or what "!!
i just  wanted to say how impressed i am with this site!
washingmachine now back in service just 2 days after breaking down - wife exceedingly pleased.
please kindly pass on my comments to the gentleman who gave me the advice.
hi switch received,now fitted and working.
you told me to expect it early next week.
we live in the u.s., but our  house has an old, french range that no one here would touch.
many thanks... 17 february 2007 hi, thought i'd drop  you a quick note to say i received excellent service and good advice coupled  with a great website - many thanks for your help.
yesterday i enquired about an oven fan for a 7-year old neff u1721 oven by  web contact, just after which the fan died permanently.
washing machine back in full working order :-)
cheers mike name (required) e-mail (required, but will not display)
many thanks r g received my order two days ago - thanks for the excellent  service.
thanks for your excellent service .
eddie 22 december 2006 thank  you very much for a great service be sure i will use this company again if i  have any future problems kind regards d they arrived at 1600 today.
i asked a question as to  whether the fridge hinges i'd seen on your site were suitable for my fridge and  got a very quick response.
as you can see from the comments here, many people agree that our services are outstanding.
very impressed thanks, john 3 january 2007 dear dave, happy  new year
all  fitted and working fine.
john hello, i would just like to thankyou for your very prompt service, my spare part arrived yesterday and i have been able to repair my appliance, what a top class service you provide thanks again christine 9 april 2007
you offer serious added value to your products and i for one am very grateful.
we still had toast for tea.
did a really professional job and for a very reasonable price.
thanks very much once again walter 5 december 2006
richard 22 february 2007 thanks for excellent service - parts received today 22nd - fitted and working !!!!
k. 24 october 2006 spoke to andy reade at create who doesn't think a repair will be of any value.
it fitted perfectly and the cooker is back working again.
thanks for speedy service.
-scott 22 march 2007 arrived safe and sound.
they arrived at 1600 today.
the kind of promp, friendly and efficient customer service you gave me is a rare thing these days and much appreciated, thank you.
claire many thanks for order safely received yesterday.
don't change a thing!
so i think it's just me!
all the best just want to say thank you very much :)
goods  arrived this morning..all fitted and working...great service..
many thanks for your help, knowledge and efficient service!
all fitted and working fine.
we don't edit them, we don't' correct grammar or spelling, this is just what people have told us.
richard thanks for excellent  service - parts received today 22nd - fitted and working !!!!
regards, tom 17 march 2007 asko drain pump ordered wednesday, received friday!
i will definitely recommend your excellent website to all my friends and family whenever their needs arise
brilliant service and assistance!
i know who i will be talking to for future appliance issues.
keep up the good work mat dave, replacement element delivered at 7.30 this morning.
thank you for swift despatch - item arrived yesterday, now everything back to working order.
thanks very much for the great service, i will definately use you again.
seasons greetings to you all!
my wife thinks you're wonderful.
but we don't want to get  big-headed and put our competition to shame.
january 2007 31 january 2007 hi just would like to  say a very big thank you for your advice on my broken dishwasher.
brilliant walter 8 december 2006 what a brilliant service thanks  alot dave.
i will certainly recommend your site to anyone i know, about where to look for electrical spares.(the main site not to pester you personally).
dave, just received the door handle - thanks very much for the excellent service.
esther 4 june 2007 not an enquiry but a big thank  you for a great service...saved me a fortune !!!
many thanks maureen 11 march 2007 superb service - easily located item on your website, ordered and received it very quickly - much more quickly than i expected.
fitted and working perfectly.
you have provided an excellent service and i will recommend your company without hesitation.
eddie 22 december 2006 thank you very much for a great service be sure i will use this company again if i have any future problems kind regards d 13 december 2006
my tip is 'search the forums thoroughly'.
just a quick note to say thanks very much for your kind assistance and prompt service.
many thanks to whitegoods for your help.
hi dave, thank you again for your very prompt reply and excellent service.
i run an online business and my customers find this very useful.
cheers, satinder 28 march 2007 i just wanted to let you know how much we appreciated your service.
however thank  you again for your excellent customer service.
have bookmarked this site and will recommend to others.
thanks  for your excellent service .
we live in the u.s., but our house has an old, french range that no one here would touch.
many thanks marcus 23 may 2007 just a quick thank you.
gordon dear dave, our  warmest congratulations on a superb service from the whitegoods operation.
would you think about putting a feedback form on your site up front for customers to provide feedback on.
alison 20 october 2006 thanks for the quick reply regarding the mains suppressor for my dishwasher (diplomat adp 8242).
i  have already started tellnig friends about the site and will definitely use it  again as a first port of call should i need anything for my whie goods etc.
many thanks mick i just want to advise that this sale is entirely as a result of the excellent people you have on the forums.
my wife resigned herself to  toast-based meals for the intervening period.
my mum is over  the moon.
many thanks, john 9 march 2007 just to let you know the part arrived on wednesday and the d/washer is now as good as new !!
my wife resigned herself to toast-based meals for the intervening period.
p 3 november 2006 just a note to confirm receipt of the heating element and freezer hinges that you sent.
kindest regards evelyn 30 january 2007 thank you for your help and assistance in obtaining a replacement element for my tecnik oven, the correct part arrrived within 2 working days and was straightforward to fit.
i was fearful we'd have to buy a new fridge... best regards esther 4 june 2007 not an enquiry but a big thank you for a great service...saved me a fortune !!!
we have never seen the need to blow our own trumpet all that much, we prefer to allow our service to speak for itself but we have been asked to publish some of the comments that we receive and keep on our wall.
tried contacting necht - from 9am to 1230pm constantly ringing but no answer + they carnt even on the internet must be a tuppenny happeny firm unlike yours 1 email and job sorted!!!!
andy 6 february 2007 goods arrived this morning..all fitted and working...great service..
regards mary 28 october 2007 just wanted to thank you for the speedy service.
to get assistance with a technical query then please do use our forumsusing this link remember me
tried contacting necht - from 9am  to 1230pm constantly ringing but no answer + they carnt even on the internet  must be a tuppenny happeny firm unlike yours 1 email and job sorted!!!!
would you  think about putting a feedback form on your site up front for customers to  provide feedback on.
i will put your company details on the internet for all those people who had messages looking for homark parts.
keep up the good work mat 17 april 2007 dave, replacement element delivered at 7.30 this morning.
however thank you again for your excellent customer service.
derek 10 january 2007 thanks  for the efficient and quick despatch.
it will be good to  have a safe cooker for my wife to use once again!
god bless, mrs mary 28 december 2006 dave, thanks - they fit perfectly.
all the best mark 19 february 2007 dave, just want to say thank you very much :)
i was  fearful we'd have to buy a new fridge... best regards
you provide thanks again hi switch received,now fitted and working.
i have contacted several other web sites and have  not even got a reply!
brilliant web site and functional business operation, a dream from a  customer's perspective.
fitted and working  perfectly.
june 2007 been and purchased as  recommended.
regards, 16 february 2007
back in place, a test run revealed a perfect fan performance and a rattle-free cooling fan operation.
it will be good to have a safe cooker for my wife to use once again!