but here's some info you might find interesting!
you will get an email confirmation  from us when your order ships out.
even though your banana may look like a dead stump in the ground in the winter, do not remove it, unless you live in a part of the country where the ground freezes solid.
and it generally will not harm the plant.
there is no guarantee on seeds, if you want a guaranteed plant, simply buy the plant.
use  organically rich soil, in warm to very warm and humid conditions.
a banana plant can grow from 5' to 35' in as little as one year depending on variety and growing environment.
a banana starts as a bulb (or corm.
you can start these plants from seeds, but it is a little more difficult and much more time consuming to do.
when we ship your banana tree to you, we generally cut all of the leaves off because they will die off anyway when you replant it.
once your banana has fruited, you may cut it back to the top of the soil level; by the time your banana has fruited, your banana will have already sent up sucker plants from the corm, fruit, and then die back successively!
thank you for your purchase and enjoy!
super dwarf cavendish banana tree banana plant care
use organically rich soil, in warm to very warm and humid conditions.
you must have your order placed by monday at noon for  same week delivery.
we do not sell sexed animals, pleasedo not request paired or sexed fish.
a good rule of thumb is: if you get less than 1 leaf per week, you are not fertilizing enough!it’s hard to burn a banana with fertilizers.
we now sell  banana seeds for one variety.
banana plants and banana seeds also make a marvelous and ingenious gift idea!
we now sell banana seeds for one variety.
of course, do this before first frost appears.
they grow tall in full sun in these zones outdoors, yet they are ideal as houseplants with warm bright light year round.
of course, do  this before first frost appears.
we always  ship "plant only" orders out on thurs nights.
over a longer period of time, a drooping, flowering stem emerges as a final structure which flowers and gives way to fruits, which develop in groups on this last stem.
all of this information is available in more detailed form by clicking the"ordering" or "shippng" tab above.
you may want to refrain from too much water or fertilizer  during these colder months.
the stump you get can  range in size from about a foot to 3 feet tall.
please make sure your live good order is at least $35 bucks.
it is very  exciting to get your first few leaves!
of course a banana's growth will  slow if temperatures drop into the 50's.
there is no minimum order amount for shipping dry good or  non-perishable items.
over a short period of time, beautiful paddle-shaped leaves expand out of this stalk or raceme.
leave the burlap on until all fear of frost is  gone.
you can use stronger fertilizers like peter’s, schultz’s, miracle grow, even steer manure
you must have your order placed by monday at noon for same week delivery.
orders placed after our monday deadline will ship the following week.
you can  use stronger fertilizers like peter’s, schultz’s, miracle grow,  even steer manure
a banana plant can grow from 5' to 35' in as little as one year  depending on variety and growing environment.
fertilize with a mild fertilizer (13-5-13 is ideal) at every watering.
roots grow from the lower surface of the corm and the banana leaves form from the top surface of the bulb's stem called a raceme.
bananas shriveled to the ground by cold will  re-sprout from the underground corm when temperatures warm up.
it will grow new leaves very  quickly in warm and humid weather, much slower in colder climates.
many seeds can take 6 to 8 months to show growth or healthy germination, and most seeds must be scored before this can be attempted.
protect from strong winds if planted outdoors.
all of this information is available in more detailed  form by clicking the"ordering" or "shippng" tab above.
thank you for your  purchase and enjoy!
banana  plants and banana seeds also make a marvelous and ingenious gift idea!
enjoy growing your banana tree from just a seed.
of course a banana's growth will slow if temperatures drop into the 50's.
when we ship your banana tree to you, we generally cut all of the leaves  off because they will die off anyway when you replant it.
there is no minimum order amount for shipping dry good or non-perishable items.
what a rewarding way to grow a plant, and at a fraction of the cost.
bananas are small to large herbaceous (soft leaved) tree-like plants with leaves held at the top of what appears to be a trunk, but what is actually a tightly woven packed bunch of leaf sheaths and leaf stalks that emerge from an underground stem called a raceme.
we do not sell sexed  animals, pleasedo not request paired or sexed fish.
you may want to refrain from too much water or fertilizer during these colder months.
farm-raised aquatic plants & freshwater fish proudly grown in  the usa.
in arizona, we would wrap our trees just before thanksgiving and unwrap around mid-march.
the banana family, thought to have originated in asia, but commonly found in south america, is a large paddle-shaped leafed plant with clusters of edible fruits.
yes, you may combine fish, shrimp & snails with your plant order and they will be shipped in one box on thursday night as well.
the stump you get can range in size from about a foot to 3 feet tall.
we ship most "fish, shrimp, & snail only" orders out on tues nights.
keep soil moist but not saturated.
that's right, c-o-r-m....not corn).
it will grow new leaves very quickly in warm and humid weather, much slower in colder climates.
folks in the east may even want to consider planting the banana in a  moveable pot with a saucer in the first place, keep it as a houseplant, and  when it’s warm and humid out, move the plant outside.
commercial member: association of zoological horticulture alright, everybody knows what a banana is.
instead, we suggest that  you purchase some burlap from any hardware store, and wrap the trunk of the  tree down to the ground, only allowing the leaves to be exposed.
a good rule  of thumb is: if you get less than 1 leaf per week, you are not fertilizing  enough!it’s hard to burn a banana with fertilizers.
instead, we suggest that you purchase some burlap from any hardware store, and wrap the trunk of the tree down to the ground, only allowing the leaves to be exposed.
yes, you may combine fish, shrimp & snails with your  plant order and they will be shipped in one box on thursday night as well.
even though your banana may look like  a dead stump in the ground in the winter, do not remove it, unless you live in  a part of the country where the ground freezes solid.
bananas shriveled to the ground by cold will re-sprout from the underground corm when temperatures warm up.
in arizona, we would wrap our trees just before thanksgiving and unwrap  around mid-march.
due to weather delays, there may be periodic delays on specific varieties of bananas.
return to terrarium plants
click the "specials" tab above for monthly coupons & deals!
we always ship "plant only" orders out on thurs nights.
folks in the east may even want to consider planting the banana in a moveable pot with a saucer in the first place, keep it as a houseplant, and when it’s warm and humid out, move the plant outside.
leave the burlap on until all fear of frost is gone.
if you are in a colder region, you may just want to  dig up your stump, including some surrounding soil and keep it in a warmer  place out of the elements, like a garage, or basement, until warmer weather is  near.
protect from  strong winds if planted outdoors.
each group is called a hand, and individual bananas in the hand are called fingers.
it is very exciting to get your first few leaves!
you may combinedry goods and live goods to get to our $35.00 minimum.
we ship most "fish, shrimp, & snail  only" orders out on tues nights.
thank you for your patience.
banana seeds | banana seeds for sale | banana plant care banana trees | banana plants | banana trees for sale | banana plants for sale banana plant care
you will get an email confirmation from us when your order ships out.
farm-raised aquatic plants & freshwater fish proudly grown in the usa.
if you are in a colder region, you may just want to dig up your stump, including some surrounding soil and keep it in a warmer place out of the elements, like a garage, or basement, until warmer weather is near.