what tools do i need for pruning?
so if your st. augustine is in full sun, you should wait until it  reaches 4-1/2 inches and remove 1-1/2 inches.
why is my grass not doing well?
what kind of weed is this?
is it best to plant trees before or after shrubs?
do water plants need sun?
mow at full throttle
when do i aerate my lawn?
so if your centipede is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 3 inches and remove 1 inch.
fresh clippings stimulate earthworm activity  which breaks down the thatch.
as the grass clippings decompose they add valuable  nitrogen to the soil - almost 2 pounds per 1000 square feet each season.
but the truth is that the just opposite is true.
late afternoon or early evening following a morning watering is just as good.
what soil should i use for shade gardening?
centipede forms a poor turf in full shade and  should not be planted there.
how can i prevent plant fungi?
pardon the pun, but a $140 red ranger from the discount garden center won't cut it.
if it's growing in part shade, wait until the grass reaches about 4-1/2 inches, and remove about 1-1/2 inches.
what kind of bug is this?
how can i prevent fungus in a shady garden?
take your time and do it  right--let the mower do the job you bought it to do.
how do i get rid of it?
to properly maintain your hybrid bermuda, you'll need a  reel mower.
fm every wednesday, 4pm eastern.
can i fertilize without adding a lot of chemicals?
in fact, the bogging and slowing down this causes probably uses more gas than if you ran the engine efficiently.
privacy policy and unsubscribe lifetips site map
in fact, the bogging and slowing down this causes  probably uses more gas than if you ran the engine efficiently.
there is a wide spread belief that leaving  the grass clippings on your lawn contributes to thatch - dead or dying grass  parts that prevent moisture and oxygen from reaching plant roots.
how do i start a new lawn using seed?
what is next after planting cedars for a hedge?
which existing plants should i keep?
when you mow tall fescue, your goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
if you really want to get fancy and impress the neighbors, travel diagonally on the third mowing and diagonally from the opposite corner the fourth time.
so  if your tall fescue lawn is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 4-1/2  inches and remove 1-1/2 inches.
cool and drymow when it's cool and dry.
wear your safety gear you don't look stupid when you wear safety  glasses and sturdy, non-slip shoes.
mowing these  grasses also requires the use of specialized equipment.
alternate your patternlawns that are mowed frequently can develop ruts from mower wheels, especially if you have a large, heavy tractor or rider.
how do i prune a douglas fir?
mowing common bermudacommon bermuda prefers mowing to 1 to 1-1/4 inches in full sun.
how do i treat a lawn disease?
so if your st. augustine is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 4-1/2 inches and remove 1-1/2 inches.
how thick a branch will pruners trim?
should i topdress the lawn?
keep your mower blade razor  sharp!
how much should i water a shade garden?
privacy policy and unsubscribe lifetips site map lawn site map © 2012 lifetips — all rights reserved.
how do i get stripes like ballparks do?
make sure you mow frequently, and remove no more  than 1/3rd of the leaf blade with each mowing.
mowing zoysia zoysia prefers mowing to 1 to 1-1/4 inches in full sun  and between 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 in part sun to part shade.
after the morning dew dries off is the best time for the grass--it isn't suffering afternoon heat stress
lawn frequently asked questions how should i water my lawn?
mow once traveling horizontally across the lawn.
why isn´t my grass growing?
how do i get rid of mushrooms?
can my property be too wet for a good lawn?
when you mow common bermuda, your goal is to have the target  height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
mow once traveling horizontally across  the lawn.
why bother to prune plants?
what does too much pruning do?
when you mow common bermuda, your goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
if it's growing in shade,  wait until the grass reaches about 2-1/2 inches and remove just over 3/4 inch.
if you don't have the money for the power equipment and you don't have the energy to mow your hybrid bermuda with a old-fashioned reel mower, you'll either have to hire someone to mow your lawn, or replace the grass with something you can mow yourself.
why did my grass turn brown after i fertilized?
you will ruin the turf in one season.
a power reel mower can be bought from lawn and garden equipment dealers who cater to turf managers and groundskeepers.
ordinary rotary mowers are ill-suited to mowing most hybrid bermuda varieties.
what can i do about sandy soil?
what seed should i plant for the best results?
after the morning dew dries  off is the best time for the grass--it isn't suffering afternoon heat stress
centipede forms a poor turf in full shade and should not be planted there.
make sure you mow frequently, and remove no more than 1/3rd of the leaf blade with each mowing.
millions of readers get the advice they need from lifetips.
so if  your bermuda is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 2-1/4 inches and  remove about 3/4 inch.
view archive tip of the day rss feed fresh lawn tips daily listen to our radio show hot topics for both consumers and webmarketers on webmasterradio.
if it's growing in shade, wait until the grass  reaches about 5-1/2 inches, and remove about 1-3/4 to 2 inches.
how does pruning keep trees healthy?
so if your tall fescue lawn is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 4-1/2 inches and remove 1-1/2 inches.
it's the place authors go to self-publish a book on a topic they're passionate about.
leave the clippingsleaving your grass clippings on the lawn is actually a good thing.
where can i get a soil analysis?
when you mow zoysia, your goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
what should i look for when buying loppers?
late afternoon or early evening  following a morning watering is just as good.
this is completely normal and is no cause  for alarm.
the rumble most properly designed mulching mowers make a rumbling sound as they move over new grass.
this is completely normal and is no cause for alarm.
where should i put my water garden?
if you don't have the money  for the power equipment and you don't have the energy to mow your hybrid  bermuda with a old-fashioned reel mower, you'll either have to hire someone to  mow your lawn, or replace the grass with something you can mow yourself.
as well they add organic matter and other benefits to the soil that will actually make your lawn healthier.
why has my well manicured lawn has been invaded by disease?
mowing st. augustine st. augustine prefers mowing to 3 inches in full  sun, 3-1/2 to 4 inches in shade.
when you mow st. augustine, your goal is to  have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each  mowing.
how do i get rid of moss?
what does aeration do?
mow at the right pacei know the ball game starts in 30 minutes, but you can't run through the yard with the lawn mower.
augustine prefers mowing to 3 inches in full sun, 3-1/2 to 4 inches in shade.
bermuda forms a very poor turf in any shade and should not be planted there.
why are there more fungi in the shady parts of the garden?
what advantages are there to shade gardening?
leave the clippings leaving your grass clippings on the lawn is  actually a good thing.
mowing hybrid bermuda mowing the hybrid bermuda varieties requires  specific knowledge about the growth and mowing requirements of the variety or  varieties you have in your lawn.
fresh clippings stimulate earthworm activity which breaks down the thatch.
you look like a professional, and a smart  one at that.
how can i control the growth of my lawn´s grass?
what´s the best way to mow the lawn quickly?
how do i control grubs?
you should have the variety identified by a qualified  turfcare professional or your cooperative extension service.
mowing tall fescuetall fescue prefers mowing to 3 inches in full sun, 3-1/2 to 4 inches in shade.
when you mow st. augustine, your goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
answer(s) to this  question  ( 1 / 14 )
if it's growing in part shade, wait until the grass reaches  about 4-1/2 inches, and remove about 1-1/2 inches.
what material should i use for my pond?
your mower's engine drives the blade with the  right amount of energy when it is used at full throttle.
mowing these grasses also requires the use of specialized equipment.
mowing centipedecentipede prefers mowing to about 2 inches in full sun, 3 inches in part shade.
pardon the pun, but a  $140 red ranger from the discount garden center won't cut it.
lifetips is a service of idealaunch, a  leading provider of content marketing services and solutions.
how do i fertilize my lawn?
can i use weed and feed on my lawn?
why should i mulch my clippings?
how should i plan my garden?
where should i put my pool?
so  if your centipede is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 3 inches and  remove 1 inch.
author spotlight jolyn wells-moran self-publish your book now lifetips home lawn tips aeration colors in landscape common lawn problems dos and don`ts drainage and soil improvement energy efficient landscaping entryways and drives fences, arbors, walls fertilizers grass groundcovers growth hedges lawn disease mowing organic lawns ornamental grasses outdoor lighting patios and decks pests planning and designing planting plants ponds professional pruning rock gardens selecting grass type shade shape and texture shrub varieties shrubs small yards soil analysis topdressing trees - planting and care vines weeds lawn jobs lawn faqs get fresh tips
subscribe to the lawn tip newsletter.
what are the benefits of pruning?
not only is rushing it  going to give you an ugly cut, you could seriously injure yourself.
lifetips is a service of idealaunch, a leading provider of content marketing services and solutions.
what are the do´s and dont´s of lawn care?
wear your safety gearyou don't look stupid when you wear safety glasses and sturdy, non-slip shoes.
mowing st. augustinest.
so if your zoysia is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 1-3/4 inches and remove just over 1/2 inch.
what kind of grass should i plant?
mow at the right pace i know the ball game starts in 30 minutes, but  you can't run through the yard with the lawn mower.
as the grass clippings decompose they add valuable nitrogen to the soil - almost 2 pounds per 1000 square feet each season.
when you mow centipede, your goal is to have the  target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
how can i put a waterfall in my rock garden?
not only is rushing it going to give you an ugly cut, you could seriously injure yourself.
what is the best way to mow the lawn?
if it's growing in shade, wait until the grass reaches about 2-1/2 inches and remove just over 3/4 inch.
to properly maintain your hybrid bermuda, you'll need a reel mower.
how do you prune evergreens?
a reel mower like the one your grandfather used to mow his grass with can be had for the same price as the red ranger, but you'll have to look around.
if you really want to get fancy and  impress the neighbors, travel diagonally on the third mowing and diagonally  from the opposite corner the fourth time.
so if your bermuda is in full sun, you should wait until it reaches 2-1/4 inches and remove about 3/4 inch.
mow at full throttleyour mower's engine drives the blade with the right amount of energy when it is used at full throttle.
if you are unsure about the type of bermuda you have, ask someone!
as  well they add organic matter and other benefits to the soil that will actually  make your lawn healthier.
how do you remove soft growth from fruit trees?
what are good pruning shears?
you do not save gas by slowing the engine down.
do you have any tips for professionals?
luckie grass clippings and thatch
cool and dry mow when it's cool and dry.
do i need a soil analysis?
how should i remove branches?
what are some common lawn problems?
when you mow centipede, your goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
answer(s) to this question ( 1 / 14 )
and they keep the tips, books and advice flowing to readers and fans!
ordinary rotary mowers  are ill-suited to mowing most hybrid bermuda varieties.
how deep is the water table?
by all means, inspect your equipment if you hear something  funny--but if you recently purchased a mulching mower and the only thing you've  heard that worries you is the rumble, relax with the knowledge that the  equipment is working exactly as it was designed.
but the truth  is that the just opposite is true.
how can i test drainage?
can i analyze the soil with a kit?
what are the do should i use weed and feed?
a reel mower like the  one your grandfather used to mow his grass with can be had for the same price  as the red ranger, but you'll have to look around.
when you mow tall fescue, your goal is to have the  target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass with each mowing.
alternate your pattern lawns that are mowed frequently can develop  ruts from mower wheels, especially if you have a large, heavy tractor or rider.
how can i reduce landscape maintenance?
you will ruin the  turf in one season.
en lawn tips about | bookstore | contact us | book promotion | press | radio | log on questions nobody's got all the answers.
where do i start to prune a garden?
a power reel mower can be bought from lawn and garden equipment  dealers who cater to turf managers and groundskeepers.
if it's growing in shade, wait  until the grass reaches about 5-1/2 inches, and remove about 1-3/4 to 2 inches.
passionate,  published authors keep the tips, advice and books flowing to lifetips  readers and fans of our weekly radio show.
what´s the best way to prune spruce trees?
the rumble most properly designed mulching mowers make a rumbling  sound as they move over new grass.
mowing hybrid bermudamowing the hybrid bermuda varieties requires specific knowledge about the growth and mowing requirements of the variety or varieties you have in your lawn.
if you are unsure about the type of bermuda  you have, ask someone!
how can i make the transition between driveway and entry more pleasant
you do not save gas by  slowing the engine down.
by all means, inspect your equipment if you hear something funny--but if you recently purchased a mulching mower and the only thing you've heard that worries you is the rumble, relax with the knowledge that the equipment is working exactly as it was designed.
when you mow zoysia, your  goal is to have the target height after having removed only 1/3rd of the grass  with each mowing.
keep your mower  blade razor sharp!
mowing tall fescue tall fescue prefers mowing to 3 inches in full sun,  3-1/2 to 4 inches in shade.
mowing common bermuda common bermuda prefers mowing to 1 to 1-1/4  inches in full sun.
mowing centipede centipede prefers mowing to about 2 inches in full  sun, 3 inches in part shade.
keep your mower blade razor sharp!
how do you prund lilacs?
how do i permanently rid my lawn of weeds?
q: what is the best way to mow the lawn?
passionate, published authors keep the tips, advice and books flowing to lifetips readers and fans of our weekly radio show.
so if your zoysia is in full sun, you should wait until it  reaches 1-3/4 inches and remove just over 1/2 inch.
the next time, travel vertically.
what are guidelines for where to plant a tree?
bermuda forms a very poor turf in any shade and should not  be planted there.
luckie grass clippings and thatchthere is a wide spread belief that leaving the grass clippings on your lawn contributes to thatch - dead or dying grass parts that prevent moisture and oxygen from reaching plant roots.
mowing zoysiazoysia prefers mowing to 1 to 1-1/4 inches in full sun and between 1-1/2 to 1-3/4 in part sun to part shade.
take your time and do it right--let the mower do the job you bought it to do.
you should have the variety identified by a qualified turfcare professional or your cooperative extension service.
how do i aerate my lawn?
when you mow, alternate your pattern.
but it isn't so damp that grass clumps form.
if it's growing in shade, wait until the grass reaches about 5-1/2 inches, and remove about 1-3/4 to 2 inches.
when is the best time to plant trees?
don't miss any lawn tips.
should i build a large or small pool?
how do you prune lilacs?
you look like a professional, and a smart one at that.