for remontant types, deadhead the spent flowers throughout the growing  season, just like you would your perennial flowers.
these plants can grow quite large and are often tree-formed.
and last, but not least is the climbing hydrangeaa totally different form of plant.
when they do need pruning, remove up to one third of the old canes at the soil line either after the first bloom or before growth begins in the spring.
the later they are pruned the smaller your flowers will be the next season.
some gardeners like the look of the dried blooms on their plants, and even consider it an extra form of winter protection for their flower buds.
this plant has large oak-shaped leaves and panicles  of white flowers in early summer, which fade to dusty rose and then tan.
it can be pruned hard if needed, but do so before it begins to leaf out  in the spring.
h. macrophylla, the big leaf  hydrangea tends to be one of the first plants to begin growing, often in the  dead of winter.
deadheading is a process where spent flowers are removed.
the earlier you prune them off, the longer the stem can be.
for remontant types, deadhead the spent flowers throughout the growing season, just like you would your perennial flowers.
the smooth hydrangea will produce much larger blooms if pruned hard each year, but many gardeners opt for smaller blooms on sturdier stems.
full morning sun or filtered sun with protection from the hot  afternoon sun is best for most; however, the h. paniculata ‘pink  diamond’ can grow in full sun.
there are several  schools of thought about this.
smooth  and panicle hydrangeas are usually immune to winter damage, and even if it  occurs, since they bloom on the new growth, they still will bloom this growing  season.
most smooth hydrangeas have white  flowers that bloom on the new growth and ‘annabelle’ blooms are  fairly large and showy.
hydrangea macrophylla and h.  quercifolia bloom on the old growth, so should be pruned immediately after  flowering if needed.
the season of pruning is not the same for all hydrangeas.
some gardeners prune a few canes each season, while others wait until the  plants have overgrown their location, or when the flowers become smaller and  less showy.
it can be pruned hard if needed, but do so before it begins to leaf out in the spring.
additional resources
and last, but not least is the climbing hydrangea—a totally different  form of plant.
the later they are  pruned the smaller your flowers will be the next season.
of the hydrangeas, panicle forms will take the  most sunlight.
cooperative extension service cooperative extension service search | publications | jobs | personnel directory | links county offices | departments about us find us for the media agriculture business & communities families & consumers health & nutrition home & garden arbor day commercial horticulture composting control of disease, insects, and weeds fruits, nuts, vegetables & herbs gardening calendar gardening with janet carson landscaping lawns master gardener plant of the week your home links newsletters publications natural resources 4-h youth development public policy center for faculty & staff giving dale bumpers college of agricultural, food & life sciences division home agricultural experiment station home cooperative extension service home hydrangeas have been a garden favorite in arkansas for many years.
the big blue and pink flowering hydrangeas need  morning sun and afternoon shade.
hydrangeas often look like dead sticks in the winter, but for some the flower  buds are there.
if the terminal bud begins to sprout, (which often happens when  we have a warm spell in the winter), a following hard freeze can kill the bud.
others find the spent flowers an eyesore and remove them as the flower color fades.
they also can be  somewhat attractive during the winter, with their shaggy, peeling bark.
other than  pruning when flower buds are opening, you really can’t mess these up too  easily.
most of them like some water, and most prefer a little protection from  the hot afternoon sun—especially in the south, but there are exceptions to  every rule.
the panicle (peegee) hydrangea can be formed into a tree, with very  little pruning other than shaping done each year before growth begins in the  spring.
the smooth hydrangea will produce  much larger blooms if pruned hard each year, but many gardeners opt for smaller  blooms on sturdier stems.
the ideal time to prune—if needed, is immediately as the flowers  begin to fade.
try to  plant your hydrangeas in a location where maximum size can be utilized, and  this can cut down on your pruning chores.
pictures of chickens, flowers, wheat, a boy looking through a magnifying glass, irrigation pipe, soybean pods, and fruits and vegetables.
oakleaf hydrangeas  tend to stay dormant longer and rarely have any winter injury.
annabelle’s branches often fall over under the  weight of their blooms, especially after irrigation or a good rain.
there are a few varieties ofh. macrophylla that are remontant which means they are capable of having more than one bloom cycle.
another old fashioned white bloomer is the panicle or peegee hydrangea, hydrangea paniculata.
this will encourage them to set more flowers.
most smooth hydrangeas have white flowers that bloom on the new growth and annabelle blooms are fairly large and showy.
smooth and panicle hydrangeas are usually immune to winter damage, and even if it occurs, since they bloom on the new growth, they still will bloom this growing season.
fertilize with a slow release fertilizer in early spring after all frost has ended.
they also can be somewhat attractive during the winter, with their shaggy, peeling bark.
h. arborescens or the smooth hydrangea (annabelle) may or may not be pruned hard before growth begins.
if pruning is  needed, follow the same guidelines as forh. macrophylla.
additional resources back to shrubs © 2006 university of arkansas division of agriculture all rights reserved.
protect the  plants as much as possible in the winter.
this will encourage them to  set more flowers.
they actually bloom on both the old and the new wood.
when pruning big leaf hydrangeas, cut the older canes out as close to the soil line as possible.
top-pruning hydrangea canes, will result in branching.
pruning crossover branches and pruning for structure and support by cutting stems to a heading of 18 24 inches can give you a sturdier branch to support the blooms, but even then you may need some additional plant supports to keep the branches upright.
hydrangeas have been a garden favorite in arkansas for many years.
hydrangea quercifolia, the oak leaf hydrangea usually doesn’t  require as much pruning, provided it has ample room to grow.
since hydrangeas produce multiple trunks or canes, pruning cuts should  remove canes at the soil line.
aluminum sulfate fertilizer will keep them blue, while lime will make them pink.
some gardeners erroneously think their big leaf hydrangeas are dead sticks, and prune them to the ground each winter.
the old-fashioned ‘annabelle’ hydrangea is one of the smooth  hydrangeas,hydrangea arborescens.
last date modified 02/10/2012 webmaster university of arkansas • division of agriculture cooperative extension service 2301 south university avenue little rock, arkansas 72204 •
there  are 23 species of hydrangeas, but five that are commonly available and commonly  grown.
bigleaf hydrangeas change color based on the ph of the soil.
acidic soils produce blue flowers, while alkaline soils  produce pink.
on annabelles and peegee hydrangeas that works, buth. macrophylla produces large terminal flower buds on the end of each branch and  multi-stalked canes can bend over under the weight of multiple flowers.
they produce large showy pink or blue flowers are gracing many landscapes.
they usually look like a bunch of dead sticksso dont have them in the most prominent part of your winter landscape.
in  addition to spectacular flowers, the leaves turn brilliant shades of red in the  fall landscape.
it sets its flower buds for the next season on the old wood, after it blooms, in late summer to early fall as the days get shorter and temperatures cool off.
when  pruning big leaf hydrangeas, cut the older canes out as close to the soil line  as possible.
all members of the hydrangea family like a rich soil with plenty of moisture.
hydrangea macrophylla typically blooms in early  summer.
flower color varies by species, with some white, pink or blue, some even green.
they rarely see a flower on their plants.
hydrangea anomala is a vine that can grow in deep shade and still bloom.
some gardeners like the look of the dried blooms  on their plants, and even consider it an extra form of winter protection for  their flower buds.
like the smooth hydrangea, they bloom on the new growth.
some gardeners  erroneously think their big leaf hydrangeas are dead sticks, and prune them to  the ground each winter.
they usually look like a bunch of dead sticks—so don’t have  them in the most prominent part of your winter landscape.
hydrangeas are not drought tolerant plants, needing ample moisture to thrive.
keep in mind that most hydrangeas are not the most attractive plants in the  winter.
they clip off the spent blooms as the buds begin to emerge in the spring.
there are several schools of thought about this.
h. macrophylla, the big leaf hydrangea tends to be one of the first plants to begin growing, often in the dead of winter.
of the hydrangeas, panicle forms will take the most sunlight.
usa phone (501) 671-2000 •
often the earlier you  get it done after bloom, the quicker the recovery and the more blooms next  season.
direct afternoon sun on the big leaf hydrangea will give you a wilted plant every afternoon regardless of how much water they have.
the flowers produced  from these smaller buds will not be as large and showy as those from a terminal  bud, but they are still quite nice.
often the earlier you get it done after bloom, the quicker the recovery and the more blooms next season.
if pruning is needed, follow the same guidelines as forh. macrophylla.
if there is a really hard winter, the  entire bigleaf hydrangea plant can be killed to the ground.
i prefer to prune before new growth so there is at least  some structure in the winter garden.
the earlier you prune them off, the longer the  stem can be.
not all hydrangeas are the same.
you dont want to damage any flower buds which may have already formed.
this hydrangea is the one that produces the large pink or blue flowers (depending on ph of the soil) in either mophead form or lacecap form.
this hydrangea is the one that produces the  large pink or blue flowers (depending on ph of the soil) in either mophead form  or lacecap form.
hydrangea paniculata (panicle hydrangea) and h. arborescens (smooth hydrangea) require a totally different method of pruning and are  both much more forgiving if pruning is not done at a certain time.
all members of the hydrangea family like a rich soil with plenty of  moisture.
the panicle (peegee) hydrangea can be formed into a tree, with very little pruning other than shaping done each year before growth begins in the spring.
when they do need pruning, remove up  to one third of the old canes at the soil line either after the first bloom or  before growth begins in the spring.
white  flowering annabelle hydrangeas have large showy flowers.
protect the plants as much as possible in the winter.
either option is fine, just be careful about how much stem  is cut when you do deadhead.
if the plant gets old and woody, it can often produce smaller blooms.
make sure you choose a variety that will suit your landscape needs, as well as the site.
a light application following the first flush of  flowers can also be used.
most of them like some water, and most prefer a little protection from the hot afternoon sunespecially in the south, but there are exceptions to every rule.
if there is a really hard winter, the entire bigleaf hydrangea plant can be killed to the ground.
aluminum sulfate fertilizer will keep them blue, while lime will  make them pink.
a new introduction invincibelle spirit produces large pink flowers.
today nurseries and garden centers carry a wide array of hydrangeas.
not  all hydrangeas are the same.
try to plant your hydrangeas in a location where maximum size can be utilized, and this can cut down on your pruning chores.
‘pink diamond’ will take full sun and the ‘limelight’ form  has greenish white blossoms.
make  sure you choose a variety that will suit your landscape needs, as well as the  site.
except for the climbing hydrangea, they need some sunlight in order  to set flowers.
a light application following the first flush of flowers can also be used.
keep in mind that most hydrangeas are not the most attractive plants in the winter.
oakleaf hydrangeas have large panicles of white  flowers which turn dusty rose as they age.
while it can be slow to get established and start blooming, once it does, the lovely white flowers are quite showy.
when this happens, there are usually smaller flower buds further down on the stem which can take their place and bloom in the summer.
fertilize with a slow release fertilizer in early spring  after all frost has ended.
some plants bloom on the new growthhydrangea paniculata and h. arborescens, so can be pruned before growth begins in early spring or as they are going dormant in the fall.
the later you deadhead, make sure you are simply just removing the  flower head with very little stem.
while it can be slow to get established and start blooming,  once it does, the lovely white flowers are quite showy.
a new introduction ‘invincibelle spirit’  produces large pink flowers.
the flowers produced from these smaller buds will not be as large and showy as those from a terminal bud, but they are still quite nice.
another common hydrangea for woodland gardens is the oakleaf hydrangea, hydrangea quercifolia.
some gardeners prune a few canes each season, while others wait until the plants have overgrown their location, or when the flowers become smaller and less showy.
hydrangea quercifolia, the oak leaf hydrangea usually doesnt require as much pruning, provided it has ample room to grow.
the most common hydrangea grown in our gardens ishydrangea macrophylla —the big leaf hydrangea.
hydrangea macrophylla and h. quercifolia bloom on the old growth, so should be pruned immediately after flowering if needed.
h. arborescens or the smooth hydrangea (annabelle) may or  may not be pruned hard before growth begins.
when this happens, there are usually smaller flower buds further down on the  stem which can take their place and bloom in the summer.
others find the spent flowers an eyesore and remove them as the  flower color fades.
it sets its flower buds for the next season on the old wood, after it  blooms, in late summer to early fall as the days get shorter and temperatures  cool off.
there are a few varieties ofh. macrophylla that are remontant  – which means they are capable of having more than one bloom cycle.
the plant will re-grow from the root system, but you will usually have few, if any, blooms that growing season, unless you are growing the reblooming types like endless summer and blushing bride.
in addition to spectacular flowers, the leaves turn brilliant shades of red in the fall landscape.
with good choices, and correct timing with pruning, your hydrangeas  can stop traffic every year when in bloom.
hydrangea anomala is a vine that can grow in deep shade  and still bloom.
except for the climbing hydrangea, they need some sunlight in order to set flowers.
try to have all pruning done by august.
top-pruning hydrangea canes, will result in  branching.
there are 23 species of hydrangeas, but five that are commonly available and commonly grown.
the ideal time to pruneif needed, is immediately as the flowers begin to fade.
'endless summer' is a reblooming h. macrophylla and will bloom off and  on all summer if you deadhead the spent blooms.
the later you deadhead, make sure you are simply just removing the flower head with very little stem.
you don’t want to damage any flower  buds which may have already formed.
if the plant gets old and woody, it can often produce smaller  blooms.
theseh. macrophylla will bloom throughout  the summer, and will bloom on new growth even if the old growth is winter  damaged.
with increasing popularity, and new varieties emerging every season, there should be a hydrangea for almost every landscape.
in the neutral zone we have purple blooms.
this should reduce the overall size and height of the plant, while leaving ample remaining stems for showy blooms the next season.
full morning sun or filtered sun with protection from the hot afternoon sun is best for most; however, the h. paniculata pink diamond can grow in full sun.
hydrangeas are not drought tolerant plants, needing ample  moisture to thrive.
they clip off the spent blooms as the buds begin to emerge  in the spring.
this should reduce the overall size and height of the plant, while  leaving ample remaining stems for showy blooms the next season.
the plant will  re-grow from the root system, but you will usually have few, if any, blooms  that growing season, unless you are growing the reblooming types like  ‘endless summer’ and ‘blushing bride.’
support for the stems is sometimes needed to hold  the large flower heads.
since hydrangeas produce multiple trunks or canes, pruning cuts should remove canes at the soil line.
some plants bloom  on the new growth—hydrangea paniculata and h. arborescens,  so can be pruned before growth begins in early spring or as they are going  dormant in the fall.
pruning  crossover branches and pruning for structure and support by cutting stems to a  heading of 18 – 24 inches can give you a sturdier branch to support the  blooms, but even then you may need some additional plant supports to keep the  branches upright.
other than pruning when flower buds are opening, you really cant mess these up too easily.
two of the varieties getting a lot of press now are endless summer and blushing bride.
either option is fine, just be careful about how much stem is cut when you do deadhead.
oakleaf hydrangeas tend to stay dormant longer and rarely have any winter injury.
pink diamond will take full sun and the limelight form has greenish white blossoms.
with increasing popularity, and new varieties  emerging every season, there should be a hydrangea for almost every landscape.
this plant has large oak-shaped leaves and panicles of white flowers in early summer, which fade to dusty rose and then tan.
with good choices, and correct timing with pruning, your hydrangeas can stop traffic every year when in bloom.
these plants can grow quite large and are often  tree-formed.
some will tolerate more sun than others, and  pruning needs vary by species.
choosing the right hydrangea for your yard can be a daunting task.
i prefer to prune before new growth so there is at least some structure in the winter garden.
flower color varies by species, with some white,  pink or blue, some even green.
the most common hydrangea grown in our gardens ishydrangea macrophylla the big leaf hydrangea.
hydrangea macrophylla typically blooms in early summer.
the old-fashioned annabelle hydrangea is one of the smooth hydrangeas,hydrangea arborescens.
theseh. macrophylla will bloom throughout the summer, and will bloom on new growth even if the old growth is winter damaged.
acidic soils produce blue flowers, while alkaline soils produce pink.
on annabelles and peegee hydrangeas that works, buth. macrophylla produces large terminal flower buds on the end of each branch and multi-stalked canes can bend over under the weight of multiple flowers.
some will tolerate more sun than others, and pruning needs vary by species.
annabelles branches often fall over under the weight of their blooms, especially after irrigation or a good rain.
pink  plants can be kept pink with lime, while blue needs aluminum sulfate.
fax (501) 671-2209 mission • disclaimer • eeo • privacy • foi
direct afternoon sun on the big leaf  hydrangea will give you a wilted plant every afternoon regardless of how much  water they have.
support for the stems is sometimes needed to hold the large flower heads.
if the terminal bud begins to sprout, (which often happens when we have a warm spell in the winter), a following hard freeze can kill the bud.
hydrangea paniculata (panicle hydrangea) and h. arborescens (smooth hydrangea) require a totally different method of pruning and are both much more forgiving if pruning is not done at a certain time.
two of  the varieties getting a lot of press now are ‘endless summer’ and  ‘blushing bride.’