on 26th feb. we have our agm, starting at 10.30am, if you want any business put on the agenda for discussion please let jenny know by 15th
cost: £15 folio £20 folio for non members.
the hotel is situated in a quiet corner of torquay, a 10 min.
50 50x40cm and 5 50x50cm cost 20 pence per frame per day hanging on the gallery wall.
more details in the new year.
truro devon: paignton camera club methodist church hall.
our largest turnout was over 70 for the fellowship showing day in december.
we are meeting in the car park 500m past the now closed goonhilly visitor centre on the right signposted 'nature reserve'.
barnstaple, north devon ex31 4ex meet: carpark 1030am information: amongst ten acres of gardens are over 300 sculptures by more than 60 international sculptors.
sunrise photography trip will be arranged for those interested on sat.
tq3 3eq time: 7.30pm for both venues, £2.50 cost: £2.50 payable on the night.
if it is wet we could divert into the woods and cut down the length of the walk and find some shelter in the wood leader: mick medley lrps, joy medley lrps saturday, 14thth april 2012 10.30am distinctions advisory day lrps and arps venue: dolphin hotel.
single rooms are available without surcharge.
cornwall: truro camera club, carnon downs village hall, carnon downs, nr.
copyright notice warning: this web site comprises and contains copyright materials.
there are walks around the  farm.
this is a rare opportunity provided by the rps to listen to a highly successful international photographer.
jason’s photography covers portraits, editorial, entertainment, advertising, landscapes and film.
26th feb. 2012 1.45pm event: 3 western region members talk about their work tony cooper arps colour & monochrome www.photoscoop.co.uk peter phillips lrps great quality colour seascapes and landscapes.
no observers allowed.
depart morning 10.30am field trip haytor and nearby redundant quarries lead by sw member – easy access from the a38 on the way home.
these workshops get booked up in advance and have  limited numbers.
information: anyone bringing work must book in advance.
the next meeting will be in devon, on sunday, 18th march 2012 in totnes starting at 10.30am.
we need a minimum  number of 10 people to book for this deal.
so you can choose to stay for 2 or 3 nights you will be asked for a deposit of £30.
if anyone has any queries or suggestions for the website please contact myself, or jenny leathes and we will help you if we can.
then 9 to 10pm recent successful distinction panels travel and visual art from the sw.
joy medley lrps tel.no 01626 824865 email: joy.medley@btinternet.com regional web master mick medley lrps
rooms: there are 40 rooms locals: if you wish to join us and are not staying at the  hotel please do so, contact me for times.
other workers showed us derelict buildings, redevelopment projects, posts and pillars in the landscape, to footprints, and the river plym.
group show in the sw region will happen mon.
the rate is for sharing double or twin rooms.
if you want to come to the talk you must let  me know in advance as seating is limited organiser: jenny leathes – please let me know if you  have booked!
name of attendees………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ………………………………………………………… email address..……………………………………... saturday, 14th april 2012 event: distinctions lrps & arps advisory day venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey, time: 10.30am cost: £15.00 bringing folio for rps members £20.00 for non rps members £10.00 observation/viewing of day name of attendees…
diwilkins@hotmail.co.uk regional groups
nikon david robbins of nikon professional training has agreed to provide some free talks in 2012 for rps groups - under the banner ‘the rps/nikon roadshow – an introduction to dslr video’, david will go through the basics of starting to produce video output from a dslr camera.
nick meers lecture 10am to 12pm.
leader: sue brown frps and di wilkins lrps sunday, 24th june 2012 field trip: the lizard, cornwall goonhilly - roskilly's farm - coverack/porthoustock meet: goonhilly carpark os map explorer  103 grid ref 731211 for 10.30am information: head for helston then take the a3083 past rnas culdrose airfield.
arrival, dinner 6.30pm, 9 to 10 pm talk from a sw region member (travel theme) sat.
www.plphillips.co.uk peter brisley arps wonderful monochrome images of the near east, taken and processed the old fashioned way
speakers will be photographers of today and well known in contemporary circles.
our next newsletter is planned for july 2012.
booking: direct with hotel quoting ‘rps’  photographic group; rate is £68.00 per person per night includes dinner  (4 courses), bed and breakfast.
but you must have a ticket or email reservation for this event due to limited seating.
now  full £10 observing, spaces left panel advisers: steve smith frps a panels, pete mccloskey  frps l panels organisers: committee field trip: broomhill gardens and sculpture park,  muddiford.
www.roskillys.co.uk for information.
he has a long list of clients.
distinction days have proved to be very popular and book up quickly.
rps at bath emails this out on the region’s behalf.
monday, 27th feb. 2012 rps international projected image exhibition.
in the last few months i have emailed all sw members about events and opportunities.
the region is covering the costs of this event.
please also have a look at the website the day before an event, especially field trips, to see if there are any changes of venue or time.
broomhill have offered us a deal for entrance and lunch - £10 per person.
tq13 9al time: 1030am to 4.30pm approx.
at the next roundabout turn left onto the b3293 signposted st keverne.
please bring some work to show!
fri 10th feb to sun 12th /13th
though it is free please book your place with jenny at jennyleathes@btinternet.com sw meets visual art and travel group.
swanage itself, lulworth, kimmeridge, old harry rocks, coastline quarries including dancing ledge, corfe castle, nearby nature reserve at studland sat.
the national visual art and travel groups
you may not alter, manipulate, add to or delete an image or any part of an image.
nick gives master classes, private tuition, workshops in the uk and usa.
at the next  mini roundabout keep right towards goonhilly and st keverne.
please come along and join us.
at the  next roundabout turn left onto the b3293 signposted st keverne.
any other special requirements?...............................................
you may not distribute, copy, publish or use the images or any part of the images in any way whatsoever.
this is a w/end event 12th to 15th october 2012 at the headland hotel in torquay.
jason lives in london and new york.
he shoots stock images for various agencies, including the fine-art image library trevillion images.
851690 at 10.30am, by cafe /shop/toilets information: low water is at 12.30pm low springs so ideal for the beach and rocks.
we expect this event to book up quickly!
there are walks around the farm.
small free car park at strand street (or if full at devils point at end of durnford st/admiralty rd – 5 min walk.
afternoon field trip 2pm until sunset lead by sw member or do your own thing.
please send the booking form and cheque to jenny leathes, 19 trefusis terrace, redruth, cornwall tr15 2ha please enclose a sae and/or email address if you want an acknowledgement or tickets where appropriate.
after lunch we can either visit the nearby village of coverack with its thatched roofed cottages and small fishing harbour, or head for porthoustock which has a shingle beach overlooked by a quarry.
exhibitions shelia haycox will be exhibiting a varied selection of prints at the cafe, 76 fore street, topsham, exeter ex3 0hq from 7th to 31st may 2012.
there was an article about jason in the june journal and recently in membership matters.
£10 observing panel advisers: to be confirmed organisers: committee sun.
10th feb) in time for dinner at 7.30pm field trips: saturday and sunday, both for the whole day  – lots of possibilities.
i/we agree to pay the balance due by 15th august 2012 date…………………………..
we would aim for an exhibition in the cube3 gallery plymouth, but we would need a good sample of work beforehand to submit to the hanging committee.
no reservations are held in advance.
please do not hesitate to contact me for details on rod@rodfry.eclipse.co.uk or you can telephone 01803 844721 after 7.00pm or you can contact me on face book or check out the details on the rps website.
rooms: there are 40 rooms locals: if you wish to join us and are not staying at the hotel please do so, contact me for times.
all are welcome to attend this event.
full name(s) ……………………………… distinction(s)………….. address…
the headland hotel, daddyhole road, torquay, devon tq1 2ef website: www.headlandtorquay.com fri
if other areas would like to do this please let me know and i will help to set it up.
email: linda.wevill@btinternet.com margaret hocking arps (folio secretary)
in the afternoon barry will show some of his more creative work and show us how he developed his ideas.
also we require a £100 deposit to cover possible damage/breakage.
i now have a good supply to refresh the images when required.
full package cost includes everything - 3 nights in hotel, breakfast and 5 course dinner, field trips, all talks and lectures, cost £140 members living locally can attend field trips, talks and lectures.
non-members are welcome and cheques should be made payable to the royal photographic society.
if you have not had an email from me and you live in this area please contact me so i can let you know what is happening.
it was refreshing to get images for the website from new members following the email sent out at the back end on 2011.
mick medley, regional webmaster programme of events for all events please contact: jenny leathes arps 19 trefusis terrace redruth cornwall tr15 2ha 01209 211156 jennyleathes@btinternet.com
station road, dolphin square, bovey tracey, devon.
we look forward to hearing soon that you will be able to join us for our joint weekend event.
these days book up quickly – email jenny to check if spaces are available.
leader: jenny leathes arps 12th to 15th october 2012 sw meets the travel and visual art groups torquay
broomhill have offered us a deal for entrance and lunch - £10 per  person.
due to a good response in field trip images i have had to take down the older ones to accommodate all that we get from field trips.
evening speaker: mark bauer mark is rapidly establishing a reputation as one of the uk’s leading landscape photographers.
also  remains of raf dry tree 2nd world war airfield
if we have wet weather during the  day looking at work and viewing some rps exhibition cd/dvd discs will be  available.
we need a minimum number of 10 people to book for this deal.
saturday, 24th nov. 2012 event: distinctions lrps & arps advisory day venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey, time: 10.30am cost: £15.00 bringing folio for rps members £20.00 for non rps members £10.00 observation/viewing of day name of attendees………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… email address..
there is some walking involved from the carpark to the staircase – 15 mins.
copyright for all the images remains with the royal photographic society and its contributors.
rod fry the south west region in conjunction with the national contemporary group has a w/end planned provisionally at plymouth university 9th to 11th november 2012.
9th dec. fellowship advisory day.
rps lecture series on sun.
information: there is a café for lunches on site, or bring packed lunch.
in the afternoon we plan to visit kingsand and cawsand - if you have arrived by foot lifts will be arranged.
feb. 2012 10.30am event: agm venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey time: 10.30am to 12.00pm afternoon entertainment see below: sun.
tickets or an email sent close to the date will indicate where the lecture  will be given on the university site.
mark is also a multi-award winner in the prestigious landscape photographer of the year competition.
cheques in favour ofrps visual art group please.
– last year this proved to be popular on friday evening.
he is the author of two books published by halsgrove -  ‘romantic dorset’ and ‘perfect wiltshire’ and co-author  (with ross hoddinott) of a photography technique book, 'the landscape  photography workshop'.
so you can choose to stay for 2 or 3 nights you will be  asked for a deposit of £30.
please let me know if you have any day preferences.
swanage itself, lulworth, kimmeridge, old harry  rocks, coastline quarries including dancing ledge, corfe castle, nearby nature  reserve at studland sat.
the leader will, to the best of their knowledge inform you of any dangers or areas that could cause concern.
……………………………………………………………… ……………………………………………..post code………………… telephone no:…………………………….mobile………………………… email address:……………………………………………………………….
good veggie food as well as the usual.
field trips are usually well supported, good for meeting members.
feb. 2012 10.30am event: agm venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey time: 10.30am to 12.00pm sun.
we shall meet for coffee at 10 am and steve will start showing us his work at 10.30.
in the winter months it is closed.
9th september 2012 10.00 am - 4.00 pm at dolphin hotel.
booking: direct with hotel quoting ‘rps’ photographic group; rate is £68.00 per person per night includes dinner (4 courses), bed and breakfast.
william cheung frps lecture 2 to 4pm.
– as we are travelling further afield from our region the group rate has been agreed for the evenings of friday, saturday and sunday.
jay charnock frps chair visual art group david j. wood, arps vice chair visual art group jenny leathes arps sw regional organiser liz rhodes chair travel group linda wevill arps sw region and visual art committee the royal photographic society the south west region meets
all members, and non-members alike, will be welcome at any of the sw visual art group meetings.
he completed a city and guilds course in photography at the arts institute in bournemouth in 1994, and since then his images have appeared in numerous publications throughout the world.
his photographic interests are very wide (people, events, scenics, nature, travel) and there is no subject he does not enjoy.
john widdows arps tel.no 01752 781555 email: johnwiddows@btinternet.com susan brown frps tel.
but it is a big climb up the staircase to it so you may want to bring a packed lunch to enjoy the beach for longer and have tea afterwards!
tq13 9al the sw visual art group are delighted to welcome steve le provost frps for a day of inspirational visual art photography.
tickets or an email sent close to the date will indicate where the lecture will be given on the university site.
we do of course reserve the right to veto any content, which we feel is not suitable, this generally takes the form of being circulated to some of the committee members who respond with their thoughts.
date of next meeting
we are meeting in  the car park 500m past the now closed goonhilly visitor centre on the right  signposted 'nature reserve'.
he has judged various prestigious competitions including the travel photographer of the year.
linda is publicity and webmaster of the visual art group and is, therefore, well placed to keep us abreast with what is happening nationally.
however it is helpful if you can let us know if you are attending an event.
images display better in landscape, but if you want to send portrait images these need to be no bigger than 310 pixels high and preferably on a canvas 465 pixels wide, and the canvas can then be a colour of your choice.
there are no facilities in this carpark!
booking forms for events  are not provided unless it is a rps payable or a ticket event.
13th morning field trip 9.30am to 1pm lead by sw member or do your own thing.
leader: john widdows arps sunday, 16th september 2012 field trip: carnewas and bedruthan steps bedruthan, near padstow, cornwall pl27 7uw beach and surrounding coastline with sea stacks.. meet: nt carpark carnewas grid ref.
tq13 9al the sw visual art group is delighted to welcome ann and barry mead frps to show us their work on sunday 29th april 2012.
from disappearing aspects of rural india, to local colourful festivals, from old farming methods still in use in cornwall, to farmers market days, and the scars caused by commercial tree felling all these topics and more were shown at the groups meeting in gweek.
information: this is about 6 miles with some strenuous walking over rough ground, packed lunch essential as no pubs en route, strong footwear and waterproof clothing essential.
sunday, 25th march 2012 field trip: dartmoor walk via jays grave, hamel down over  to widdicombe.
it was said originally we would leave field trip images on the site for a year but due to numbers this has been cut down to about 3 or 4 field trips on view.
these workshops get booked up in advance and have limited numbers.
if your email is out of date or you have not given it to the membership department you will not receive these update emails.
…………………………………….. panel – prints/projected image please indicate which if arps proposed category……………………… sunday, 25th nov. 2012
payment secures place.
our region is lively with lots going on if you want to join in; everyone is welcome including non-members.
we need to know approximate numbers in advance.
feb. after our agm starting at 1.45pm 3 western region members talk about their work: tony cooper arps colour & monochrome www.photoscoop.co.uk peter phillips lrps great quality colour seascapes and landscapes.
for heathland/flowers and menhir.
there is no harbour but  has working boats and shacks.
if we have wet weather during the day looking at work and viewing some rps exhibition cd/dvd discs will be available.
it was agreed that we would use the working title of “just looking?”
free parking and entrance.
it will be aimed at beginners and not experienced video makers.
no 01626 824865 email: michael.medley@btinternet.com committee martin howse arps tel.
leader: viv howse lrps sunday, 8th july 2012 field trip: mount edgcumbe country park cremyll, torpoint, cornwall pl10 1hz kingsand and cawsands meet: 10.30am by cremyll ferry terminal in the country park.
the region has a set of frames available for hire to members.
also, meeting fellow circle members at regional events is a good way of getting to know them better.
we shall meet for coffee at 10 am and ann and barry will show us their work in the morning.
mark is also a multi-award winner in the prestigious  landscape photographer of the year competition.
the numbers of seats/tickets are shared with students and it is likely to be a very popular talk.
if you would like to be on linda’s e-mail list for communications re activities of the group, please let her know onlinda.wevill@btinternet.com .
he is a regular contributor to the uk  photographic press, in particular digital slr photography magazine.
places will be limited to give time and room to view the images close up.
start 6.30am back in time for breakfast at about 8.30am.
also remains of raf dry tree 2nd world war airfield en.wikipedia.org/wiki/goonhilly_downs (slightly out of date)
then 9 to 10 pm talk from a sw region member (visual art theme)
if you require any more information about the group and its work or are interested in coming along to our next meeting you would be made most welcome.
he shoots  stock images for various agencies, including the fine-art image library  trevillion images.
to: david j. wood, arps, 16, greycot road, beckenham, br3 1ta please reserve for me/us a single/double/twin* bed room for three nights at the headland hotel, torquay for the south west meets the visual art and travel group weekend for which i/we enclose a cheque value £………….. being £50 per person deposit.
but you must have a ticket or email reservation for this event due  to limited seating.
please contact jenny leathes if interested.
(we do not score images like some folios).
his work has since appeared in the world’s foremost publications including vanity fair and vogue us and uk, featuring leading celebrities such as scarlett johansson, johnny depp, david beckham, nicole kidman, john malkovich, kate winslet and daniel craig.
it is an ideal spot to explore some of the devon coastline.
10am to 5pm each day.
if you want to come to the talk you must let me know in advance as seating is limited organiser: jenny leathes – please let me know if you have booked!
field trip to dartmoor, haytor and nearby redundant quarries lead by sw member; 10.30am to lunchtime – easy access from the a38 on the way home.
others travelling from devon may prefer to via plymouth on the cremyll foot ferry.
examples from all categories will be shown.
attached to this newsletter are 2 booking forms for this event, w/end inclusive package or just day visitors for lectures and field trips.
booking form attached.
sw members can book in for the inclusive hotel speaker package or just for the talks if you live locally.
there is no charge but it is a ticket event – so you must book please.
there is no limit as to subject, and whether the image is a mono from a wet darkroom or has been heavily “photo shopped” in colour is immaterial.
william cheung frps lecture 2 to 4pm sunset photograhy on local coast/beach 9 to 10pm showing of successful distinction panels travel and visual art from the sw.
we also need news, this can be exhibitions, events which are photography based, be they camera club or otherwise, plus any news which can be shared with members.
cornwall: truro camera club, carnon downs village hall,  carnon downs, nr.
it is possible to book in just for  the evening meal and/or lecture.
each has a maximum of 12 members who circulate prints (no bigger than a4 and unmounted) round their group and comment on each other’s images.
we are very pleased to welcome will cheung frpswww.williamcheung.co.uk
evening speaker: mark bauer mark is rapidly establishing a reputation as one of the uk’s leading  landscape photographers.
having first become interested in photography while living abroad in the early 1990’s, he is now renowned for his evocative images of his home county of dorset, and other locations throughout the south west of england.
this event will be advertised nationally to the visual art and travel groups.
after lunch we can either visit the nearby village of coverack with its  thatched roofed cottages and small fishing harbour, or head for porthoustock  which has a shingle beach overlooked by a quarry.
our committee members are: treasurer
leader: sue brown frps and di wilkins lrps sunday, 24th june 2012 field trip: the lizard, cornwall goonhilly - roskilly's farm - coverack/porthoustock meet: goonhilly carpark os map explorer 103 grid ref 731211 for 10.30am information: head for helston then take the a3083 past rnas culdrose airfield.
all event updates are put on our website.
the walk will take in the above with possibilities of visiting grimspound and bell tor.
nick’s panoramics are taken with an adapted camera that sometimes needs 2 tripods; a panoramic format 6x17cm format film holder bolted onto the rear of a linhof technikarden view camera.
this became available at the end of october 2011.
sunset photography on local coast/beach after lecture.
cost: £15 folio £20 folio for non members now full £10 observing, spaces left panel advisers: steve smith frps a panels, pete mccloskey frps l panels organisers: committee saturday, 12th may 2012 field trip: broomhill gardens and sculpture park, muddiford.
members benefit from friendly critique and enjoy seeing a variety of different pictures.
south western region devon and cornwall february 2012 regional organiser and editor: jenny leathes ma arps, 19 trefusis terrace, redruth, cornwall tr15 2ha telephone no. 01209 211156
the lunch would be a mediterranean tapas buffet.
he is a regular contributor to the uk photographic press, in particular digital slr photography magazine.
there is no harbour but has working boats and shacks.
station road, dolphin square, bovey  tracey, devon.
there is a carpark for those travelling by car.
contemporary sw group rps contemporary sw review meeting 3rd december 2011.
bookings will be acknowledged by email, or post if a sae is sent.
contemporary journal winter edition all the work for inclusion in the contemporary journal from the south west would be sent to me, for posting to the editor in good time to meet the deadline, for the winter edition of the magazine.
april 2012 10.30am distinctions advisory day lrps and arps venue: dolphin hotel.
………………………………………………………….. email address………………………………………… the royal photographic society the south west region meets
for heathland/flowers and menhir.
this beach is only accessible at certain times due to the tide.
tq13 9al time: 10.30am to 4.30pm approx.
you are the first to receive the details about this event.
(8 minute crossing time).
he completed a city and guilds course in photography at the arts institute  in bournemouth in 1994, and since then his images have appeared in numerous  publications throughout the world.
many of jason’s photographs have been acquired by the national portrait gallery for their permanent collection; he has gained numerous awards.
www.plphillips.co.uk peter brisley arps wonderful monochrome images of the near east, taken and processed the old fashioned way venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey time: 1.45pm to 4.15pm cost: free but please book in advance either by email to ro or on booking form.
the  walk will take in the above with possibilities of visiting grimspound and bell  tor.
we advise people  to check the website for any last minute changes to an event – changes or  cancellation only happen in exceptional circumstances!
meet: carpark at swallerton gate, below hound tor grid reference 739792.
www.plphillips.co.uk wonderful monochrome images of the near east, taken and processed the old  fashioned way venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey time: 1.45pm to 4.15pm cost: free but please book in advance either by email to  ro or on booking form.
– as we are travelling further afield  from our region the group rate has been agreed for the evenings of friday,  saturday and sunday.
we need  to know approximate numbers in advance.
sunday, 11th march 2012 lecture: jason bell venue: lecture theatre 2, roland levinsky building, plymouth university, drake circus pl4 8aa time: lecture starts at 2.00pm parking: drake circus is 5 mins away from campus and theatre.
9th to 11th november 2012 sw region meets national contemporary group plymouth university.
if you are interested or would like to know more please contact me: margaret hocking arps, folio secretary bosrowynek@btinternet.com bosrowynek, west langarth, threemilestone truro tr4 9an 01872-561219 distinction advisory days 2012 these are proving very popular so we are putting on extra this year: sat. 14th
the committee and i are here to support and help.
this would take place on a weekday – not w/ends.
11th march – jason bell tickets still available
please do keep the field trip images coming as it shows others what they have missed, but please send them promptly after the event in order they are fresh.
event: distinctions lrps & arps advisory day venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey, time: 10.30am cost: £15.00 bringing folio for rps members £20.00 for non rps members £10.00 observation/viewing of day name of attendees………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… email address..……………………………………… panel – prints/projected image please indicate which if arps proposed category……………………….
at the next mini roundabout keep right towards goonhilly and st keverne.
will is a fellow of the rps and sits on the distinctions panel for the applied category.www.williamcheung.co.uk nick meers nick shoots editorial, advertising and stock, landscapes, locations, gardens, architecture, panoramics and the details of life and light.
sunday, 25th march 2012 field trip: dartmoor walk via jays grave, hamel down over to widdicombe.
feb 2012 spaces available event: w/end in swanage venue: the pines hotel, burlington road, swanage, dorset  bh19 1lt tel.
information: the distinctions department andy moore and ben fox with panel members will be visiting to show successful lrps, arps and frps panels from 2012.
the sw region has three postal print folios (general) and one black and white digital in circulation now.
in the south west we now have two active groups: sw region visual art group news.
information: anyone bringing work must book in advance –there are spaces for observing.
– last year  this proved to be popular on friday evening.
29th april 2012 10.00 am - 4 pm at dolphin hotel.
however it is  helpful if you can let us know if you are attending an event.
our membership has increased.
we have had a busy successful year with many events.
currently there are spaces for members to join a folio.
no 01752 872328 email: susanibrown@ btinternet.com linda wevill arps tel.
nick has been commissioned to shoot over 30 books and images have been used for many magazines.
email: jennyleathes@btinternet.com __________________________________________________________________________ r egional organiser and editor’s news and information this newsletter covers events up until january 2013.
contact jenny leathes.
if anyone is interested in this please contact me asap – no later than 28th feb. and providing i have sufficient numbers i will arrange this.
acceptances into rps exhibitions are also good news to be shared, we can display some of the images, and especially those that win ribbons or medals but generally the only people who can send these are the authors so do not be shy.
9 to 10 pm talk from a sw region member (visual art theme)
start 6.30am back in time for late breakfast!
there will be a charge of £5 for the talk payable on the night.
if you wish to visit the house and earl's garden there is a charge.
will cheung will has enjoyed working in the photographic press for 25 years and is currently the editor for advanced photography magazine.
we welcome non members to all our events.
information: this is about 6 miles with some strenuous walking over rough ground, packed  lunch essential as no pubs en route, strong footwear and waterproof clothing  essential.
booking forms for events are not provided unless it is a rps payable or a ticket event.
please make your reservation by sending a completed booking form to david j. wood at the address shown together with a cheque for £50 per person deposit.
feb 2012 spaces available event: w/end in swanage venue: the pines hotel, burlington road, swanage, dorset bh19 1lt tel.
if enough of us wanted to go in we may get a group concession.
tq13 9al time: 10.30am to 4pm approx.
a link to a non-society site does not imply endorsement.
cost: £15 folio £20 folio for non members
the sw visual group continues to flourish and if you would like to be part of this group, or would like to come along to any of our talks or members’ meetings, you would be most welcome.
if you want to show this exhibition at your camera club or group - discs are available from bath.
if you do not have an e-mail address, but would like to be kept informed, please contact linda (01752 873162) and she will ensure that you receive the information by mail.
the national visual art and travel group for a weekend in torquay - 12th to 15th october 2012 -----------------------------
sunday, 11th  march 2012 venue: lecture theatre 2, roland levinsky building,  plymouth university, drake circus pl4 8aa time: lecture starts at 2.00pm parking: drake circus is 5 mins away from campus and  theatre.
truro devon: paignton camera club   methodist church  hall.
this will cost £5 and the disc is yours.
meet: carpark at swallerton gate, below hound tor grid  reference 739792.
after lunch steve will show more of his work and discuss the methods he uses.
palace avenue, paignton.
there is a steep staircase down to the beach.
cost: £10 organisers: jenny leathes arps anyone attending an event is responsible for their own actions.
costs to be confirmed.
his website is www.jasonbellphoto.com plymouth university are kindly providing the venue.
for a weekend in torquay - 12th to 15th october 2012 the weekend event is being held at the headland hotel, daddyhole road, torquay, devon tq1 2ef website: www.headlandtorquay.com
our next project would be open, and photographers would select a theme of their own choice.
6 large wind turpines and the remaining bt satellite dishes.
no. 01929 425211 www.pineshotel.co.uk meet in the evening (fri.
no 01872 561219 email:bosrowynek@btinternet.com diana wilkins
he also works with wellshot imaging, a company offering workshops and academies in north wales and north west england.
13th morning field trip 9.30am to 1pm lead by a member or do your own thing.
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/goonhilly_downs  (slightly out of date)
we then plan  to head for roskilly's farm for a lunch break.
rps international projected image exhibition.
………………………………………………………….
monday, 27th  feb. 2012 rps international projected image exhibition.
sunday, 27th january 2013 event: rps celebration of distinctions venue: dolphin hotel.
normal entrance fee is £4.50 and there is a café available for  lunch teas etc.
website: www.markbauerphotography.com he will speak for an hour before dinner 6.15 to 7.15pm, and up to an hour afterwards 9pm to 10pm.
barnstaple, north devon ex31 4ex meet: carpark 1030am information: amongst ten acres of gardens are over 300  sculptures by more than 60 international sculptors.
if anybody would like to contribute please email me jpeg files, ideally 465 x 310 pixels at 72 dpi (i will resize if necessary).
nick meers lecture 10am to 12pm afternoon field trip 2pm until sunset lead by sw member to include sunset or do your own thing.
i have a number reserved for rps members and non members.
……………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… email address..………………………………… panel – prints/projected image please indicate which if arps proposed category……………………….
10th feb) in time for dinner at 7.30pm field trips: saturday and sunday, both for the whole day – lots of possibilities.
£10 observing panel advisers: to be confirmed organisers: committee sunday, 25thth november 2012 10.30am distinctions advisory day lrps and arps venue: dolphin hotel.
dinner 7.00pm, 9 to 10 pm talk from a sw region member (travel theme).
normal entrance fee is £4.50 and there is a café available for lunch teas etc.
with folio - spaces; observers - spaces sun 25th nov. - with folio - spaces; observers - spaces sun.
there will be a  charge of £5 for the talk payable on the night.
if you feel you want another specialist group set up or have ideas for events or have issues you wish to raise please do contact us.
april - with folio - spaces; observers - spaces sun 15th april - with folio - full; observers - spaces sat.
cost: free but please book name of attendees………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… email address..……………………………………… sunday, 11th march 2012 event: lecture jason bell venue: plymouth university time: 2pm cost: no cost but this event is ticket only!
details to be announced in the spring saturday, 24thth november 2012 10.30am distinctions advisory day lrps and arps venue: dolphin hotel.
he provides workshops for jessops training academy, leica, digital depot and nikon training.
there will be a charge for the will cheung lecture £8 and nick meers lecture £8.
please book with jenny asap if you want this deal.
01209 211156 jennyleathes@btinternet.com we welcome non members to all our events.
news/reminders on some events this year
*please indicate clearly your preference vegetarian options will be provided at all mealtimes.
he is the author of two books published by halsgrove - ‘romantic dorset’ and ‘perfect wiltshire’ and co-author (with ross hoddinott) of a photography technique book, 'the landscape photography workshop'.
it is possible to book in just for the evening meal and/or lecture.
we then plan to head for roskilly's farm for a lunch break.
having first become interested in photography while  living abroad in the early 1990’s, he is now renowned for his evocative  images of his home county of dorset, and other locations throughout the south  west of england.
cost: £25 organisers: jenny leathes arps/ martin howse arps sunday, 27th january 2013 rps celebration of distinctions venue: dolphin hotel.
we may walk through widdicombe in the afternoon for a cream tea!
there has been a request by a few members in west cornwall for an rps group to meet together on a regular basis, to discuss photography and whatever else the group might deem suitable.
booking form for payable and ticket events all payable bookings are to be sent to jenny leathes by post.
if it is wet we could divert into the woods and cut down the length of the  walk and find some shelter in the wood leader: mick medley lrps, joy medley lrps saturday, 14thth april 2012 10.30am distinctions advisory day lrps and arps venue: dolphin hotel.
sunday, 26th february 2012 event: 3 western region members talk about their work tony cooper arps peter phillips lrps peter brisley arps venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey, time: 1.45 pm to 4.15pm
we have secured two major photographerswill cheung frps and nick meers.
the cost of the weekend is £140.00 per person and includes half board, full english breakfast and a five course dinner, all field trips, lectures and talks.
please book with jenny asap if you  want this deal.
taxi ride from the railway station.
no 01326 221939 email: mghvkh@btinternet.com
cost: rps members £10, non members £15 name of attendees………………………………….. ………………………………………………………….
it was certainly a day packed full of very high quality photography.
cornwall - truro; devon – paignton further details below.
£10 observing panel advisers: to be confirmed organisers: committee sunday, 9th december 2012 10.30am fellowship panel advisory day venue: dolphin hotel.
sunday, 15th april 2012 event: distinctions lrps & arps advisory day venue: dolphin hotel, bovey tracey, time: 10.30am cost: £15.00 bringing folio for rps members now full £20.00 for non rps members £10.00 observation/viewing of day name of attendees………………………………….. …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… email address..……………………………………… panel – prints/projected image please indicate which if arps proposed category……………………….
and nick meers www.nickmeers.com as our major speakers for the weekend programme fri.
www.nickmeers.com applied photography category.
there is limited seating so it is suggested you book asap.
cremyll ferry departs from admirals hard, stonehouse, plymouth at 15 and 45 minutes past the hour.
all under 16’s must be accompanied by a parent or guardian.
we advise people to check the website for any last minute changes to an event – changes or cancellation only happen in exceptional circumstances!
www.cornwalls.co.uk/porthoustock-village.htm low tide 14.23 hours
the region is funding this as a free event to all members and non members – please come and support, it should be a really good afternoon of photography.
he has shot numerous film posters including billy elliot, about a boy, love actually, bridget jones 2 and more recently golden compass and inkheart.
a sunrise photography trip will be arranged for those interested on saturday and sunday morning.
linda wevill has now taken over organising this group from sue brown.
you will have to walk down to the meet point.