exploring it can yield a cornucopia of tropical delights.
the complete book of bananas by w.o. lessard describes 50 types that will grow well in southwest florida, and steiginga has several kinds growing in his naples yard, including the ice cream banana (it tastes like vanilla ice cream, he says) and the 1,000 finger (the fruits of which measure only a couple of inches).
over-fertilization of citrus can adversely affect the quality and quantity of  fruit, but some fertilizing with a 6-6-6 mixture is important.
they prefer a  semi-shady spot and do best in well-drained, improved soil.
those with type  “b” flowers open as female the first afternoon, close at night and  reopen the next morning as male.
as steiginga is fond  of pointing out, “there’s a whole new world out there.”
navel oranges ripen from september to december; hamlins from  october to december; robinson tangerines from september through october;  orlando tangelos from november to january; mineola tangelos (the perennial  favorite also known as honeybells) from january to march; and valencias from  march through most of the summer.
the red spanish variety fruits in may or june; smooth cayenne (which has almost spineless leaves) fruits from july to september; natal queen and pernambuco from june to july; and abakka from july to september.
in the cold of winter, among those contemplating a  move from the frigid north to sunny, warm southwest florida, one vision seems  almost universal: “when i get there i can grow my very own orange  trees.”
spring is probably the best time of year  for planting citrus, although container-grown specimens can be successfully  planted just about any time of the year.
steiginga, who is currently experimenting with growing different species in one planting hole, has a young black prince avocado growing with a russell.
the  buttery fruit is typically used in salads or mashed for guacamole or other dips.
the first needs little  preparation.
among the simplest but most comprehensive is florida
they can be grown  from seed, but plants live only two to three years.
tree size ranges from dwarf to large and fruit color from yellow to red.
more and more local nurseries are stocking a wide variety of tropical fruit trees.
a  regular citrus fertilization program works well with young trees.
“they say, when you plant a  young tree, you should fertilize heavily for a few years to establish it.
because nematodes can also cause problems, it’s a good idea to treat the  soil with nematocides before planting.
if you want to explore all the possibilities, however, you’ll need to do some research.
pineapples are particularly vulnerable to nematodes, so a nematocide should be used prior to planting.
those with type “b” flowers open as female the first afternoon, close at night and reopen the next morning as male.
spring is probably the best time of year for planting citrus, although container-grown specimens can be successfully planted just about any time of the year.
fertilization is important, and recommendations suggest one cup of a solution of water soluble fertilizer poured into the bud at least six to eight times a year and maybe as often as once a month.
while you’re doing that, just toss the fruit.
dwarf varieties grow on plants that reach a maximum height of about six feet.
because nematodes can also cause problems, it’s a good idea to treat the soil with nematocides before planting.
more information can be gleaned from your local county extension service (listed in the “blue” pages of the phone book, under county government), which puts out numerous helpful fact sheets on successfully growing all sorts of plants.
while most citrus pests and diseases affect only the appearance of the tree and fruit, henry steiginga, tropical fruit expert at corbin-lindabury garden & nursery center, does recommend spraying against the asian leaf miner.
the variety also allows you to find the  type(s) most suited to your yard’s growing conditions.
budded or grafted mangoes (the preferred method of propagation) will begin to bear fruit within three to four years.
prized pineapple those who enjoy the slightly acidic sweetness of citrus may also want to try their hand at growing pineapples.
growing mangoes from seed is not recommended, as the  quality of the fruit may be inferior.
“normally, the first thing people want to plant is  citrus,” notes steiginga.
the buttery fruit is typically used in salads or mashed for guacamole or other dips.
a solitary female may, if the flowers have been  pollinated by hawk moths.
growing mangoes from seed is not recommended, as the quality of the fruit may be inferior.
some plants may produce fruit  throughout the year, but, generally, the best fruit ripens from july to  october, as the hot weather tens to sweeten the fruit.
the former produces a more typical pear-shaped fruit; the latter yields a long, gourd-like fruit.
the best way to control fruit flies is to bag the fruit with paper or plastic, shortly after the fruit has set.
“the pulling family has  been growing here for years,” she says.
it can also lead to too much of a good thing.
because of subsequent winter freezes, the main growing area eventually shifted southward, and the region south of sebring now grows a wide variety of citrus, including oranges, grapefruit, tangerines, lemons, limes and kumquats.
their staffs are generally well informed and  willing to offer advice and recommendations.
they freeze at about 31 degrees, and the young plants are especially tender.
unfortunately, lack of knowledge can make  the reality less than the dream.
they can be grown from seed, but plants live only two to three years.
mango mania second to citrus in newcomer popularity is easily the mango – and  small wonder.
you  may want to take a ride to the miami fruit and spice park, where you can see  established tropical fruit trees and attend lectures.
nitrogen levels can affect the fruit’s flavor.
“they’re fine, but you don’t have to overdo it.”
the last may require the addition of some soil in the planting hole.
you  can even grow them in very large containers.”
the first citrus tree in  florida was planted around 1565, when st. augustine was founded.
the biggest drawback goetz and steiginga see to citrus  is over-abundance.
pollination on avocados is particularly interesting, as it puts forth  blossoms that change from female to male.
carrie, kent and philippine have the added advantage of being resistant to anthracnose, the primary fungus disease of mango leaves and fruit.
papaya plants  are dioecious, which means that plants may be male or female.
prized pineapple those who enjoy the  slightly acidic sweetness of citrus may also want to try their hand at growing  pineapples.
the  range of varieties allows home gardeners in southwest florida to have citrus  nearly year round.
as with mangoes, there are numerous varieties of avocado –  enough to ensure fruit almost all year.
and all they really need is just water and  fertilizer.”
bananas also offer the sweet temptation of  wide-ranging variety.
unfortunately, lack of knowledge can make the reality less than the dream.
these natives of the tropics will do well in southwest florida if  care is taken to protect them from freezing temperatures.
your local county extension service can provide further information on specific pests and problems.
the last may  require the addition of some soil in the planting hole.
buy from a reputable dealer who  has a knowledge of growing citrus and can give advice on planting and care.
they will freeze  at about 30 degrees.
the fruiting stem should be cut down and removed after the fruits have been harvested.
the latter are also more resistant to fruit fly infestation, a serious problem for papayas.
written by janina birtolo home & condo photography by chris rollins
pruning and  a fungicidal spray program will help protect susceptible varieties.
navel oranges ripen from september to december; hamlins from october to december; robinson tangerines from september through october; orlando tangelos from november to january; mineola tangelos (the perennial favorite also known as honeybells) from january to march; and valencias from march through most of the summer.
the newer bisexual papayas do not require male plants  for fruit production.
“we try to encourage key  limes,” she says, “because they’re a small scale tree.
some varieties taste best when the fruit is still a little green;  others need to be very ripe.
the best way to control fruit flies  is to bag the fruit with paper or plastic, shortly after the fruit has set.
mango mania second to citrus in newcomer popularity is easily the mango and small wonder.
a solitary male plant will not produce fruit.
budded or grafted mangoes (the preferred  method of propagation) will begin to bear fruit within three to four years.
the first citrus tree in florida was planted around 1565, when st. augustine was founded.
the good news is that, with a little care, your citrus can be healthy and productive.
proper drainage is the main concern in the second.
papaya plants are dioecious, which means that plants may be male or female.
according to ellin goetz, a landscape architect with j. roland lieber landscape  architects in naples, citrus trees now come with a tag from the florida  department of agriculture, certifying the variety and health of the tree and  removing some of the risk.
©  february 1995 retreat | dreaming |  signs and portents | tattoos | home  |  welcome |  one-woman shows |   ensemble gallery | writings  | biography |  selected ensemble roles | writing  credits | | video acting/production/directing | words of praise | calendar  of events  | contact me!
as with mangoes, there are numerous varieties of avocado enough to ensure fruit almost all year.
their staffs are generally well informed and willing to offer advice and recommendations.
citrus does well in all of southwest florida’s soil types: well-drained  sands, poorly-drained flatwoods and limestone soil.
perhaps the greatest delight of mangoes is the number of different varieties.
because of  subsequent winter freezes, the main growing area eventually shifted southward,  and the region south of sebring now grows a wide variety of citrus, including  oranges, grapefruit, tangerines, lemons, limes and kumquats.
a regular citrus fertilization program works well with young trees.
the fruiting stem should be cut down  and removed after the fruits have been harvested.
bananas also offer the sweet temptation of wide-ranging variety.
in addition, in april, august and december, three tablespoons of a quality mixed fertilizer containing essential elements and organics should be applied to the soil around each plant.
fertilization is important, and  recommendations suggest one cup of a solution of water soluble fertilizer  poured into the bud at least six to eight times a year and maybe as often as  once a month.
“we try to encourage key limes,” she says, “because they’re a small scale tree.
when planted in the sun and regularly fertilized and watered, they will grow rapidly and produce fruit after two frost-free years.
bananas will freeze at about 28 degrees, and they are not especially salt tolerant.
well-drained soil is of utmost importance, as avocados will not tolerate flooding.
local chapters of the rare fruit council international and such groups as the collier fruit growers council are also very helpful, and members freely share information, samples and seedlings.
selected ensemble roles | writing credits | | video acting/production/directing | words of praise | calendar of events | contact me!
many can also be successfully frown in containers, a boon to condominium dwellers and others for whom outdoor space is scarce.
local chapters of the  rare fruit council international and such groups as the collier fruit growers  council are also very helpful, and members freely share information, samples  and seedlings.
“normally, the first thing people want to plant is citrus,” notes steiginga.
mulching with decay-able organic matter is also recommended.
perhaps the greatest delight of mangoes is the number of different  varieties.
our nearly frost-free climate can produce  fruit almost year round.
many can also be successfully frown in  containers, a boon to condominium dwellers and others for whom outdoor space is  scarce.
like mangoes, papayas offer attractive foliage and sweet,  tropical fruits with a melon-like taste.
you can even grow them in very large containers.”
your local county extension service can  provide further information on specific pests and problems.
the first needs little preparation.
mulching with  decay-able organic matter is also recommended.
fortunately, that’s not as difficult a task as it once was.
written by janina birtolo home & condo photography by  chris rollins
annual new plantings will  help ensure continual fruit.
if you want to explore all the possibilities, however, you’ll  need to do some research.
the good news is that, with a little care, your citrus can be healthy and  productive.
on your own the preceding  represents a very brief look at just a few of the fruiting trees and plants  that do well in southwest florida.
some varieties taste best when the fruit is still a little green; others need to be very ripe.
while  you’re doing that, just toss the fruit.
according to ellin goetz, a landscape architect with j. roland lieber landscape architects in naples, citrus trees now come with a tag from the florida department of agriculture, certifying the variety and health of the tree and removing some of the risk.
so can the time of  picking.
the biggest drawback goetz and steiginga see to citrus is over-abundance.
regular varieties can grow 10 to 15 feet tall, and  steiginga harvests some of his by climbing onto his roof.
more information can be gleaned  from your local county extension service (listed in the “blue”  pages of the phone book, under county government), which puts out numerous  helpful fact sheets on successfully growing all sorts of plants.
they prefer sun and should be fertilized the same way citrus is.
older trees need less nitrogen but adequate amounts of zinc and manganese.
dwarf varieties grow on plants that reach a maximum  height of about six feet.
the even better news is that citrus is only one of a wide variety of fruit trees that can flourish here.
some plants may produce fruit throughout the year, but, generally, the best fruit ripens from july to october, as the hot weather tens to sweeten the fruit.
fruit, published in tampa by lewis s. maxwell.
goetz adds that orange and grapefruit trees can grow far larger than many newcomers expect.
they prefer a semi-shady spot and do best in well-drained, improved soil.
older trees  need less nitrogen but adequate amounts of zinc and manganese.
finally, there are a number of excellent books that  detail what tropical fruits will and won’t grown in southwest florida and  how best to care for them.
fortunately, that’s not as difficult  a task as it once was.
annual new plantings will help ensure continual fruit.
and all they really need is just water and fertilizer.”
they will freeze at about 30 degrees.
most taste best when picked somewhere in between those extremes.
| email to:  janina@janinabirtolo.com ©2005 janina birtolo all rights reserved website design by flying colors of naples, inc.
| email to: janina@janinabirtolo.com ©2005 janina birtolo all rights reserved website design by flying colors of naples, inc.
as steiginga is fond of pointing out, “there’s a whole new world out there.”
they freeze at  about 31 degrees, and the young plants are especially tender.
in addition, the duncan grapefruit ripens  from october until january, and the marsh seedless grapefruit from december  until april (although it may continue even through the summer).
pineapples are  particularly vulnerable to nematodes, so a nematocide should be used prior to  planting.
bananas are best “bananas are a big favorite here, probably because the plant itself is  gorgeous,” says goetz.
bananas will freeze at  about 28 degrees, and they are not especially salt tolerant.
the best time to plant is march, and a bulky organic matter  should be placed right in the buds.
over-fertilization of citrus can adversely affect the quality and quantity of fruit, but some fertilizing with a 6-6-6 mixture is important.
while  caring for banana plants is not especially complex, they do prefer rich, moist  soil and fertilization once a month during warm weather.
buy from a reputable dealer who has a knowledge of growing citrus and can give advice on planting and care.
those with “a” type flowers open the first morning as female (i.e. the stamens don’t shed pollen, but the pistil is receptive to pollen), close at noon and reopen the next afternoon as male (i.e. stamens shed pollen).
goetz adds that orange and grapefruit trees can grow  far larger than many newcomers expect.
although  sometimes more associated with california than florida, the avocado first  appeared here in 1833, nearly 40 years before showing up on the west coast.
with a little planning, a yard that is  both attractive and filled with a wide range of tropical tastes is possible.
steiginga, who is  currently experimenting with growing different species in one planting hole,  has a young black prince avocado growing with a russell.
then, when the tree is  established, cut back on fertilizer, and you’ll get wonderful  fruit.”
among the most common varieties are carrie (ripens june to july); keitt  (august to october); julie (june to july); kent (july to september); beverly  (july to october);
the key to a  good citrus crop is to start with a good tree.
the popularity of citrus
then, when the tree is established, cut back on fertilizer, and you’ll get wonderful fruit.”
those with “a” type  flowers open the first morning as female (i.e. the stamens don’t shed  pollen, but the pistil is receptive to pollen), close at noon and reopen the  next afternoon as male (i.e. stamens shed pollen).
papayas prefer sunny conditions but will tolerate poor soil.
the key to a good citrus crop is to start with a good tree.
a solitary female may, if the flowers have been pollinated by hawk moths.
© february 1995 back to writings retreat | dreaming | signs and portents | tattoos | home | welcome | one-woman shows | ensemble gallery | writings | biography |
you may want to take a ride to the miami fruit and spice park, where you can see established tropical fruit trees and attend lectures.
carrie, kent and philippine have the added advantage of being resistant to  anthracnose, the primary fungus disease of mango leaves and fruit.
the even better news is that citrus is only one of a wide variety  of fruit trees that can flourish here.
in addition, in april, august and december, three tablespoons of  a quality mixed fertilizer containing essential elements and organics should be  applied to the soil around each plant.
regular varieties can grow 10 to 15 feet tall, and steiginga harvests some of his by climbing onto his roof.
finally, there are a number of excellent books that detail what tropical fruits will and won’t grown in southwest florida and how best to care for them.
“they’re fine, but you don’t  have to overdo it.”
pollination on avocados is particularly interesting, as it puts forth blossoms that change from female to male.
“in design work, they can easily be  incorporated into the landscape.
the range of varieties allows home gardeners in southwest florida to have citrus nearly year round.
spraying with neutral copper will help set blossoms and control diseases.
the different strains start to fruit at different times of the year, although most begin to ripen in january.
mulching will help as well.
goetz suggests  following the lead of the commercial growers.
in addition, the duncan grapefruit ripens from october until january, and the marsh seedless grapefruit from december until april (although it may continue even through the summer).
the different strains start to  fruit at different times of the year, although most begin to ripen in january.
the newer bisexual papayas do not require male plants for fruit production.
“the pulling family has been growing here for years,” she says.
although sometimes more associated with california than florida, the avocado first appeared here in 1833, nearly 40 years before showing up on the west coast.
more and more local nurseries are stocking a wide  variety of tropical fruit trees.
“they say, when you plant a young tree, you should fertilize heavily for a few years to establish it.
among the simplest but most comprehensive is florida fruit, published in tampa by lewis s. maxwell.
the fruiting season for pineapple runs from may to september, and the first fruit can be expected 18 to 28 months after planting.
the thought of wandering out to the backyard and  picking a fresh, ripe orange prompts many newcomers to turn their yards into  veritable citrus groves.
tree size ranges from dwarf to large and fruit color from yellow to  red.
in the cold of winter, among those contemplating a move from the frigid north to sunny, warm southwest florida, one vision seems almost universal: “when i get there i can grow my very own orange trees.”
bananas are best “bananas are a big favorite here, probably because the plant itself is gorgeous,” says goetz.
the best time to plant is march, and a bulky organic matter should be placed right in the buds.
on your own the preceding represents a very brief look at just a few of the fruiting trees and plants that do well in southwest florida.
so can the time of picking.
the dark, shiny leaves make mangoes an attractive landscape plant, while the sweet fruit is considered by some as food fit for the gods.
edward (may to june); glenn (may to june); valencia pride  (june to july); philippine (may to july); and nam doc mai (july to august).
goetz suggests following the lead of the commercial growers.
while caring for banana plants is not especially complex, they do prefer rich, moist soil and fertilization once a month during warm weather.
these natives of the tropics will do well in southwest florida if care is taken to protect them from freezing temperatures.
the red spanish variety fruits in may or june; smooth cayenne (which has almost  spineless leaves) fruits from july to september; natal queen and pernambuco  from june to july; and abakka from july to september.
citrus does well in all of southwest florida’s soil types: well-drained sands, poorly-drained flatwoods and limestone soil.
“in design work, they can easily be incorporated into the landscape.
the complete book of bananas by w.o. lessard describes 50  types that will grow well in southwest florida, and steiginga has several kinds  growing in his naples yard, including the ice cream banana (it tastes like  vanilla ice cream, he says) and the 1,000 finger (the fruits of which measure  only a couple of inches).
most taste best when picked somewhere in between  those extremes.
among the most common varieties are carrie (ripens june to july); keitt (august to october); julie (june to july); kent (july to september); beverly (july to october); edward (may to june); glenn (may to june); valencia pride (june to july); philippine (may to july); and nam doc mai (july to august).
the thought of wandering out to the backyard and picking a fresh, ripe orange prompts many newcomers to turn their yards into veritable citrus groves.
with a little planning, a yard that is both attractive and filled with a wide range of tropical tastes is possible.
our nearly frost-free climate can produce fruit almost year round.
like mangoes, papayas offer attractive foliage and sweet, tropical fruits with a melon-like taste.
pruning and a fungicidal spray program will help protect susceptible varieties.
the former produces a  more typical pear-shaped fruit; the latter yields a long, gourd-like fruit.
the  fruiting season for pineapple runs from may to september, and the first fruit  can be expected 18 to 28 months after planting.
the dark, shiny leaves make mangoes an attractive landscape  plant, while the sweet fruit is considered by some as food fit for the gods.
when planted in  the sun and regularly fertilized and watered, they will grow rapidly and  produce fruit after two frost-free years.
the variety also allows you to find the type(s) most suited to your yard’s growing conditions.
while most citrus pests and diseases  affect only the appearance of the tree and fruit, henry steiginga, tropical  fruit expert at corbin-lindabury garden & nursery center, does recommend  spraying against the asian leaf miner.
a solitary male  plant will not produce fruit.
well-drained soil is of utmost importance, as avocados will not tolerate  flooding.
mangoes prefer well-drained, sandy soil and sunny conditions.
the latter are also more resistant to fruit fly  infestation, a serious problem for papayas.