this  information came from the san diego zoo after several skunks died from canine  distemper because of being given the wrong vaccine.
helps to control infections, upset tummies and diarrhea.
if you suspect your skunk has a pesticide reaction, take it to the vet immediately.
domestic skunks do not breed well in your homes.
let's make life very simple
a human baby at birth can weigh 6 pounds and be 19 inches long, however, as an  adult it be 7 feet tall and weigh 300 pounds.
try giving as much cranberry, orange or  tomato juices as it will drink or you can mix 1 teaspoon of white vinegar with  1 quart of water and place it in the water bowl.
has anyone ever heard a wild skunk sneeze ?
this is found in rabies in florida, by burridge mj, sawyer la and bigler wj,  table 2.1, which summarizes the incubation and morbidity periods for rabies in  animals and man.
fat skunk it is very easy for a skunk to become obese.
just remember--a skunk in a new location is scared and unsure, just as you are in new places, around new people.
if you do use your bathroom for the baby skunk's  bedroom, be sure to keep the toilet lid down to prevent drowning.
heavy, easy to clean bowls that cannot be easily  turned over are best.
with a lot of patience and a fair  amount of time, you can move his or her bathroom to a place more acceptable to  you.
i have found a way for all people to love my skunks just as i  do.
coughing and sneezing by this  time you think you have taken on a child rather than a skunk and what you are  about to read may surprise you!
your skunk needs to be seen by a vet for  x-rays as this is the only way to tell what is happening to your skunks' bones.
they prefer afternoon sun to morning  sun.
4 weeks to 8 weeks from 4 to 8 weeks of age, your baby skunk should be fed 4 meals a day  as much as it can eat at one time.
the best solution for a healthy  skunk, saving a lot of heartbreak or hurt feelings, fingers and toes is to have  all skunks spayed or neutered well before they are 6 months old.
you can give your skunk a great variety of veggies daily without waste.
this allows your smell and voice to become familiar to the skunk and will build trust between the two of you.
pineapple * potatoes * prunes * prickly pear * radishes * raisins *
experiment with your skunk.
bedding old towels, clothing, sheets or  blankets make perfect snugglies, as they can be washed and kept clean.
patience and love will create a very loving animal.
use  the simple screen door latches, they work better for adults.
never allow your skunk to eat raw meats of any kind.
the baby skunk  you buy from a pet store is about 4 to 8 weeks old, descented and very scared,  as you would be if you were in this baby skunk's place.
nexus hair care products are one of the best to use on skunks as they have all-natural ingredients.
this enables the skunk's fur to become evenly soaked for better cleaning.
pork of any kind -- cat foods -- high protein dog food -- moist canned dog food -- chocolate - fried foods -- bee pollen -- sunflower seeds - iceberg lettuce -- dried corn or grasses.
the nails are free to be cut  and its teeth can't reach the person helping you.
be creative and feed  a broad spectrum of foods for a happy, healthy skunk.
feed them treats that they enjoy, but that are also healthy for them, but definitely feed them in moderation.
we have seen several cases of  pneumonia and congestive heart failure that began with a cough.
skinny skunks please keep in mind that your  skunk is not a fashion model and does not have to have the long, lean, slinky  look.
it is just plain ugly !
your carpets or walls may be the object of digging.
skunks  have unique personality, health and dietary considerations that you should be  aware of if your skunk is to become a member of your family.
if  those 2 skunks weighed the same thing, one of them would be in serious trouble!
every skunk is different; however, here are some average lengths, heights and  weights.
spay  all females before their first heat cycle and avoid skunk p m s: p -- pre,  post, possibly permanent m -- mating s -- syndrome male  skunks
(placing a plastic garbage  bag on the floor under the newspaper will make clean-up easier.)
most important, your friends think you  are a very special person now and not crazy enough to live with a skunk.
pears peppers, including  hot!!
* yucca root * zucchini other suggested foods cereals, rice, pasta-all kinds, whole-grain bread, nuts-all kinds, eggs,  cooked dried beans, cheese-all kinds.
if it bites someone and they report it to the health authorities, you must surrender your skunk to be murdered and the brain cells tested for rabies.
and i was able to do most of the care myself.
you also may want to worm  your skunk as coughing is one of the signs of round worms.
however, their nails will grow very long  and can cause damage to your carpets, walking problems and could be pulled out  of the foot if they happen to get the nail caught in something if not trimmed  periodically.
until you can have x-rays taken of your skunk, give one half only of a baby aspirin once a day.
leash training use  a figure eight cat harness if you wish to try walking your skunk.
most  outgrow climbing.
a good squirt from the trusty old water bottle may help, but if not, pour white vinegar on the spot where the skunk is digging.
they are eating, looking good and they act as if they feel better.
this will help the skunk to know you, forming a stronger bond.
try giving a  large marshmallow, caramel candy or peanut butter kiss.
use the cut off parts of the veggies you cook for yourself, for your skunk's dinner and they will love it.
until the prolapse is completely gone, replace kitty litter with newspaper and keep the prolapse greased.
skunks that are fed mainly vegetables just look better.
protein: baked or boiled chicken or water packed tuna fish or cooked dried beans with rice or 6 to 10 pieces of dog food per day, such as o.n.e. or adult formula pro plan.
veterinarian find a vet who does not mind working with skunks and has  worked with them in the past.
you cannot hold and fondle the new kittens, you will not know how many, what color or what sex they are, you have lost a good pet and possibly a few fingers and toes.
you can find pet toothbrushes and toothpaste at pet stores and  your vets office.
be very  careful with your skunk!
do not be tempted or talked into feeding more protein foods than are recommended here.
good luck in your search!
dull dandruff yellowing or loss of hair obesity (fat skunk) dry, cracked feet aggressive behavior and biting loss of appetite makes constant unusual noises runny nose and eyes body odors-altered skunks should have no body odor coughing and sneezing bad breath
animals know when to take long winter naps by how much daylight it has in its life.
some skunks like to sleep in drawers.
this helps with the pain and swelling.
being naturally curious, if a skunk escapes outside, it will not return on its own.
if a drawer seems stuck, be slow and careful about unjamming it.
sugar of some form must be fed to prevent severe hypoglycemia.
use a loud voice or other loud  noise, such as a hair dryer or dust buster or try a squirt from a water gun or  plant misting bottle.
i crush the pill up, place it some cooking oil, peanut butter, mayonnaise, jelly or salad dressing.
fruits and vegetables apple  artichokes *asparagus * avocado * banana beans *
therefore, it does not need to be on baby food or formula for more than 8 weeks.
their body parts and pieces just don't match.
protein: baked or boiled chicken or water packed tuna fish or cooked  dried beans with rice or 6 to 10 pieces of dog food per day, such as o.n.e. or  adult formula pro plan.
one half  teaspoon of robitussin will help with the coughing.
use the simple screen door latches, they work better for adults.
another trick that can work is to take a piece of heavy cardboard, cut a small half-moon off the edge of one side, place the cardboard under the skunk's jaw in front of his shoulders as you hold him by the back of the neck.
it has great benefit for our skunk's livers, which  is one of their weakest organs.
in other words, whatever your skunk likes, you can hide the crushed pill in.
if  you are not at home with your baby skunk during the day, just before leaving  put the noon meal out.
the intestine must be stretched back to full size to stay where it belongs.
if using canned fruits, rinse with cold water to remove excess sugar.
morning -- 3 pieces of dog food, 2 or 3 slices of squash, carrot, cucumber, celery and orange slices with cottage cheese.
a rare salty treat will stimulate your skunk to drink properly.
baby skunk feeding rapid growth syndrome alert!
it can also cause odor in some skunks.
seizures are a serious health situation and it must be diagnosed and treated immediately!
would you  not be a little upset?
don't be fooled by misinformation about shots for your skunk as it could cost their life!
if you  had only a few feet to walk in and the same old four walls to look at, would  you be a happy camper?
our vets have approved its usage for our skunks  on a 3 month on--3 month off basis.
it all cost a little over $1,000.00.
at birth, a baby skunk is from 2 to 4 inches long and weighs between 1 and 3 ounces.
be very careful when using a recliner!!
nuts and cheeses should be given in  moderation, due to the fat content.
rectal prolapse when this occurs, a portion of the intestine from 1/4 to 2 inches long protrudes from the rectum.
never feed an animal chocolate of any kind!!
it made me feel very good about the work i have been doing with these animals when for the first time ever there was a super senior class in the national show for ten year old skunks and above!
make sure you understand we said one cookie, not 1 pound or 1  box!
do not let anyone risk the life of your skunk with misinformation!!
for now, accept your skunk's choice.
some skunks cannot digest diary products
in the beginning, watch your skunk for  diarrhea after eating.
baby skunks are not puppies or kittens and can't be raised as such!
in more common usage, it means, "striped, hooded skunk."
nexus hair  care products are one of the best to use on skunks as they have all-natural  ingredients.
we have discovered that most of our skunks prefer to hibernate under our electric blanket.
non-fat dry milk used daily along with vitamin c will help prevent tooth  problems and infections.
*  ginger root * grapes honeydew * kiwi fruit * malanga mushrooms * nectarine *  okra * orange
sometimes a trail of treats such as raisins placed in front will prompt  him to go forward when asked to do so.
a lot of skunk owners have given  up their animals because they bite, and if the animal has not been spayed or  neutered, the biting will continue until it has been fixed.
* yucca root * zucchini other suggested foods cereals, rice, pasta-all kinds, whole-grain bread, nuts-all kinds, eggs, cooked dried beans, cheese-all kinds.
this is when the baby problems have all gone, your skunk has been spayed or neutered and you now have a really great pet.
your baby skunk has 12 to 18 months to grow strong teeth,  muscles, bones and organs.
veterinarian find a vet who does not mind working with skunks and has worked with them in the past.
required skunk shots
this is found in rabies in florida, by burridge mj, sawyer la and bigler wj, table 2.1, which summarizes the incubation and morbidity periods for rabies in animals and man.
a baby skunk is  not a puppy or a kitten, but an intelligent animal with its own set of natural  actions and strange reactions!
unless you know without a doubt that your skunk's limp comes from a pulled muscle while skydiving, have it x-rayed.
what this all boils down to is this; you may never know what color your skunk will be.
symptoms are rubbing bottoms on the  floor, bad breath, coughing, lack of appetite, bloating, hiccups and rectal  prolapse.
if your skunk has bad breath, rubs its mouth on chairs, the wall or your foot, it probably has a tooth problem, either tartar on the teeth or a bad tooth.
at this time, there is no approved  rabies vaccine for skunks.
by now your skunk should be eating just about any vegetable and fruit that the stores can supply.
it is easier to handle in traveling, to store in the refrigerator and to use with your skunk.
this too can cause more problems than you could ever dream of, such as, brain damage, nerve damage, stunted growth, and just plain meanness!!!
your skunk may not be safe if it accidentally  bites someone.
any food containing high percentages of fats, such as  any of the iams products.
remember, skunks never forget, nor do they forgive!
until  you can have x-rays taken of your skunk, give one half only of a baby aspirin  once a day.
we have heard such stories as: "all skunks are born with rabies", "skunks are latent carriers of rabies and could be years old before you know if they have rabies", "there is no known rabies virus incubation period for skunks."
toys use safe, chewable toys like ping-pong balls, tennis balls, brown paper bags,  cardboard boxes, old socks with knots tied in them, and an absolute  favorite-very fuzzy stuffed toys.
make sure it has  fresh water at all times.
some have caused death.
since the light bulb  came into your skunk's life, it has made its daylight hours longer.
if found early enough, most bone problems can be corrected before major problems occur.
we know of 2 male skunks, raised in the same home, both 4 years old, fed the same diet.
if this occurs, do not leave food out for the skunk while you are away, but rather, feed it while you are there so it can become used to you.
sprouts * squashes * strawberries *
it is good for your pocketbook, too!
be aware of where your baby skunk is in relation to your  feet.
a seizure may be caused by an allergic reaction, heat stress, round worms,  epilepsy, diabetes, distemper, poisoning, liver problems or various other  health problems.
keep the area that your skunk has chosen cleaned regularly since skunks will avoid a smelly bathroom.
carbohydrates: small baked or boiled potato or 1/2 slice  of whole wheat bread or pasta or rice once per day.
(that breaks down to 1/4  teaspoon to a 1/2 gallon or 1/8 teaspoon to 1 quart of water.)
the  more you gently handle and fondle your baby skunk, the more docile it will be  when it grows up.
the cost of all this was much lower than the average pet  owner since i had better knowledge of domestic skunks than most
one teaspoon of non-fat dry milk, such as  carnation, will boost calcium without diarrhea.
a late night snack could maybe be 5 or 6 raisins and a few pieces of popcorn.
fruits and vegetables apple artichokes *
when it appears to be coming out of the seizure, feed as much of  the sweet as it will take.
please have your skunk checked for any type of infections of the respiratory system.
if your female skunk appears to have a prolonged and intense cycle, you should have her spayed immediately!
some advanced  planning before bringing this baby skunk home will help it to adjust sooner to  you
if you have never watched a herd of baby skunks playing together you will not understand the term "rear brakes", so let me explain the term--in a way that you will understand the charging, stomping whirlwind coming at you.
if you still are not convinced, i will let you count my broken fingers, toes and the scars i have from surprise skunk pregnancies.
there is no way anyone can force you to follow these suggestions.
suddenly their hand starts to smell,  they walk backwards from you holding their hand away from their bodies with a  look of horror on their faces.
sugar of some form must be fed to prevent severe  hypoglycemia.
it is far easier to control your skunk's weight  before the fact, than to correct it after the fact.
he does not like being held immobile! 3.
translated from latin, it means  "stinks stinks."
this surgery removes the entire joint of the toe.
it is painful knowing that you could have prevented the  death with a simple shot.
spanking or hitting a big no no! discipline should be the tone and volume of your voice.
fiber: high fiber cereal, such as shredded wheat, cheerios, whole grain breads, dog biscuits, unsalted plain popcorn or 1/2 teaspoon of fiber all or metamucil daily.
do not increase the amount of food your skunk is getting no matter what it tells you!!
a drop or two of avon skin-so-soft in the rinse water may help to  repel fleas.
don't let them get bored!
it is not unusual for baby skunks to have a prolapse, they don't seem to know that it is abnormal and therefore don't bother it.
you can find pet toothbrushes and toothpaste at pet stores and your vets office.
all those out there  with dog and cat mentality about mama dogs and cats are in for a large,  enormous and very painful surprise.
nuts and cheeses should be given in moderation, due to the fat content.
since the heavens opened up and zip lock bags fell to earth, our lives are much simpler now!
if those 2 skunks weighed the same thing, one of them would be in serious trouble!
feet and mouths from the very first day, it is imperative that you rub, fondle and play with your skunks feet and toes.
sunshine for your skunk skunks at any and all ages need a little sunshine every day.
they act as they are never full, will eat almost anything and are always begging for food.
diarrhea: pepto-bismol aids this problem.
even dryers, refrigerators and dishwashers are to be explored (they all smell like food), so be careful and watchful at all times.
(you may have forgotten to de-worm them this month.)
high fiber foods plus fiber all or metamucil added to the food will help the prolapse to go back inside and minimize intestinal irritation.
skunks with pesticide poisoning very rarely survive.
bathing a skunk can be a trying experience or a fun-filled time as  some skunks enjoy a dip in the old tub.
the age of the skunk is not a major factor in changing homes, but even the smallest babies have problems adjusting to new homes at first.
you will later want to cut its toenails and if you don't play with its feet now, you won't be able to cut its toenails later!
do not think that you have to love your skunk to death  with food or treats that are not good for them or that you are starving the  poor thing to death.
you teach the skunk about diet--don't let him teach you.
be creative and feed a broad spectrum of foods for a happy, healthy skunk.
you also may want to worm your skunk as coughing is one of the signs of round worms.
try giving a large marshmallow, caramel candy or peanut butter kiss.
if it eats it and then smells, you can leave  cauliflower out of the diet.
we recommend  evict or nemex 2 liquid dog wormers.
mimi only lived for about two years after spaying, however  the stress of the heat cycle was too much for her system
keep doors and cabinets closed, keep clothes and linens off the floors (or they will disappear!).
this procedure prevents the skunk from eating  properly and causes the rest of the teeth to become misaligned and could cause  dental problems later.
mother always told you to eat a balanced diet and all your veggies and you would grow up to be big and strong !
love and concern are very powerful tools that can make your skunk  perfect in every way.
aggressive behavior  lasts a much longer time.
during the fall, a  skunk should be kept awake and active about 4 or 5 hours a day.
diarrhea is frequently caused by roundworms or bad diet.
in  all the years i have been with skunks i have never seen a skunk injure itself  falling on its nose.
orange rinds placed under your  furniture or where your skunk sleeps helps not only to control fleas but
commonly used treats are grapes, apple slices, raisins, dog biscuits, etc.
any further up and you could have a bleeding and very mad skunk!
this is the time that most skunks will keep any extra weight on their  body and it is very difficult to get it off until spring.
we have seen a tremendous decrease in liver problems since the inclusion of terramycin.
is a skunk your next pet?
this is one of the old drugs and is seldom used  in today's world of medicine.
they require spaying, neutering, dog shots, cat shots and worming.
4 weeks to 8 weeks from 4 to 8 weeks of age, your baby skunk should be fed 4 meals a day as much as it can eat at one time.
one half teaspoon of robitussin will help with the coughing.
be very careful with your skunk!
it does not stay a baby very long.
fill the tub or sink with warm water and let the skunk play in it for a while.
prepare yourself for problems unless you  educate yourself and family members on raising and living with a skunk.
it will eventually go back in!!
please ensure scripting is enabled in your browser before continuing.
gray baby skunks tend to become white adults,  but we know of several adult gray skunks.
skunk  proofing your home
it is not mad or angry, it is not trying to attack you, your  skunk simply wants to play and this is part of the play ritual for skunks.
some skunks like the teen-age mutant ninja turtles, x-men and the dinosaucers best.
if you do plan to bathe your skunk when it is an adult, especially after you remove the skunk from the fireplace, flowerpots, flour, sugar, soap powder or garbage cans, you should begin bathing it while it is a baby, but we do not recommend frequent bathing.
many skunk owners have learned many valuable lessons on how to deal with  emergencies and everyday crises by using trial and error.
feet and mouths from the very first day, it is  imperative that you rub, fondle and play with your skunks feet and toes.
night -- 3 pieces of dog food, peas, corn, romaine, a few pieces of cauliflower, 1 vanilla wafer, 1 tablespoon rice or pasta, 1/4 teaspoon of nonfat dry milk sprinkled over their food.
the first time you give yogurt, give only a tiny bit and watch your baby's stool.
the only possible answer to this rear brake problem could  be cement boots for the rear legs.
also, descenting the babies is not easy.
this procedure prevents the skunk from eating properly and causes the rest of the teeth to become misaligned and could cause dental problems later.
take your skunk to the vet as soon as  possible!!
or do you currently own one?
no yellowing of the white fur solid, formed stools active and happy not overweight good appetite not
they will also dig all of the dirt out of the pots just to see what is in the bottom.
female skunk female skunks can and  will go in and out of heat for long periods of time.
do not force a skunk to come to  you -- let it come on its own.
at this time you may hear a very vocal skunk.
the heat cycle can  kill your skunk!
if you do take your skunk to  the outside world, which they really don't like anyway simply because it is not  air conditioned or heated, and it is on the ground where it could be exposed to  a rabid animal, keep in mind that at this time there is no approved rabies  vaccine for skunks.
never play rough with your hands and never  discipline your skunk by hitting or swatting.
for some time skunks have been coming up with problems with their bones and teeth by the time the they are about 3 years old.
pork of  any kind -- cat foods -- high protein dog food -- moist canned dog food --  chocolate - fried foods -- bee pollen -- sunflower seeds - iceberg lettuce --  dried corn or grasses.
mimi was 4 months old when she had to be spayed!
certain sources classify our skunks as  exotic animals.
you may have to hold your baby skunk by the scruff of the neck and drop a few drops of these fluids into its mouth.
the answer is, "start the music!"
most of our skunks rarely show any signs of hibernating except for the demand for more food.
before bedtime snack -- a handful of plain popcorn, 1 dog biscuit, 5-6 raisins, 3 or 4 pieces of dog food.
household cleaning products some common household products are dangerous to skunks.
see how simple i just made life for you?
you have never before dealt with an animal  as smart as a skunk, unless you have had two year olds in your life.
in about two days after being treated, skunks appear to have taken the magic formula!
if it occurs, remove the offending food from the diet.
the problem with roundworms and skunks is you cannot kill the round worms until they attach themselves to the intestine.
at this time you may hear a  very vocal skunk.
the attitudes are the same as for a female except that they  display even more aggressive behavior and severe biting.
keep the area that your skunk has chosen cleaned regularly since  skunks will avoid a smelly bathroom.
the heat cycle can kill your skunk!
if you  have said yes to either question, here is some highly important valuable  information that you should know.
no more of this loving, stroking my animal, saying how beautiful it is  until they find out i am holding a skunk.
skunk proofing your home
introduce vegetables into your skunk's diet  as soon as possible.
by the time they are 8 months old, they weigh about 8 pounds,  which is about right.
no homing instincts skunks are naturally curious  and very agile--a deadly combination.
every skunk is different; however, here are some average lengths, heights and weights.
earth rite products are all-natural, environmentally safe and safe for animals.
they will turn into a beautiful  animal before your very eyes!
as you are strolling among the veggies at the super market keep in mind, variety is the spice of life!
you live with your skunk, i do not, if it makes you and your skunk happy to have lunch-by all means give them lunch!
in all the years i have been with skunks i have never seen a skunk injure itself falling on its nose.
unless you live in a hermetically sealed house, never open doors or windows, never go out and come in, your animals need shots!!
more homes have been cleaned,  meals prepared or football games watched with a baby skunk snuggled inside a  t-shirt tucked into a waistband, than you could ever imagine.
it is painful knowing that you could have prevented the death with a simple shot.
8 weeks to 12  weeks from 8 to 12 weeks, feed 3 times a day, basically the same diet  with greater variations.
pesticides skunks are very sensitive to all forms of pesticides, including those  recommended for use on dogs.
cracker jacks may also be given to ward off stress problems for your skunk.
the alcohol kills the fleas and the orange rind repels any new fleas.
please keep in mind that skunks are prone to heat stroke, which could be fatal, so do not overdo the sun.
it may take a while for the intestine to  return to its normal place, but don't be alarmed if it seems to last forever.
we are living with the only true american pet -the skunk!
fat skunk it is very easy for a skunk to become  obese.
some  emergency vet services usually will not work with skunks, so contact the  emergency service before leaving home, to determine their policy on domestic  skunks.
this  could cause problems if you have not played with and fondled their feet from  the beginning.
if canned vegetables are used, such as veg-all, rinse with cold water to remove excess salt that is unhealthy for your skunk.
we have a few vets listed who work with us who  may help you or could help find a vet in your area.
one is 18  inches long and 11 inches tall and weighs 11 1/2 pounds.
do not use your fingers as a convulsing animal may severely bite.
at birth, a baby skunk is from 2 to 4 inches long and weighs between 1 and 3  ounces.
you may have to hold your baby skunk by the scruff of the  neck and drop a few drops of these fluids into its mouth.
raisins soaked in gatorade for 2 days before the trip may come in handy in a stress situation.
it appears your browser does not support scripting (javascript).
remember, skunks  never forget, nor do they forgive!
after the rind has  been ground into extremely fine pieces, strain through a cloth and pour back  into alcohol bottle.
potted plants: must be kept out of the reach of skunks.
this could be you--suddenly beamed from your living room to the middle of japan.
purses, school bags, etc: skunks will remove the contents and  scatter everything all over the house.
nail trimming skunks use their nails for digging, not clawing - they are not sharp and will not puncture skin.
skunks' claws are not like cat claws, but like our fingers and toes.
be careful of heavy objects that could fall on your skunk, such as an iron from off an ironing board.
probably the most important factor in maintaining a healthy skunk is proper diet that includes a large assortment of vegetables daily.
plus  colostrum from farnam pet products, until it can eat solid foods.
bedding old towels, clothing, sheets or blankets make perfect snugglies, as they can be washed and kept clean.
(placing a plastic garbage bag on the floor under the newspaper will make clean-up easier.)
skunks are very persistent once they have learned how to do something.
the above vegetables & fruit suggestions are not etched in stone, therefore, use your own creativity and availability of veggies and fruits in each season.
use your eyes, your hands, a  scale if necessary and your common sense to determine your skunk's proper  weight for its size.
you could avoid most all of the associated problems by having your male skunk neutered by 3 months of age or your female skunk spayed by 4 months of age.
a seizure may be caused by an allergic reaction, heat stress, round worms, epilepsy, diabetes, distemper, poisoning, liver problems or various other health problems.
some skunks have eaten boas, pythons and have come down with salmonella.
this is also the time to start hand-feeding your skunk so that it will learn to avoid your fingers at treat time.
plain yogurt will aid in  digestion and should solve a lot of future problems if fed to your skunk daily.
first, a small sugar is required for the proper absorption of calcium  for strong bones and teeth.
being this close  to you, the baby skunk will learn that it is great to be part of your family as  you protect it, calm it down, feeling warm and wonderful all over that you are  its new mom or dad!
this can be serious and an extended problem to the  owner, since there is no method of controlling this natural behavior.
a healthy skunk should have a thick, glossy coat, white (not yellow) stripes, bright clear eyes and, above all, not be overweight.
at first he  will pull, tug and thrash around on it's back.
give lite types of dog food, vegetables, fiber, chicken, water-packed fish, as well as rice and dried beans cooked together.
late summer and fall are a most trying time for a young skunk and it's owner -- the nasties begin!
skunks have a huge sweet tooth, so you must be strong and give only  one.
their balance is affected, they can no longer hold their food and, in some way that we do not yet understand, it causes the liver to fail, leading to an early death.
remove all harmful items and cleaning materials from under the sink if the cabinet can be easily opened.
when i started with skunks the average age of a skunk was maybe 3 and this was  thought to be an old skunk, but now more and more knowledge is coming to light  and our skunks are living longer and healthier lives.
and we have rarely seen an obese skunk live long even if it loses the  weight.
new worlds need to be explored, so do not be alarmed if its nose goes into high gear and it checks out every inch of its new home.
too much fruit can cause muscle mass loss, dehydration, diarrhea, convulsions, and death!
savage behavior is not the only problem.
new worlds need to be explored, so do not be alarmed  if its nose goes into high gear and it checks out every inch of its new home.
chase down the baby skunk is not a game that is a lot of fun or a  game that ends in joy and happiness for the owner or the skunk!
you could also put the mixture into a spray bottle and spray your skunk.
potted  plants: must be kept out of the reach of skunks.
skunks  are just like babies, some will eat ten cups full of food while others will not  eat all you give them.
do not think that you have to love your skunk to death with food or treats that are not good for them or that you are starving the poor thing to death.
breeding domestic skunks skunks are not like any other domestic  animal you have ever been around when it comes to breeding or caring for their  young.
if your skunk has fleas, use scratch-x shampoo for fleas.
ask the prospective vet: "what will you do if my skunk bites someone on your staff?"
you can use a killed feline vaccine that is used for  ferrets.
keep doors and cabinets closed, keep clothes and linens off  the floors (or they will disappear!).
the more you gently handle and fondle your baby skunk, the more docile it will be when it grows up.
normally you will be able to push the  intestine back into the body.
the baby will chose its own corner!
this worm problem will have to be handled by your vet.
one furry, 20 pound basketball with legs and eyes does not look like a skunk but a very unique doorstop.
general skunk care information liver problem
pills and skunks can be tricky.
skunks can be sexually mature when they are three months of age, however skunks do not stop growing until they are about 18 months to two years old.
declawed skunks are pitiful sights to  behold hobbling along as if they were in pain, which they may be!
this could be  you--suddenly beamed from your living room to the middle of japan.
the measurements given are from the tip of the nose to the base of the tail.
you teach the skunk about  diet--
females with their young are the most savage animals in the  animal kingdom.
if your female skunk appears to have a prolonged and  intense cycle, you should have her spayed immediately!
you cannot compare what you have heard about skunks in the wild to the skunk living in your home.
the signs are: eats like a horse and  loses weight, loses hair and is not very active.
male skunks 4 weeks  to 8 weeks.........................4 weeks to 8 weeks length: 4 to 8  inches......................length: 4 to 8 inches front leg: 3 to 4  in.......................front leg: 3 to 4 in rear leg
the easiest way to control your skunk's weight is to feed it proper amounts of the right foods and give it low fat, low calorie healthy snacks.
the head is measured around the ears and under the jaw.
therefore, it does not need to  be on baby food or formula for more than 8 weeks.
these deaths can be prevented by proper immunization!
vitamins & minerals
well and this could cause diarrhea.
their  parent's, grand-parent's and great grand-parent's genes have combined and  recombined to give your skunk his skeletal structure.
this is a lot easier on you and your skunk than soap and water, but we do suggest that this be done outside!
i just take 5 or 6 bags, throw in all the vitamins, dog food and anything else i can think of into each bag.
baby skunks are not puppies or kittens and  can't be raised as such!
have  quick-stop or household flour handy to control bleeding if a nail is trimmed  too close to the quick.
coughing and sneezing by this time you think you have taken on a child rather than a skunk and what you are about to read may surprise you!
if your skunk is a  climber, keep chairs, stools, bookcases, boxes and ladders away from cabinets,  drawers, tables, sofas and chairs or any other place that your skunk finds  interesting.
until the prolapse is completely gone, replace kitty litter  with newspaper and keep the prolapse greased.
(that breaks down to 1/4 teaspoon to a 1/2 gallon or 1/8 teaspoon to 1 quart of water.)
skinny skunks please keep in mind that your skunk is not a fashion model and does not have to have the long, lean, slinky look.
some round worms just  float around in the blood stream filling up the lungs and heart and it is so  common in the animal world to have roundworms that people just forget how  serious a problem this can be.
bad biters can be retrained with the use of simple tools--love, gloves, boots and the trusty water bottle.
your skunk could be under it without your knowing it!
would you not be a little upset?
some early symptoms of impending heat are constant pacing, sudden weight loss, finicky appetite, aggressive, almost savage, behavior and biting.
one half tablet of a  4 hour chlor-trimeton tablet helps with the sneezing.
give  them plenty of snugglies or they will steal your socks and t-shirts or you  could wake up very cold one morning just because your skunk has removed all  cover from your body to make a warm wonderful nest for them.
if you have any questions, just call or write us and we will be very  glad to help in any way possible.
chemical ice blocks that are used for coolers, wrapped in a towel and placed in the carrier will help them keep cool, as will a few frozen grapes now and then.
our skunks great, great, great grandparents were on  america's shores to welcome christopher columbus and the other strange looking  four-legged creatures that came with good old chris.
any food containing high percentages of fats, such as any of the iams products.
chocolate, such as, m & m's, snickers or oreo cookies, has caused death in several skunks.
rectal prolapse is caused by  diarrhea, (one of the signs of round worms) and bad diet.
both canine and feline shots are needed for baby skunks as young as four weeks of age.
in about two  days after being treated, skunks appear to have taken the magic formula!
they are not expensive, they are just practical.
the gloves and  boots protect your body, the water bottle helps teach that biting is not nice  and the love makes it all work a lot faster.
these are ways to get their bodies to make use of the calcium for stronger bones, teeth and better looking coats with the prevention of tooth or gum infections made easy, simple and cost effective.
snacks: never feed a skunk junk food - skunks easily become addicted to junk food, such as corn chips, potato chips or ice cream.
skunks do not like closed doors and will dig at the door just to find what room is on the other side.
a piece  of plexi-glass, plastic carpet runner or the like placed under the door will  stop this digging.
make sure it has fresh water at all times.
some skunks  like the teen-age mutant ninja turtles, x-men and the dinosaucers best.
even if you shampoo the carpet, the odor remains in the padding or even the wood beneath, so use the vinegar liberally.
skunk owners are punished for not having "suitable companion animals" for pets, such as dogs or cats.
leave the shades or blinds open in the room where they spend the most time, or sit outside with them for a good brushing, thereby killing 2 birds with 1 stone.
too much fruit can cause muscle mass loss,  dehydration, diarrhea, convulsions, and death!
"a carrier state (the ability of infected animals to transmit rabies virus while incubating the disease) is known for some species.
the quote was taken from a letter dated january 28, 1986, from  dr. leigh ann sawyer, dvm, mph, veterinary epidemiologist, viral and  rickettsial zoonoses branch, division of viral diseases, center for infectious  diseases, center for disease control, department of health & human  services, atlanta, ga.
a lot of skunk owners have given up their animals because they bite, and if the animal has not been spayed or neutered, the biting will continue until it has been fixed.
raskey, my fifteen year old, hated baths until he became unable to walk.
as long as your skunk comes from a reputable breeder, such as ruby fur farms in new sharon, iowa, where no rabies has been found since 1932, or your skunk has not been exposed to a rabid animal or the carcass of a rabid animal, rabies should not be a problem.
example of daily diet; 10 to 20 pieces of dog food, 1 1/4 cups veggies and fruits, cottage cheese, yogurt and one cookie.
your vet can either clean their teeth or remove the bad tooth and all is well.
start at the base of the tail and work the cornmeal  down to the skin by brushing or rubbing forward on the skunk's hair and body,  going all the way to the top of the head.
spay all females before their first heat cycle and avoid skunk p m s: p -- pre, post, possibly permanent m -- mating s -- syndrome male skunks
all dog food is very hard to soften, so i suggest that you make enough for several days.
watch your skunk carefully and discourage this behavior from the  beginning.
some advanced planning before bringing this baby skunk home will help it to adjust sooner to you and it's new environment.
never play rough with your hands and never discipline your skunk by hitting or swatting.
food and water bowls heavy, easy to clean bowls that cannot be easily turned over are best.
high fiber foods plus fiber all or metamucil added to the food will help the  prolapse to go back inside and minimize intestinal irritation.
early  treatment can avoid, correct or control many serious problems.
no more of this loving, stroking my animal, saying how beautiful it is until they find out i am holding a skunk.
if you are not at home with your baby skunk during the day, just before leaving put the noon meal out.
the baby skunk you buy from a pet store is about 4 to 8 weeks old, descented and very scared, as you would be if you were in this baby skunk's place.
you must pour enough so that the carpet, the padding and the floor underneath get soaked.
symptoms are rubbing bottoms on the floor, bad breath, coughing, lack of appetite, bloating, hiccups and rectal prolapse.
declawing and fang filing or removal is outright abuse!!!
for some time  skunks have been coming up with problems with their bones and teeth by the time  the they are about 3 years old.
a light brown baby may go through the red spectrum into dark, rich brown as an adult.
first, a small sugar is required for the proper absorption of calcium for strong bones and teeth.
the good news is-it does not matter which one they are allergic to, all allergies are treated the same, so save your money.
physical discipline  and rough-housing can create a mean and aggressive animal.
here again is one more reason why some people should not even try to live with a skunk.
place several thicknesses of newspaper or a litter pan with unscented  kitty litter in the corner your skunk has chosen.
climbing some skunks can climb.
do  not let anyone risk the life of your skunk with misinformation!!
if possible, remove the temptations and attempt to distract them from what they are doing.
allow your  skunks to be with you, watch tv and roam the house as much as possible.
your  skunk came from a fur farm right into your home and enjoys the same comforts  that you do!
we are living with the  only true american pet -the skunk!
it is a wonderful source of many vitamins and minerals, but so are many other veggies!
sit back-put your feet on the coffee table and give yourself a big hug for you are truly a very special person.
some emergency vet services usually will not work with skunks, so contact the emergency service before leaving home, to determine their policy on domestic skunks.
we have had numerous reports of skunks having seizures--convulsions, drooling, rapid breathing, totally stiff body, wide open glazed eyes, and no response to stimuli.
on a weekly  basis, clean the litter box or floor with a solution of 1/4 cup of clorox to 1  gallon of warm water.
if found early enough, most bone problems can be  corrected before major problems occur.
all it takes is for a skunk to swallow a flea while grooming their fur.
baths do not have to be traumatic to either of you.
if you don't like to change diapers or get up a 4 in the morning, do not get a baby.
never use harsh shampoos or bleaching  products.
i had 3 females to have babies at one time, accidents do happen.
immunize your skunk properly!
a light brown baby may go through the  red spectrum into dark, rich brown as an adult.
at birth, a skunk weighs about one ounce and then grows very rapidly.
use veggies, popcorn, dog biscuits or  dry cereal.
with a lot of patience and a fair amount of time, you can move his or her bathroom to a place more acceptable to you.
it is not  unusual for baby skunks to have a prolapse, they don't seem to know that it is  abnormal and therefore don't bother it.
however, plain cornmeal works great!
physical discipline and rough-housing can create a mean and aggressive animal.
on the day of or the night before little one's meal time i cut all the stuff they need, throw it in the bags along with the yogurt and cottage cheese.
a filled coffee saucer is a good amount to feed your skunk from the diet sheet in this brochure.
fresh, clean water should be available at all times.
stripes, bright clear eyes and, above all, not be overweight.
fish, fowl and meats chicken, turkey or any member of the fowl (bird) family may be given, but only if fully boiled or baked-never give raw!
remove all  harmful items and cleaning materials from under the sink if the cabinet can be  easily opened.
keep them off the floor and out of harm's way.
something he smells  is attracting him to this area with an odor that we can't smell.
feed well-cooked rice, baked or boiled  potatoes, unset jello, plain yogurt or bene-bac and give gatorade or pedialyte  to help with fluid loss.
the more you hold and talk to a baby skunk, the more love will come your way from this skunk as it grows.
this will not in any way change the personality of your male skunk.
just like us, skunks have allergies and sinus problems.
unless your skunk is chewing at the tissue, it is not necessary to see a vet; however, if he is chewing at it, a vet must replace the intestine and possibly (we hope not, because even one tiny stitch can do nerve damage in these delicate tissues!) place a purse string stitch to hold it in place.
never use harsh shampoos or bleaching products.
in the fall, every skunk will instinctively look for more food, as they feel it is time to prepare for their long winter naps.
this helps  with the pain and swelling.
it made me feel very good  about the work i have been doing with these animals when for the first time  ever there was a super senior class in the national show for ten year old  skunks and above!
daikon * endive * escarole
this enables the skunk's fur to become evenly soaked for better  cleaning.
skunks are super intelligent, they never forget and never forgive!
a prolapse is not as bad as it looks.
dog food can be placed in the freezer and you can take out a weeks worth at a time, keeping the dog food from getting old.
90% of a skunk's diet, regardless of age, should  consist of vegetables.
rabies pen raised, domestic skunks have been erroneously labeled as rabies carriers.
one vanilla wafer, one sugar cookie or 1/4 graham cracker, not the whole box or bag, just one--
some carpet fresheners and cleaners such as glade potpourri and lysol products have killed dogs, cats and skunks, so be very careful with any cleaning products you use around your skunk.
4 weeks to about 12 weeks if your baby skunk does not have teeth or is having a hard time chewing solid  food, soak purina o.n.e., science diet canine growth or pro-plan adult for dogs  in canned diluted goat's milk, k.m.r. or just born® milk replacer
some male  skunks have been known to be serious biters as early as 3 months old.
pears peppers, including hot!!
use a stuffed toy or hand  puppet when playing with your skunk to help protect your fingers.
if not,  give in gracefully, let him have his corner and block the view with a chair or  bookcase placed catty-cornered or some other decorative idea.
we have heard such  stories as: "all skunks are born with rabies", "skunks are  latent carriers of rabies and could be years old before you know if they have  rabies", "there is no known rabies virus incubation period for  skunks."
use your bare hands for loving and cuddling your  baby.
use your own ideas about the right way to eat when feeding your skunk.
in the years i have had skunks only two have had tapeworms to show up in fecal testing.
rabies pen raised, domestic skunks have been erroneously  labeled as rabies carriers.
skunks have unique personality, health and dietary considerations that you should be aware of if your skunk is to become a member of your family.
there is no way anyone can force you to follow these  suggestions.
do not ever, under any circumstances, feed cat food of any kind, unless advised to do so by your vet, for certain rare medical problems!!
the currently recommended vaccines are: galaxy  da2ppvl+cv and eclipse 4 given as a baby and then a yearly booster.
unlike other animals, such as  dogs or cats, playing rough will cause your baby to become very aggressive and  a biter as it grows older.
advise your vet that you are using terramycin if another drug is given to your skunk for any reason.
they are too long for their legs  or their legs are too tall for their bodies.
please keep in mind this is not a prescription drug, but one that can be purchased from your local feed and seed stores or pet shops.
let your skunk swim in the tub with warm water just deep enough for the skunks' feet not to touch the bottom of the tub.
proper medical care is better for your  skunk and better for your pocketbook in the long run.
shermie was 3 months old and weighed about 2  pounds when he had to be neutered!
no one bothered to say "i'm sorry or forgive me, i was wrong" when all 12 rabies tests came back negative!!
never feed an  animal chocolate of any kind!!
unlike other animals, such as dogs or cats, playing rough will cause your baby to become very aggressive and a biter as it grows older.
you cannot compare what you have heard about skunks in the  wild to the skunk living in your home.
use a solution of 1/4 cup 5% chlorine bleach to 1 gallon of water (a solution any stronger can cause damage to the eyes or lungs of your skunk), or spic and span for cleaning purposes.
how to tell if your skunk is healthy
obesity leads to severe liver, heart and kidney  damage
if a dog, cat, squirrel or cow bites your skunk, it could  be infected with the rabies virus and this is sure death.
paralysis, limps and lost teeth were the way of life when you lived with a skunk.
now he beats me to the bathroom and bangs on the side of the tub with his paw for his daily swim.
they were rejects from a fur farm and require more  handling than puppies or kittens.
the tail is flared out like a christmas tree, it may or may not be  doing the "skunk shuffle" as it makes sort of a snorting/coughing  sound, the front feet suddenly stop but the rear legs keep going, causing the  skunk to almost fall forward on its little nose, therefore, it has no rear  brakes.
by the time a skunk reaches 8 months of age, it is considered to be adult, as it has reached sexual maturity and you deserve a medal for completing infant, terrible twos and teen-age behavior in a very short period; however, skunks will not stop growing until they are about 18 months old.
try to bring something that the skunk is used to, such as a blanket or favorite toy, to help reduce stress of "newness."
this formula will not cause health problems or damage  your skunk's lungs and should not damage your carpet.
skunks do not need cups of food to be very healthy animals.
for all  of you boy skunk owners, well folks, one day this very large strange furry  covered creature will be strolling in your house.
i only tell you what has worked and is working for mine and  hundreds of other skunks.
the vinegar should not harm your carpets and your home will smell like a salad for only about 10 minutes.
this formula will not cause health problems or damage your skunk's lungs and should not damage your carpet.
they only know that your feet are  part of you and they want to be near you, feet and all.
bleeding clean site with mild soap  and water.
do not use products for color treated hair or dandruff shampoos.
fruits: one slice of an  apple or orange, 2 or 3 grapes or any fruit that may be in season at any time  of year.
pesticides skunks are very sensitive to all forms of pesticides, including those recommended for use on dogs.
it is just  plain ugly !
give them plenty of snugglies or they will steal your socks and t-shirts or you could wake up very cold one morning just because your skunk has removed all cover from your body to make a warm wonderful nest for them.
many skunk owners have learned many valuable lessons on how to deal with emergencies and everyday crises by using trial and error.
fang filing or removal
they will smell delicious!
late summer and fall are a  most trying time for a young skunk and it's owner -- the nasties begin!
if canned vegetables are used, such as  veg-all, rinse with cold water to remove excess salt that is unhealthy for your  skunk.
any type of forced attention can lead to serious biting and distrust that may never be overcome.
it  makes your house smell delightful.
the hulls on sunflower seeds will perforate the skunk's intestines causing death.
the  skunk may choose to hide under a piece of furniture for several days.
one is 18 inches long and 11 inches tall and weighs 11 1/2 pounds.
skunks have been known to eat kittens, birds and other small animals, so please keep your other tiny pets out of "harms (skunks) way."
night -- 3 pieces of dog food, peas, corn, romaine, a few pieces of  cauliflower, 1 vanilla wafer, 1 tablespoon rice or pasta, 1/4 teaspoon of  nonfat dry milk sprinkled over their food.
take a cardboard box and fill it with newspaper for a portable bathroom for your skunk or you can place a plastic bag with newspaper covering it on the floor board held in place with masking tape.
skunks will pull things off tables, shelves or any low area that they can reach.
you have to know lots of skunks for long periods of time.
plan on wearing some of it.
rectal prolapse is caused by diarrhea, (one of the signs of round worms) and bad diet.
strange thing...we have found a national publication on the incubation period  of the rabies virus in several animals including man.
it could be killed and tested for rabies if this should happen, so save yourself much pain--ask!
until you know what amounts of  food your skunk will eat, give them enough food to satisfy.
it could take 2 months or 2 years for your  female to return to her normal behavior if you wait too long to spay her.
it was bitten by a rabid raccoon and soon  became rabid.
front and rear  heights are measured from the floor to the shoulder and floor to the hip when  the skunk is standing.
it could be killed and tested for rabies if this should happen,  so save yourself much pain--ask!
if  you do plan to bathe your skunk when it is an adult, especially after you  remove the skunk from the fireplace, flowerpots, flour, sugar, soap powder or  garbage cans, you should begin bathing it while it is a baby, but we do not  recommend frequent bathing.
they may have certain sweets in small amounts occasionally.
low-fat  cottage cheese, 1 tablespoon per day.
chocolate, such as, m & m's, snickers or oreo cookies, has caused death in  several skunks.
have cut up veggies with you for treats.
skunks are very persistent once they have learned how to do  something.
this information came from the san diego zoo after several skunks died from canine distemper because of being given the wrong vaccine.
obesity leads to severe liver, heart and kidney damage and we have rarely seen an obese skunk live long even if it loses the weight.
if a cough persists longer than 1 dose of medicine, take it to a vet immediately.
be aware of where your baby skunk is in relation to your feet.
this is one of the old drugs and is seldom used in today's world of medicine.
watch your skunk carefully and discourage this behavior from the beginning.
at this time, there is no approved rabies vaccine for skunks.
cleo was 21 1/2 years old and looked and acted like a 1 year old, all because of what we have learned about diet.
weight: 1/2 to 2 lbs head: 3 1/2 to 4 in........................head: 3 1/2 to 4 in this is the time when the boys and the girls grow about the same rate and appear to always be the same size, however, if you have a male skunk and it does not grow or stops growing, except for the legs and tail, this is called the ugly skunk stage.
if you use a pest control company, advise the  company to use caution in spraying, as poisoning can occur from a simple  maintenance practice in your home.
feed them treats that they enjoy, but that are also  healthy for them, but definitely feed them in moderation.
if you leave your skunk, leave the radio or tv on.
first  aid until you can see the vet skunks may develop problems at home when  the vet is closed, but most of these problems can be handled by you.
male skunks 5 months to 21+  years.......................5 months to 21+ years length: 4 to 20  inches......................length: 5 to 24 in front legs 3 to 9  in........................front legs 4 to 10 rear legs 4 to 10  in........................rear height; 4 to 12 weight: 3 to 10  lbs.........................weight: 3 to 12 lbs head: 3 to 9  inches.........................head: 4 to 11 inches for all of you  girl skunk owners, the baby has started to slow down and grow slower.
if not, give in gracefully, let him have his corner and block the view with a chair or bookcase placed catty-cornered or some other decorative idea.
preventative terramycin soluble powder, purchased at a feed and seed store, is used by cattle and horse people, the chicken industry and mink breeders on a regular basis.
skunks have sharp teeth and extremely long fangs that can seriously injure you during rough play or when being aggressive.
one vanilla wafer, one sugar  cookie or 1/4 graham cracker, not the whole box or bag, just one-- these are  ways to get their bodies to make use of the calcium for stronger bones, teeth  and better looking coats with the prevention of tooth or gum infections made  easy, simple and cost effective.
improper diet and obesity have been traced to the majority of premature deaths we have experienced.
it is our feeling that if you cannot live with occasional digging in your carpets, which can be controlled--do not get a skunk!
unlike cats, it is safe for a skunk in heat to be spayed.
skunk sizes from 1 day to 21 + years
not  the puppy--not the kitty
the powder is mixed in their drinking water daily, using 1/2 teaspoon per gallon of water.
if this  occurs, do not leave food out for the skunk while you are away, but rather,  feed it while you are there so it can become used to you.
our vets have approved its usage for our skunks on a 3 month on--3 month off basis.
a filled coffee saucer is a good amount to feed your skunk from the  diet sheet in this brochure.
in a while, you and your skunk can take  long, enjoyable walks together if you are patient.
however, too much love can make a skunk too big or too little.
expose your skunk to a wide variety of foods-you'll both be happier for it, and the skunk will be healthier!
have patience--they are worth it!!
offer a  wide variety of vegetables, such as squash, mushrooms, peas, corn, and a few  bites of fruit chosen from the lists included in this brochure.
people are used to the behavior of dogs and  cats; their feelings are hurt when their lap baby comes growling, snapping,  biting and stomping at them when they enter the area with the female and her  babies.
we have  discovered that most of our skunks prefer to hibernate under our electric  blanket.
the first time you give yogurt, give  only a tiny bit and watch your baby's stool.
fresh,  clean water should be available at all times.
"i must have one,  wait until my friends know i played with a real live norwegian snow  kitty!"
the cornmeal will remove the oils and dirt in the skunk's coat, making it smell and look like a brand new skunk.
along came edison with his  light bulb and your domestic skunk has no real need to hibernate.
skunks can get a chill easily, so make sure you dry your skunk immediately with a towel or hair dryer set on low heat held 12 to 18 inches from the skunk's fur.
though they may not see extremely well,  his nose and ears will tell him that you are the one that hurt him, even if you  are on the end of a fly swatter or newspaper.
baby skunks love to play!
they have only had their scent glands removed!
gently tug on the leash that you have chosen to use.
animals  know when to take long winter naps by how much daylight it has in its life.
your skunk is not in the same environment and should be treated differently.
remember--a  happy, healthy skunk begins with you!!!
it is far easier to control your skunk's weight before the fact, than to correct it after the fact.
vegetables contain very little fats and skunks are mainly vegetarians.
they will turn into a beautiful animal before your very eyes!
radishes *  raisins *
mimi was 4 months old when she had to be  spayed!
adjust the amount of food to your skunk's weight.
ceramics or glassware: keep these very high and away from the reach of your skunk's little paws.
skunks generally outgrow most of their bad behavior, usually by  their first birthday because they are bottom heavy.
this is the time to reduce the amount of dog food to 8 to 10 pieces a day, continue with the dry milk and one cookie a day.
rarely, there is a lactose  intolerant skunk!
per day sprinkled over their food, oranges, grapefruit, lime or lemon, jalapeno peppers (which they love), for natural vitamin c or a liquid vitamin c over or in their food, and (very easy way to measure sugar here)
you will not believe a 3 pound skunk pulling a king size bedspread  as they walk backwards and shoving the bedspread under them.
if you have a flea problem your skunk could have tapeworms.
you have recovered from the heart attack you almost had because you thought the burglars were stealing your kitchen, only to find baby skunks, playing in the pots and pans around 4 o'clock in the morning; you are picking up all your clothes as your mother wanted you to do as a child; you are eating healthier; but the one thing that still bugs you as a skunk owner is: "it's a what?"
the cost of all this was much lower than the average pet owner since i had better knowledge of domestic skunks than most
orange rinds placed under your furniture or where your skunk sleeps helps not only to control fleas but it makes your house smell delightful.
we do not know why this information is being kept from skunk owners, but this seems to be another approach by the "powers that be" to controlling our lives.
you may only know  what color they are right now!
however, too much love can make a skunk too big or too  little.
ask the prospective vet: "what will you do if my skunk bites  someone on your staff?"
dip a q-tip, pen, pencil, an infant ear syringe--anything  but your fingers-into karo syrup, pancake syrup, honey or sugar water and apply  to the gums or tongue.
kiss your skunk, rub its mouth, tweak its tongue and nose, brush its teeth with a pet toothbrush now and avoid problems later!
karo syrup, pancake syrup and gatorade or bene-bac by borden will help at this time of shock and fear.
variety is the spice of life!!
male skunks 5 months to 21+ years.......................5 months to 21+ years length: 4 to 20 inches......................length: 5 to 24 in front legs 3 to 9 in........................front legs 4 to 10 rear legs 4 to 10 in........................rear height; 4 to 12 weight: 3 to 10 lbs.........................weight: 3 to 12 lbs head: 3 to 9 inches.........................head: 4 to 11 inches for all of you girl skunk owners, the baby has started to slow down and grow slower.
the gloves and boots protect your body, the water bottle helps teach that biting is not nice and the love makes it all work a lot faster.
breeding domestic skunks skunks are not like any other domestic animal you have ever been around when it comes to breeding or caring for their young.
they will even out and will not  always and forever be so leggy and gawky.
if you don't like to change diapers or get up a  4 in the morning, do not get a baby.
some of the serious health problems have  been solved with these simple diet adjustments.
one furry, 20 pound  basketball with legs and eyes does not look like a skunk but a very unique  doorstop.
sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon of non-fat dry milk, such as carnation, over the food once a day, for additional calcium and the prevention of degenerative bone disease later in life.
the only solution is to have him neutered.
by the time a skunk reaches 8 months of age, it is considered to be adult,  as it has reached sexual maturity and you deserve a medal for completing  infant, terrible twos and teen-age behavior in a very short period; however,  skunks will not stop growing until they are about 18 months old.
skunks cannot climb trees -- but they can climb into bed with you.
offer low-fat cottage cheese mixed with the vegetables once a day, low-fat yogurt mixed at another meal and maybe finely chopped boiled chicken for supper.
their parent's, grand-parent's and great grand-parent's genes have combined and recombined to give your skunk his skeletal structure.
do not be alarmed by the furry blur that has just shown signs of  brake problems.
it is important to read labels!!!
general skunk care information liver  problem preventative terramycin soluble powder, purchased at a feed and  seed store, is used by cattle and horse people, the chicken industry and mink  breeders on a regular basis.
vents to the outside:
if you do use your bathroom for the baby skunk's bedroom, be sure to keep the toilet lid down to prevent drowning.
upon rabies confirmation, the state of georgia hunted down all  the baby skunks sold from the same store, terrorized 12 skunk owners with  rabies scare tactics into having their baby skunks murdered, mangled and  serving the heads of the 12 baby skunks on a silver platter for rabies testing.
clear contact paper placed on the wall behind your skunks litter box will make clean up a lot easier.
skunks are born with many colors,  stripe styles, chips, swirls and even solid colors.
it could take 2 months or 2 years for your female to return to her normal behavior if you wait too long to spay her.
even if they are not found in fecal testing, they are in your skunk's body and he must be wormed once a month.
and you could have a bleeding and very mad skunk!
example of daily diet; 10 to 20 pieces of dog  food, 1 1/4 cups veggies and fruits, cottage cheese, yogurt and one cookie.
keep them off the floor and out of  harm's way.
bee pollen is found in some vitamins and can cause an  allergic reaction and death.
the only conclusion one could come to on this subject is that all  of the skunks born in 1932 on mr. ruby's farm (there have been no case of  rabies since 1932 on this fur farm) must be alive and well and waiting to die  with rabies.
bad biters can be retrained with the use of  simple tools--love, gloves, boots and the trusty water bottle.
on a weekly basis, clean the litter box or floor with a solution of 1/4 cup of clorox to 1 gallon of warm water.
a variety of mixed  vegetables, fresh, frozen, or cooked.
for the safety of your skunk, these things must be done immediately!
it keeps them from being lonely and keeps them out of trouble.
out of  the 37 kittens, 4 survived and of the 3 mothers, 2 survived.
we have a few vets listed who work with us who may help you or could help find a vet in your area.
even if they are not found in fecal testing,  they are in your skunk's body and he must be wormed once a month.
by now your skunk should  be eating just about any vegetable and fruit that the stores can supply.
too much aspirin can cause liver damage.
skunks are very sensitive about their feet and nails.
have quick-stop or household flour handy to control bleeding if a nail is trimmed too close to the quick.
helps to control  infections, upset tummies and diarrhea.
(ps-the tapeworm shot works best.)
all it takes is for a skunk to  swallow a flea while grooming their fur.
i have found that uninformed questions and answers drive me crazy after  all these years.
the safe way to take away pain is jalapeno peppers, and skunks think they are treats.
a baby skunk can flatten itself enough to crawl between the vent and the wall.
some skunks have entered the heat cycle as early as august, others as late as january.
i know of no law that says you cannot buy 1 carrot, 1 squash, 1  artichoke.
this is why no one understands about early heat cycles in skunks.
in our society, we change and make over our own  bodies, so some people feel that if your skunk has something that you consider  bad news, simply have it removed, no matter what problems or cruelty we impose  on the skunk.
in the beginning, watch your skunk for diarrhea after eating.
when people will tell you that skunks can't climb, they mean  trees, mountains or stuff like that.
all skunks should receive a daily felobit vitamin; however, do  not use aviatron liquid vitamins for your skunk.
we have seen several cases of pneumonia and congestive heart failure that began with a cough.
norwegian snow kitty (tongue-in-cheek!)
probably the most important factor in maintaining a healthy  skunk is proper diet that includes a large assortment of vegetables daily.
morning -- 3 pieces of dog food, 2 or 3 slices  of squash, carrot, cucumber, celery and orange slices with cottage cheese.
shermie was 3 months old and weighed about 2 pounds when he had to be neutered!
divide into 4 meals!
pet the skunk as it will willing accept and you  will be friends for life.
this causes severe stress to their systems, causing serious health problems or even death, as well as behavioral problems.
skunks will pull  things off tables, shelves or any low area that they can reach.
the cornmeal will remove the oils and  dirt in the skunk's coat, making it smell and look like a brand new skunk.
you are blessed now beyond your wildest dreams!
if possible, remove the temptations and attempt to distract them from what they  are doing.
however,  plain cornmeal works great!
this  is a lot easier on you and your skunk than soap and water, but we do suggest  that this be done outside!
do not use tylenol or any  other acetaminophen product, as it could kill your skunk.
feed all they want within reason.
feed well-cooked rice, baked or boiled potatoes, unset jello, plain yogurt or bene-bac and give gatorade or pedialyte to help with fluid loss.
give  lite types of dog food, vegetables, fiber, chicken, water-packed fish, as well  as rice and dried beans cooked together.
unless you live in a hermetically sealed  house, never open doors or windows, never go out and come in, your animals need  shots!!
this is the person who will help you keep your baby healthy and happy for many years.
an adult skunk should only have 15  calories per pound of body weight-that is less than 150 calories a day  regardless of age, weight or activity level.
and she never recovered completely.
use a loud voice or other loud noise, such as a hair dryer or dust buster or try a squirt from a water gun or plant misting bottle.
purses, school bags, etc: skunks will remove the contents and scatter everything all over the house.
skunks died because vets were unreachable, but this happens less and less as we get more and more help and suggestions from skunk owners across the country.
if the problem persists, take  the skunk to the vet.
improper diet and obesity have been traced to the majority of premature deaths  we have experienced.
if it has an accident and doesn't make it to its corner, remove offense and saturate the area with plain white vinegar.
the only  solution is to have him neutered.
baby skunks arrive at the pet shops with all their reproductive organs intact!
as the vinegar dries, the odor is  neutralized and your skunk should not return to that spot.
skunks benefit from vitamin d-3, just as you do.
if you really want to know which one,  there are several tests that can be run on your skunk for about $1,500.00.
in a while, you and your skunk can take long, enjoyable walks together if you are patient.
"i must have one, wait until my friends know i played with a real live norwegian snow kitty!"
what would you do if you had to eat only french fries and hamburgers 4  or 5 times a day for the rest of your life?
each day, move the newspaper or litter pan 4 inches toward a corner you can let the skunk have as a bathroom.
female skunk female skunks can and will go in and out of heat for long periods of time.
female skunks are under tremendous physical stress during this time, and are  prone to kidney problems, heart attacks or other major health problems if not  spayed at about 4 months.
some dog repellents might also help, or the use  of a hair dryer, dust buster, other loud noise.
then again,  a brunette skunk may stay brunette all of its life.
if you suspect your  skunk has a pesticide reaction, take it to the vet immediately.
they  are eating, looking good and they act as if they feel better.
they were rejects from a fur farm and require more handling than puppies or kittens.
low-fat cottage cheese, 1 tablespoon per day.
caffeine sprays for flea control are now  coming on the market and are safe for skunks.
if it eats it and then smells, you can leave cauliflower out of the diet.
the quote was taken from a letter dated january 28, 1986, from dr. leigh ann sawyer, dvm, mph, veterinary epidemiologist, viral and rickettsial zoonoses branch, division of viral diseases, center for infectious diseases, center for disease control, department of health & human services, atlanta, ga.
it was bitten by a rabid raccoon and soon became rabid.
if you have said yes to either question, here is some highly important valuable information that you should know.
if you have any questions, just call or write us and we will be very glad to help in any way possible.
this is the time to reduce the amount of dog food to 8 to 10 pieces a  day, continue with the dry milk and one cookie a day.
these deaths can be  prevented by proper immunization!
an albino baby may be cream  now, then become blinding white as an adult or stay cream-colored.
many people have tragically lost their cherished pet because it bit someone.
baby skunks arrive at the pet shops with all  their reproductive organs intact!
combat disks are safe and they work very well.
the remaining 10% should consist of fruits, low-fat cottage cheese, low-fat yogurt and either (feed only one at a time, they do not need all three at one meal) boiled chicken, water-packed fish or dog food.
i know of no law that says you cannot buy 1 carrot, 1 squash, 1 artichoke.
toys use safe, chewable toys like ping-pong balls, tennis balls, brown paper bags, cardboard boxes, old socks with knots tied in them, and an absolute favorite-very fuzzy stuffed toys.
they will also dig all of the dirt out of the pots just to see what is in the  bottom.
put 1 pint of rubbing alcohol and the rind  only of 1 orange into your blender and blend it thoroughly.
learning to live  with a skunk does involve compromise, usually on your part.
they may change color as  they mature (or they may not!).
handling and playing with baby skunks
male skunks should be neutered when they first begin displaying this aggressive  behavior or whenever testicles are first seen, and this could be as early as 3  months of age.
adjust the amount of food to your  skunk's weight.
watercress * watermelon
skunks can get a chill easily, so make sure you dry your skunk  immediately with a towel or hair dryer set on low heat held 12 to 18 inches  from the skunk's fur.
you must find a vet who is willing to do descenting.
regardless of what your skunk tells you, control it's diet!
you may even have to potty train  all over again, so be prepared.
some early symptoms of impending heat are constant pacing,  sudden weight loss, finicky appetite, aggressive, almost savage, behavior and  biting.
one teaspoon of non-fat dry milk, such as carnation, will boost calcium without diarrhea.
be very choosy in your decision for a good vet.
if you have never watched a herd of baby skunks playing together you  will not understand the term "rear brakes", so let me explain the  term--in a way that you will understand the charging, stomping whirlwind coming  at you.
you must also rub and play  with its mouth and lips a great deal to lay the groundwork for giving your baby  medicines later, should the need arise.
skunks have  sharp teeth and extremely long fangs that can seriously injure you during rough  play or when being aggressive.
a dryer vent is unceremoniously pulled off and out through the hole they go.
learning to live with a skunk does involve compromise, usually on your part.
this will not in any way change the  personality of your male skunk.
welcome to the wonderful world of  compassion and understanding!
after all, they  dig up much of their food in the wild.
after 4 months, feed 1 meal and 1 snack daily or use the same feeding routine as before but decrease the amount of dog food and give more veggies.
liquid lasix and  vasotec or endacard have been successful for congestive heart failure, if  prescribed early and given religiously.
front and rear heights are measured from the floor to the shoulder and floor to the hip when the skunk is standing.
if you wait too long to solve this problem, behavior retraining may be the only way to live with your skunk and it may not work.
you may even have to potty train all over again, so be prepared.
skunks died because  vets were unreachable, but this happens less and less as we get more and more  help and suggestions from skunk owners across the country.
three years ago, there  was a case in georgia where an irresponsible skunk owner allowed his baby skunk  to roam free in a fenced backyard.
with love and patience, even "tasmanian devils" have been turned into lap babies.
in the fall, every skunk will instinctively look for more food, as they  feel it is time to prepare for their long winter naps.
child-proof locks will keep skunks out of unacceptable cabinets.
all dog food  is very hard to soften, so i suggest that you make enough for several days.
skunk owners are punished for not having "suitable  companion animals" for pets, such as dogs or cats.
this  surgery removes the entire joint of the toe.
let your skunk swim in the tub with warm water just  deep enough for the skunks' feet not to touch the bottom of the tub.
use a stuffed toy or hand puppet when playing with your skunk to help protect your fingers.
karo  syrup, pancake syrup and gatorade or bene-bac by borden will help at this time  of shock and fear.
i have found a way for all people to love my skunks just as i do.
it is not mad or angry, it is not trying to attack you, your skunk simply wants to play and this is part of the play ritual for skunks.
what would you do if you had to eat only french fries and hamburgers 4 or 5 times a day for the rest of your life?
the best solution for a healthy skunk, saving a lot of heartbreak or hurt feelings, fingers and toes is to have all skunks spayed or neutered well before they are 6 months old.
do not force a skunk to come to you -- let it come on its own.
fish of any kind may be given boiled, baked or water-packed, such as canned tuna, salmon, oysters, shrimp or clams.
dry shampoos do not work well on skunks.
if your skunk  has pulled a toe nail out, with lots of bleeding, you can place the foot in a  cup, glass or small bowl of flour until bleeding stops.
a dryer vent is  unceremoniously pulled off and out through the hole they go.
previously owned skunks some  skunks don't change owners as easily as dogs or cats, but the change can be  done with a reasonable amount of success.
as long as these people think they are loving  and stroking a norwegian snow kitty they are impressed.
start at the base of the tail and work the cornmeal down to the skin by brushing or rubbing forward on the skunk's hair and body, going all the way to the top of the head.
more skunks have died needlessly from things they  can't get and won't have, such as feline distemper, canine distemper, parvo or  corona virus, than you could believe.
fish of any kind may be given boiled, baked or water-packed, such as  canned tuna, salmon, oysters, shrimp or clams.
for now, accept your skunk's  choice.
wrap a towel or blanket around the arm not holding the skunk (for protection), hold the skunk by the back of the neck with the other hand.
deer, rabbit or any other game meats may be fed to skunks as long as it is fully cooked in some manner other than frying.
skunk ancestry mephitis mephitis: no, the computer does not have a short-circuit, this is how our skunks are known in the great and wonderful world of knowledge.
tomatoes * turnips water chestnuts *
yes, your skunk will get rabies if it is bitten by, or eats the carcass of a rabid animal; but then, --- so could you!!!
cleo did not eat dog food at all after she was about 5 years old.
use your bare hands for loving and cuddling your baby.
do not be alarmed by the furry blur that has just shown signs of brake problems.
this will teach your skunk that daytime is a wonderful place to be.
(tail length is not included in overall body length.)
the only conclusion one could come to on this subject is that all of the skunks born in 1932 on mr. ruby's farm (there have been no case of rabies since 1932 on this fur farm) must be alive and well and waiting to die with rabies.
skunks are induced ovulators,  which means there is a lot of biting, chewing, bleeding and screaming before  they can breed.
you may only know what color they are right now!
have your skunk checked by the vet as soon as possible.
june 24, 1943 to february 18, 2005 skunk stuff reprinted with permission from jane bone - the  skunklady ™ © copyright 1980, 1983, 1985, 1987, 1989,  1991, 1993, 1995 all rights reserved ninth edition is a skunk your next pet?
this could cause problems if you have not played with and fondled their feet from the beginning.
some house plants are toxic!
a baby skunk can  flatten itself enough to crawl between the vent and the wall.
fish, fowl and meats chicken, turkey or any member of the  fowl (bird) family may be given, but only if fully boiled or baked-never give  raw!
remember--a happy, healthy skunk begins with you!!!
unless your skunk is in heat, this may indicate kidney or bladder problems or diabetes.
to put this in terms that can best be  understood by one and all: the question is "had you rather do a texas  two-step with a grizzly bear or be in the same room with a mother skunk?"
you cannot hold and fondle the new kittens, you will not know  how many, what color or what sex they are, you have lost a good pet and  possibly a few fingers and toes.
after the rind has been ground into extremely fine pieces, strain through a cloth and pour back into alcohol bottle.
your skunk is not in the same  environment and should be treated differently.
the first one i ever saw caused me to replace my front door after i came back from the vet's office as i did not bother to open the door before going through it.
after all, they dig up much of their food in the wild.
the more you hold and cuddle a baby  skunk--the nicer skunk it will be later!
you must  remember that skunks genetic heritage differs as greatly as ours.
they  may have certain sweets in small amounts occasionally.
our skunks great, great, great grandparents were on america's shores to welcome christopher columbus and the other strange looking four-legged creatures that came with good old chris.
baby skunks weigh about 1 ounce when they come  into this world.
these are proteins that are easily digested by the older animal.
taking their own carrier, familiar snugglies and a few favorite toys will make them more comfortable.
they may change color as they mature (or they may not!).
a skunk that escapes to the outside is rarely found!!
they have developed rabies from these vaccines!!
cleo was 21 1/2 years old and  looked and acted like a 1 year old, all because of what we have learned about  diet.
they are too long for their legs or their legs are too tall for their bodies.
a multi-vitamin / mineral including taurine, such as felo-bits for cats, vitamins e, d-3 and brewers yeast and lecithin should be included every day.
the tail is flared out like a christmas tree, it may or may not be doing the "skunk shuffle" as it makes sort of a snorting/coughing sound, the front feet suddenly stop but the rear legs keep going, causing the skunk to almost fall forward on its little nose, therefore, it has no rear brakes.
i still see pictures in my mind of the bushels of, boxes of, bag's of, bottles of skunk stuff that i would have to deal with daily, however, after a short while you begin to see that if you know what you are dealing with it is not so bad.
bathing a skunk can be a trying experience or a fun-filled time as some skunks enjoy a dip in the old tub.
baby skunks require a series of shots that should begin as soon as you get your skunk.
sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon of non-fat dry milk, such as carnation, over  the food once a day, for additional calcium and the prevention of degenerative  bone disease later in life.
with the addition of non-fat  dry milk, such as carnation, vitamin c and sugar to their daily diet, the  problems are becoming fewer and fewer.
a skunk must never be given live or modified live rabies vaccinations--
adolescent behavior about 3 to 6 months old
these are proteins that are easily  digested by the older animal.
some skunks have entered the heat cycle as early as august, others as late as  january.
out of the 37 kittens, 4 survived and of the 3 mothers, 2 survived.
a prolapse is not as bad as it  looks.
you must learn to exist in a  skunk-proofed home.
if you have a  flea problem your skunk could have tapeworms.
upset  stomach ground ginger sprinkled over food, pepto-bismol, coke, ginger  ale or any product for children will help here.
while rough-housing  with a 1 pound baby may be cute, when he weighs 8 pounds and has fangs 1/2 inch  long, it will not be nearly as cute.
baths do not have to be traumatic to  either of you.
in the rare case that improper descenting is the cause, panalog ointment should be used until healing takes place.
we have documented cases of  skunk deaths due to feline distemper, as recently as 1993.
expose your skunk to a wide variety of foods-you'll both be  happier for it, and the skunk will be healthier!
some of the serious health problems have been solved with these simple diet adjustments.
rinse with warm water, gently rub with vaseline, preparation h or panalog (obtained from your vet) on the intestine while you slowly push small amounts of the intestine back into the rectum.
offer low-fat cottage  cheese mixed with the vegetables once a day, low-fat yogurt mixed at another  meal and maybe finely chopped boiled chicken for supper.
a multi-vitamin /  mineral including taurine, such as felo-bits for cats, vitamins e, d-3 and  brewers yeast and lecithin should be included every day.
with love and  patience, even "tasmanian devils" have been turned into lap babies.
allow your skunks to be with you, watch tv and roam the house as much as possible.
people are used to the behavior of dogs and cats; their feelings are hurt when their lap baby comes growling, snapping, biting and stomping at them when they enter the area with the female and her babies.
sit back-put your feet on the coffee table  and give yourself a big hug for you are truly a very special person.
vegetables contain very  little fats and skunks are mainly vegetarians.
a healthy skunk should have a thick, glossy coat, white (not yellow)
eggs: one boiled egg per week has been recommended by the san diego zoo.
since the light bulb came into your skunk's life, it has made its daylight hours longer.
these are all very good reasons why i recommend leaving the breeding to  breeders and getting your skunk fixed asap!!
it  could be deadly!!
their coats are very shiny, they appear to be healthier and i have never seen a skunk that is too fat or too thin when fed properly.
use your eyes, your hands, a scale if necessary and your common sense to determine your skunk's proper weight for its size.
use a mild shampoo and hair conditioner.
please understand that we are not vets!
your skunk will not be starving when you return home.
i have found that uninformed questions and answers drive me crazy after all these years.
take your skunk to the vet as soon as possible!!
in more common usage, it means, "striped,  hooded skunk."
offer the new skunk lots of healthy treats and good conversation.
if your  skunk has bad breath, rubs its mouth on chairs, the wall or your foot, it  probably has a tooth problem, either tartar on the teeth or a bad tooth.
escarole * ginger root * grapes honeydew * kiwi fruit * malanga mushrooms * nectarine * okra * orange
this period should last from 2 to 4 weeks, but could go on even longer.
winter--days are shorter.
non fat milk, 1 tsp.
we use the same products on our skunks as we use on our hair.
if a dog, cat, squirrel or cow bites your skunk, it could be infected with the rabies virus and this is sure death.
it just follows its nose to wherever.
skunks have a huge sweet tooth, so you must be strong and give only one.
unless you know  without a doubt that your skunk's limp comes from a pulled muscle while  skydiving, have it x-rayed.
"a carrier state  (the ability of infected animals to transmit rabies virus while incubating the  disease) is known for some species.
skunks are just like babies, some will eat ten cups full of food while others will not eat all you give them.
introduce vegetables into your skunk's diet as soon as possible.
the average newborn child has about 16 years to reach its  maximum growth.
early treatment can avoid, correct or control many serious problems.
cantaloupe * carrots * cauliflower celery  * cherries *
due to fluid loss,  the intestine shrinks and the body can no longer hold the intestine in place.
the hulls on sunflower seeds will perforate the skunk's  intestines causing death.
you  will later want to cut its toenails and if you don't play with its feet now,  you won't be able to cut its toenails later!
in our society, we change and make over our own bodies, so some people feel that if your skunk has something that you consider bad news, simply have it removed, no matter what problems or cruelty we impose on the skunk.
one, single sugar cookie or 1/4 of a graham cracker or  1 butter cookie or 1 vanilla wafer can be added to the diet at this time, but  only one!
it all cost a  little over $1,000.00.
however, if your baby skunk appears to still be looking for more food, give them some more vegetables.
4 to 5  in.........................rear leg 4 to 5 in weight: 1/2 to 2  lbs.......................weight: 1/2 to 2 lbs head: 3 1/2 to 4  in........................head: 3 1/2 to 4 in this is the time when  the boys and the girls grow about the same rate and appear to always be the  same size, however, if you have a male skunk and it does not grow or stops  growing, except for the legs and tail, this is called the ugly skunk stage.
baby skunk bedrooms find a dark, relatively quiet place in your home to be used as the skunk's  bedroom, such as a bathroom, an empty cabinet or very large box that a console  tv or household appliance came in.
the medicated water must be changed every 24 hours!
be sure that your skunk cannot accidentally chew off and swallow portions of the toy, such as the eyes.
at birth, a skunk weighs about one ounce and then grows  very rapidly.
use a piece of cotton or cloth to apply this mixture to your skunk's skin and fur.
baby skunks are very easy to step on.
daily diet for adult and mature skunks
summer -- days are longer.
you have just been pulled from your mom, brothers and sisters, rapidly descented, packed in a crate, thrown on a plane, flown to wherever and dropped in a pet shop with two-legged creatures that do not even speak fluent skunkaneese!
you can make a very effective flea treatment at home and make it very cheaply.
the age of the skunk is not a major  factor in changing homes, but even the smallest babies have problems adjusting  to new homes at first.
you  are blessed now beyond your wildest dreams!
unless your skunk is chewing at the tissue, it  is not necessary to see a vet; however, if he is chewing at it, a vet must  replace the intestine and possibly (we hope not, because even one tiny stitch
they prefer afternoon sun to morning sun.
sunshine for your skunk skunks at any and all  ages need a little sunshine every day.
strange thing...we have found a national publication on the incubation period of the rabies virus in several animals including man.
ceramics or glassware: keep these  very high and away from the reach of your skunk's little paws.
while rough-housing with a 1 pound baby may be cute, when he weighs 8 pounds and has fangs 1/2 inch long, it will not be nearly as cute.
she was already in full blown heat...,screaming, snapping and biting  anything that moved.
you have to know lots of  skunks for long periods of time.
shakers like salt or cheese shakers can be used for instant milk, powdered brewers yeast or baking soda.
the other is 10 inches  long and 6 inches tall and weighs 5 pounds.
in the years i have had skunks  only two have had tapeworms to show up in fecal testing.
you have just been  pulled from your mom, brothers and sisters, rapidly descented, packed in a  crate, thrown on a plane, flown to wherever and dropped in a pet shop with  two-legged creatures that do not even speak fluent skunkaneese!
this is the time that most skunks will keep any extra weight on their body and it is very difficult to get it off until spring.
the above vegetables & fruit suggestions are not etched in stone,  therefore, use your own creativity and availability of veggies and fruits in  each season.
combat disks are safe and they work very  well.
cats, dogs, foxes and skunks (mephitis mephitis) can expose susceptible hosts in the united states to rabies one, three and eight days, respectively, before onset of clinical illness."
never use your hands, rolled newspaper, fly swatter, etc, because, even though skunks don't see very well, their ears and nose work extremely well and their intellect tells them that you were at the end of that thing that just hit them.
gray baby skunks tend to become white adults, but we know of several adult gray skunks.
male skunks 4 weeks to 8 weeks.........................4 weeks to 8 weeks length: 4 to 8 inches......................length: 4 to 8 inches front leg: 3 to 4 in.......................front leg: 3 to 4 in rear leg 4 to 5 in.........................rear leg 4 to 5 in weight: 1/2 to 2 lbs.......................
these are all very good reasons why i recommend leaving the breeding to breeders and getting your skunk fixed asap!!
a skunk must never be given live or modified live rabies  vaccinations--
many people have tragically lost their cherished pet because  it bit someone.
this  is when the baby problems have all gone, your skunk has been spayed or neutered  and you now have a really great pet.
leave the shades or blinds open in the room where they spend the most  time, or sit outside with them for a good brushing, thereby killing 2 birds  with 1 stone.
translated from latin, it means "stinks stinks."
since it has no defenses and the scent glands have been removed, it will probably be killed by dogs or cars.
until you know what amounts of food your skunk will eat, give them enough food to satisfy.
they only know that your feet are part of you and they want to be near you, feet and all.
the nails are free to be cut and its teeth can't reach the person helping you.
there is no known incubation for skunks"??
plan on  wearing some of it.
fill the tub or sink with warm water and let the skunk play in  it for a while.
noon -- 3 pieces of dog food, 1/4 cup of shredded wheat dry cereal, 2 or 3  slices of rutabaga, tomato, bell peppers, a few pods of okra mixed with yogurt.
the average newborn child has about 16 years to reach its maximum growth.
you will not  know how long, how tall, or what color your skunk may be until this time.
noon -- 3 pieces of dog food, 1/4 cup of shredded wheat dry cereal, 2 or 3 slices of rutabaga, tomato, bell peppers, a few pods of okra mixed with yogurt.
it has great benefit for our skunk's livers, which is one of their weakest organs.
fiber: high fiber cereal, such as shredded wheat, cheerios, whole grain breads, dog  biscuits, unsalted plain popcorn or 1/2 teaspoon of fiber all or metamucil  daily.
norwegian snow kitties, (under-cover skunks), will not steal the remote control from the tv and change channels on you.
when it appears to be coming out of the seizure, feed as much of the sweet as it will take.
you can make a very effective flea treatment  at home and make it very cheaply.
skunks' claws are not like cat  claws, but like our fingers and toes.
second, a tiny amount of sugar seems to help in weight control.
at this age, chop the food rather small, maybe into 1/4 inch cubes.
commonly used treats are grapes, apple slices,  raisins, dog biscuits, etc.
most skunks will hold  it in their mouth and will not let go of the candy to bite you, however, there  are those skunks who can inhale sweets before you can blink your eye.
any type of forced attention can lead to serious  biting and distrust that may never be overcome.
as you are strolling among the  veggies at the super market keep in mind, variety is the spice of life!
it will not harm  your skunk, so if by some strange outside chance your skunk has a bad case of  the blahs have them treated for tapeworms.
chase down the baby skunk is not a game that is a lot of fun or a game that ends in joy and happiness for the owner or the skunk!
as with older dogs and cats (and people, too), skunks need to have their protein, fat and calorie intake lowered.
no homing instincts skunks are naturally curious and very agile--a deadly combination.
here are a  few guidelines by which to judge your skunk's overall health: healthy  skunk
if you had only a few feet to walk in and the same old four walls to look at, would you be a happy camper?
your vet probably uses strongid, which is  "prescription strength" if you prefer the all natural way you can use  seeds from cantaloupe, fig juice or cloves.
this worm problem will  have to be handled by your vet.
broccoli  brussels sprouts * cabbage * cactus *
by the time they are 8 months old, they weigh about 8 pounds, which is about right.
some male skunks have been known to be serious biters as early as 3 months old.
advise your vet that you are using terramycin if  another drug is given to your skunk for any reason.
please, do not be alarmed, this is only your bouncing baby boy catching up with the girls.
the prolapse may be red or swollen and may not return immediately.
the safe way to take  away pain is jalapeno peppers, and skunks think they are treats.
if your skunk is a climber, keep chairs, stools, bookcases, boxes and ladders away from cabinets, drawers, tables, sofas and chairs or any other place that your skunk finds interesting.
most skunks will hold it in their mouth and will not let go of the candy to bite you, however, there are those skunks who can inhale sweets before you can blink your eye.
it is great fun to watch them rearrange their new home as they transport very large blankets or what ever from one end of your house to the other.
he will always be a boy -- just not a bad boy!
four months to three years old
a late night snack  could maybe be 5 or 6 raisins and a few pieces of popcorn.
use a piece of cotton or cloth to apply this mixture to  your skunk's skin and fur.
however, their nails will grow very long and can cause damage to your carpets, walking problems and could be pulled out of the foot if they happen to get the nail caught in something if not trimmed periodically.
i had 3 females to have  babies at one time, accidents do happen.
if you make a  miraculous discovery that fixes a problem that your skunk develops, call one of  us.
substitute something else!
all those out there with dog and cat mentality about mama dogs and cats are in for a large, enormous and very painful surprise.
handling and playing with  baby skunks
wide, shallow pans or casserole dishes work well.
they will even out and will not always and forever be so leggy and gawky.
after  4 months, feed 1 meal and 1 snack daily or use the same feeding routine as  before but decrease the amount of dog food and give more veggies.
the problem with roundworms and skunks is you cannot kill the round  worms until they attach themselves to the intestine.
place several thicknesses of newspaper or a litter pan with unscented kitty litter in the corner your skunk has chosen.
gatorade after a seizure can save your skunks' life!
you will not know how long, how tall, or what color your skunk may be until this time.
skunks that are fed  mainly vegetables just look better.
you will hear that your skunk is a hunter and must hunt for food........
something he smells is attracting him to this area with an odor that we can't smell.
learn to read labels!
normally you will be able to push the intestine back into the body.
second, a tiny amount of sugar seems to help in  weight control.
potty training skunks are naturally very clean animals and "corner trained" instinctively.
if you still are not convinced, i  will let you count my broken fingers, toes and the scars i have from surprise  skunk pregnancies.
dip a q-tip, pen, pencil, an infant ear syringe--anything but your fingers-into karo syrup, pancake syrup, honey or sugar water and apply to the gums or tongue.
never use your hands,  rolled newspaper, fly swatter, etc, because, even though skunks don't see very
your baby skunk has 12 to 18 months to grow strong teeth, muscles, bones and organs.
welcome to the wonderful world of compassion and understanding!
skunks are induced ovulators, which means there is a lot of biting, chewing, bleeding and screaming before they can breed.
they have only had their scent glands  removed!
do not ever, under any circumstances, feed cat  food of any kind, unless advised to do so by your vet, for certain rare medical  problems!!
some dog repellents might also help, or the use of a hair dryer, dust buster, other loud noise.
if it bites someone and they report it to the health  authorities, you must surrender your skunk to be murdered and the brain cells  tested for rabies.
mature skunks 3 years and above
three years ago, there was a case in georgia where an irresponsible skunk owner allowed his baby skunk to roam free in a fenced backyard.
these will not harm your skunk in any way and are very safe to use.
we recommend evict or nemex 2 liquid dog wormers.
this is  also the time to start hand-feeding your skunk so that it will learn to avoid  your fingers at treat time.
certain sources classify our skunks as exotic animals.
one, single sugar cookie or 1/4 of a graham cracker or 1 butter cookie or 1 vanilla wafer can be added to the diet at this time, but only one!
another trick that can  work is to take a piece of heavy cardboard, cut a small half-moon off the edge  of one side, place the cardboard under the skunk's jaw in front of his  shoulders as you hold him by the back of the neck.
first aid until you can see the vet skunks may develop problems at home when the vet is closed, but most of these problems can be handled by you.
we have seen a  tremendous decrease in liver problems since the inclusion of terramycin.
with the addition of non-fat dry milk, such as carnation, vitamin c and sugar to their daily diet, the problems are becoming fewer and fewer.
they are not from a foreign country, they are not spices, and they do not dance the striptease.
the currently recommended vaccines are: galaxy da2ppvl+cv and eclipse 4 given as a baby and then a yearly booster.
pineapple * potatoes * prunes * prickly pear *
rubs sides of face or head limps warnings for and about skunks recliners have taken the lives of several skunks.
due to fluid loss, the intestine shrinks and the body can no longer hold the intestine in place.
here again is one more reason why some people should not  even try to live with a skunk.
baby skunks weigh about 1 ounce when they come into this world.
female skunks...................................
please keep in mind this  is not a prescription drug, but one that can be purchased from your local feed  and seed stores or pet shops.
have patience--they are  worth it!!
skunks at any age confined to a small space for extended periods of time will become bad biters and aggressive.
she was already in full blown heat...,screaming, snapping and biting anything that moved.
the vinegar should  not harm your carpets and your home will smell like a salad for only about 10  minutes.
please have your skunk  checked for any type of infections of the respiratory system.
the  medicated water must be changed every 24 hours!
we do not know why this information is being kept from  skunk owners, but this seems to be another approach by the "powers that  be" to controlling our lives.
no amount of words will stop the fear and terror the word rabies brings to our hearts and minds, but just take a minute to think.. when someone says "3 million skunks were found to have rabies," ask how many domestic/pen raised skunks were in the 3 million rabid skunks.
you have recovered from the  heart attack you almost had because you thought the burglars were stealing your  kitchen, only to find baby skunks, playing in the pots and pans around 4  o'clock in the morning; you are picking up all your clothes as your mother
this too can cause more problems than you could ever dream of, such as,  brain damage, nerve damage, stunted growth, and just plain meanness!!!
if you use a pest control company, advise the company to use caution in spraying, as poisoning can occur from a simple maintenance practice in your home.
all skunks should receive a daily felobit vitamin; however, do not use aviatron liquid vitamins for your skunk.
handfuls and bowlsful of dog food and junk food give too much calcium and  protein, leading to bad teeth, arthritis, degenerative bone disease and  paralysis later in life.
these will not harm your skunk in  any way and are very safe to use.
if it is kept on a high  protein, high fat diet for very long, your skunk's long-term stay in your life  could be endangered.
it is nice to know that your skunk only needs to be in a dust free area, or away from pine or oak trees or inhale no more hair spray.
you must also rub and play with its mouth and lips a great deal to lay the groundwork for giving your baby medicines later, should the need arise.
a baby skunk is not a puppy or a kitten, but an intelligent animal with its own set of natural actions and strange reactions!
here are a few guidelines by which to judge your skunk's overall health: healthy skunk glossy, thick coat eyes bright and clear
now he beats me to the bathroom and bangs on  the side of the tub with his paw for his daily swim.
unless your skunk is in heat, this may indicate  kidney or bladder problems or diabetes.
however, these are people who have never  found a skunk waving to them from a kitchen counter!
their coats are very shiny, they appear to  be healthier and i have never seen a skunk that is too fat or too thin when fed  properly.
some skunk owners have found that cauliflower  increases stool odor unbelievably.
the  good news is-it does not matter which one they are allergic to, all allergies  are treated the same, so save your money.
the three moms had 37 kittens.
the more you hold and cuddle a baby skunk--the nicer skunk it will be later!
don't try to make  their bed for them.
dryer vents, air- conditioning vents or  any other vents that lead to the outside must be secured!
a skunk rarely needs a bath.
don't try to make their bed for them.
quite the contrary, a little goes a long way!
however, this is only covering up what could really be a serious problem.
not the puppy--not the kitty
for all of you boy skunk owners, well folks, one day this very large strange furry covered creature will be strolling in your house.
limping this could be an early warning sign of possible arthritis, degenerative bone disease or just a pulled muscle.
use a solution of 1/4 cup 5%  chlorine bleach to 1 gallon of water (a solution any stronger can cause damage  to the eyes or lungs of your skunk), or spic and span for cleaning purposes.
when you first get your baby skunk, hold it as much as it will allow, in your arms, in your lap or tucked inside your shirt.
can do nerve damage in these delicate tissues!) place a purse string stitch to  hold it in place.
deer, rabbit or any other  game meats may be fed to skunks as long as it is fully cooked in some manner  other than frying.
if you have questions about enabling scripting on your browser please contact customer support atmyquickresponse.
some carpet fresheners and cleaners such as glade potpourri and lysol products  have killed dogs, cats and skunks, so be very careful with any cleaning  products you use around your skunk.
don't be fooled by misinformation about shots for your skunk  as it could cost their life!
move your wrapped arm near enough for the skunk to grasp the towel with its claws.
collards * corn cucumbers *
no amount of words will stop the fear and terror  the word rabies brings to our hearts and minds, but just take a minute to  think.. when someone says "3 million skunks were found to have  rabies," ask how many domestic/pen raised skunks were in the 3 million  rabid skunks.
your carpets or walls may be the object  of digging.
male skunks should be neutered when they first begin displaying this aggressive behavior or whenever testicles are first seen, and this could be as early as 3 months of age.
some round worms just float around in the blood stream filling up the lungs and heart and it is so common in the animal world to have roundworms that people just forget how serious a problem this can be.
a skunk rarely needs a  bath.
snacks: never feed a skunk junk food - skunks easily become addicted to junk food, such  as corn chips, potato chips or ice cream.
you can use a killed feline vaccine that is used for ferrets.
it will hunt for the refrigerator,  the microwave and you.
try to bring something that the skunk is used to, such  as a blanket or favorite toy, to help reduce stress of "newness."
you will hear that your skunk is a hunter  and must hunt for food........
skunks at any age confined to a small space  for extended periods of time will become bad biters and aggressive.
it could save a life!!
previously owned skunks
12 weeks to 16 weeks from 12 to 16 weeks: cut meals down to twice a day with a snack in the morning, late evening or whenever it works for your schedule.
* parsley * parsnips * peaches * peas *
the alcohol kills the fleas  and the orange rind repels any new fleas.
many skunks could profit by your discovery.
please keep in  mind that skunks are prone to heat stroke, which could be fatal, so do not  overdo the sun.
most outgrow climbing.
just like us, skunks have allergies and sinus  problems.
canned vegall works well.
they are not from a foreign country, they are not spices, and  they do not dance the striptease.
do  not use products for color treated hair or dandruff shampoos.
pet skunks are rarely recaptured or returned to the owner.
don't let him teach you.
think about having your toes removed and you'll have a better understanding of what a skunk will have to endure if this inhumane surgery is performed on them.
most of our  skunks rarely show any signs of hibernating except for the demand for more  food.
you must pour enough so that the carpet, the  padding and the floor underneath get soaked.
at this age,  chop the food rather small, maybe into 1/4 inch cubes.
rectal prolapse when this occurs, a portion of the intestine from 1/4  to 2 inches long protrudes from the rectum.
some skunks cannot digest diary products well and this could cause diarrhea.
you have never before dealt with an animal as smart as a skunk, unless you have had two year olds in your life.
per day  sprinkled over their food, oranges, grapefruit, lime or lemon, jalapeno peppers  (which they love), for natural vitamin c or a liquid vitamin c over or in their  food, and (very easy way to measure sugar here)
a skunk that  escapes to the outside is rarely found!!
baby skunk bedrooms find a dark, relatively quiet place in your home to be used as the skunk's bedroom, such as a bathroom, an empty cabinet or very large box that a console tv or household appliance came in.
dryer vents, air- conditioning vents or any other vents that lead to the outside must be secured!
as long as these people think they are loving and stroking a norwegian snow kitty they are impressed.
very few un-neutered males make good, gentle-natured pets.
what this all boils down to  is this; you may never know what color your skunk will be.
many viruses and bacteria are airborne: therefore, it is imperative  that they be protected.
trim the nail about 1/4 inch below the pink tissue in the nail.
your vet probably uses strongid, which is "prescription strength" if you prefer the all natural way you can use seeds from cantaloupe, fig juice or cloves.
both are perfectly healthy.
if a cough  persists longer than 1 dose of medicine, take it to a vet immediately.
a good squirt from the trusty old water bottle may help, but if not,  pour white vinegar on the spot where the skunk is digging.
if you do take your skunk to the outside world, which they really don't like anyway simply because it is not air conditioned or heated, and it is on the ground where it could be exposed to a rabid animal, keep in mind that at this time there is no approved rabies vaccine for skunks.
limping this could be an early warning sign of possible arthritis, degenerative bone  disease or just a pulled muscle.
to put this in terms that can best be understood by one and all: the question is "had you rather do a texas two-step with a grizzly bear or be in the same room with a mother skunk?"
it will give a strange disease or all skunks are black and white!
i only tell you what has worked and is working for mine and hundreds of other skunks.
female skunks are under tremendous physical stress during this time, and are prone to kidney problems, heart attacks or other major health problems if not spayed at about 4 months.
move your wrapped arm near enough for the skunk to grasp the towel with  its claws.
fruits: one slice of an apple or orange, 2 or 3 grapes or any fruit that may be in season at any time of year.
if the problem persists, take the skunk to the vet.
digging all skunks have the natural instinct to dig.
upset stomach ground ginger sprinkled over food, pepto-bismol, coke, ginger ale or any product for children will help here.
however, if your baby skunk appears to still be looking  for more food, give them some more vegetables.
this does not mean starve your skunk to death!
this is the time of very rapid growth and it  needs a good food supply to get up and going on the right track.
it took a very long time to treat and could have ended with a dead skunk.
gently tug on the leash that you have chosen  to use.
if your skunk has pulled a toe nail out, with lots of bleeding, you can place the foot in a cup, glass or small bowl of flour until bleeding stops.
scripting is required to use this site.
when i started with skunks the average age of a skunk was maybe 3 and this was thought to be an old skunk, but now more and more knowledge is coming to light and our skunks are living longer and healthier lives.
you should be able to judge if your skunk is too fat or too thin.
foods to avoid red meats (beef) --
8 weeks to 12 weeks from 8 to 12 weeks, feed 3 times a day, basically the same diet with greater variations.
some skunks don't change owners as easily as dogs or cats, but the change can be done with a reasonable amount of success.
for emergencies karo syrup or pancake syrup and gatorade can be placed in a syringe or a small plastic squirt bottle.
many viruses and bacteria are airborne: therefore, it is imperative that they be protected.
skunks generally outgrow most of their bad behavior, usually by their first birthday because they are bottom heavy.
the purpose of incorporating a small amount of sugar into their diet is twofold.
you could avoid most all of the associated problems by having your male skunk  neutered by 3 months of age or your female skunk spayed by 4 months of age.
if a skunk has an odor, it has a medical problem and a million baths will not solve the problem.
skunks are curious and will soon try to run off and see the world.
skunks do not need cups of food to be very healthy  animals.
the other is 10 inches long and 6 inches tall and weighs 5 pounds.
handfuls and bowlsful of dog food and junk food give too much calcium and protein, leading to bad teeth, arthritis, degenerative bone disease and paralysis later in life.
use veggies, popcorn, dog biscuits or dry cereal.
the signs are: eats like a horse and loses weight, loses hair and is not very active.
the measurements given are from the tip of the nose to the base of the  tail.
this causes severe stress  to their systems, causing serious health problems or even death, as well as  behavioral problems.
declawed skunks are pitiful sights to behold hobbling along as if they were in pain, which they may be!
this is the person who will help you keep your baby healthy and happy for many  years.
it may take a while for the intestine to return to its normal place, but don't be alarmed if it seems to last forever.
potty training skunks are naturally very clean animals and "corner trained"  instinctively.
even dryers, refrigerators and  dishwashers are to be explored (they all smell like food), so be careful and  watchful at all times.
a piece of plexi-glass, plastic carpet runner or the like placed under the door will stop this digging.
one half tablet of a 4 hour chlor-trimeton tablet helps with the sneezing.
it will not harm your skunk, so if by some strange outside chance your skunk has a bad case of the blahs have them treated for tapeworms.
make sure you understand we said one cookie, not 1 pound or 1 box!
the answer will be, "none, but..."
please keep in mind that you are not living with a wild animal!
some skunk owners have found that cauliflower increases stool odor unbelievably.
now i am ready to instantly feed or snack for five or six days.
this is why no  one understands about early heat cycles in skunks.
you live with  your skunk, i do not, if it makes you and your skunk happy to have lunch-by all  means give them lunch!
proper medical care is better for your skunk and better for your pocketbook in the long run.
this will not happen if you just look at the size of a  very small animal and know that it will not need as much or more food than you  do to stay alive.
if your skunk experiences any of these  symptoms, wrap it in something to keep it warm and from going into shock or  harming itself or you.
most important, your friends think you are a very special person now and not crazy enough to live with a skunk.
as the vinegar dries, the odor is neutralized and your skunk should not return to that spot.
patience and love will create a very loving  animal.
prepare yourself for problems unless you educate yourself and family members on raising and living with a skunk.
their balance is affected, they can no  longer hold their food and, in some way that we do not yet understand, it  causes the liver to fail, leading to an early death.
unlike cats, it is safe  for a skunk in heat to be spayed.
your skunk came from a fur farm right into your home and enjoys the same comforts that you do!
yogurt: approximately 1 tablespoon per day to aid in digestion.
it is great fun to watch them rearrange their new home as  they transport very large blankets or what ever from one end of your house to  the other.
the only possible answer to this rear brake problem could be cement boots for the rear legs.
hydrotherapy benefits skunks, too!
the skunk may choose to hide under a piece of furniture for several days.
even if you  shampoo the carpet, the odor remains in the padding or even the wood beneath,  so use the vinegar liberally.
this will not happen if you just look at the size of a very small animal and know that it will not need as much or more food than you do to stay alive.
along came edison with his light bulb and your domestic skunk has no real need to hibernate.
it will hunt for the refrigerator, the microwave and you.
it must have calcium, protein and all essential vitamins and minerals in the right proportions to their growth rate, not ours.
roundworms all skunks have roundworms.
we have documented cases of skunk deaths due to feline distemper, as recently as 1993.
skunks are not true hibernators, they just take long naps.
you could also put the mixture into a spray bottle  and spray your skunk.
the remaining 10% should consist of fruits, low-fat  cottage cheese, low-fat yogurt and either (feed only one at a time, they do not  need all three at one meal) boiled chicken, water-packed fish or dog food.
paralysis, limps and lost teeth were the way of  life when you lived with a skunk.
bleeding clean site with mild soap and water.
pet the skunk as it will willing accept and you will be friends for life.
food  and water bowls
you must remember that skunks genetic heritage differs as greatly as ours.
at first he will pull, tug and thrash around on it's back.
cantaloupe * carrots * cauliflower celery * cherries *
use dips or sprays with  the active ingredient pyrethrins, such as scratch-x or sectrol by 3m. it is  important to read labels!!!
each day, move the newspaper or litter pan 4 inches toward a corner you  can let the skunk have as a bathroom.
the easiest way to control your skunk's weight is to feed it  proper amounts of the right foods and give it low fat, low calorie healthy  snacks.
use quick stop (from pet stores or your vet) or plain flour  sprinkled over the bleeding area to control and stop bleeding.
female  skunks...................................
bee pollen is found in some vitamins and can cause an allergic reaction and death.
wanted you to do as a child; you are eating healthier; but the one thing that  still bugs you as a skunk owner is: "it's a what?"
skunks do not like closed doors  and will dig at the door just to find what room is on the other side.
when you first get your baby skunk, hold it  as much as it will allow, in your arms, in your lap or tucked inside your  shirt.
as with older  dogs and cats (and people, too), skunks need to have their protein, fat and  calorie intake lowered.
we have had numerous reports of skunks having  seizures--convulsions, drooling, rapid breathing, totally stiff body, wide open  glazed eyes, and no response to stimuli.
your skunk needs to be seen by a vet for x-rays as this is the only way to tell what is happening to your skunks' bones.
wrap a towel or blanket around the arm not holding the  skunk (for protection), hold the skunk by the back of the neck with the other  hand.
kiss your skunk, rub its mouth, tweak  its tongue and nose, brush its teeth with a pet toothbrush now and avoid  problems later!
we know of 2 male  skunks, raised in the same home, both 4 years old, fed the same diet.
being naturally curious, if a skunk escapes  outside, it will not return on its own.
more homes have been cleaned, meals prepared or football games watched with a baby skunk snuggled inside a t-shirt tucked into a waistband, than you could ever imagine.
mother always  told you to eat a balanced diet and all your veggies and you would grow up to  be big and strong !
a two foot, 3 pound skunk is not a pretty sight.
they act as they are never full, will eat almost anything and are always  begging for food.
both canine and feline shots are needed for baby skunks as young as  four weeks of age.
since it has no  defenses and the scent glands have been removed, it will probably be killed by  dogs or cars.
asparagus * avocado * banana beans *
plain yogurt will aid in digestion and should solve a lot of future problems if fed to your skunk daily.
and i was able  to do most of the care myself.
skunks are super intelligent, they never forget and never  forgive!
however, these are people who have never found a skunk waving to them from a kitchen counter!
skunks are born with many colors, stripe styles, chips, swirls and even solid colors.
do not be tempted or talked into feeding more protein  foods than are recommended here.
aggressive behavior lasts a much longer time.
4 weeks to about 12 weeks if your baby skunk does not have teeth or is having a hard time chewing solid food, soak purina o.n.e., science diet canine growth or pro-plan adult for dogs in canned diluted goat's milk, k.m.r. or just born® milk replacer plus colostrum from farnam pet products, until it can eat solid foods.
use your  own ideas about the right way to eat when feeding your skunk.
skunk travel tips traveling with your skunk does not have to be a major problem.
do not use tylenol or any other acetaminophen product, as it could kill your skunk.
linatone plus should be given  daily to prevent a d-3 deficiency.
sorry, skunks do not have zippers to open up and take a look inside.
you  must find a vet who is willing to do descenting.
do  not increase the amount of food your skunk is getting no matter what it tells  you!!
the purpose of incorporating a small amount of sugar into their diet is  twofold.
before bedtime snack -- a  handful of plain popcorn, 1 dog biscuit, 5-6 raisins, 3 or 4 pieces of dog food.
and it's new environment.
sprouts * squashes *  strawberries *
* broccoli brussels sprouts
if your skunk experiences any of these symptoms, wrap it in something to keep it warm and from going into shock or harming itself or you.
if  you wait too long to solve this problem, behavior retraining may be the only  way to live with your skunk and it may not work.
skunks  can be sexually mature when they are three months of age, however skunks do not  stop growing until they are about 18 months to two years old.
your skunk may not be safe if it accidentally bites someone.
if you really want to know which one, there are several tests that can be run on your skunk for about $1,500.00.
diarrhea is frequently caused by roundworms or bad  diet.
though they may not see extremely well, his nose and ears will tell him that you are the one that hurt him, even if you are on the end of a fly swatter or newspaper.
and she never  recovered completely.
the powder is mixed in their drinking water  daily, using 1/2 teaspoon per gallon of water.
household cleaning products some common household products are  dangerous to skunks.
females with their young are the most savage animals in the animal kingdom.
underweight unhealthy skunk drastic change in bathroom habits (middle of floor, frequent urination, many locations) frequent thirst or increase in the amount of water consumed dry, brittle, dull or thin coat
a variety of mixed vegetables, fresh, frozen, or cooked.
if it has an  accident and doesn't make it to its corner, remove offense and saturate the  area with plain white vinegar.
12  weeks to 16 weeks from 12 to 16 weeks: cut meals down to twice a day  with a snack in the morning, late evening or whenever it works for your  schedule.
suddenly their hand starts to smell, they walk backwards from you holding their hand away from their bodies with a look of horror on their faces.
it is a wonderful source of many vitamins and  minerals, but so are many other veggies!
think about having your toes removed and  you'll have a better understanding of what a skunk will have to endure if this  inhumane surgery is performed on them.
carbohydrates: small baked or boiled potato or 1/2 slice of whole wheat bread or pasta or rice once per day.
in the rare case that improper descenting is the  cause, panalog ointment should be used until healing takes place.
yes, your skunk  will get rabies if it is bitten by, or eats the carcass of a rabid animal; but  then, --- so could you!!!
the first one i ever saw caused me to replace my front door after i came  back from the vet's office as i did not bother to open the door before going  through it.
rinse with warm water, gently rub with vaseline, preparation h or panalog  (obtained from your vet) on the intestine while you slowly push small amounts  of the intestine back into the rectum.
raskey, my fifteen year old, hated baths  until he became unable to walk.
use fruits in moderation!
regardless of  what your skunk tells you, control it's diet!
an albino baby may be cream now, then become blinding white as an adult or stay cream-colored.
a baby skunk died of a broken neck just this way in 1993.
if your skunk is not very co-operative during nail trimming, it could take 2 people to complete this task: 1.
skunks are curious and will soon  try to run off and see the world.
love and concern are very powerful tools that can make your skunk perfect in every way.
if your  skunk is not very co-operative during nail trimming, it could take 2 people to  complete this task: 1.
norwegian snow kitties, (under-cover skunks), will not steal the remote control  from the tv and change channels on you.
for the safety of your skunk, these things must be  done immediately!
do not use your fingers as a convulsing animal may  severely bite.
chop enough very fine veggies for the same period of time, saving time for you.
when people will tell you that skunks can't climb, they mean trees, mountains or stuff like that.
be sure that your skunk cannot accidentally  chew off and swallow portions of the toy, such as the eyes.
mimi only lived for about two years after spaying, however the stress of the heat cycle was too much for her system
it is our feeling that if  you cannot live with occasional digging in your carpets, which can be  controlled--do not get a skunk!
your  vet can either clean their teeth or remove the bad tooth and all is well.
the more you hold and talk to a baby skunk, the more love  will come your way from this skunk as it grows.
being this close to you, the baby skunk will learn that it is great to be part of your family as you protect it, calm it down, feeling warm and wonderful all over that you are its new mom or dad!
please, do not be alarmed,  this is only your bouncing baby boy catching up with the girls.
this  allows your smell and voice to become familiar to the skunk and will build  trust between the two of you.
however, you do not want to wait and find out.
use dips or sprays with the active ingredient pyrethrins, such as scratch-x or sectrol by 3m.
if it is kept on a high protein, high fat diet for very long, your skunk's long-term stay in your life could be endangered.
if you make a miraculous discovery that fixes a problem that your skunk develops, call one of us.
you will not believe a 3 pound skunk pulling a king size bedspread as they walk backwards and shoving the bedspread under them.
during the fall, a skunk should be kept awake and active about 4 or 5 hours a day.
use quick stop (from pet stores or your vet) or plain flour sprinkled over the bleeding area to control and stop bleeding.
as long as your skunk comes from a reputable  breeder, such as ruby fur farms in new sharon, iowa, where no rabies has been  found since 1932, or your skunk has not been exposed to a rabid animal or the  carcass of a rabid animal, rabies should not be a problem.
a drop or two of avon skin-so-soft in the rinse water may help to repel fleas.
linatone plus should be given daily to prevent a d-3 deficiency.
well, their ears and nose work extremely well and their intellect tells them  that you were at the end of that thing that just hit them.
nail  trimming skunks use their nails for digging, not clawing - they are  not sharp and will not puncture skin.
just remember--a skunk in a new location is scared and unsure, just  as you are in new places, around new people.
upon rabies confirmation, the state of georgia hunted down all the baby skunks sold from the same store, terrorized 12 skunk owners with rabies scare tactics into having their baby skunks murdered, mangled and serving the heads of the 12 baby skunks on a silver platter for rabies testing.
the attitudes are the same as for a female except that they display even more aggressive behavior and severe biting.
this is the time of very rapid growth and it needs a good food supply to get up and going on the right track.
you can give your skunk a great variety of veggies daily without  waste.
offer a wide variety of vegetables, such as squash, mushrooms, peas, corn, and a few bites of fruit chosen from the lists included in this brochure.
caffeine sprays for flea control are now coming on the market and are safe for skunks.
non-fat dry milk used daily along with vitamin c will help prevent tooth problems and infections.
liquid lasix and vasotec or endacard have been successful for congestive heart failure, if prescribed early and given religiously.
however, this is only  covering up what could really be a serious problem.
seizures are a serious health situation and it must be  diagnosed and treated immediately!
90% of a skunk's diet, regardless of age, should consist of vegetables.
skunk ancestry mephitis mephitis: no, the  computer does not have a short-circuit, this is how our skunks are known in the  great and wonderful world of knowledge.
leash training use a figure eight cat harness if you wish to try walking your skunk.
a human baby at birth can weigh 6 pounds and be 19 inches long, however, as an adult it be 7 feet tall and weigh 300 pounds.
try giving as much cranberry, orange or tomato juices as it will drink or you can mix 1 teaspoon of white vinegar with 1 quart of water and place it in the water bowl.
baby skunks require a series of shots that should begin as soon as you get  your skunk.
if a skunk has an odor, it has a medical problem and a million baths will  not solve the problem.
it must have calcium, protein and all essential  vitamins and minerals in the right proportions to their growth rate, not ours.
dried fruits or foods containing sulfur dioxide.
they are now available for trimming.
eggs: one boiled egg per week has been recommended  by the san diego zoo.
rarely, there is a lactose intolerant skunk!
if you are lucky, he will follow.
then again, a brunette skunk may stay brunette all of its life.
coat loses its color-becomes
if your skunk has  fleas, use scratch-x shampoo for fleas.
no one bothered to say "i'm sorry or forgive me, i was wrong" when  all 12 rabies tests came back negative!!
this will teach your skunk that daytime is a wonderful  place to be.
cats, dogs, foxes and skunks (mephitis  mephitis) can expose susceptible hosts in the united states to rabies one,  three and eight days, respectively, before onset of clinical illness."
more skunks have died needlessly from things they can't get and won't have, such as feline distemper, canine distemper, parvo or corona virus, than you could believe.
sometimes a trail of treats such as raisins placed in front will prompt him to go forward when asked to do so.
put 1 pint of rubbing alcohol and the rind only of 1 orange into your blender and blend it thoroughly.
it is nice to  know that your skunk only needs to be in a dust free area, or away from pine or  oak trees or inhale no more hair spray.
this can be serious and an extended problem to the owner, since there is no method of controlling this natural behavior.
an adult skunk should only have 15 calories per pound of body weight-that is less than 150 calories a day regardless of age, weight or activity level.
you must learn to exist in a skunk-proofed home.