the very lean  soil and substantial rock in the vineyard's upper horizon lessen fertility and  keep fruit and berry clusters small, while sun exposure and microclimate  provide ideal ripening conditions.
this ripe, full bodied wine reflects the unique topography and microclimate of walking tree vineyard, with its morning sun influence and mid-valley elevation.
this balanced sun  exposure promotes slow, steady ripening and ideal flavor development high elevation, with rocky soils drain  quickly on this steep slope.
this ripe, full bodied wine  reflects the unique topography and microclimate of walking tree vineyard,  with its morning sun influence and mid-valley elevation.
under the direction of viticulturist mike stutler, the choice of row direction, trellising, clones, rootstock and all other vineyard practices are in keeping with the development of a world-class hillside cabernet site.
under  the direction of viticulturist mike stutler, the choice of row direction,  trellising, clones, rootstock and all other vineyard practices are in keeping  with the development of a world-class hillside cabernet site.
winemaking walking tree vineyard walking tree vineyard
comprised of 12 pristine acres near the geyser peak winery in the heart of alexander valley, walking tree's eastern facing rows bask in bright sunshine during the morning and are protected from direct sun during the hot afternoon.
this balanced sun exposure promotes slow, steady ripening and ideal flavor development high elevation, with rocky soils drain quickly on this steep slope.
walking tree vineyard walking tree vineyard the small, beautifully situated  walking tree vineyard is a newly developed site on a steep slope directly  above the winery estate, planted as part of winemaker jaeson mackura's ongoing  effort to seek out more hillside cabernet sauvignon vines in alexander valley.
comprised of 12  pristine acres near the geyser peak winery in the heart of alexander valley,  walking tree's eastern facing rows bask in bright sunshine during the morning  and are protected from direct sun during the hot afternoon.
during the clearing of the site in 2001, our vineyard crew was struck by a  remarkable tree which, over a period of months, "walked" from the  vineyard's summit down the steep grade, while remaining completely upright.
the geyser peak winery viticulture team has been able to control every aspect of this site's development.
thus, the vineyard seemed to name itself.
during the clearing of the site in 2001, our vineyard crew was struck by a remarkable tree which, over a period of months, "walked" from the vineyard's summit down the steep grade, while remaining completely upright.
the very lean soil and substantial rock in the vineyard's upper horizon lessen fertility and keep fruit and berry clusters small, while sun exposure and microclimate provide ideal ripening conditions.
the small, beautifully situated walking tree vineyard is a newly developed site on a steep slope directly above the winery estate, planted as part of winemaker jaeson mackura's ongoing effort to seek out more hillside cabernet sauvignon vines in alexander valley.
the geyser peak winery viticulture  team has been able to control every aspect of this site's development.
contact us    press & trade   privacy policy   terms of use all rights  reserved ©2012 geyser peak winery llc
username: password: always remember me on this computer forgot your username or password?
our newsletter our winery our history our vineyards - ascentia estate vineyard - walking tree vineyard - river ranches - kuimelis vineyard - alexander valley