i congratulate audi for hitting a home run with the new s4.
the motor is so smooth and linear that you have no idea how fast you  are picking up speed until you look down at a speedo that is climbing like mad.
once at dinner we had time to chat and  get to know each other a little better.
it offered some brilliant shifts and some not so brilliant (particularly some oddly timed downshifts while in automatic + sport mode), but for the most part every shift was smoothly executed-far smoother than anything bmw or ferrari has been able to offer to date.
who knows what they will come up with next, but i am sure they will  continue to please our need for progress through technology.
what remains to be determined is whether the launch control can  be re-enabled with the use of the vag 1551/1552 (or similar emulation tool like  the vag-com or prodiag) tool.
the first night we walked around the  city and ended up in a great tappas bar.
this is the transmission of the future.
the following day was spent exploring the town and visiting one of the organically styled gaudi buildings not far from the hotel.
this new tt features a 3.2-liter v6 (audi shies away from the decidedly vw "vr6" moniker) with 250 horsepower at 6300 rpm and 236 pound feet of torque from 2800 to 3200 rpm.
one would think that the enthusiastic tt owner base will answer this question very early on.
audi's technical description is as follows:  during operation, dsg engages one gear and pre-selects the next based on the  approaching point of the next up- or downshift.
in both instances, since dual clutch transmissions provide "shift without lift" or uninterrupted power flow to the wheels through all the gears, these transmissions were extremely well suited for keeping the racecars' turbocharged motors "on the boost.
we spent the first part of the second morning lapping segments of the track with our instructor, oliver rudolph.
the first day consisted of a 7:00 am wake up call from audi and breakfast.
i fell in love four times while in this beautiful country-with barcelona, the people, the new s4, and a wonderful race track.
the bistro resembled an old world structure set in a beautiful courtyard with trees, vines and little lights adorning a gazebo.
read more (qq, winter 2003) — ahh….feel the breeze through your hair.
oliver taught us the course section by section with progressively higher speeds.
tight package the tt 3.2 enjoys its first v6 motor and the first commercial application of a dual clutch gearbox.
not only does the motorsports juggernaut continue to lay waste to the competition, as evidenced by the recent alms and speed channel gt championships, but audi ag continues to turn out top quality product, as evidenced by critically lauded automobiles like the rs6 and the s4.
once off the bus we attended a 30 minute drivers' meeting with instruction on track procedures and driving theory.
the original bare aluminum interior items that inspired many vehicle interiors over the past five years continue their visual and tactile roles.
after this we made our way to the pit area where a fleet of new s4 avants awaited a group of eager drivers.
revised suspension and running gear the tt would qualify as the go-kart of the audi line, if you could call a 3,351 pound vehicle with a 58/42 front to rear weight distribution a go-kart.
it is a shame it isn't available on the coupe.
there are, however, two electro-hydraulic clutches  handling two gears simultaneously.
while fans of turbocharged motors will bemoan the lack of extreme tunability, this naturally aspirated v6 offers torque off the line, usable power in the lower rev-range and, hence, first class drivability.
read moreread more (qq, winter 2004) — if i had to sum up my experience in spain with two words they would be woo hoo!
audi club north america member invitation - exclusive audi ag r8 driving experience in barcelona, spain, august 9-11.
join audi club north america members for an exclusive r8 driving experience  offered by audi ag.
i arrived at the hotel diplomatic at about 11:30 am, went to my room and proceeded to take a two hour nap to get ready for a night on the town.
in fact both porsche and audi  have used transmissions based on similar principals in racecars during the  1980s.
audi ag’s driving instructors provide world class instruction for this elite one day event.
the aforementioned dsg  transmission performs its duties extremely well in manual, automatic, and  automatic + sport modes.
interior materials, fit and finish are typical audi, which is to say, the  best currently available from any major manufacturer.
not  only does the motorsports juggernaut continue to lay waste to the competition,  as evidenced by the recent alms and speed channel gt championships, but audi ag  continues to turn out top quality product, as evidenced by critically lauded  automobiles like the rs6 and the s4.
a honeycomb-pattern front grill  and rear diffuser combined with 18" rs4 nine-spoke wheels help add to the  aggressive overall look.
read more audi ag r8 driving experience want to go fast?
in both instances, since dual clutch transmissions  provide "shift without lift" or uninterrupted power flow to the  wheels through all the gears, these transmissions were extremely well suited  for keeping the racecars' turbocharged motors "on the boost.
the original bare aluminum  interior items that inspired many vehicle interiors over the past five years  continue their visual and tactile roles.
my main gripe with dsg is that in the manual mode it will still up-shift on its own at redline.
this true duality  of purpose is something that bmw's smg cannot provide, as it just isn't smooth  enough.
if i could afford to fly in first  class it might not be so bad, but i would rather spend the difference on  another trip or on the new s4.
the gear change  takes place under load, with a certain overlap, resulting in the continuous  flow of power to the wheels.
i found little to dislike with audi's latest v6, it is smooth, offers good low-end torque, and makes great sounds.
the original tt 3.2 press release detailed that, "a super high-performance feature of dsg is launch control, for f1-type starts."
by mid-morning a thunderstorm rolled in complete with hail and a tornado for good measure.
what was going on-a new  production line?
it seems that everywhere i want to go is at least a ten hour plane ride.
audi provides yet another internal combustion concerto.
on day two the fun really started when we put on our helmets.
finally, one by one we had a nice group ready to go  out on the town for some food and drink.
read more (qq, winter 2004) — the audi steamroller maintains its advance.
audi club north america  members are invited to attend an exclusive audi ag driving experience on the  circuit de catalunyaan exciting venue to experience the raw power of the audi  r8.
the hockenheimring and circuit de catalunya are exciting  venues to experience the raw power of audi’s brand new r8.
out back a  modified and larger version of the tt spoiler sits atop the rear deck.
get thrilled with a 0-60 in just a tick over 7 seconds with an  outstanding power train that rivals the best of any of its competition.
by early afternoon the skies had cleared and the track was dry  to the delight of all.
i found little to dislike with audi's latest v6, it is smooth, offers good  low-end torque, and makes great sounds.
a high-performance sports car, a road-going vehicle that could be said to  have inherited the genes of the audi r8, three-times winner of the le mans  24-hours race: audi reveals its 'le mans quattro' concept study.
additional  modifications include changes to the intake tract, cylinder head and  compression ratio.
i congratulate audi for  hitting a home run with the new s4.
" serial production of a dual clutch or dsg transmission has been untenable to date due to insufficient means of mechanical (proper clutch actuation requires precise control of the simultaneous engagement and disengagement of the clutches) as well as electronic controls.
i fell in love four times while in this beautiful  country-with barcelona, the people, the new s4, and a wonderful race track.
at higher revs  a vacuum actuated valve reroutes exhaust gases to reduce sound pressure levels  at cruising speeds.
read more audi's tt 3.2 quattro with dsg (qq, winter 2004) — the audi steamroller maintains its advance.
i arrived at the  hotel diplomatic at about 11:30 am, went to my room and proceeded to take a two  hour nap to get ready for a night on the town.
it looked like  more offices, as would be expected from a company that has experienced such  huge growth over the past six years.
the tt 3.2 boasts a model specific front fascia with enlarged inlet  openings to feed additional cooling air to the v6 motor, an extended front  apron and vertical gills at the trailing edges of the front bumper.
read moreread more copyright 1996-2012 audi club north america.
audi again proves its technical  expertise and prowess by bringing this first-ever commercial application to the  streets.
we took a 40 minute ride to the circuit de catalunya where we would  spend the next two days.
while fans of turbocharged motors will bemoan the lack of  extreme tunability, this naturally aspirated v6 offers torque off the line,  usable power in the lower rev-range and, hence, first class drivability.
it  offered some brilliant shifts and some not so brilliant (particularly some  oddly timed downshifts while in automatic + sport mode), but for the most part  every shift was smoothly executed-far smoother than anything bmw or ferrari has  been able to offer to date.
while i am all for protections built into the  system (i.e. not allowing one to downshift and over-rev the motor)
we spent the first day learning car handling skills such as how  to deal with over steer, under steer, emergency braking, and rapid lane change.
we spent the evening drinking great  spanish wine, eating tappas, and talking the night away.
oliver taught us the course section by  section with progressively higher speeds.
the bistro resembled an  old world structure set in a beautiful courtyard with trees, vines and little  lights adorning a gazebo.
read more want to go fast?
the long  rumoured audi gt collaboration with lamborghini and cosworth is on the world  stage for all of us to behold.
that evening we met up with the audi ag folk and our european counterparts  in the bar for a few drinks prior to taking a bus tour on our way to the  restaurant.
interior materials, fit and finish are typical audi, which is to say, the best currently available from any major manufacturer.
after a welcome shower i migrated to the lobby for a beer in the hope i would catch some of the early arrivals from the states.
we took a 40 minute ride to the circuit de catalunya where we would spend the next two days.
the motor is so smooth and linear that you have no idea how fast you are picking up speed until you look down at a speedo that is climbing like mad.
porsche's vaunted and terribly successful 956 and 962c race cars  benefited from the porsche dual klutch, or pdk, transmission.
i would like to thank audi for the best time of my life.
porsche's vaunted and terribly successful 956 and 962c race cars benefited from the porsche dual klutch, or pdk, transmission.
in 1985, audi  used a dual clutch transmission in the pike's peak hillclimb winning sport  quattro s1 rally car.
a comparison of tt buyer demographics  versus those of all sports car purchasers, shows that the tt enjoys more women  buyers, and a higher instance of buyers with college degrees.
audi ag’s world-class driving instructors will provide first class instruction for these elite one day events.
the following day was  spent exploring the town and visiting one of the organically styled gaudi  buildings not far from the hotel.
nevertheless, as a result of the tt's handing characteristics, it is the closest thing that audi has.
once off the bus we attended a 30 minute drivers'  meeting with instruction on track procedures and driving theory.
i arrived in barcelona on august 14 in a somewhat worn condition.
some were faster than others, but everyone came back with a smile.
outside of increasing wind noise, this is a direct result of a dual chamber muffler system similar to the operation in that of the b6 chassis s4.
at higher revs a vacuum actuated valve reroutes exhaust gases to reduce sound pressure levels at cruising speeds.
the first night we walked around the city and ended up in a great tappas bar.
audi club north america members are invited to attend an exclusive audi ag driving experience on the circuit de catalunyaan exciting venue to experience the raw power of the audi r8.
now for the meat of this trip-the reason for going-the new s4 and a race track.
after the worst of the storm passed we were back on the track in slick conditions which made quattro shine.
everything was arranged  with military precision.
for a more detailed discussion of the dsg  transmission see the spring 2003 edition of the quattro quarterly, page 32.
i always wish i lived closer to the places i want to go, but life just didn't work out that way.
you might not win many stop light grand prix, but when the going gets twisty you'll certainly hold your own and then some.
the hockenheimring and circuit de catalunya are exciting venues to experience the raw power of audi’s brand new r8.
we spent the evening drinking great spanish wine, eating tappas, and talking the night away.
drive the pinnacle of the audi brand!
it seems that everywhere i  want to go is at least a ten hour plane ride.
at lower revs the  mufflers are essentially a "straight-through" design.
in what has  become an increasingly crowded market of coupes and two-seat roadsters audi  sees the bmw z4, chrysler crossfire, mercedes-benz slk, and nissan 350z as  primary competitors.
off the line, with the esp switched  off, the tt 3.2 will break traction and casually snap your head back.
even mother nature couldn't throw this group of professionals a curve ball in the form of a nasty thunderstorm on the second day of driving.
tight package the tt 3.2 enjoys its first v6 motor and the first commercial  application of a dual clutch gearbox.
the  run up to sixty miles per hour from a standing start takes 6.4 seconds (factory  estimated and probably a bit conservative).
a bright red s4 was parked in the corner of the  courtyard.
everyone mingled, drank wine, and had appetizers in this fantastic setting prior to sitting down to dinner.
the 4.2 liter v8  makes such incredible mechanical sounds that you might not even care if your  car has a sound system.
we did not want to drive our afternoon hot laps in the rain.
the gearbox in this car is the best i have ever shifted.
one would think that the enthusiastic tt owner  base will answer this question very early on.
audi considers s line vehicles stand-alone models as opposed to vehicles merely equipped with an option package.
after this we  made our way to the pit area where a fleet of new s4 avants awaited a group of  eager drivers.
lone star chapter eastern canada chapter lone star chapter lone star chapter join audi club north america members for an exclusive r8 driving experience offered by audi ag.
the reworked suspension, quattro all wheel drive and improved brakes (derived from the europe only b5 chassis rs4) help this tt continue in the tradition of its forebears.
now for the meat of this trip-the reason for going-the new s4 and a race  track.
luxuriate in the  wood and leather interior.
this was my forth trip to an audi ag driving school and it was the best time i have ever had.
i started off this adventure with a grueling flight from kansas city to atlanta and then on to barcelona.
feed in the throttle and a conspicuous growl builds through  the lower rev range.
much like bmw's smg launch control a combination of choosing sport mode, switching off the esp and then depressing the accelerator and brake pedals simultaneously would invoke the launch mode.
the new s4 sounded  amazing at full throttle on the front strait of the circuit.
each driver got two runs of four laps each on the course, as fast as their skill would allow.
after the worst  of the storm passed we were back on the track in slick conditions which made  quattro shine.
this new tt features a 3.2-liter v6 (audi shies away  from the decidedly vw "vr6" moniker) with 250 horsepower at 6300 rpm  and 236 pound feet of torque from 2800 to 3200 rpm.
audi  provides yet another internal combustion concerto.
the unit isn't perfect though.
stylistically speaking the 2004 tt's interior design elements have  withstood the test of time and continue to impress.
although, for a vehicle that was originally designed without spoilers, the idea  of a larger version seems somewhat peculiar.
in fact both porsche and audi have used transmissions based on similar principals in racecars during the 1980s.
additional modifications include changes to the intake tract, cylinder head and compression ratio.
at first, this may seem counterintuitive towards  increasingly stringent european drive-by noise standards.
i always wish i lived closer to the places i  want to go, but life just didn't work out that way.
it is a shame it isn't available on  the coupe.
the dsg is a transmission that delivers on the heretofore-unrealized promise of a manual gearbox that can also be operated in a true (read smooth) automatic mode.
in what has become an increasingly crowded market of coupes and two-seat roadsters audi sees the bmw z4, chrysler crossfire, mercedes-benz slk, and nissan 350z as primary competitors.
you are  experiencing the open air environ of the new audi a4 cabriolet.
there are three modes: automatic (which is as  slick, or slicker, than a conventional automatic), automatic + sport mode  (which is almost too aggressive in holding gears upon overrun) and manual mode,  wherein the driver can control shifts from the steering wheel mounted paddles  or the shift lever itself.
at first, this may seem counterintuitive towards increasingly stringent european drive-by noise standards.
upon blasting  through two hundred miles of texas hill country, one comes to quickly  appreciate the tt 3.2's revised-uprated spring and damper settings.
in 1985, audi used a dual clutch transmission in the pike's peak hillclimb winning sport quattro s1 rally car.
gone are the days of audis  so silent that a glance at the tachometer was required to verify the motor was  running.
read more le mans  quattro (qq, fall 2003) — iaa frankfurt, this past september 09, 2003, audi  has unveiled the shape of things to come.
it is important to note that the dsg is a derivative of a manual gearbox, in that it is devoid of the power sapping torque converter or planetary gears that are associated with automatic transmissions.
as this tt is part of the s line (newly introduced to north america) it visibly differentiates itself from its stable mates as a result of its bolder exterior package that includes more aggressive bodywork and s line badging.
as enthusiasts, we can always use more power, but the most important aspect is not the motor, but rather what it is connected to-the belle of the ball-the dsg transmission.
to say i had a good time would be the  understatement of my life.
enjoy the solid feel of a rattle and shake free  chassis.
the biggest interior  change for the tt 3.2 roadster is the availability of the black baseball glove  leather seats, which is extremely handsome.
a honeycomb-pattern front grill and rear diffuser combined with 18" rs4 nine-spoke wheels help add to the aggressive overall look.
i started off this adventure with a grueling flight from kansas city to  atlanta and then on to barcelona.
we spent the first day learning car handling skills such as how to deal with over steer, under steer, emergency braking, and rapid lane change.
we were later informed that audi of america's legal eagles have killed launch control for the north american tts.
this trip will bring a smile to my face for some time to come.
that evening we met up with the audi ag folk and our european counterparts in the bar for a few drinks prior to taking a bus tour on our way to the restaurant.
shortly after lunch one by one they let the cars onto the track in ten second intervals to run the course for four laps.
the tt 3.2's missions include: enriching the tt model range late in its  lifecycle, showing audi's increased level of v6 engine expertise, and  introducing what was originally used only as a race car transmission in a  serially produced passenger vehicle.
maximum torque capacity aside (this  unit can only handle approximately 250 pound feet of torque) it bests offerings  from the likes of bmw, ferrari, and maserati.
the tt 3.2 does climb in base price with an msrp of  $39,900 and $42,900 for the coupe and roadster, respectively.
enter audi's latest handiwork, the tt 3.2 quattro with direct shift gearbox (dsg).
although many manufacturers have resorted to lower quality or even faux aluminum trim, the tt's genuine bits continue to set it apart.
enjoy the solid feel of a rattle and shake free chassis.
a bright red s4 was parked in the corner of the courtyard.
read more barcelona driving experience (qq, winter 2004) — if i had to sum up my experience in spain with  two words they would be woo hoo!
the first day consisted of a 7:00 am wake up call from audi and  breakfast.
vorsprung durch technik at your fingertips audi's direct shift gearbox  offers a quantum leap in transmission technology and it is the first sequential  manual gearbox to deliver glass smooth semi-manual up-shifts, as well as, the  more easily executed, perfect rev-matched downshifts.
this true duality of purpose is something that bmw's smg cannot provide, as it just isn't smooth enough.
audi  ag’s world-class driving instructors will provide first class instruction  for these elite one day events.
everyone mingled, drank wine, and had appetizers in this fantastic  setting prior to sitting down to dinner.
there are three modes: automatic (which is as slick, or slicker, than a conventional automatic), automatic + sport mode (which is almost too aggressive in holding gears upon overrun) and manual mode, wherein the driver can control shifts from the steering wheel mounted paddles or the shift lever itself.
this combined with design tenets that  continue to impress both owners and passers-by alike as well as enjoyable  handling characteristics add up to another winning vehicle from the folks in  ingolstadt.
" serial production of a dual clutch or dsg transmission has been untenable  to date due to insufficient means of mechanical (proper clutch actuation  requires precise control of the simultaneous engagement and disengagement of  the clutches) as well as electronic controls.
i had never worn a helmet at audi's previous schools, so i knew things were about to get serious.
it was interesting to hear what the drivers from europe had to say about the new s4 and the experience they've had thus far.
my main gripe with dsg is that in the manual mode it will still  up-shift on its own at redline.
i would  prefer a less autonomous manual mode.
we were later informed that  audi of america's legal eagles have killed launch control for the north  american tts.
the tt 3.2 does climb in base price with an msrp of $39,900 and $42,900 for the coupe and roadster, respectively.
the 2004  tt 3.2 contributes to this progression by reflecting all of audi's brand  characteristics: sportiness (powerful engines routed through quattro all wheel  drive), sophistication (in design and execution), and progression (trendsetting  technical achievements).
outside  of increasing wind noise, this is a direct result of a dual chamber muffler  system similar to the operation in that of the b6 chassis s4.
i had never worn  a helmet at audi's previous schools, so i knew things were about to get serious.
we had to pull the cars into the pits under an overhang to prevent damage to the cars.
i enjoyed my conversation with one of the drivers from germany who  told of totaling his porsche at the nurburgring two weeks prior to coming to  this event.
we spent the first part of the second morning lapping segments of the track  with our instructor, oliver rudolph.
what remains to be determined is whether the launch control can be re-enabled with the use of the vag 1551/1552 (or similar emulation tool like the vag-com or prodiag) tool.
everything was arranged with military precision.
this was my forth trip to an audi ag driving school and it was the best  time i have ever had.
some were  faster than others, but everyone came back with a smile.
by mid-morning a thunderstorm rolled  in complete with hail and a tornado for good measure.
the  dsg will put the power to the ground evenly through the gears and the quattro  system will do its job, all you have to do is concentrate on the approaching  apexes.
the biggest interior change for the tt 3.2 roadster is the availability of the black baseball glove leather seats, which is extremely handsome.
immediately upon startup, the exhaust barks loudly and then falls into  a noticeable idle.
if i could afford to fly in first class it might not be so bad, but i would rather spend the difference on another trip or on the new s4.
read  more audi museum (qq, spring 2002) — over the past few years, visitors to  ingolstadt have been greeted with a large-scale construction project as they  made their way into the audi factory grounds.
as always the food was first class and a good time was had by all.
this combined with design tenets that continue to impress both owners and passers-by alike as well as enjoyable handling characteristics add up to another winning vehicle from the folks in ingolstadt.
what was going on-a new production line?
as always the food was first class and a good time was had by  all.
as this tt is part of the s line (newly introduced to  north america) it visibly differentiates itself from its stable mates as a  result of its bolder exterior package that includes more aggressive bodywork  and s line badging.
3.2 liter v6 motivation audi's engineers have taken vw's latest iteration  of the 15-degree, narrow-angle, vr6 motor and bumped displacement from 2.8 to  3.2 liters by increasing bore and stroke commensurately.
this trip will bring a smile to my face for some time to  come.
the long rumoured audi gt collaboration with lamborghini and cosworth is on the world stage for all of us to behold.
that's correct-a clutch pedal-less gearbox that manual tranny fans can finally embrace as opposed to the slew of "xyz-tronic" manu-matic transmissions that are parading around as something more than an automatic transmission-of which they are not, including audi's own tiptronic transmission.
feed in the throttle and a conspicuous growl builds through the lower rev range.
at lower revs the mufflers are essentially a "straight-through" design.
enter audi's latest handiwork, the tt 3.2  quattro with direct shift gearbox (dsg).
ole!read more (qq, spring 2002) — over the past few years, visitors to ingolstadt have been greeted with a large-scale construction project as they made their way into the audi factory grounds.
the reworked suspension, quattro all wheel drive and improved brakes  (derived from the europe only b5 chassis rs4) help this tt continue in the  tradition of its forebears.
and the sound, especially top-down in the roadster-oh the sound!
when the shift process  occurs-either automatically or by driver input via the shift lever or the  racing style, steering-wheel mounted shift-paddles-the clutch of the engaged  gear opens as the clutch of the next pre-selected gear closes.
vorsprung durch technik at your fingertips audi's direct shift gearbox offers a quantum leap in transmission technology and it is the first sequential manual gearbox to deliver glass smooth semi-manual up-shifts, as well as, the more easily executed, perfect rev-matched downshifts.
unfortunately, even though page  116 of the early version of the tt 3.2's owner's manual specifies the above  procedure, we were unable to bring it into play.
the gear change takes place under load, with a certain overlap, resulting in the continuous flow of power to the wheels.
the run up to sixty miles per hour from a standing start takes 6.4 seconds (factory estimated and probably a bit conservative).
you are experiencing the open air environ of the new audi a4 cabriolet.
it looked like more offices, as would be expected from a company that has experienced such huge growth over the past six years.
open it up a bit and things actually quiet down.
the new s4 sounded amazing at full throttle on the front strait of the circuit.
but, in a nod towards the enthusiast, audi has focused on the all important aural aspect of driving enjoyment.
the dsg will put the power to the ground evenly through the gears and the quattro system will do its job, all you have to do is concentrate on the approaching apexes.
read more audi cabriolet first drive (qq, winter 2003) — ahh….feel the breeze through your  hair.
the audi brand continues its move towards the premium and progressive ends of the automotive spectrum (see graphic).
stylistically speaking the 2004 tt's interior design elements have withstood the test of time and continue to impress.
a tt roadster with this interior, an alcantara steering wheel, and all of the contrasting aluminum bits easily outdoes the offerings available from competitive roadsters.
to say i had a good time would be the understatement of my life.
3.2 liter v6 motivation audi's engineers have taken vw's latest iteration of the 15-degree, narrow-angle, vr6 motor and bumped displacement from 2.8 to 3.2 liters by increasing bore and stroke commensurately.
the aforementioned dsg transmission performs its duties extremely well in manual, automatic, and automatic + sport modes.
nevertheless, as a result of the tt's  handing characteristics, it is the closest thing that audi has.
a tt roadster with this interior, an alcantara steering wheel, and  all of the contrasting aluminum bits easily outdoes the offerings available  from competitive roadsters.
i am enamored with the dsg as it provides the best semi-manual operation yet at the same time provides a smooth shifting automatic that those used to standard automatic transmissions would not object to driving.
as enthusiasts, we can always use more  power, but the most important aspect is not the motor, but rather what it is  connected to-the belle of the ball-the dsg transmission.
as usual the people from audi put on a great event.
once we arrived at the restaurant i was awestruck.
as a result of recent comparison test wins (car and driver may 2003, and  road and track december 2003) the audi brand continues its move towards the  premium and progressive ends of the automotive spectrum (see graphic).
luxuriate in the wood and leather interior.
but, in a nod towards  the enthusiast, audi has focused on the all important aural aspect of driving  enjoyment.
audi again proves its technical expertise and prowess by bringing this first-ever commercial application to the streets.
audi's technical description is as follows: during operation, dsg engages one gear and pre-selects the next based on the approaching point of the next up- or downshift.
we did not want to drive our afternoon hot laps in the  rain.
the tt 3.2 boasts a model specific front fascia with enlarged inlet openings to feed additional cooling air to the v6 motor, an extended front apron and vertical gills at the trailing edges of the front bumper.
although, for a vehicle that was originally designed without spoilers, the idea of a larger version seems somewhat peculiar.
i enjoyed my conversation with one of the drivers from germany who told of totaling his porsche at the nurburgring two weeks prior to coming to this event.
when the shift process occurs-either automatically or by driver input via the shift lever or the racing style, steering-wheel mounted shift-paddles-the clutch of the engaged gear opens as the clutch of the next pre-selected gear closes.
although many manufacturers have  resorted to lower quality or even faux aluminum trim, the tt's genuine bits  continue to set it apart.
all in all it was a great evening with an even better day to come.
home audi news & events  archive audi news & events archive r8 revving!
the dsg is a transmission that  delivers on the heretofore-unrealized promise of a manual gearbox that can also  be operated in a true (read smooth) automatic mode.
the final night with audi was spent at a fantastic restaurant overlooking a harbor area festooned with yachts, palm trees, and a great view of the mediterranean.
upon blasting through two hundred miles of texas hill country, one comes to quickly appreciate the tt 3.2's revised-uprated spring and damper settings.
drive the r8, the pinnacle of the audi brand!
audi ag’s driving instructors provide world class instruction for  this elite one day event.
the 4.2 liter v8 makes such incredible mechanical sounds that you might not even care if your car has a sound system.
audi club north america member invitation - exclusive audi ag r8 driving  experience at two exciting locations.
it was interesting to hear what the  drivers from europe had to say about the new s4 and the experience they've had  thus far.
much like bmw's smg launch control a combination of choosing sport mode,  switching off the esp and then depressing the accelerator and brake pedals  simultaneously would invoke the launch mode.
as a result of recent comparison test wins (car and driver may 2003, and road and track december 2003)
unfortunately, even though page 116 of the early version of the tt 3.2's owner's manual specifies the above procedure, we were unable to bring it into play.
get thrilled with a 0-60 in just a tick over 7 seconds with an outstanding power train that rivals the best of any of its competition.
this is by far the finest car i have ever driven.
after a welcome shower i  migrated to the lobby for a beer in the hope i would catch some of the early  arrivals from the states.
off the line, with the esp switched off, the tt 3.2 will break traction and casually snap your head back.
maximum torque capacity aside (this unit can only handle approximately 250 pound feet of torque) it bests offerings from the likes of bmw, ferrari, and maserati.
while i am all for protections built into the system (i.e. not allowing one to downshift and over-rev the motor)
by early afternoon the skies had cleared and the track was dry to the delight of all.
the tt 3.2's missions include: enriching the tt model range late in its lifecycle, showing audi's increased level of v6 engine expertise, and introducing what was originally used only as a race car transmission in a serially produced passenger vehicle.
the original tt 3.2 press release detailed that, "a super  high-performance feature of dsg is launch control, for f1-type starts."
the final night with audi was spent at a fantastic restaurant overlooking a  harbor area festooned with yachts, palm trees, and a great view of the  mediterranean.
once at dinner we had time to chat and get to know each other a little better.
no, the scale of the project was too small.
you might not win many stop light grand prix, but  when the going gets twisty you'll certainly hold your own and then some.
the good people at audi sent a driver to pick me up at the airport.
the good  people at audi sent a driver to pick me up at the airport.
immediately upon startup, the exhaust barks loudly and then falls into a noticeable idle.
that's correct-a clutch  pedal-less gearbox that manual tranny fans can finally embrace as opposed to  the slew of "xyz-tronic" manu-matic transmissions that are parading  around as something more than an automatic transmission-of which they are not,  including audi's own tiptronic transmission.
i would prefer a less autonomous manual mode.
p.s. audi, how soon can you get my new s4 here?
oh….yeah, listen to the sound  of an incredibly good sound system, with you favorite tunes.
audi considers s line vehicles stand-alone models as  opposed to vehicles merely equipped with an option package.
gone are the days of audis so silent that a glance at the tachometer was required to verify the motor was running.
hmm…smell the moist salt air.
there are, however, two electro-hydraulic clutches handling two gears simultaneously.
i am enamored with the dsg as it provides the best semi-manual operation  yet at the same time provides a smooth shifting automatic that those used to  standard automatic transmissions would not object to driving.
each driver got two runs of  four laps each on the course, as fast as their skill would allow.
it is important to note  that the dsg is a derivative of a manual gearbox, in that it is devoid of the  power sapping torque converter or planetary gears that are associated with  automatic transmissions.
who knows what they will come up with next, but i am sure they will continue to please our need for progress through technology.
even mother nature couldn't throw this group of  professionals a curve ball in the form of a nasty thunderstorm on the second  day of driving.
p.s. audi, how soon can you get my new s4 here?read more (qq, fall 2003) — iaa frankfurt, this past september 09, 2003, audi has unveiled the shape of things to come.
the 2004 tt 3.2 contributes to this progression by reflecting all of audi's brand characteristics: sportiness (powerful engines routed through quattro all wheel drive), sophistication (in design and execution), and progression (trendsetting technical achievements).
we had to pull the cars  into the pits under an overhang to prevent damage to the cars.
a comparison of tt buyer demographics versus those of all sports car purchasers, shows that the tt enjoys more women buyers, and a higher instance of buyers with college degrees.
the idea of a dual clutch setup isn't new.
the bus meandered through barcelona taking us past a bull ring, the olympic village, and a lookout from which you could see most of the city.
finally, one by one we had a nice group ready to go out on the town for some food and drink.
audi club north america member invitation - exclusive audi ag r8 driving  experience in barcelona, spain, august 9-11.
out back a modified and larger version of the tt spoiler sits atop the rear deck.
a high-performance sports car, a road-going vehicle that could be said to have inherited the genes of the audi r8, three-times winner of the le mans 24-hours race: audi reveals its 'le mans quattro' concept study.
revised suspension and running gear the tt would qualify as the go-kart of  the audi line, if you could call a 3,351 pound vehicle with a 58/42 front to  rear weight distribution a go-kart.
shortly after lunch one by one they let the cars onto the track in ten  second intervals to run the course for four laps.
the bus meandered through barcelona taking us past a bull ring, the  olympic village, and a lookout from which you could see most of the city.
for a more detailed discussion of the dsg transmission see the spring 2003 edition of the quattro quarterly, page 32.
oh….yeah, listen to the sound of an incredibly good sound system, with you favorite tunes.
the gearbox in this car is the best i have ever  shifted.