usually i don't hear good afternoon at all.
good morning is  from when you wake up (assuming you wake up before noon local time!)
12:01 - 17:00 (good-bye when leaving) good evening =
i suppose (an hope) i  won't have to use "night" at all.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night panjandrum tarafından gönderildi i can't find the previous thread on this topic.
during "nighttime" i would use the greeting "good evening.
i would certainly say " have a good evening " when departing from someone after dinner, and i'm not at all sure that i've never said "good evening" when departing.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla good evening becoming good night, well it's quite sketchy.
there is obviously a lot of disagreement over certain time distinctions, as can be seen even on these forums.
evening 21.00 - 05.00 = night (with midnight at 00.00)
thanks to all for your  insightful answers!!
sebep: * tresleyalıntıyla birlikte cevapla good morning -- wake-up time until 11:59 am good afternoon -- 12:00 pm until dinner, unless you eat later in the evening like many europeans.
wow.. impressive number of answers...
i think really, the transition between the latter two can take place at any point between 9-12pm.
/ 'good evening' even if  it's 11pm???
good afternoon is tricky.
i always teach my students:alıntıyla birlikte cevapla 05.00 - 12.00 =
if you stay up all night long  with friends and you find that it is 2 am (or still dark) you can still say  "good night".
only say good night at the  end if you said good evening at the beginning.
that sounds roughly right, but i don't think there's one definite answer (as i'm sure you realise).
example: i walk into a restaurant and the waiter says: good morning sir.
it happens all the time!
even if  it is 10 pm, when you greet someone you greet them with "good  evening" and when you leave you say "good night".
panj, i agree with you mostly, but don't you think it'd be  better: if it is after lunch, but before whatever kind of break  happens between2 and 7, say good afternoon.
good evening -- i'd say that "good evening" can start at 5:00 pm, though [...]
good evening is only used when we greet someone.
and, it is still ok also if we say "good evening" at that time.
tl, "good evening' and "good night" is easy.
that is a bit unlikely, but for this session i would indeed begin with good evening.
good  evening:6 pm to 10 pm (upon meeting someone up until 11:59 p.m)
i don't remember ever learning a rule that "good evening" =
(edit: oh, i think the person above me already covered this)
" hello riglos, good morning = 0:00 - 12:00 (good-bye when leaving) (good night if going to bed) good afternoon =
" menteecuoreprogressista tarafından gönderildialıntıyla birlikte cevapla there is obviously a lot of disagreement over certain time distinctions, as can be seen even on these forums.
değiştirme zamanı: 08.11.200603:14.
no, at that time of day good night would not be appropriate.
only say good  night at the end if you said good evening at the beginning.
the light has nothing to do with it since there is no precise time for dusk and dawn (they change according to seasons).
edit: it has been discussed before. >)
/ 'good evening' even if it's 11pm???
so, we can use good night when we greet or leave someone.
in  america atleast, people just say "hey" or "what's up" haha alıntıyla birlikte cevapla 41 re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night i'd agree roughly with what you said originally.
good  afternoon is tricky.
değiştirme zamanı: 20.07.201116:39.
question authority - especially textbooksalıntıyla birlikte cevapla sdgraham tarafından gönderildi
if someone says it, it is usually 12pm - 4 pm.
there is very little chance of any presentation beginning so late.
since i have to give a presentation, i was  wondering whether any of you could give me some clear guidelines on how to  determine when to say "good morning / afternoon / evening / night  everyone", i.e. what time each one begins and ends.
but, i am still confused.
during "nighttime" i would use the greeting "good evening."
at the end of the presentation or when you leave a place (gral): 'good night' even if it's 4:30 pm???
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla ignore the clock.
(are we sure this hasn't been discussed before?
you  use "good evening" to greet someone and "good night" to  dismiss them.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night riglos tarafından gönderildi
if you stay up all night long with friends and you find that it is 2 am (or still dark) you can still say "good night".
good night is only used when we leave someone.
riglos tarafından gönderildi
also, we can say good evening when we greet or leave someone.
the few that are pretty much always agreed upon is that 12 pm (noon) start the afternoon, and 12 am (midnight) starts the morning.
i think really, the transition between the latter two can  take place at any point between 9-12pm.
i am trying to summarize, correct me if i am wrong:alıntıyla birlikte cevapla 1.
mara.- en son riglos tarafından değiştirilmiş.
since i have to give a presentation, i was wondering whether  any of you could give me some clear guidelines on how to determine when to say  "good morning / afternoon / evening / night everyone", i.e. what time  each one begins and ends.
here's my assumption: good morning:5 am (if the presentation starts at 5:00 a.m.
one question: what if the presentation plan is as follows?: 7 am to 12 pm: presentations.
good evening becoming good  night, well it's quite sketchy.
do not leave  somebody and say "good evening".
good morning / afternoon / evening / night
good evening -- i'd say that "good evening" can start at 5:00 pm, though yes, generally say "good night" as a goodby.
it's like in spanish, i never know exactly when  to use buenas tardes and buenas noches.
sometimes we still have to use afternoon.
i suppose (an hope) i won't have to use "night" at all.
panjandrum tarafından gönderildialıntıyla birlikte cevapla i can't find the previous thread on this topic.
one thing i will also say is that i agree with many of the other members of the forums is that "good night" should only be used when parting for the night, and never as a greeting.
you use "good evening" to greet someone and "good night" to dismiss them.
sebep: many thanks, gwan - link removed, as threads now merged:).
at the end of the presentation or when you leave a place (gral): 'good night' even if it's 4:30 pm??? thanks! mara.- sorry, mara, i was assuming a typical uk conference schedule.
or good evening sir.
at the end of the presentation or when you leave a  place (gral): 'good night' even if it's 4:30 pm??? thanks!
2 pm to 4 pm: presentations.'good afternoon' 4 pm to 4:30 pm: break.
after that say good evening.
do not leave somebody and say "good evening".
what do other native speakers think is the time of day that divides afternoon and evening.
on the other hand, there is, as far as i know, no "good evening kiss."
if someone  says it, it is usually 12pm - 4 pm.
in america atleast, people just say "hey" or "what's up" haha i'd agree roughly with what you said originally.
i'd say the transition is probably comparable.
en son tresley tarafından değiştirilmiş.
good afternoon: 12 pm to 6 pm  (?)
i suppose (an hope) i won't have to use  "night" at all.
if i had been with someone for some time, and he or she was getting ready to leave, i don't think the other person would interpret "good evening" to mean that i meant to prolong the encounter.
here's my assumption: good morning:5 am to 12 pm or 00:00 to 24:00 good afternoon: 12 pm to 6 pm  (?)
only say good night at the end if you said good evening at the beginning.
more likely it would be a normal end of presentation statement like "thank you for your attention.
generally, if i were to refer to the "evening" (i don't think i ever have call to actually say 'good evening'), i'd probably mean after work (as in when *i* finish, which depends on my mood).
alıntıyla  birlikte cevapla 142 re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night tl, "good evening' and "good night" is easy.
good evening is a greeting.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla one thing i will also say is that i agree with many of the other members of the forums is that "good night" should only be used when parting for the night, and never as a greeting.
the person may say "good night" and look at their watch and laugh and say "or good morning!"
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla
good evening:6 pm to 10 pm (upon meeting someone up until 11:59 p.m)
i'd say the transition is probably  comparable.
it's like in spanish, i never know exactly when to use buenas tardes and buenas noches.
since i have to give a presentation, i was wondering whether any of you could give me some clear guidelines on how to determine when to say "good morning / afternoon / evening / night everyone", i.e. what time each one begins and ends.
'good afternoon' 4 pm to 4:30 pm: break.
you can also say 'have a good night' to someone who is heading out to do something for the night.
2  pm to 4 pm: presentations.
or, sometimes we have to start using evening.
here's my assumption: good morning:5 am (if  the presentation starts at 5:00 a.m.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla i am still confused about how to use good evening or good night.
even if it is 10 pm, when you greet someone you greet them with "good evening" and when you leave you say "good night".
değiştirme zamanı: 20.07.201116:43.
panj, i agree with you mostly, but don't you think it'd be better: if it is after lunch, but before whatever kind of break happens between2 and 7, say good afternoon.
here's my assumption: good morning:5 am to 12 pm or 00:00 to 24:00 good afternoon: 12 pm to 6 pm (?)
until  noon, afternoon does exactly what it says on the tin, until about tea time.
here's another thing!
to me it is a clear 'good afternoon'.
the person may say "good  night" and look at their watch and laugh and say "or good  morning!"
afterwards, i would say good evening.
good night is a parting.
clearly morning gives way to afternoon at midday.
on the other hand, being serious, i agree with blindsay about 5 - there is definitely a "watershed" point at 5, the end of the traditional 9-5 working day.
noon 12.00 - 18.00 = afternoon 18.00 - 21.00 =
en son loob tarafından değiştirilmiş.
sebep: typo here's another thing.
but i don't think it really matters.
değiştirme zamanı: 08.11.200601:32.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla 7 am to 12 pm: presentations.
so, it is correct to say "good afternoon" when starting a meeting on 16:00 (or 4:00 pm).
however, if you meet someone at 2:00 a.m.  to go fishing, it's still "good morning")to 12 pm or 00:00 to 24:00  (5:00 a.m. is 0500)
what if the presentation plan is as follows?: 7 am to 12 pm:  presentations.
en son dimcl tarafından değiştirilmiş.
(then of course you get into when does night start - when it's dark?
if it did, i would still say good evening.
en son blindsay tarafından değiştirilmiş.
especially, good evening.
good evening would perhaps be ok.
good night: 10 pm onwards (only upon parting for the evening) (or when you go to sleep, in fact ,or say goodbye for the rest of the day)
good evening:6 pm to 10 pm good night: 10 pm onwards (or when you go to sleep, in fact ,or say goodbye for the rest of the day)
i disagree with panjandrum that 'good evening' is appropriate for 4:30 pm.
17:01 - 24:00 (good night when leaving)
my vote is for 1800 hours local time.
i think of "good evening" at departure as more formal than "good night," sometimes used facetiously.
(edit:  oh, i think the person above me already covered this)
sebep: typo alıntıyla birlikte cevapla re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night
4:30 pm to 12 pm: presentations when greeting the audience: 'good evening' even if it's 4:30 in the afternoon????
thanks to all for your insightful answers!!
here's another thing.
i'm gently amused by the assumption inherent in much of this thread that we can set explicit time boundaries for these things.
and i particularly enjoy the thought of the follow-on discussion with blindsay in which we amicably negotiate our way to a definition of the point at which afternoon becomes evening - probably at around 4:53:27
when does afternoon become evening?
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla i can't find the previous thread on this topic.
however, if you meet someone at 2:00 a.m. to go fishing, it's still "good morning")to 12 pm or 00:00 to 24:00 (5:00 a.m. is 0500) good afternoon: 12 pm to 6 pm (?)
if it is before lunch, say good morning.
what if it's dark at 4.30, etc...?)
until noon, afternoon does exactly what it says on the tin, until about tea time.
good morning is from when you wake up (assuming you wake up before noon local time!)
good  night: 10 pm onwards (only upon parting for the evening) (or when you go to  sleep, in fact ,or say goodbye for the rest of the day)
good evening:6 pm to 10 pm good night: 10 pm onwards (or when  you go to sleep, in fact ,or say goodbye for the rest of the day)
it doesn't matter how late it is.
değiştirme zamanı: 08.11.200601:02.
blindsay tarafından gönderildialıntıyla birlikte cevapla [...]
it depends on the situation.
değiştirme zamanı: 08.11.200603:16.
if it  is after lunch, but before whatever kind of break happens between 4 and 7, say  good afternoon.
alıntıyla birlikte cevapla re: good morning / afternoon / evening / night i can't find the previous thread on this topic.
'good morning' 12 pm to 2 pm: lunch break.
2 pm to 4 pm: presentations.
mara.- en son dimcl tarafından değiştirilmiş.
en son riglos tarafından değiştirilmiş.
i know that this is an old discussion.
if it is after lunch,  but before whatever kind of break happens between 4 and 7, say good afternoon.
the problem is when to start using evening.
if it is after lunch, but before whatever kind of break happens between 4 and 7, say good afternoon.