heavenly bamboo (nandina domestica)
the leaves are  shaped like oak leaves.
grows well in full sun to light shade, the lime color will be more pronounced in some shade.
a staple of the northern landscapes,  there is a versatile variety of hardy shrub and tree form available for  northern climates.c.alba 'elegantissima' is probably the most  common in the north as a property corner anchor or screen due to it's large  size (up to 10 feet).
foliage color changes to pink and red in autumn, ending in a bright red with the red berries.
‘endless summer’ (hydrangea macrophylia  ‘bailmer’)
like other daphnes, ‘briggs moonlight’ may die for no apparent reason.
they are all  nearly the same plant, perhaps with minor differences.
it is  compact with a ground hugging habit and is excellent for mass  plantings.
prefers part shade in moist, well drained soil.
but  not dense shade, if the grass won’t grow, neither will your  hydrangea.
hibiscusand ‘rose of sharon’ should be heavily mulched in zone 5 to ensure the roots are protected.
it has  unique bright lime green flowers that form a rounded  panicle.
full growth and superior branching for a strong shrub.
they grow  quickly and thrive in average soil, but do prefer well drained, loose and  loamy.
unbelievably contorted branches  that go way beyond the term winter interest.
this is a very easy to grow daphne requiring full sun to part shade and moist well drained soil.
chokeberry: (aronia melanocarpa ‘autumn magic’)
they can survive in dry conditions and with little attention.
unlike the macrophylla hydrangeas, arborescens will bloom every year even after winter dieback (which will happen in the north zones) or severe pruning, because ‘annabelle’ blooms on new wood.
it  does best in part to full shade, but will tolerate full sun if it receives  enough water.
aphids problems are common, and occasionally may have  trouble with borers, cankers and mildew.
full sun tofull shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
fruits heavily to  attract birds.
mulch year round to retain moisture and keep roots cool in summer.
mature size is 8-10 feet tall and wide, or larger in ideal conditions.
all parts of  the plant are poisonous.
perfect for hedges, borders, foundation plantings and even  containers.
it is an upright mounded shrub, but is also grown as a small ornamental tree.
‘blushing bride’ (hydrangea macrophylia) produces 4-8’ flowers with dark green foliage.
mouse over for sub menu home page best performing shrubs c-h page 1 a-b  page 2 c-h   page 3 i-r    page 4 s-z caryopteris (blue mist shrub): (caryopteris) blue mist  shrubs produce blue flowerspikes from midsummer to fall.
renew  by pruning the oldest branches and weak growth at ground level.
they are generally grafted tocorylus colurna, and tends to grow suckers which must be pruned out.
‘nikko blue’ blooms on old wood.
this tough plant does well on a southern  exposure, standing up well to all day sun and heat.
more southern climates should plant in late day shade to give it some protection from the most intense heat.
in early spring,  purple buds open to pale pink to white blooms in april and may. long  narrow leaves are dark green with bright gold margins.
'spring glory'(f. x intermedia) explodes in pale yellow  blooms in april, reaching 6-8 feet tall and wide, and ishardy to zone 3.
it loves moist, poorly drained and slightly acidic soils.
the pure white conical flowers appear in july and august, and they mature  to pinky bronze in fall.
white  scented flower clusters in spring are followed by large edible berries that  mature over summer.
grows slowly but reliably, reaching a rounded 3’ high and ups to 4 - 6’ wide.
size is easily controlled by regular pruning .
but it does enjoy some sun protection to avoid leaf scorch in more southern zones.
this classic variety of blue mist shrubs has a beautiful upright growth habit.
bluish white florets surround bright blue florets.
it seems not that long ago that  hydrangea were only found in grandma's garden.
(fothergilla major) ‘mount airy’ is a much larger  shrub, reaching 5-6’ high and 4-5’ wide, but is know to grow even  larger in good conditions.
in regions that drop below  -38 degrees, further protection is advised, treating the plant almost like a  hybrid tea rose.
hibiscus: (syriacus) full sun to part shade hardy in zones 5-8 flowering shrub.
honeysuckle bush, dwarf: (diervilla lonicera)
the dense rounded flowering shrub has  unusually variegated leaves, with a golden yellow band around each edge.
the compact, rounded shrub grows only to a 2 foot mound.
hibiscus prefers moist well drained soils and is tolerant of alkaline soil.
mound several inches of soil at the base of the plant,  and mulch heavily.
inner blooms can be pink or blue, surrounded by white.
the leaves have creamy yellow centers with green margins.
where winter  causes die back the shrub remains smaller.
silverleaf will growwell in su n, pa rt sh ad e or shade and is  hardy to zone 2.
leaves turn burgundy-brown in fall, beautiful with the dried flower  heads.
will benefit from  protection from the hottest afternoon sun.
grows well in full sun to part shade, reaching 10’ high and 8-10’ wide.
if grown in full sun it requires constant moisture.
best performing shrubs c-h mouse over for sub menu page 1 a-b page 2 c-h page 3 i-r page 4 s-z caryopteris (blue mist shrub): (caryopteris) blue mist shrubs produce blue flowerspikes from midsummer to fall.
dry the thinned out branches to use in floral arrangements.
reaches 30” tall and 36” wide.
foliage is  aromatic.
foliage is bright yellow, tinged green.
hydrangea: full sun to part shade hardiness varies flowering shrub.
grows well in full  sun to part shade, reaching 10’ high and 8-10’ wide.
‘nikko blue’ blooms on old  wood.
a large shrub with glossy green foliage that turns fire red in autumn.
although the plant seems to be pretty hardy, do try to buy own root in case of die back.
abundant star shaped pale pink flowers in may and june are richly  fragrant.
the foliage matures to blue green and  finally fades to green.
grows  to 4-6 feet high and wide.
will do fine in sun, but does best in shade to part  shade.
forsythia ovata varieties are  hardy to zone 5.ovata is known as the early forsythia, and grows to 4-6  feet.
pink buds open to pale pink to white blooms that attract butterflies.
form is upright with slightly arching branches.
‘blushing bride’ (hydrangea macrophylia) produces  4-8’ flowers with dark green foliage.
this shrub is best known for its' showy brilliant yellow flowers in early  spring.
mature size is 8-10 feet tall and  wide, or larger in ideal conditions.
they are not quite as  showy, but can be quite graceful and magnificent in a more subtle way.
annual pruning in early spring will improve flowering.
fothergilla: (fothergilla gardenia) ‘dwarf’ full to part sun flowering shrub hardy in zones 5-8, perhaps 4.
white flowers in june  or july are followed by edible berries.
‘northern gold’ was developed in canada and is truly northern hardy.
foliage is dark green and underside is a grayed white.
c. sericia ‘red osier’ dogwoods are also  hardy to zone 2, reaching 7-10 feet high and wide.
bloom, but the shrub grows back so quickly that the pruning is nearly  useless.
do avoid disturbing the roots and do not attempt transplant.
in general, they like moist, well drained soils, but will tolerate  both wet and dry, as well as alkaline soils.
foliage is blue green with pale green undersides.
it is a lacecap mutation of endless summer, but will not rebloom.
the hydrangea with blue and pink flower heads require close attention to soil ph to retain their color.
in depth information, articles and how to foundation planting
they are easy to grow, heat and drought tolerant, and resistant to deer.
it makes a wonderful informal hedge or  screen.
(fothergilla major) ‘mount airy’ is a much larger shrub, reaching 5-6’ high and 4-5’ wide, but is know to grow even larger in good conditions.
it grows well in most soils and is drought resistant once  established.
but blooms  later, in mid august, with larger flower panicles held on thick  stems.
this does not  affect flowering since it flowers on new growth.
for best flowering for all forsythia, severely prune old wood  immediately after bloom.
european elderberry are quite large  shrubs, larger than our american nativesambucus canadensis, that produce large  flat cluster of flowers in spring, and large clusters of black berries in  fall.
‘limelight’ blooms profusely on new wood in midsummer.
c. canadensis 'bunchberry, dwarf cornel' is a creeping species, actually a subshrub that spreads by rhizomes.
full sun  to part shade.
pruning of 1/3 or more of the branch length to reduce size should be done immediately after blooms fade to preserve next years’ bloom, but the shrub grows back so quickly that the pruning is nearly useless.
the hybrids are generally hardy to zone  3 or 4.
‘nandina’ is not fully hardy in  the north and midwest, as the canes will die back at around -10 degrees, but  does grow back vigorously each spring.
hardy  in zones 6 to 9.
it is not fond of hot, midday  sun.
will tolerate severe renewal pruning if necessary.
macrophyllas are the “mophead” hydrangeas.
‘mount airy’ prefersfull sun , it will tolerate light shade but will not flower as prolifically or produce  good fall color.
they are not quite as showy, but can be quite graceful and magnificent in a more subtle way.
the cream variegation is not  stable, and will sometimes revert to all green.
‘blue beard’ also known as ‘blue mist  spirea’ (c. x clandonensis ‘blue mist’)
grows to 4-6 feet high and wide.
lonicera ‘honeyrose’ was introduced by the university of  minnesota, a testament to its’ hardiness, and has rosy red flowers in  early tomidsummer.
large dark green leathery leaves and 12 to  15” pure white upright panicles of blooms make a striking  presentation.
like other daphnes, ‘briggs moonlight’ may  die for no apparent reason.
although completely unrelated to bamboo, the fine lacy foliage growing on cane like stalks does resemble bamboo.
they need some space, as they can grow quite large, with long arching  branches sprawling wildly.
it loves moist, poorly drained and slightly acidic  soils.
adapts easily to a variety of soils as long as it is well drained.
most of the  ‘red osiers’ are fast growing.
daphne is also known to inexplicably die, for no apparent reason.
they are great for low hedges planted two feet apart, or create a stunning effect in groups.
pink buds open to lacy white blooms may through june.
they do not like wet feet and must have excellent  drainage to avoid root rot.
full sun to part shade hardy in zones 6-9 flowering shrub.
zone 5 hardyhydrangea should be heavily mulched to ensure the roots are protected.
oakleaf never need pruning other than to  remove dead branches.
‘spring glory’  is rust resistant.
note that daphne foliage and fruit  are poisonous if ingested.
‘pink diamond’ develops huge 10 inch pink flower buds that open to white in late summer, then the pink intensifies as the blooms age.
it is not tolerant  of dry soils and needs good snow cover for consistent spring bloom.
this shrub is best known for its' showy brilliant yellow flowers in early spring.
foliage is deep blue-green and is resistant to honeysuckle witches broom aphid.
strong stems and branches keep the blooms upright, and perfect for cutting.
‘retusa’ grows densely mounded reaching only 2 to 3  feet high and wide.
hardy to zone 3, perhaps even 2, but will often die back to the ground.
‘aureomarginata’ is a bit more adaptable and easier to grow than other daphnes.
rarely produces a fruit, but may produce nuts.
this is a very easy to grow daphne requiring full sun to part shade  and moist well drained soil.
grows to at least 2 feet high and wide.
complete dieback after a zone 4 winter can take the better part of zone 4’s short growing season to regrow.
however the plant has not been found to be highly reliable in zone 4.
lacecaps  never need pruning other than to remove dead branches.
this hydrangea  makes a stunning statement as a specimen plant.
it displays the best fall color in full sun, with shades of gold, apricot and rose, but will do well in part shade.
the dense rounded flowering shrub has unusually variegated leaves, with a golden yellow band around each edge.
prefers full sun, neutral sandy soil, minimal watering, and will benefit from  winter protection even in zone 4.
grows to  3-6’ tall and wide.
pruning of 1/3 or more of the branch lengths to reduce size should be done immediately after blooms fade to preserve next years’ bloom, but the shrub grows back so quickly that the pruning is nearly useless.
hydrangea quercifolia, “oakleaf”, are white blooming and  are winter hardy further north than thearborescens.
sambucus nigra ‘eva’ (black lace elderberry) full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-7 flowering shrub.
mature size is 2-3’ high and wide.
but not dense shade, if the grass won’t grow, neither will your hydrangea.
‘grandiflora’ is the famous ‘peegee’ .
will benefit from protection from the hottest afternoon sun.
should not be pruned unless necessary  or transplanted.
‘glossy black chokeberry full sun to part shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
forsythia thrives in  ordinary soil in full sun or light shade.
blooms open pure white and mature to blush pink or deep blue depending on soil ph.
‘sunshine blue’ (c.incana) full sun to light shade hardy in zones 5-8 flowering shrub.
forsythia ovata varieties are hardy to zone 5.ovata is known as the early forsythia, and grows to 4-6 feet.
mopheads  struggle in sandy soils and dry conditions.
‘northern gold’ was developed in canada and is  truly northern hardy.
‘isanti’ has bright red winter stems, the most colorful of thered osiers, and is 5-7 feet tall.
all parts of the plant are poisonous.
mature size is 12 feet high and 8 feet wide.
lovely variegated foliage is green with creamy white edges.
‘blue beard’ also known as ‘blue mist spirea’ (c. x clandonensis ‘blue mist’)
forsythia blooms on old wood, so  don’t remove too many branches each pruning to preserve blooms.
‘limelight’ blooms profusely on new wood in  midsummer.
should not be pruned unless necessary or transplanted.
foliage emerges in spring bronzey red followed by 6 -  12 inch panicles of creamy flowers.
it is common to see a broad  range of bloom colors on a single plant, from pink blush, to deep  pink.
reaches 6-8’ tall and wide.
particularily in more southern zones, will benefit from some light shade.
soil must be cool, 65 degrees or less.
upright growth reaches 5 feet and 3-5 feet wide.
soil must be well drained.
it is highly pest and  disease resistant, and grows well in either full sun or part shade planted  5 feet apart, ‘snow queen’ forms a wall of white  blooms.
‘blue  beard’ has a compact mounding growth habit, reaching about 2 1/2 feet  high and 2 feet wide, growing at a moderate rate.
daphne: full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-7  flowering shrub.
if you are looking for something really unusual, this is it.
also known as the rose of sharon, 'sanchoyo'  with deep rose-pink double flowers, or 'blue bird', with huge single blue  blooms, are absolutely stunning and bloom all summer.
you will find manyc. sericia with many different names, including the ‘red osier’, ‘red twig’, ‘american’, ‘western’and ‘red stem’.
it is highly pest and disease resistant, and grows well in either full sun or part shade planted 5 feet apart, ‘snow queen’ forms a wall of white blooms.
you will find manyc.  sericia with many different names, including the ‘red  osier’, ‘red twig’, ‘american’,  ‘western’and ‘red stem’.
fruits heavily to attract birds.
new growth starts out bright coppery red, then to golden yellow, and finally mellows to a lime green.
deep blue flower spikes are 6” tall from  midsummer until fall.
grows to 4-5’ high and 3-5’ wide.
will tolerate alkaline soils, and prefers moist, well drained.
perfect for hedges, borders, foundation plantings and even containers.
fothergilla: (fothergilla gardenia)
pruning should be done right after the blooms fade, as it sets new blooms immediately after flowering.
hardy to zone 4, hardy in zone 3 other  than perhaps the most severe winters, and will hold up well even in zone 2 with  shelter and adequate snow cover.
'gold tide' is a dwarf that only reaches 2-3 feet, spreading to 4 feet - excellent for a slope or trailing over a wall.
‘pink diamond’ develops huge 10 inch pink flower buds  that open to white in late summer, then the pink intensifies as the blooms  age.
they are both a tall, narrow shrub (7-12 feet high and 3-5 feet wide) that is hard to find for filling corners or landscaping with all summer blooms.
try in a container to bring indoors for the winter, or in a  very protected microclimate.
fall foliage is red.
‘sunshine blue’ (c.incana) full sun to light  shade hardy in zones 5-8 flowering shrub.
peegee hydrangeas  need more sun than the mopheads, several hours a day.
fall color is inconsistent but generally excellent, ranging from yellow-orange to red-purple.
the shrub can become quite large in warmer climates reaching up to 8 feet and 4 - 6 feet wide.
also known as corkscrew hazel and contorted filbert.
grows to 3’ high and  wide.
red purple branches stand out against the snow in  winter.
also known as the rose of sharon, 'sanchoyo' with deep rose-pink double flowers, or 'blue bird', with huge single blue blooms, are absolutely stunning and bloom all summer.
prune in very early  spring.
this is the only necessary pruning other than removing  suckers if you want to retain the natural beauty of this shrub.
‘retusa’ grows densely mounded reaching only 2 to 3 feet high and wide.
full sun to part shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
blue mist is also loved by butterflies.
in the south, ‘endless summer’ will produce two full bloom periods.
in depth information, articles and how to foundation planting dappled willow preparing for winter designing your gardens and landscape garden and landscape accents questions answered links site map
with so many new varieties, they are widely used in foundation plantings, landscaping and gardens.
reaches 5’ high and wide, growing in a dome  shape.
this red twigged dogwood has variegated leaves, providing  summer and winter interest and texture.
full  sun hardy in zones 5-9 flowering shrub.
panicle hydrangeas(hydrangea paniculata) is a much larger shrub, 10-15 feet high and wide, and produces pyramid shaped flowerheads that turn from white, to pinkish, finally to brown in fall.
masses of creamy white star shaped flowers develop into red fruit  clusters that attract birds.
they will also tolerate windy  sites.
many gardeners are so enamored by the gorgeous foliage, that they will plant it over and over nonetheless.
forsythia: full sun hardy in zones 4-8 flowering shrub.
more southern climates should plant in  late day shade to give it some protection from the most intense heat.
it is only 2-8” tall.
‘carol mackie’ daphne requires well drained soil and prefers neutral to slightly acidic soil.
often referred to as winter daphne, gardners in mild regions have found success with this daphne when grown in light to part shade.
pink buds open to  lacy white blooms may through june.
most dogwoods do not like a lot of sun, plant in shade to part shade.
do avoid disturbing the roots and do not attempt  transplant.
they are easy to grow, heat and  drought tolerant, and resistant to deer.
the striking 'carol mackie' is easy to  grow in ordinary soil up to zone 4.
cut branches are a great accent to  your fresh, or silk arrangements.
for best flowering for all forsythia, severely prune old wood immediately after bloom.
cut branches are a great accent to your fresh, or silk arrangements.
this large landscape shrub has a compact, rounded form.
red purple branches stand out against the snow in winter.
can reach 8-10 feet tall.
chokeberry prefers full sun for best flowering and is very drought  tolerant.
it does best in part to full shade, but will tolerate full sun if it receives enough water.
hydrangea quercifolia, “oakleaf”, are white blooming and are winter hardy further north than thearborescens.
although  completely unrelated to bamboo, the fine lacy foliage growing on cane like  stalks does resemble bamboo.
c. alba ‘elegantissima’ silverleaf dogwood is  very commonly grown in the north and midwest because it is so hardy and  adaptable.
white flowers in june or july are followed by edible berries.
'annabelle' (hydrangea arborescens) produces enormous white "snowballs" in summer, keeping a mounded shape at about 4 feet.
‘mount airy’ is most  flattered by a dark evergreen background.
the interesting and colorful  foliage provides wonderful color and texture to the garden, with the color  becoming most intense in full sun.
this does not affect flowering since it flowers on new growth.
grows well in full sun to part  shade.
hydrangea: full sun to part shade hardiness  varies flowering shrub.
if you do not have acid soil (ph of 6 or less),  it is easiest to control in a container with aluminum sulphate, which is  commonly found in gardens centers for the colored hydrangeas.
it is very hardy and  adaptable to wet or dry conditions.
grows well in full sun to part shade.
foliage is  bronze-green.
‘lawrence crocker’ is a dense, compact shrub reaching  only about 12” tall and wide.
if you do not have acid soil (ph of 6 or less), it is easiest to control in a container with aluminum sulphate, which is commonly found in gardens centers for the colored hydrangeas.
‘longwood blue’ (c. x clandonensis) full to part sun hardy in zones 5-9 flowering shrub.
if  grown in full sun it requires constant moisture.
reaches 4-6’ tall  and wide.
‘pee wee’ is a dwarf ‘snow queen’ which will do well in full sun to part shade.
the blooms are fragrant borne in dense clusters of pink with pink tinged centers.
bright green foliage and early summer yellow  flowers, prefers full to part sun.
‘glossy black chokeberry full  sun to part shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
growth can be restrained with regular pruning.
the hybrids are generally hardy to zone 3 or 4.
mulch year round to retain moisture and keep roots cool in  summer.
this is one  tough little shrub.
the blooms are fragrant borne in dense clusters of  pink with pink tinged centers.
long narrow leaves are dark green with bright gold margins.
faded blooms begin to turn shades of burgundy in autumn.
normally,  prune only sparingly to encourage stems to grow sturdy enough to support the  heavy blooms and to encourage more, but just slightly smaller  blooms.
mound several inches of soil at the base of the plant, and mulch  heavily may improve the chances of a successful bloom in spring.
grows best in part shade in zones 8 and 9,  full sun more north.
they need some space, as they can grow quite large, with long arching branches sprawling wildly.
size is easily controlled by pruning.
striking accent especially in a contemporary or oriental landscape.
if left unpruned, berry clusters develop and ripen  to bright red.
full sun to part shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
forsythia thrives in ordinary soil in full sun or light shade.
hardy to zone 4, hardy in zone 3 other than perhaps the most severe winters, and will hold up well even in zone 2 with shelter and adequate snow cover.
most are also quite tolerant of diverse conditions and are easy to grow with little care required.
particularily in more southern zones, will  benefit from some light shade.
it is not tolerant of dry soils and needs good snow cover for consistent spring bloom.
chokeberry prefers full sun for best flowering and is very drought tolerant.
white bottlebrush blooms in may are somewhat fragrant.
‘nandina’ is not fully hardy in the north and midwest, as the canes will die back at around -10 degrees, but does grow back vigorously each spring.
left unpruned, heavenly bamboo will create a lovely screen or  hedge, attracting bees with it’s blooms and birds with its’  berries.
full sun to part shade.
they are also hardy  to zone 3.
highly aromatic spicy scented foliage is silvery and sky blue blooms are produced heavily over a long period.
a rounded form is well branched and upright and grows fairly quickly to 4 or 5 feet tall and spreads to 5 or 6’ wide.
leaves hold their color  well even in the extreme heat of the southern zones.
in general, they like moist, well drained soils, but will tolerate both wet and dry, as well as alkaline soils.
there are several cultivars including ‘diana’ with pure white flowers; ‘jeanne d’arc’ with double white flowers; and ‘lucy’ with double red flowers.
short periods of drought can be tolerated.
hydrangea macrophyllainclude the “colored flower” cultivars; endless summer and nikko blue.
grows to 4 feet high and 3 feet wide.
‘snow queen’ is considered one of the finer shrubs for  the landscape and garden.
daphne is generally hardy to zone  4.
white bottlebrush blooms in may are somewhat  fragrant.
mopheads never need pruning other than to remove dead branches.
it is a more reliable bloomer among the variegated varieties.
‘mariesii variegated’ has cream edged foliage and  is long blooming in early to midsummer.
bluish white florets  surround bright blue florets.
upright growth reaches 5 feet and 3-5 feet  wide.
unbelievably contorted branches that go way beyond the term winter interest.
but blooms later, in mid august, with larger flower panicles held on thick stems.
bright green foliage and early summer yellow flowers, prefers full to part sun.
bloom stems cut for bouquets last a week or  longer.
simply removing the dead flowerheads (deadheading) can be done at any time.
inner blooms can be pink or blue, surrounded by  white.
white scented flower clusters in spring are followed by large edible berries that mature over summer.
prune out only  crossing branches and as needed to achieve desired form.
elderberry may tend to sucker, and may need occasional pruning to hold a good form.
‘snow queen’ is considered one of the finer shrubs for the landscape and garden.
full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-8.
they can survive in dry conditions and  with little attention.
prune out the  oldest wood down to the ground.
‘black lace’ has deep dark purple foliage that is lacy and finely cut.
although the plant  seems to be pretty hardy, do try to buy own root in case of die back.
grows to 4’ high and wide.
‘isanti’ has bright  red winter stems, the most colorful of thered osiers, and is 5-7 feet  tall.
foliage is deep blue-green and is resistant to  honeysuckle witches broom aphid.
growth can be  restrained with regular pruning.
this is a large shrub, reaching easily 7 feet high and 5  feet wide.
this is a large shrub, reaching easily 7 feet high and 5 feet wide.
will tolerate alkaline soils,  and prefers moist, well drained.
‘tokyo delight’ will produce pink blooms in alkaline  soil, blue blooms in acid soil (ph of 6 or less) in july and august.
'gold tide' is a dwarf that only reaches 2-3 feet,  spreading to 4 feet - excellent for a slope or trailing over a wall.
the multi-stemmed suckering bush is  compact and rounded to upright oval.
‘endless summer’ (hydrangea macrophylia ‘bailmer’)
‘tokyo delight’ will produce pink blooms in alkaline soil, blue blooms in acid soil (ph of 6 or less) in july and august.
reaches  about 3-5’ high and wide, and ishardy in zones 4-7.
annual pruning in early spring will improve  flowering.
the plant usually  rebounds quickly the following spring.
pruning of 1/3 or more of the branch lengths to reduce size  should be done immediately after blooms fade to preserve next years’
dogwood: (cornus) full sun to shade hardy in zones 2-8 flowering shrub.
for some reason it loves the great lake states, but doesn’t do as well outside the area other than some areas of the southeast dark green leaves with white flowers grows in an upright, rounded habit, reaching 6-10 feet tall.
‘longwood blue’ (c. x clandonensis) full to  part sun hardy in zones 5-9 flowering shrub.
(aronia malanocarpa elata)
small yellow flowers are produced in late spring.
oakleaf never need pruning other than to remove dead branches.
does well in sun or shade, southern  exposure may be best, in average well drained soil.
bees,  butterflies and birds are attracted to the blooms.
the leaves are shaped like oak leaves.
it blooms on old and new wood.
preferring dry soil conditions,  daphne is drought resistant.
aluminum  sulphate added to the soil in late autumn or early spring will make the blooms  bluer, lime will make them pink.
pruning should be done right after the blooms fade, as it sets new  blooms immediately after flowering.
reaches 4-6’ tall and wide.
note that daphne foliage and fruit are poisonous if ingested.
hydrangea ‘light o day’ is interesting when out of bloom, with bold variegated leaves.
blooms on old  wood.
foliage is bright golden, with deeply cut leaves with a fern-like effect.
the elegant 'pee wee' produces 10” elongated flower heads of  white that turn pale pink by fall.
fothergilla prefers an acidic, cool, well drained soil.
this is the only necessary pruning other than removing suckers if you want to retain the natural beauty of this shrub.
‘kumson’ reaches 8-10’ tall and 7-9’  wide, and ishardy to zone 4.
it seems not that long ago that hydrangea were only found in grandma's garden.
it is very hardy and adaptable to wet or dry conditions.
hardiness is generally listed as up  to zone 5, but it has proven to be hardy in zone 4, down to 30 degrees below  f. hard pruning after a killing frost is suggested where snow cover is  heavy to prevent branch damage by heavy wet snows.
prune in very early spring.
blooms are sweetly fragranced and  vivid pink, blooming from spring through summer.
sambucus nigra ‘eva’ (black lace elderberry) full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-7 flowering shrub.
hibiscus prefers moist well drained soils and is  tolerant of alkaline soil.
bright red bark in winter is a bright spot in the landscape.
mopheads struggle in sandy soils and dry conditions.
they bloom in june or july on old wood, forming their flower buds just afterward in august or september.
‘kumson’ reaches 8-10’ tall and 7-9’ wide, and ishardy to zone 4.
where winter causes die back the shrub remains smaller.
‘carol mackie’ daphne requires well drained soil and  prefers neutral to slightly acidic soil.
harry lauder’s walking stick: (corylus avellana contorta)
striking accent especially in  a contemporary or oriental landscape.
it is a more reliable bloomer among  the variegated varieties.
hardy in zones 5-9 ‘sikes dwarf’ is similar, but will do quite well in mostly shade.
grows best in part shade in zones 8 and 9, full sun more north.
fothergilla prefers an acidic, cool,  well drained soil.
most are also quite tolerant of diverse conditions and are easy to  grow with little care required.
‘golden  shadows’ is a large enough shrub to be trimmed into an ornamental  tree.
elderberry: (sambucus )
large dark green leathery leaves and 12 to 15” pure white upright panicles of blooms make a striking presentation.
‘blue beard’ has a compact mounding growth habit, reaching about 2 1/2 feet high and 2 feet wide, growing at a moderate rate.
foliage is blue green with pale green  undersides.
full growth and superior branching for a strong  shrub.
fall color is inconsistent but generally excellent, ranging  from yellow-orange to red-purple.
complete dieback after a zone 4  winter can take the better part of zone 4’s short growing season to  regrow.
although hardy to zone 6, ‘lawrence crocker’ should be protected from harsh winter exposure.
‘golden shadows’ is a large enough shrub to be trimmed into an ornamental tree.
zone 5 hardyhydrangea should be heavily mulched to ensure  the roots are protected.
the striking 'carol mackie' is easy to grow in ordinary soil up to zone 4.
hardy to zone 3,  perhaps even 2, but will often die back to the ground.
grows to 8’ high and 10-15’ wide.
simply removing the dead flowerheads (deadheading) can be done at any time up to one third of the old stems may be removed to the ground to rejuvenate an old plant.
yellow blooms appear in early spring.
masses of creamy white star shaped flowers develop into red fruit clusters that attract birds.
renew by pruning the oldest branches and weak growth at ground level.
they are really only hardy to zone 6 and typically may not flower in zone 5.
reblooming may occur, and tiny red fruits replace the blooms in fall.
blooms best in zones 8 and 9, bloom  buds may freeze off in colder zones.
if you are looking  for something really unusual, this is it.
wonderful alternative to smokebush, used as a foundation planting, shrub border or in open “natural” areas.
if your hydrangea should fail to flower, it could be due to winter kill of the buds, pruning at the wrong time, too much shade for the variety or excess nitrogen.
plant in sun to part shade in enriched moist soil, providing regular watering to ensure good health.
they will also tolerate windy sites.
try in a container to bring indoors for the winter, or in a very protected microclimate.
an occassional  ‘annabelle’ is not a good bloomer, so buy yours in bloom to make  sure you get one that is not skimpy.
they are really only hardy to zone 6 and  typically may not flower in zone 5.
blooms are sweetly fragranced and vivid pink, blooming from spring through summer.
the interesting and colorful foliage provides wonderful color and texture to the garden, with the color becoming most intense in full sun.
'annabelle' (hydrangea arborescens) produces enormous white  "snowballs" in summer, keeping a mounded shape at about 4 feet.
they are also hardy to zone 3.
they bloom in june or july on old wood, forming  their flower buds just afterward in august or september.
‘black lace’ has deep dark purple foliage that is lacy and finely  cut.
plant in a cool moist location with rich,  well drained soil.
plant in a cool moist location with rich, well drained soil.
the leaf patterns are most pronounced on new growth, so frequent pruning will encourage more foliage interest but reduce the flowering.
this  large landscape shrub has a compact, rounded form.
diervilla sessillifolia ‘butterfly’ is similar, with a compact growth habit.
hydrangea ‘light o day’ is interesting when out of  bloom, with bold variegated leaves.
dry the  thinned out branches to use in floral arrangements.
leaves hold their color well even in the extreme heat of the southern zones.
it is slow growing and dense with red twigs.
branches that come in contact with the ground will root and form a  thicket.
this tough plant does well on a southern exposure, standing up well to all day sun and heat.
foliage color changes to pink and red in autumn, ending in  a bright red with the red berries.
this is an excellent  daphne for rock gardens or the front of a shrub border or foundation  planting.
abundant star shaped pale pink flowers in may and june are richly fragrant.
does not like full sun.
often referred to as winter daphne, gardners in mild  regions have found success with this daphne when grown in light to part  shade.
this shrub is very tough and adaptable but does  prefer a rich acid soil and moist conditions.
wonderful alternative to  smokebush, used as a foundation planting, shrub border or in open  “natural” areas.
the leaves have creamy yellow centers with green  margins.
flower buds are cold hardy andreaches 6-8 feet tall  and wide, with an upright habit.
with so many new varieties, they  are widely used in foundation plantings, landscaping and gardens.
prune in spring to control size and increase density.
but it does enjoy some  sun protection to avoid leaf scorch in more southern zones.
lonicera ‘honeyrose’ was introduced by the university of minnesota, a testament to its’ hardiness, and has rosy red flowers in early tomidsummer.
reaches about 3-5’ high and wide, and ishardy in zones 4-7.
good for difficult sites and windbreaks.
up to one third of the old stems may be removed to the ground to rejuvenate an old plant.
the plant usually rebounds quickly the following spring.
fragrant foliage is silvery blue green, and blooms are misty blue in late summer and early autumn, blooming for a long period.
does best in sun to part  shade, and grows to 6-8’ high and wide.
full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-8.
fall  color is a superior orange to red.
the compact, rounded shrub grows only to a 2 foot mound.
it displays the best fall color in full  sun, with shades of gold, apricot and rose, but will do well in part shade.
there are several  cultivars including ‘diana’ with pure white flowers; ‘jeanne  d’arc’ with double white flowers; and ‘lucy’ with  double red flowers.
highly  aromatic spicy scented foliage is silvery and sky blue blooms are produced  heavily over a long period.
(‘endless summer’ is an exception, it will bloom on  old and new wood).
blooms best in zones 8 and 9, bloom buds may freeze off in colder zones.
simply removing the dead flowerheads (deadheading) can be done at  any time up to one third of the old stems may be removed to the ground to  rejuvenate an old plant.
also protect from harsh winds.
the pure white conical flowers appear in july and august, and they mature to pinky bronze in fall.
'briggs moonlight' foliage is a reverse variegated version of the 'carol mackie'.
it makes a wonderful informal hedge or screen.
also tolerates  damp soil very well and is hardy to zone 2, c. amomum ‘silky dogwood’ is another large  dogwood that is excellent for screening, windbreaks and stabilizing stream  banks.
foliage is leathery and shiny dark  green.
a  large shrub with glossy green foliage that turns fire red in autumn.
‘aureomarginata’ prefers light shade and is only hardy to  zone 7, as are several other varieties of daphne.
grows to  3-6’ high and wide.
prefers full sun, neutral sandy soil, minimal watering, and will benefit from winter protection even in zone 4.
this is an excellent daphne for rock gardens or the front of a shrub border or foundation planting.
grows to 3-6’ high and wide.
varieties that flower on old wood - since they often die back to the ground in zones 4 and 5, they will not flower.
‘nikko blue’ will produce pink blooms in alkaline soil,  blue blooms in acid soil (ph of 6 or less) in july and august.
does best in sun to part shade, and grows to 6-8’ high and wide.
hibiscus: (syriacus) full sun to part shade  hardy in zones 5-8 flowering shrub.
‘kumson’ is a unique  korean cultivar that has interesting dark green leaves with silver veins,  providing season long interest unusual to forsythia.
prefers well  drained soil, does not like moist conditions.
rarely  produces a fruit, but may produce nuts.
foliage is bright golden, with  deeply cut leaves with a fern-like effect.
top next page previous page
in early spring, purple buds open to pale pink to white blooms in april and may.
leaves turn burgundy-brown in fall, beautiful with the dried flower heads.
it is not fond of hot, midday sun.
‘nikko blue’ will produce pink blooms in alkaline soil, blue blooms in acid soil (ph of 6 or less) in july and august.
although hardy to zone 6, ‘lawrence crocker’ should  be protected from harsh winter exposure.
prune out the oldest wood down to the ground.
this is a small dense shrub with unusual 1-2” bottlebrush flowers that are creamy white and fragrant.
simply removing the dead flowerheads (deadheading) can be done at  any time.
the leaf patterns are  most pronounced on new growth, so frequent pruning will encourage more foliage  interest but reduce the flowering.
c. alternifoilia 'golden shadows' displays the  graceful habit of a pogoda, with lime green leaves edged in gold.
hardy in zones 6 to 9.
in regions that drop below -38 degrees, further protection is advised, treating the plant almost like a hybrid tea rose.
(‘endless summer’ is an exception, it will bloom on old and new wood).
lacecaps never need pruning other than to remove dead branches.
they bloom in june  or july on old wood, forming their flower buds just afterward in august or  september.
left unpruned, heavenly bamboo will create a lovely screen or hedge, attracting bees with it’s blooms and birds with its’ berries.
fall color is a superior orange to red.
it is widely adaptable to soil types and conditions, except perpetually moist.
full sun hardy in zones 5-9 flowering shrub.
c. alba ‘elegantissima’ silverleaf dogwood is very commonly grown in the north and midwest because it is so hardy and adaptable.
'spring glory'(f. x intermedia) explodes in pale yellow blooms in april, reaching 6-8 feet tall and wide, and ishardy to zone 3.
plant in sun to part  shade in enriched moist soil, providing regular watering to ensure good  health.
white flowers appear in may and are followed by black fruit.
they will prune well to keep in check, but  remember never to prune until after they have flowered.
this is a small dense shrub with unusual 1-2” bottlebrush flowers  that are creamy white and fragrant.
this hydrangea makes a stunning statement as a specimen plant.
with a loose, shrubby growing habit, ‘tardiva’ reaches  6-8’ high and 8-10’ wide.
for some reason it loves the great lake states, but doesn’t  do as well outside the area other than some areas of the southeast dark  green leaves with white flowers grows in an upright, rounded habit, reaching  6-10 feet tall.
new growth starts out bright  coppery red, then to golden yellow, and finally mellows to a lime  green.
forsythia blooms on old wood, so don’t remove too many branches each pruning to preserve blooms.
bright red drupes attract birds.
thick leaves are textured bright green.
a rounded form is  well branched and upright and grows fairly quickly to 4 or 5 feet tall and  spreads to 5 or 6’ wide.
this red twigged dogwood has variegated leaves, providing summer and winter interest and texture.
varieties that flower on old wood -  since they often die back to the ground in zones 4 and 5, they will not  flower.
this classic  variety of blue mist shrubs has a beautiful upright growth habit.
adapts easily to a variety of soils as long as it is well  drained.
the foliage matures to blue green and finally fades to green.
evergreen in mild  regions.
most of the ‘red osiers’ are fast growing.
hot weather and sun may diminish the bloom color.
‘dwarf’ full to part sun flowering shrub hardy in zones 5-8, perhaps 4.
many gardeners are so enamored by the gorgeous  foliage, that they will plant it over and over nonetheless.
normally, prune only sparingly to encourage stems to grow sturdy enough to support the heavy blooms and to encourage more, but just slightly smaller blooms.
strong stems and  branches keep the blooms upright, and perfect for cutting.
fall foliage color is brilliant red.
‘lawrence crocker’ is a dense, compact shrub reaching only about 12” tall and wide.
diervilla sessillifolia ‘butterfly’ is similar, with a  compact growth habit.
excellent for difficult sites such as slopes, or naturalizing and mass planting, or along a wood’s edge.
prefers well drained soil, does not like moist conditions.
soil must be cool, 65  degrees or less.
also tolerates damp soil very well and is hardy to zone 2, c. amomum ‘silky dogwood’ is another large dogwood that is excellent for screening, windbreaks and stabilizing stream banks.
full sun  tofull shade hardy in zones 3-7 flowering shrub.
hardiness is generally listed as up to zone 5, but it has proven to be hardy in zone 4, down to 30 degrees below f. hard pruning after a killing frost is suggested where snow cover is heavy to prevent branch damage by heavy wet snows.
foliage emerges in spring bronzey red followed by 6 - 12 inch panicles of creamy flowers.
faded  blooms begin to turn shades of burgundy in autumn.
plant in sunny dry areas, detests wet conditions..
hardy in zones 5-9 ‘sikes dwarf’ is similar, but will do quite well in mostly  shade.
blooms open pure white and mature to blush pink or deep blue  depending on soil ph. it blooms on old and new wood.
however the plant has not been  found to be highly reliable in zone 4.
grows to 3’ high and wide.
pruning of 1/3 or more of the branch length to reduce  size should be done immediately after blooms fade to preserve next years’
unlike the macrophylla hydrangeas, arborescens will bloom  every year even after winter dieback (which will happen in the north zones) or  severe pruning, because ‘annabelle’ blooms on new wood.
will  tolerate severe renewal pruning if necessary.
spring produces showy yellow  2-3 inch catkins, and inconspicuous red flowers on female plants.
it blooms best where summers are hot, but is hardy further north than the mopheads.
in the south, ‘endless summer’  will produce two full bloom periods.
will adapt to dry shade.
yellow flowers appear in early spring  like all cultivars.
it is widely adaptable to soil types and  conditions, except perpetually moist.
it is the most aromatic.
‘mount airy’ prefersfull sun , it will tolerate light shade but will not flower as prolifically or produce good fall color.
dogwood: (cornus) full sun to shade hardy in zones  2-8 flowering shrub.
spring produces showy yellow 2-3 inch catkins, and inconspicuous red flowers on female plants.
‘mount airy’ is most flattered by a dark evergreen background.
deer resistance is a bonus.
hibiscusand ‘rose of sharon’ should be heavily mulched  in zone 5 to ensure the roots are protected.
they will prune well to keep in check, but remember never to prune until after they have flowered.
they are great for low hedges planted two feet apart, or  create a stunning effect in groups.
macrophylla normalis are the “lacecap” hydrangeas, and  are grown and cared for exactly the same as the mopheads.
peegee hydrangeas need more sun than the mopheads, several hours a day.
a staple of the northern landscapes, there is a versatile variety of hardy shrub and tree form available for northern climates.c.alba 'elegantissima' is probably the most common in the north as a property corner anchor or screen due to it's large size (up to 10 feet).
flower buds are cold hardy andreaches 6-8 feet tall and wide, with an upright habit.
prune out only crossing branches and as needed to achieve desired form.
fragrant foliage is  silvery blue green, and blooms are misty blue in late summer and early autumn,  blooming for a long period.
it prefers medium moisture, well drained soil in part shade.
the shrub can become quite large in  warmer climates reaching up to 8 feet and 4 - 6 feet wide.
simply removing the dead  flowerheads (deadheading) can be done at any time up to one third of the  old stems may be removed to the ground to rejuvenate an old plant.
blooms come so late that the first frost may be right around the corner.
an occassional ‘annabelle’ is not a good bloomer, so buy yours in bloom to make sure you get one that is not skimpy.
‘bunchberry’ requires shade to be at its’ best, and prefers moist, well drained, acidic soil.
daphne requires little or no pruning and little or no fertilizer.
they are  wonderful singly or in masses, most doing best in shade to part-shade.
foliage is leathery and shiny dark green.
this showy mophead blooms on old and new wood, producing blooms even after winter dieback.
macrophylla normalis are the “lacecap” hydrangeas, and are grown and cared for exactly the same as the mopheads.
sambucus ‘sutherland gold’ full sun hardy in  zones 3-8 flowering shrub.
‘tardiva’ is similar to ‘peegee’
thinning will increase the summer interest by exposing more of the contorted branches.
yellow flowers appear in early spring like all cultivars.
honeysuckle bush, dwarf: (diervilla lonicera)
‘bunchberry’ requires shade to be at its’  best, and prefers moist, well drained, acidic soil.
‘spring glory’ is rust resistant.
also  protect from harsh winds.
fragrant white flowers in june are followed by dark blue fruit.
daphne is also known to inexplicably die, for  no apparent reason.
grows slowly but reliably, reaching a rounded  3’ high and ups to 4 - 6’ wide.
in regions that drop below -38 degrees, further  protection is advised, treating the plant almost like a hybrid tea  rose.
c. canadensis 'bunchberry, dwarf cornel' is a creeping  species, actually a subshrub that spreads by  rhizomes.
up to one third of the old stems may be removed to the ground to  rejuvenate an old plant.
pruning of 1/3 or  more of the branch lengths to reduce size should be done immediately after  blooms fade to preserve next years’ bloom, but the shrub grows back so  quickly that the pruning is nearly useless.
lovely variegated foliage is green with creamy white  edges.
‘limelight’ is a new variety of hydrangea.
panicle hydrangea bloom on the current year’s growth, so they can be pruned in fall, winter or spring.
mopheads never need pruning  other than to remove dead branches.
paniculata are the “peegee” hydrangeas.
excellent for difficult sites such as slopes, or  naturalizing and mass planting, or along a wood’s edge.
white flowers appear in may and are  followed by black fruit.
for best bloom production, plant in lightn shade, dappled shade, or morning sun with afternoon shade.
pink buds open to pale pink to white blooms that attract  butterflies.
preferring dry soil conditions, daphne is drought resistant.
reaches 10-12’ high and wide.
however they do not need pruning every year.
‘aureomarginata’ prefers light shade and is only hardy to zone 7, as are several other varieties of daphne.
the  hydrangea with blue and pink flower heads require close attention to soil ph to  retain their color.
the effect is a similarity to japanese maple.
does well in sun or shade, southern exposure may be best, in average well drained soil.
it has unique bright lime green flowers that form a rounded panicle.
evergreen in mild regions.
none are successful in zone 4 without protection.
hardy in zones 6-9, perhaps in zone 5.
if left unpruned, berry clusters develop and ripen to bright red.
if your hydrangea should fail to flower, it could be due to  winter kill of the buds, pruning at the wrong time, too much shade for the  variety or excess nitrogen.
daphne is generally hardy to zone 4.
will do fine in sun, but does best in shade to part shade.
it is a lacecap mutation of endless summer, but will not  rebloom.
foliage is bronze-green.
deep blue flower spikes are 6” tall from midsummer until fall.
aphids problems are common, and occasionally may have trouble with borers, cankers and mildew.
the multi-stemmed suckering bush is compact and rounded to upright oval.
foliage turns burgundy in fall.
blooms come so late that the first frost may be right around the  corner.
flowers tend to pink but will turn blue in acid conditions (ph of 6 or less).
bees, butterflies and birds are attracted to the blooms.
silverleaf will growwell in su n, pa rt sh ad e or shade and is hardy to zone 2.
harry lauder’s walking stick: (corylus avellana contorta)
daphne: full sun to part shade hardy in zones 4-7 flowering shrub.
this is one tough little shrub.
it is compact with a ground hugging habit and is excellent for mass plantings.
c. sericia ‘red osier’ dogwoods are also hardy to zone 2, reaching 7-10 feet high and wide.
full sun to part  shade hardy in zones 6-9 flowering shrub.
sambucus ‘sutherland gold’ full sun hardy in zones 3-8 flowering shrub.
panicle hydrangea bloom on the current  year’s growth, so they can be pruned in fall, winter or  spring.
will die back north of zone 5, but should regrow readily.
reblooming may occur, and tiny red fruits replace the blooms in  fall.
'briggs moonlight' foliage is a reverse variegated version of the  'carol mackie'.
‘kumson’ is a unique korean cultivar that has interesting dark green leaves with silver veins, providing season long interest unusual to forsythia.
makes an excellent specimen plant, and contrasts pale or bright foliage beautifully.
it is an upright mounded shrub, but is also grown as a small ornamental  tree.
they are both a tall,  narrow shrub (7-12 feet high and 3-5 feet wide) that is hard to find for  filling corners or landscaping with all summer blooms.
aluminum sulphate added to the soil in late autumn or early spring will make the blooms bluer, lime will make them pink.
they grow quickly and thrive in average soil, but do prefer well drained, loose and loamy.
thinning will increase the summer interest by exposing more of the  contorted branches.
they are all nearly the same plant, perhaps with minor differences.
european elderberry are quite large shrubs, larger than our american nativesambucus canadensis, that produce large flat cluster of flowers in spring, and large clusters of black berries in fall.
most dogwoods do not like a lot of sun, plant in shade to part  shade.
forsythia: full sun hardy in zones 4-8 flowering shrub.
for best bloom production, plant in lightn shade, dappled shade,  or morning sun with afternoon shade.
they are  generally grafted tocorylus colurna, and tends to grow suckers which must be  pruned out.
they do not like wet feet and must have excellent drainage to avoid root rot.
top                                   next page                        previous page midwest gardening annuals  bulbs perennials growing roses in cold climates  shrubs for northern gardens evergreen conifers trees  designing a landscape info & articles sitemap links  privacy policy
here, referring to the woody shrub, is only hardy to zone 5.
they bloom in june or july on old  wood, forming their flower buds just afterward in august or  september.
short periods of drought can  be tolerated.
‘aureomarginata’ is a bit more adaptable and easier to  grow than other daphnes.
it blooms best where summers are hot, but is hardy  further north than the mopheads.
‘mariesii variegated’ has cream edged foliage and is long blooming in early to midsummer.
with a loose, shrubby growing habit, ‘tardiva’ reaches 6-8’ high and 8-10’ wide.
the dried flowerheads are beautiful in  arrangements.
size is easily controlled by  pruning.
the cream variegation is not stable, and will sometimes revert to all green.
grows well in full sun to light shade, the lime color will be  more pronounced in some shade.
the dried flowerheads are beautiful in arrangements.
foliage is bright  yellow, tinged green.
plant in sunny dry areas, detests wet conditions.. prune  in very early spring.
flowers tend to pink but will turn  blue in acid conditions (ph of 6 or less).
mound several inches of soil at the base of the plant, and mulch heavily may improve the chances of a successful bloom in spring.
it grows well in most soils and is drought resistant once established.
grows to 3-6’ tall and wide.
bloom stems cut for bouquets last a week or longer.
can reach 8-10 feet  tall.
here, referring to the woody  shrub, is only hardy to zone 5.
hydrangea macrophyllainclude the “colored flower” cultivars;  endless summer and nikko blue.
mound several inches of soil at the base of the plant, and mulch heavily.
this shrub is very tough and adaptable but does prefer a rich acid soil and moist conditions.
‘pee wee’ is a  dwarf ‘snow queen’ which will do well in full sun to part  shade.
branches that come in contact with the ground will root and form a thicket.
the elegant 'pee wee' produces 10” elongated flower heads of white that turn pale pink by fall.
it is common to see a broad range of bloom colors on a single plant, from pink blush, to deep pink.
reaches 5’ high and wide, growing in a dome shape.
elderberry may tend to sucker, and may need occasional pruning to  hold a good form.
they are wonderful singly or in masses, most doing best in shade to part-shade.
panicle  hydrangeas(hydrangea paniculata) is a much larger shrub, 10-15 feet high  and wide, and produces pyramid shaped flowerheads that turn from white, to  pinkish, finally to brown in fall.
c. alternifoilia 'golden shadows' displays the graceful habit of a pogoda, with lime green leaves edged in gold.
elderberry: (sambucus )
this showy mophead blooms on old and new wood,  producing blooms even after winter dieback.
makes an excellent specimen plant,  and contrasts pale or bright foliage beautifully.