rainfall has been recorded on 11 of the last 14 days, including eight straight  days from july 17 through july 24.
it would serve no purpose to repeat all of the provisions of the open  meetings law here, even if we had space.
to join the fun, meet the hiking group at the west end of the country center city market parking lot by 8:30 a.m. every tuesday.
i had some concerns, but they seemed  to think they had everything taken care of.
when archuleta county was created in 1885, one of the first official  duties was to form a school system.
also featured are the landscape paintings of area newcomer tom holt.
after the second or third ring you decide you are not suffering from a nightmare; the telephone really is ringing.
where is the justice?
teams raised $100 each as entry fees and  individual team members raised additional funds to contribute to the total.
do i look different?" "oh, don't be a smart aleck," mom said with disgust.
she was out of town monday and was unable to attend the meeting.)
if you were born in july be sure and be there.
persons trapped outside should find the lowest available ground and avoid trees or other high objects which attract lightning.
when the  "talkies" came, she collected tickets for the movies.
our local county transit system has informed us that the route will soon  service the senior center, san juan basin health and head start.
andy rice, veteran staff member at the recreation center, reports from  carlsbad, calif.: "coaching went really well. . .
the first logical thing for us to ask was if the school would be cleaned.
the fax claims that the "piano creek ranch" being  proposed for development on dan mccarthy's property will be "constructed  in one of the last unspoiled valleys in the san juans." monday, an article on piano creek in the denver post repeated sjca's  concern about one of the last unspoiled valleys in the san juans and reported  on the proponent's desire "to develop a ranch in the wilds of  colorado."
fresh rose quickly in show business, but his later life was filled with  many turnovers.
" thompson, cox and sanft declined to speak at this time about the reasons  for or the timing of their resignations.
following october, the next best months in order were july with $393,335, january with $372,755, and september with $349,915.
following lambing season, the flocks were  driven to the highest mountains until october.
if you went to the shelter and saw how many are already there, you might  realize what a serious problem this is.
among the upset citizens, you can count frustrated motorists, as well as  representatives of the town of pagosa springs and school district 50 joint.
the film's alleged respectable figures are a bank president, henry gatewood (berton churchill), whose wife is head of the ladies' law and order league, and lucy mallory (louise platt), a southern gentlewoman - in a delicate condition - in search of her husband in the cavalry.
it seems that j.p. archuleta, one of the archuleta family for whom the  county is named, swore out a warrant before justice chase charging l.d. o'neal  with the theft of 16 head of cattle.
rather than being concerned about the survival of the plpoa, it's the  ideal time to implement a cost-effective down sizing of the association's  expensive administrative chain of command and costly staff structure.
" charles reported the number of tour participants at the site was far  greater than organizers promised and said it took six district custodians five  hours to clean the interior of the school.
the person asking the question is looking straight into your unblinking  brown eyes.
what remains to be done that must be  hidden from the public?
"lightning causes more deaths in colorado than any other weather phenomena," pringle said.
each team developed themes and decorated themselves and their campsites accordingly.
we thought pagosa was a pretty good stop; obviously you didn't.
on july 1, schutz using a pitching wedge at hole no. 3, hit his tee shot 130 yards for the hole in one.
we will continue story time on fridays at 11 a.m., until aug. 27.
i am in the bathroom in front of the medicine cabinet mirror, face  covered with lather from sideburn to sideburn, my mouth contorted, and razor in  hand.
i also said at the time that if the  board didn't make some changes in the way it related to the staff, the result  would be mass staff walkouts.
if in fact there are a sufficient number of folks who are willing to  spend $500,000 on an eight-week time share, the mineral county commissioners  won't hesitate one second on approving a feasible planned unit development for  the east fork ranch, and accepting the subsequent property tax revenues.
when you have to go and fix what you've done, and see how much time and money it takes to repair this type of damage, it's not so much fun anymore.
gray wolf ski club members are enjoying a busy summer of hiking (for  some) and golfing (for others).
we have  included a few of those facts in this week's column.
pagosa peak, in my opinion, is a must-climb for all able-bodied people.
sadly, my lack of interest prevents me from checking it out.
since we've used contracts specifying reading books at the proper grade level, the actual reading has been more realistic.
he said he attended one meeting in durango held in conjunction with the colorado state patrol and said a list of concerns he had was largely ignored.
the curling up but remaining on the feet principle is  especially important for people caught in lightning storms above timberline.
thank you all for you dedication and tenacity.
they were obviously not treated well, as they were terrified of people.
or they may not spay or neuter their animal either and then many more will be added who will not necessarily find good homes, if they survive.
features video review by roy starlingfeatures video review by roy starling west pretty wild in 'stagecoach'
"i'm grateful for everyone's help," she said.
we have the excellent good fortune to have found this divine place and it only makes sense that others will follow suit.
during the last two weeks, 2.54 inches of rain have fallen in pagosa springs, more at selected spots in the high country.
"i got the impression," said volger, "they (tour organizers) didn't want to talk to anyone.
the condition of the pagosa springs high school property following the departure of the cyclists provided even more evidence the tour had been in town.
these  electrical potential differences can amount to millions of volts.
the waterworks structure was built in 1938 to serve pagosa springs.
he was not considered a very smart cookie, wasting much of his  dough on half-baked schemes.
"they didn't put away the tables (in the commons area) or clean up mud in the building," said charles.
she would go to work in the afternoons after school and this allowed mrs. pim to have some relief from operating the switchboard.
i've always been tempted to provide the following answers to questions about my appearance: (1) hair?
navajo ewes were often added to upgrade the herd, along with rambouletta  rams.
the local school board, superintendent and former high school principal  are the defendants in a recently filed suit by the former secretary to the high  school principal.
such silly conversation could be filed away under the heading of "foolish  questions," the title of a country western song i once heard.
in 1964 she  married royce dotson.
" true, the county manager lists many items under his portion of the  agenda.
streets  and lands between measured lots continued to belong to the federal government  until years later.
" in closing, i would like to thank mrs. coffee and her daughter for taking time to visit with me and share their memories of days gone by.
this venture allowed tom the opportunity to draw on the beautiful and sacred land surrounding him.
eightmile mesa road is located on  the west side of u.s. 84 approximately 8 miles south of pagosa springs.
upon observing a lightning flash, a person should count the seconds.
the commissioners have been meeting and negotiating with schmidt for years concerning eightmile mesa road.
when the rest of them gave their two-week notices, there was no time to hire another general manager and office staff.
" the best cover is inside a house or car.
all of their work is done using bronze.
judgment is required and that brings us to a conclusion.
" patterson said she wanted to thank the 12 volunteers who assisted with  the event and expressed her thanks to relay participants.
according to harrington, "an important thing is that, as a community with a tourism economy, we rely on special events to boost that economy.
we first welcome bill goddard and connie bunte who bring us the choke cherry tree located at 1501 west u.s. 160, unit 1.
a lot of thought went  into the penalties for these youngsters.
anyway, i show up at el
at that same instant, o'neal touched spurs to the flanks of his own  mount and was soon galloping up the road at a forty-mile gait, ignoring byrne's  call to halt.
assessor keren prior  attends this session and presents her side of the case.
" elected public officials should serve public editor's note: having personally reported on the regular public meetings  of the county commissioners, hospital district, school board and town board for  many years, i know the frustration a reporter experiences when elected  officials conduct public business in private.
all of their work is done  using bronze.
tom holt is an experienced painter of landscape, having lived in the new mexico wilderness for many years.
the second step, for those unsatisfied with the assessor's findings, is  the coming board of appeals session.
when an event doesn't go well, it makes a difference for other events.
if you were born in july be sure and be  there.
she specializes in mosaic work of various mediums.
the other applicants were todd shelton, nan rowe, michael j. mitchell, bob moomaw, and claudia smith.
," said  newton, "is we were able to resolve the situation as a result of a lot of  public input.
i also found myself wondering about how many similar positions exist in  the association's public safety office.
entertainment was provided on friday night by  the cranks.
when the press  is denied access to a meeting or to information, every citizen is effectively  denied that same access.
the wolf creek lynx was a female that had been trapped  in alaska and released may 10.
this work will include the elimination of some steep dips and modifying a curve.
by karl isberg relay for life organizer leslie patterson set a fund-raising goal of  $10,000 for the inaugural event on july 23 and 24 and by wednesday of this week  she was thrilled the relay in pagosa springs had raised at least $11,836 for  the american cancer society.
betty and bill gibbons also  donated in memory of mary's granddaughter.
lightning  moves from cloud to cloud or from clouds to the ground.
andy left pagosa springs in  february to take a coaching position with the san marcos high boy's volleyball  team.
"as a general manager, i think you've been flunking your job by not bringing staff problems to the board."
her paternal grandparents are thomas and kathryn greenly of berthoud, colo. dixie marie chacon selene nevarez and al chacon are proud to announce the birth of their  daughter, dixie marie chacon.
the  information they provided allowed us to identify the parties responsible for  the damage.
because a cloud of flies seemed particularly bothersome to byrne's horse, o'neal made a play to brush them off.
i was really  impressed with the commitment, considering the rainy weather.
during high school, she worked for mrs. pim at the telephone switchboard.
when archuleta county was created in 1885, one of the first official duties was to form a school system.
if the friends of the east fork valley want to be the self-appointed  protector of private lands in this area, they are a little late.
it is credited with raising the western from silly "b" movies  intended mainly for country boys to a respected art form and for making a  legitimate star out of wayne, who was 31 at the time.
the commissioners agreed to supply trash bags for the project from  colorado department of transportation supplies.
they said they would leave the facility clean.
as the party passed the ranch of gordon grimes on their way back to  town, byrne got off his horse to tighten the cinch strap.
i hope  they'll be able to return to pagosa for another visit soon.
byrne is said to have been the community's first school teacher, holding forth in a little log cabin on the east side of the river and opposite the fort.
"if they classify us separately, then the decision about colorado  will be a separate decision," malmsbury said.
the above dialogue takes place every day in the living rooms of america.
colorado's department of revenue retains 3 percent of the  levy, the remaining 4 percent is divided equally between the town and the  county.
lightning sometimes travels along the surface of the  ground.
thank you, no justice dear editor, my son was in a minor accident july 3 when this attorney opened his  pickup door into through traffic.
last week, 1.09 inches of rain were recorded at the official weather  station located at stevens field.
"they have spread out in all directions," malmsbury said.
according to town administrator jay harrington, police chief don volger, and high school assistant principal kahle charles, few arrangements with local officials were made by tour organizers and when plans were made, many were not observed.
harrington noted the absence of monitors at u.s. 160 and hot springs boulevard as well as at the intersection of hot springs boulevard and apache street.
"what were you saying?"
sunday afternoon we hiked the continental divide trail from the wolf creek pass crest up to the top of alberta peak.
there were 276 children signed up for the program this summer - 67 girls and 44 boys - and 111 actually finished their contracts.
that judgment should always lean in the direction of holding meetings and discussions open to the public.
we are quite impressed with this year's talent crop.
all sensible people know that the only way to remove a wart is to  rub it with a half raw potato, which must afterward be buried by a pigeon-toed  school boy in the northwest corner of a graveyard at midnight during the dark  of a storm.
because a cloud of  flies seemed particularly bothersome to byrne's horse, o'neal made a play to  brush them off.
the storm seemed to contain some rotation (potential for tornadoes) and an enormous amount of electrical energy."
pagosa springs is mentioned in regard to everything ranging from our great ski season last year, to retirement location, to y2k readiness, to a fitness forum in arkansas at which ming steen spoke.
"mack just wanted to be sure, when  he died, that everything would go as planned, so we went through a dress  rehearsal, you know, nailed him in a coffin, lowered the coffin in the grave,  and threw dirt on it.
library news by lenore bright 276 children read 2,700 books in 6-week period we're proud we continue to watch with pride as our library users grow up, excel in  college and go on to lead productive lives.
" not all board members were in favor of hiring the denver firm.
i will always  think of my tender years from 3-12 were so special to me.
and we asked that no one wearing cleats be allowed in the building.
"not really," i said.
- several variances were approved for a planned unit development located on lot 9 at cloman industrial park.
volger said organizers did not contact his department when the tour was  in town.
the cause doesn't matter.
monday afternoon we parked at the fourmile road trailhead and hiked to  fourmile falls.
of  that amount, $357,555 has gone to the general fund, $89,390 to the road and  bridge fund, and $446,940 to the road improvement fund.
anyway, i show up at el singe, the great restaurant, wearing a robe, bathroom slippers, and a deep frown.
anything less is reversion to the tyranny and despotism millions  of americans have rejected, even sacrificing their lives in the effort.
(town and school officials) probably had complaints, and it's easy to throw it back on the tour.
the wolf creek lynx death is the second in colorado caused by a  motorist.
it is also true, if business comes in after the agenda is posted and the county manager feels that business needs action, the commissioners often vote on that item even though it is not on the agenda.
"i was in his office with him for 30 minutes," said powell.
(in the absence of  commissioner ken fox, crabtree acted as chairman of the board.)
executive sessions  are allowed only to consider security matters, property matters, to receive  legal advice from an attorney or certain personnel matters.
at a recent meeting of the pagosa area water and sanitation district  board of directors, several votes and actions were taken on items not listed on  the agenda.
she was too  small to reach the pedals on the pump organ, so her teacher would pump the  organ and frances would play.
a short while later, mrs. schutz began taking in boarders.
"we asked them not to go into the  gym
the most annoying questions come during those 2 a.m. telephone calls,  especially the ones from your adult children.
obituaries phyllis dotson phyllis dotson, 65, died june 26, 1999, in boise, idaho.
by 1920, the easy  timber in that corner of the county had been logged and small, scattered stands  kept the mill's saws buzzing.
they have two children and another in the oven.
as for new news, bev evans is senior of the week for this week, july 26.
so what normally drives a western becomes only window dressing in ford's masterpiece.
when he enlisted, he was in the cavalry, sent to columbus, n. mex.
"i'm on my way home from mack mctruck's funeral," i explained.
there are those of you who jokingly (and sometimes, not so jokingly)  accuse me of doing my job too well in getting the word out about pagosa springs  so, in my defense, i had nothing to do with the aforementioned publicity  although i must admit that i celebrate the advertising dollars saved when  someone else writes about us.
most people fail to realize that lightning can strike at a distance of  10 miles from the clouds denoting the obvious location of a thunderstorm.
prior asked the commissioners to postpone the hearings because she will be out of town aug. 3.
pagosa springs allots its entire sales tax income, $893,885 thus far in  1999, for capital improvement projects.
by john m. motter with one-half of 1999 accounted for, sales tax receipts continue to  fatten county and town coffers at a record pace.
pagosa springs allots its entire sales tax income, $893,885 thus far in 1999, for capital improvement projects.
the mishap occurred near the top of the  pass.
he's in san antonio fighting lung cancer.
"putting people at intersections doesn't seem to help.
" colorado has asked the federal wildlife agency to consider colorado as a  separate district when classifying the lynx, malmsbury said.
stay tuned for the exciting continuation of profiles of all the artists involved in the psac studio tour.
for starters, i'll bet few people know that john j. pershing purchased  three pagosa springs lots during 1888.
there are outcasts and aristocrats, good guys and bad guys, rich and poor, outlaws and businessmen, brave and cowardly.
years later, "oran worked at pantex, amarillo, where part of the  atomic bomb was assembled.
the county is responsible for supplying culverts across the main road bed and also for driveways.
birthsbirths madison margaret greenly tyler greenly happily announces the arrival of his baby sister, madison margaret.
i thought  i'd lather up and lick it off like a popsicle.
"this was a huge  accomplishment for a community this size, doing the event for the first time,  in the rain.
it takes a lot of pluck to stick to a task that  requires walking through the rain at all hours of the night and morning, but  these folks clearly had what it takes to complete a mission.
i know when people get past a certain age, they need more sleep.
the first condition  is ordinary daytime heating.
concerning the space needs assessment, i sat in a public meeting as each  of the bidders presented an explanation of his bid, including price.
a separate crew cleaned trash from the dugouts at the nearby baseball field.
instead, he used a quirt on the steed, causing it to jump to  the side on which byrne was standing.
she asked for aug. 9 and 10 or for saturday, so that she  can be present.
frances attended the school on the hill at the corner of u.s. 160 and fifth street.
bike riders blocked roadways in construction zones and  were not stopping at (stop) lights and stop signs.
motter's mutterings by john m. motter will these foolish questions never end?
this trail is important because it's a part of a future hut and trail system, but, as of now, it is not open for motorized use.
they have obviously learned to find food in colorado."
doc, for all of his drunkenness, is the wisest of the lot, and serves as a kind of father to the orphaned dallas and ringo.
o'neal had sold the cattle to a gentleman from monte vista, and they were on their way then driving them over the range.
she weighed 4 pounds, 12 ounces and was 17-3/4 inches long.
plpoa may hire management firm by roy starling with the vast majority of its staff resigning effective tomorrow, the  pagosa lakes property owners association board of directors will meet today to  discuss the possibility of contracting with a firm from denver to manage the  association.
"one of the most important things about this case
"they didn't put away the tables (in the commons area) or clean up  mud in the building," said charles.
she was out of town monday and was unable to attend  the meeting.)
harrington noted the absence of  monitors at u.s. 160 and hot springs boulevard as well as at the intersection  of hot springs boulevard and apache street.
when completed the village center will house a  variety of retail shops and offices to serve the residents of the 26,000-acre  resort community.
during winter months, the sheep were driven by easy stages 50 to 100 miles south of the colorado/new mexico line where they were wintered.
this sculpting duo is quite unique in  the respect that they have their own foundry (an establishment in which metals  are cast and molded).
by karl isberg relay for life organizer leslie patterson set a fund-raising goal of $10,000 for the inaugural event on july 23 and 24 and by wednesday of this week she was thrilled the relay in pagosa springs had raised at least $11,836 for the american cancer society.
he had no insurance  - violation no. 2.
navajo ewes were often added to upgrade the herd, along with rambouletta rams.
by john m. motter everyone is familiar with the ringing of church bells.
about 75,000 head of lambs and a few old ewes were sold at the end of summer for an average of $3.25 a head or a total of $250,000.
okay, well now i am at the  end, goodbye pagosa springs.
in fact, i can't cover the price of my meal and they have this policeman standing over my table.
lightning passing through the atmosphere can create temperatures of  50,000 degrees fahrenheit, five times the temperature of the sun's surface,  according to pringle.
the former pershing lots are located on the southeast corner of the  intersection of pagosa and 3rd streets.
meanwhile, the gray wolf ski club is  looking for a leader for those hikers wishing to ambulate at a more leisurely  pace to smell the wild flowers.
when an event doesn't go well, it makes a difference for other  events.
the ground is normally positively charged, but can be negatively charged.
the only things they were worried  about were left turns.
please call  dan at 731-2162 if you plan to join the hike.
the scene unfolds something like  this.
colorado's department of revenue retains 3 percent of the levy, the remaining 4 percent is divided equally between the town and the county.
the relay for life began with a "victory lap" by local cancer survivors.
when the shelter gets way overcrowded, which is often, someone takes  them to the dumb friends league in denver, but that only gives them a second  chance.
" "mumble, mumble," from dad.
just as he was about to putt the ball into the hole he was hit in the  head with a golf ball, knocking him out cold.
a separate crew cleaned trash from  the dugouts at the nearby baseball field.
i'd like to see us come back to pagosa.
in those days, each county had a  superintendent of schools who presided over the many school districts.
patterson's  name was associated with the building for many years.
the person asking the question is looking straight into your unblinking brown eyes.
seems like no matter how much  room there is, folks have got to learn to live together.
david 25 years ago schutz sinks first hole in one taken from sun files of aug. 1, 1974 harold schutz, chairman of the county commissioners and a chromo  rancher, is the first golfer to make a hole in one at the pagosa golf club.
" all of the released lynx have radio collars.
a lot going on at pioneer museum
since tuesday of last week i've tried to juggle my responsibilities as  editor and as a host.
if you would like to talk to  these folks, just call 264-6846.
the friend wanted to know.
thank you, jean frisbie no justice dear editor, my son was in a minor accident july 3 when this attorney opened his pickup door into through traffic.
it would serve no purpose to repeat all of the provisions of the open meetings law here, even if we had space.
good-bye pagosae mail good-bye pagosa dear editor, being a resident of archuleta county was the absolute best that god could ever do for me.
it was directed by john ford, considered by film scholars as one of the old american masters of cinematic art.
by the end of june last year, receipts of  $1,570,625 had been recorded.
ringo is picked up early in the trip (he's had to  euthanize his horse) and promptly arrested by sheriff curly wilcox (george  bancroft).
" a few years ago, i attended the funeral of a former friend.
they filmed many smiling faces with our heaven-sent volunteers working  harder than expected.
by remaining on their feet, people avoid exposing more body surface to  the ground lightning.
donations financial help came from james and barbara corboy, sid and phyllis martin in memory of leda hubert, paul and mary alice behrents in memory of leda hubert and mary daltroff's granddaughter natalie.
now showing at the pagosa springs arts council gallery in town park,  "gifts from the mother," a two-person exhibit featuring handwoven  items of all natural materials, created by donna brooks.
some of the people you have given them to may  not want them when they start getting bigger, or if they become a problem, may  dump them.
welcome to charlotte and david overley on their recent associate membership.
in his exterior shots, you can see forever, around and beyond the massive 1,000-foot buttes on the valley's floor.
nelson chaired the meeting in the absence of plpoa president nan rowe,  who told the sun she couldn't make the meeting because she "was in chicago  until late sunday night, and we had house guests monday morning.
but as predicted in a maligned pre-election editorial, other than names, not much changed in the tumultuous and expensive operation of the property owners group.
as the potato decays, the wart disappears.
we're all a little overwhelmed with the magnitude of the occasion.
can you help?" talk about foolish questions.
the law does not require meeting in executive session simply because the subject matter fits one of the four stated categories.
i share this with you just so you will know that our secret is out.
when the rest of them gave their two-week notices,  there was no time to hire another general manager and office staff.
instead, i'd like to reflect on a poor little western that was  handicapped by a lack of computer-generated special effects.
her body was discovered about 11 a.m., but she  was probably hit several hours earlier.
please join us for the reception of this truly cultural festivity on  aug. 5, from 5 to 7 p.m. refreshments will be provided.
when asked why i want a job i answer, "because i need income."
the suit seeks $9,800 in damages in a civil action.
because of  the curvature of the earth, the beam averages over 27,000 feet above mean sea  level by the time it reaches pagosa springs.
thanks to the sheriff's department decision to grant them limited  authority as level-3 deputies, the association's over paid and over-equipped  safety office is authorized to issue traffic citations within the subdivisions  included in the association.
his five days of work must be complete by sept. 1." newton said another of the young men who entered a guilty plea will complete five miles of trail work on the san juan national forest while two other members of the group will each perform 20 hours of general maintenance work at the pagosa ranger district office building in downtown pagosa springs.
we asked that tents be pitched on the soccer field and we found tents on the newly-sodded areas next to the building.
clancy would say only that she was  "looking for something that uses my education and experience a little more  thoroughly than this job has."
the  privilege of attending or not attending the church of our choice is among the  most cherished of american freedoms.
for the year of 1999, 15.5 inches of rain have been measured through  july 27.
last year, october, with $450,990 in sales tax collections, was the leading month.
dallas turns out to be the typical  tart with a heart, unselfishly caring for one of the other passengers who i'll  mention later.
why can't we all realize that animals feel pain and have feelings too?
mary's friend trish,  who is a professional dancer, helped put on a lively show for story time.
they  paid one custodian for 12 of the hours they were here and paid another employee  for 24 hours in conjunction with the meals."
- approval of a proposed intergovernmental agreement with hinsdale county for law enforcement and emergency services was postponed based on advice from holthus.
from the moment you examine one of the many pieces, whether it be a deer  skin pouch, an elk skin rattle garnished with a lovely pheasant feather, or my  personal favorite - intricately woven pine needle baskets - you soon realize  the amount of time, patience and creativity donna has emitted into each  thoughtful work.
they should take great care not to create  such an impression.
this is violation no. 1.
because the cooling atmosphere releases energy, vertical convection currents  are created.
during the last two weeks, 2.54 inches of  rain have fallen in pagosa springs, more at selected spots in the high country.
according to charles, the school district agreed to allow tour  participants to use select parts of the high school property "because it  was a charitable event and because the organizer told me there would be only  400 to 500 people at the high school.
it was always fun for me, and moving away from it was also the hardest thing to do, to live where i loved was just a gift.
according to records in the archuleta county courthouse, on june 1,  1888, the u.s. land office in durango received from john j. pershing of fort  stanton, n.m ., $15 in full for lots 13, 14, and 15 of block 28, each  containing 50 by 150 feet.
the first engine from that line, which connected pagosa springs with  pagosa junction, rolled into town on a saturday night, oct. 9, 1900.
i can't hear clearly, so i walk into the  kitchen.
i would first of all say that i have had a great summer, but have missed you all atrociously.
the relay for life began with a "victory lap" by local cancer  survivors.
the plans for the pioneer museum are to repair and stabilize the water holding tanks.
- during 1913, an estimated 105,000 head of sheep grazed on u.s. forest  service land in archuleta county.
that's when plans for that day's hike are confirmed and car pooling arrangements are made.
for july of this year, the county received $156,575 and the town the same amount.
by remaining on their feet, people avoid exposing more body surface to the ground lightning.
work on eightmile mesa road to start august 15 by john m. motter the rebuilding of eightmile mesa road should start aug. 15 and be  completed within 30 days, according to county manager dennis hunt.
i would like to say a special hello to andrea archuleta, sunni goodrich, mike valdez, mark ginn (the funniest guy alive), mia vanhorn, the richey's, the staff at the rolling pin (you guys were great to us), sarah blackman, ashley snow, stephany montoya and ashley lord.
stay tuned for the exciting continuation of profiles of all the artists  involved in the psac studio tour.
it should be clear to all citizens that the press has no special privileges relevant to open meetings or freedom of information.
later frances  played three years for the silent movies at the local theater.
or they may not spay or neuter their animal either and then many  more will be added who will not necessarily find good homes, if they survive.
the mishap occurred near the top of the pass.
"all of the youngsters have to go at their own expense and under  our supervision to reseed and rehabilitate the area they damaged," said  newton, "and the work must be complete by sept. 1.
tracy used to be one of our best customers years ago.
it must be an eight-hour job for the top administrator to manage all the managers, assistants, clerks and aides that fill the lower links on the chain of command in the administration office.
may i play through,  please?
an especially severe storm tuesday evening caused weather observers in the national weather service office in grand junction to issue a severe thunderstorm warning at about 5 p.m. such warnings indicate possible high winds, large hail, and intensive localized rainfall.
"the silence of the other  board members in response was deafening.
rowe told the sun that nell did come to her with problems concerning the board.
we were especially pleased to find  tracy allen, hired as the county's new financial officer.
chamber news by sally hameisterchamber news by sally hameister pagosa keeps showing up in the news
loma linda developer fred schmidt and the county, along with two  adjoining property owners, are involved in the project.
even though  church doors have swung open each sunday for the last 2,000 years, many  churches still ring the bells each sunday morning.
you may have a copy of this brochure too.
i can't hear clearly, so i walk into the kitchen.
does the top person have a secretary?
sales tax at record pace
it was always fun for me, and  moving away from it was also the hardest thing to do, to live where i loved was  just a gift.
with the vast majority of its staff resigning effective tomorrow, the pagosa lakes property owners association board of directors will meet today to discuss the possibility of contracting with a firm from denver to manage the association.
in a parallel vein, almost everyone is familiar with another of those  cherished freedoms, the open meetings and open records laws.
only my son, the owner, and the policeman remained in the room.
" charles said tour organizers "did not contact us when they arrived in town.
next up is roberto and ana garcia.
how do these people from  their various backgrounds and with their differing agendas survive the long  journey through hostile territory in the wild, wild west?
his given  name was felix and he arrived in pagosa country during 1878, having reached the  swashbuckling age of 19 years.
it is also true, if business comes in after the agenda is posted and  the county manager feels that business needs action, the commissioners often  vote on that item even though it is not on the agenda.
we like to do these things if people are responsible, but not with the way  these people did it, at the expense of the schools.
he said the intersection at u.s. 160 and hot springs boulevard is "a controlled intersection" with a stop light and said he saw no problems with traffic caused by tour participants.
as a christian artist, deborah feels that by working from photographs and slides she is able to capture the spirit of the individual.
but amazingly enough, they still love people and with work, they are  coming out of it.
our local county transit system has informed us that the route will soon service the senior center, san juan basin health and head start.
persons trapped outside should  find the lowest available ground and avoid trees or other high objects which  attract lightning.
emily creates masterpieces made of granite, marble, tile, stained glass, as well as recycled goods and broken dishes.
he said the intersection at u.s. 160 and hot springs  boulevard is "a controlled intersection" with a stop light and said  he saw no problems with traffic caused by tour participants.
i assure you that this year's balloon rally is going to be nothing short of spectacular and you will want your (business) name on one of the 46 balloons ascending on two mornings.
on the  inside there is a large case for changing displays.
in august of that same year, she married oran coffee.
"we picked up both carcasses and delivered them to fort collins for a necropsy.
after the second or third ring you decide you are  not suffering from a nightmare; the telephone really is ringing.
as a  christian artist, deborah feels that by working from photographs and slides she  is able to capture the spirit of the individual.
births madison margaret greenly tyler greenly happily announces the arrival of his baby sister, madison  margaret.
community news local chatter by kate terrycommunity news local chatter by kate terry
they have two  children and another in the oven.
"based on our experiences this year, we continue to supply them with data.
"we asked them not to go into the gym and we asked that no one wearing cleats be allowed in the building.
i don't think anyone  missed our mention on nationwide television with the "good morning,  america" show a few months back and the beat goes on.
the last hike for this season is sept. 28.
analysis of the lynx release program is underway.
" charles reported the number of tour participants at the site was far greater than organizers promised and said it took six district custodians five hours to clean the interior of the school.
his employer will be six  hours away in denver."
"we'll be sending $12,000 per month out of our local economy and up to denver," she said.
asa poor was the first station manager.
last year, october, with $450,990 in sales tax  collections, was the leading month.
locally, several violations of open meetings laws have occurred recently.
art of the hopi an upcoming exhibit celebrating the art of the hopi reservation will  open on aug. 5, at the psac gallery.
second, they delayed  releases until spring weather conditions increased the availability of more  volume and a greater variety of food for the hunting cats.
president rowe also opposes farming out the association's management.
i also have an extremely abused ausie mix that, i believe, has been  kicked so much and so hard that this has caused physical and mental problems.
when you have to go and fix what you've  done, and see how much time and money it takes to repair this type of damage,  it's not so much fun anymore.
"look for a 30 percent chance of afternoon and evening  thundershowers through the weekend," klenk said.
"we picked up both carcasses  and delivered them to fort collins for a necropsy.
the county's portion is apportioned among the general fund, road  and bridge fund, and road improvement fund.
i hope they'll be able to return to pagosa for another visit soon.
they filmed many smiling faces with our heaven-sent volunteers working harder than expected.
materials came from jean sparks, medora bass, donald mowen, rosemary and  don horstman, evelyn kantas, scotty gibson, penny follett, mary hannah, joan  seielstad, tom schoemig, julie gates, carol muratides, jane slaughter, windsor  chacey, pat jackson, richard miller and jeanne simpson.
i hope they are enjoying themselves as much as i enjoy  having them visit.
persons counting 30 seconds or less, that equals six miles, should  take cover.
united way did a filmed documentary that day on the life of myrtle  hopper and how the services of the senior center give her independence and make  her lifestyle possible in the atmosphere where she lives.
such silly conversation could be filed away under the heading of "foolish questions," the title of a country western song i once heard.
the pattern of recurring thunderstorms should continue through august,  according to pringle.
first of all, it is so extremely important to spay and  neuter your dogs and cats, especially the females, so that there are not so  many more unwanted animals added to our already over-burdened pet population.
a year has passed and folks are still  creating full-page "chicken little" advertisements to warn their  neighbors the sky is falling.
instead, the builder will install downward-pointing lights on the buildings.
the upper portions of thunderclouds contain positive electrical energy, while the lower portions, below the freezing level, contain negative electrical energy.
the commissioners listened to a suggestion from tom o'hare that water rights and their availability be included in the county master plan.
almost secondary to the growth of these intriguing characters are the  typical western plot devices: the terrorizing of the group by geronimo and his  posse, escaped from the reservation; and a final showdown between ringo and the  dirty rotten plummer boys.
david c. mitchell dear folks by david c. mitchell tuning thy neighbor's piano dear folks, nothing enhances my appreciation of pagosa springs more than hosting  out-of-town visitors.
it's about 3 miles from some public campgrounds and 5 miles from a heavily-traveled, paved u.s. highway.
there were 276 children signed up for the program this summer - 67 girls  and 44 boys - and 111 actually finished their contracts.
nelson chaired the meeting in the absence of plpoa president nan rowe, who told the sun she couldn't make the meeting because she "was in chicago until late sunday night, and we had house guests monday morning.
with your ticket, you will receive an exclusive map of the artists'  studio locations, allowing you to choose who you would like to see and when,  keeping in mind the tour begins at 10 a.m. and wraps up at 5 p.m. don't miss  this rare opportunity to see some of pagosa springs' greatest artists in their  working environments.
we can now add to that list an extremely complimentary article that  appeared in the june/july edition of "sw aviator" written by greg  gibson.
and again, please spay and neuter your dogs and cats.
with your ticket, you will receive an exclusive map of the artists' studio locations, allowing you to choose who you would like to see and when, keeping in mind the tour begins at 10 a.m. and wraps up at 5 p.m. don't miss this rare opportunity to see some of pagosa springs' greatest artists in their working environments.
this summer pattern is identified as the monsoon season  by the grand junction weather people.
hikes for the rest of the season are: opel lake via v-rock trail, aug. 10; turkey creek falls, aug. 17; table mountain, aug. 24; little blanco trail, aug. 31; alberta peak, sept. 7; leche creek trail, sept. 14; bonita pass-silver mountain, sept. 21; chama basin (to see the fall colors)
the pagosa springs lots purchased by pershing were apparently not sold during the 1885 government auction of pagosa springs town lots.
prior agreed to send a deputy, because she will not be able to attend the hearings.
we're all praying for your speedy recovery thelma, hurry back soon.
everyone showed up with umbrellas and with bells on.
newton identified two  local adults charged in the case as benjamin murphy, 21, and jacob egg, 20.
you are invited to create your own gift basket with the many selections available.
a peculiarity of the plat and sale was that only measured lots were sold.
they said they would have a traffic monitor at the intersection of south 8th street and u.s. 160 to direct bikers to the high school.
once inside (in the stagecoach or in little outpost cabins), however, you have the film's major characters squeezed together, rubbing shoulders, knocking knees and smelling each other's breath.
"i got the impression," said volger, "they (tour  organizers) didn't want to talk to anyone.
sunday afternoon we hiked the continental divide trail from the wolf  creek pass crest up to the top of alberta peak.
the bicycle tour of colorado was held to benefit rocky mountain public  broadcasting which operates public television stations krma in denver and krmj  in grand junction.
upon learning of the five resignations, i had to ask myself, who thought  up the titles for all these positions?
the second condition is the release of latent heat  as convection currents carry warm air containing water upward into colder  temperatures.
a meeting is any kind of gathering convened to discuss public business, in person, by telephone, electronically or by other means of communication.
in fact, i can't cover the price of my meal and they have  this policeman standing over my table.
"they postponed the decision for six months while they gather additional data," malmsbury said.
organization, or the lack of organization, say dissatisfied local officials, was at the root of several problems.
on the way home after the funeral, i met another friend who inquired about my formal attire.
the  commissioners recommended that the builders pave the driveway and parking lot  at such time as the access road, cloman boulevard, is paved.
the law does not  require meeting in executive session simply because the subject matter fits one  of the four stated categories.
the lumber milling plant had a capacity of 80,000 feet per day and  included a planing mill and box factory.
above the tropopause, temperatures become warmer instead of colder.
senior news by dennis martinez seniors' scrabble board awaits thelma's return due to illness, for the past two weeks mrs. thelma risinger has been unable to write her "senior citizens news" column which is a very important means for informing our local senior citizens and their families of the senior citizens center's important services to the community.
"i didn't wake you, did i dad?" "not completely," i answer.
by the time byrne died in 1932, he had lived in  pagosa country about 54 years.
consequently, clouds must be higher than 27,000 feet to be detected by the sweeping radar beam.
the trail connects the turkey springs area with the first fork road, located along the piedra river west of chimney rock.
he will not return phone calls to the pagosa springs police department or to myself.
so far, lynx from the release have been detected as far south as 50 miles inside of new mexico, as far east as the sangre de cristo mountains, as far west as mancos, and as far north as the vail area.
she weighed 7 pounds, 7 ounces and was 18 1/4 inches long.
they read 2,700 books in the six-week period.
a lot of thought went into the penalties for these youngsters.
it seems that j.p. archuleta, one of the archuleta family for whom the county is named, swore out a warrant before justice chase charging l.d. o'neal with the theft of 16 head of cattle.
the paper picked us to finish next to last in our league, yet we ended up third.
whopper thunderstorms leave pagosa soggy by john m. motter powerful thunderstorms swelled by towering cumulus clouds, spectacular  lightning, and booming thunderclaps swept across archuleta county almost daily  this past week.
instead, i'd like to reflect on a poor little western that was handicapped by a lack of computer-generated special effects.
fresh was buried in one of the largest funeral ceremonies in recent years.
today's meeting, at 2 p.m. in the pagosa lakes clubhouse, will be a  continuation of a discussion that began monday at 8 a.m. that meeting ended  when acting-president john nelson suggested the board retire to a closed  executive session to discuss personnel matters with members of the outgoing  staff.
newton reported that each suspect who entered a guilty plea was assessed  a small fine by the court and each agreed to do public service work for the  u.s. forest service.
" volger said tour organizers did not respond to a request he made in a  letter dated march 15 in which he asked for clarification of event plans.
second, they delayed releases until spring weather conditions increased the availability of more volume and a greater variety of food for the hunting cats.
" the complaint by charles that there was little contact between the  school district and tour organizers was dismissed as false by powell.
they begin to  move up from the south in march or april and reached the lambing grounds during  the latter part of april.
david c. mitchell dear folks by david c. mitchelldear folks by david c. mitchell tuning thy neighbor's piano dear folks, nothing enhances my appreciation of pagosa springs more than hosting out-of-town visitors.
on a related subject, the commissioners regularly vote on items obscurely listed on the agenda as "county manager's report," "unfinished business" or "other business.
that's when plans for that day's hike are confirmed  and car pooling arrangements are made.
executive sessions are allowed only to consider security matters, property matters, to receive legal advice from an attorney or certain personnel matters.
" thompson, cox and sanft declined to speak at this time about the reasons for or the timing of their resignations.
entertainment was provided on friday night by the cranks.
why lie and say i want the job because i just can't wait to go to work or some other equally stupid answer?
the senior citizens second "picnic in the park" of the summer was scheduled for july 16, due to bad weather and unsafe conditions it was held at the el centro dining room.
in my eight-year tenure here, i  don't remember that many consecutive rainy days, but i confess that i am  thoroughly enjoying the lush green landscapes that result from such excessive  moisture.
on july  30 and 31, the rocky mountain antiquarian booksellers association will hold a  book fair in denver at the merchandise mart.
catching up on some old news, the senior of the week for the week of  july 12 was lena bowden.
they specialize in homemade products produced locally to include  jams, jellies, syrups, toppings and fruit butters.
fortunately, the affable and naive ringo is there to  treat dallas like an actual human being.
lightning passing through the atmosphere can create temperatures of 50,000 degrees fahrenheit, five times the temperature of the sun's surface, according to pringle.
on the way  home after the funeral, i met another friend who inquired about my formal  attire.
i submit that no citizen, even with a copy of the agenda which is posted according to law at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, could reasonably anticipate a commissioner action taken under such a non-descriptive heading.
well, the main purpose of this letter is to remember you all.
the intense heating of the atmosphere creates a shock wave, identified by the familiar thunderclaps.
3) a requirement for paved sidewalks on both street frontages was waived to allow a gravel sidewalk on one side only.
in my eight-year tenure here, i don't remember that many consecutive rainy days, but i confess that i am thoroughly enjoying the lush green landscapes that result from such excessive moisture.
mrs. green was the only lady in dulce who knew how to play, and she was deaf.
according to u.s. forest service law enforcement agent roger newton of the pagosa ranger district, five local residents were charged on june 2 with unreasonably damaging land, vegetation or resources on the forest.
i know that i have left out so many others that i would just love to say "thanks" but being so far apart, i can't.
also featured are the  landscape paintings of area newcomer tom holt.
nine teams with 134 team participants began their overnight relays at 6  p.m. on july 23 at town park.
meanwhile, the gray wolf ski club is looking for a leader for those hikers wishing to ambulate at a more leisurely pace to smell the wild flowers.
the  reason public bodies are allowed to hold secret negotiation meetings is to  prevent bidders from learning each other's prices and running their bids up or  down.
schmidt is responsible for rebuilding the primary road bed stretching approximately between u.s. 84 and the entrance to the loma linda subdivisions.
pre-publication cost is $20.
"the rumor that they were heading north, trying to get back to their  alaska or canada homes, is simply not true.
we do not know what fate the justice system granted o'neal, but we know his bond was set at $1,500.
being able to spend some protracted time enjoying the nearby national  forests raised some questions about the "san juan citizens alliance."
- a resolution was approved endorsing a plan by property owners in the  lower blanco basin to clean up the shoulders and ditches along lower blanco  road.
the commissioners recommended that the builders pave the driveway and parking lot at such time as the access road, cloman boulevard, is paved.
consequently, clouds must be  higher than 27,000 feet to be detected by the sweeping radar beam.
holthus  replied that "we are negotiating with schmidt," and "we want to  feel free to say things to schmidt we wouldn't want to say in public.
the outcasts, for example, are dr. josiah boone (thomas mitchell), an  alcoholic physician; dallas (claire trevor), a lady of the late afternoon and  evening; and the ringo kid (john wayne), an escaped convict.
the horse fell and o'neal continued another 20 feet before uniting with  the ground in a heap somewhat separate from the horse.
the program for that evening will be ron from  switchback mountain gear and apparel who will give a rundown on what's new in  the world of sports relative to equipment.
trail work the pagosa springs trails council, an amalgamation of local area trail user groups, worked on the monument park trail this past weekend.
we're delighted to welcome two new members this week and as an aside, to welcome the sun back to pagosa.
the most annoying questions come during those 2 a.m. telephone calls, especially the ones from your adult children.
i assure you that this year's balloon rally is going to be nothing short of  spectacular and you will want your (business) name on one of the 46 balloons  ascending on two mornings.
" "oh, don't be a smart aleck," mom said with disgust.
in the long  run, public business cannot be conducted without public approval.
he was there  when pancho villa attacked the town.
"i just like the taste of soap.
they have  contracts with him and a law suit pending to ensure he complies with the  contracts.
emily tholberg is also one of the many artists.
both lynx are among those released this past winter in the san juan mountains as part of a dow plan to reintroduce lynx into colorado.
our new director, cindy archuleta, was interviewed about her position and responsibilities.
fort stanton was the young lieutenant's first duty station after graduating from west point.
her work is produced using watercolor  techniques.
- during 1920, the unincorporated town of edith, located in archuleta  county on the navajo river about 25 miles south of pagosa springs, boasted of a  hotel, company store, public hall (for the knights of pythias), post office,  light plant, and a big lumber mill owned at the time by mcphee and mcginnity of  denver and e.m. biggs.
the commissioners have been meeting and  negotiating with schmidt for years concerning eightmile mesa road.
"the administrative staff  was unhappy with one of the board members and that board member's relationship  with the staff.
" the list goes on and on and includes questions asked on employment forms and credit applications.
welcome to charlotte and david overley on their recent associate  membership.
they paid one custodian for 12 of the hours they were here and paid another employee for 24 hours in conjunction with the meals." one of the more significant promises made by the tour organizer, said charles, was that "they would have a large clean-up crew.
she did refer,  however, to difficulty in accounting caused by "the treasurer moving money  without the staff being informed."
my hope is i can bring the knowledge i gained back now that about 20 to 25 high schools in colorado are sponsoring boy's volleyball."
the following comments are john motter's analysis on what i consider to be some elected officials' failure to comply with colorado's open meeting laws.
but amazingly enough, they still love people and with work, they are coming out of it.
a  peculiarity of the plat and sale was that only measured lots were sold.
still, repeating a few of the provisions of that law seems to be in order.
ana chooses to work in smaller, tabletop sculptures, while roberto takes on colossal life size statues.
persons should avoid being the highest object around.
on that same date, mrs. ida hodgsen, also from fort stanton, purchased lots 16 and 17 of block 48 for $10.
seems like no matter how much room there is, folks have got to learn to live together.
david durkee was appointed to the upper san juan regional planning  commission board, thereby filling all vacancies on that voluntary body.
pagosa springs is mentioned in regard to  everything ranging from our great ski season last year, to retirement location,  to y2k readiness, to a fitness forum in arkansas at which ming steen spoke.
the release of wolverines has been postponed indefinitely by the dow.
byrne was the county's first superintendent of schools.
they go beyond their types and thus surprise us, making us doubt our ability to peg people at first peek.
a request that the requirement for a final plat be waived was denied.
i also found myself wondering about how many similar positions exist in the association's public safety office.
following  the meeting, i wrote a news story on the presentations, including estimated  costs.
"the administrative staff was unhappy with one of the board members and that board member's relationship with the staff.
marrie was elected to  membership in epsilon kappa epsilon, the biola university scholarship honors  society.
studio tour mark your calendars for one of august's biggest events.
buckles moved to arizona, where he passed away.
additional information about the case was subsequently provided to his office by sources in the community.
it's over another summer reading program is all wrapped up.
trail work the pagosa springs trails council, an amalgamation of local area trail  user groups, worked on the monument park trail this past weekend.
the  plaintiff alleges that because of the dismissal she has since been unable to  obtain a job.
by 1920, the easy timber in that corner of the county had been logged and small, scattered stands kept the mill's saws buzzing.
san juan outdoor club will hold its august meeting on thursday, aug. 5  at 7 p.m. in the parish hall.
afterwards frances found herself  attending a makeshift school at the baptist church while a new school was  constructed.
the good news is that both had body fat along with food in their stomachs.
fresh was buried in one  of the largest funeral ceremonies in recent years.
the property owners, dick ray and jack adams, are responsible for installing right of way fences using materials supplied by schmidt.
the initial releases were made near wagon wheel gap between creede and  south fork during february.
the artists participating  in this terrific fundraiser for the arts council are as follows: deborah  robinson, roberto and ana garcia, cappy and monica white, emily tholberg, linda  lerno, kent gordon, virginia bartlett, soledad estrada-leo, betty slade, joe  leal, kathleen wolfe, and john and sandy applegate.
during an earlier first step of the appeal process, the property owners presented their case to the assessor.
they also sent a list of regional bookstores that deal in rare books.
"a lot of circumstances could have  been different . . .
people had entered the wrestling room when we had asked that it remain closed.
" powell responded wednesday by phone to questions about the experience in pagosa springs.
just so you know,  this year's wine and cheese event will be named, "black, white and red all  over."
the first-ever psac artists studio tour will take place on aug. 14.
some very sick person has obviously taken his frustrations out on this helpless  animal and he will suffer for the rest of his life from the abuse he has  received.
doc and dallas are  on the stagecoach because they've been driven out of town by the nice ladies of  tonto's law and order league.
last week, 1.09 inches of rain were recorded at the official weather station located at stevens field.
concerning schmidt's portion of the work, a $93,250 contract has been let with u-can afford.
still, repeating a few of the  provisions of that law seems to be in order.
the reason public bodies are allowed to hold secret negotiation meetings is to prevent bidders from learning each other's prices and running their bids up or down.
in the long run, public business cannot be conducted without public approval.
the variances granted are: 1) a requirement that driveways and parking lots be paved was waived because roads entering and within the industrial park are not paved.
volger said organizers did not contact his department when the tour was in town.
" i ask you, is there no end to these foolish questions?
madison was welcomed home by her proud parents, thomas and julie  greenly.
betty and bill gibbons also donated in memory of mary's granddaughter.
the variances granted are: 1) a requirement that driveways and parking lots be paved was waived  because roads entering and within the industrial park are not paved.
the three "status quo" candidates in fact did  "go" once the votes were tallied at the annual election.
the  young couple moved to amarillo, texas, where they raised a family of four  daughters.
i just can't be held  responsible when they subsequently fall in love and decide to move here.
the crocodiles are on display at the library along with some of the  haiku poetry and collages made by these wonderful young artists.
work on eightmile mesa road to start august 15 by john m. motter the rebuilding of eightmile mesa road should start aug. 15 and be completed within 30 days, according to county manager dennis hunt.
say, i've just found the greatest restaurant.
persons counting 30 seconds or less, that equals six miles, should take cover.
it's just  setting in, but everyone's already talking about next year.
"under those circumstances, we have no choice but to hold the hearings by aug. 5," crabtree said.
property owners are invited to attend.
legacies by shari pierce memories of days gone by on tuesday, july 20, i visited mrs. frances rock coffee and her  daughter, ilah.
after telling the byrne story, the newspaper editor completed his column  with the following, unrelated item.
legacies by shari pierce memories of days gone by on tuesday, july 20, i visited mrs. frances rock coffee and her daughter, ilah.
organization, or the lack of organization, say dissatisfied local  officials, was at the root of several problems.
if they  had been in touch us, we could have discussed arrangements other than the ones  we originally made with them, but i couldn't locate a contact person.
you'll recall that the last two years have been "an evening in  black and white" and "an evening in black and white: the  sequel."
" the first man angrily gave the card back, and communicated that  "no, he may not play through, and that his handicap did not give him such  a right."
fort stanton was the young lieutenant's first duty  station after graduating from west point.
weather and trail  conditions can change, so hike coordinators bob tillerson and jerry sager can  never know for sure until just before each hike itself.
the first shot broke one of the  animal's legs.
sadly, my lack of interest prevents me from checking it  out.
so, please, get smart and find some compassion  in your hearts and stop adding to our already overpopulated pet world.
" harrington said the problems reflect poorly on local cyclists who do not appreciate a negative image for their favorite activity and on other cycle tours (such as ride the rockies, which has been through the area twice) whose organizers "come in at least a year ahead, contact everyone and make sure plans are in place that will work."
the county's portion is apportioned among the general fund, road and bridge fund, and road improvement fund.
this company is very well thought of, has been around for a long time, and has managed 50 or so other associations in the state.
by john m. motteroldtimer
sixty-seven locals and many visitors were served  faithfully by our wonderful kitchen staff.
that meeting ended when acting-president john nelson suggested the board retire to a closed executive session to discuss personnel matters with members of the outgoing staff.
if they had been in touch us, we could have discussed arrangements other than the ones we originally made with them, but i couldn't locate a contact person.
"that storm was a whopper," said jim pringle, a forecaster  from the grand junction office.
and there will always be another director who is willing to help  micro-manage the operation.
the food is great, but the prices  are a little steep.
because wool sold for 12 cents  a pound, archuleta county income from the sale of wool amounted to about  $50,000.
what i've described so far conveys the film's real dramatic conflict,  even though it doesn't sound much like a western.
the upper portions of thunderclouds contain positive electrical energy,  while the lower portions, below the freezing level, contain negative electrical  energy.
july's long-time average rainfall is 1.63 inches.
folks who are willing to invest the sweat and accept the soreness can hike into such areas, but they are not reached by maintained roads.
we thought pagosa was  a pretty good stop; obviously you didn't.
lightning sometimes travels along the surface of the ground.
dixie marie was welcomed home by her big sister natashja.
by ming steen gray wolf ski club staying busy hiking plpoa board of directors will hold a special meeting today at 2 p.m. in the pagosa lakes clubhouse to discuss the proposed contract with colorado management, a private management firm, and to explore other options that may be available.
the  topic for executive session must be announced to the public.
mary's friend trish, who is a professional dancer, helped put on a lively show for story time.
the total revenue  from sheep for the year was about $300,000.
she also played for the school and the town orchestras.
collections for june of this year amounted to $313,150, or 16.96 percent ahead of the $267,751 collected during june of 1998.
she did refer, however, to difficulty in accounting caused by "the treasurer moving money without the staff being informed."
since we've used  contracts specifying reading books at the proper grade level, the actual  reading has been more realistic.
persons caught on open ground without cover should curl up in a ball, but  remain on their feet.
you may feast your eyes on tom and donna's exhibit right here through aug. 4.
i don't think anyone missed our mention on nationwide television with the "good morning, america" show a few months back and the beat goes on.
also, the pioneer museum will soon have available another volume of  "remembrances" (a series of local histories) that has stories about  logging, ranching, and businesses in this area.
"the only thing the company is providing," ebeling said, "is a computer-generated accounting service.
for  senior information updated weekly, call 264-news (6397) ext.
the shelter has a  fund to help with this if you cannot afford it.
leah levitan people marrie swanson marrie swanson, daughter of jerry and joan driesens of pagosa springs,  has graduated magna cum laude from biola university in la mirada, calif. on may  29, 1999, with a bachelor of arts degree in sociology.
- several variances were approved for a planned unit development located  on lot 9 at cloman industrial park.
"this sounds great," you say.
any public body which creates the  impression that it is hiding from the public is in big trouble.
i left a message asking them to contact me and they didn't.
harrington's comments about a lack of marshals at major intersections  were dismissed by powell.
the sidewalk on that side enters a  common green area.
"i went to nan on all these issues, but basically nothing  changed," nell replied.
the commissioners followed the recommendations of the planning commission concerning the variances.
to place an order call the museum at 264-4424.
the wolf creek lynx was a female that had been trapped in alaska and released may 10.
by john m. motter a canadian lynx died friday morning on wolf creek pass after being  struck by a hit-and-run motorist.
colorado division of wildlife biologists were  notified of the feline's untimely death by a motorist who noticed the animal's  body lying along the shoulder of the highway.
"i went to nan on all these issues, but basically nothing changed," nell replied.
by the end of june last year, receipts of $1,570,625 had been recorded.
a man was about to tee off when he felt a tap on his shoulder and a man handed him a card that read, "i am a deaf mute.
the film's alleged respectable figures are a bank president,
he said he was unaware that cyclists had entered the  wrestling room and suggested there would have been no tents on newly-sodded  lawns if the district had roped off those areas.
his article is a chamber of commerce dream come true because he addresses just about all of the area attractions that we would normally spend thousands of dollars extolling in all the various mediums.
during july of 1957, 5.78 inches or  rain fell, the record amount ever recorded during july in pagosa springs.
the second condition is the release of latent heat as convection currents carry warm air containing water upward into colder temperatures.
the following comments are john  motter's analysis on what i consider to be some elected officials' failure to  comply with colorado's open meeting laws.
you can't miss these folks  as you head west from town on put hill with their white tent and fresh  offerings.
veteran pillsbury spokes-model pop n. fresh died yesterday of a severe yeast infection.
first, they held the animals longer in pens, ensuring that they were in good condition.
in general, all bodies formed by the public or appointed by public bodies are subject to open meetings laws.
my hope is i can  bring the knowledge i gained back now that about 20 to 25 high schools in  colorado are sponsoring boy's volleyball."
it was built by frank buckles, of whom we  know quite a bit, and a mr. schutz, of whom we know little.
why lie and say i want the job because i just can't wait to go to work or some  other equally stupid answer?
damage was reported to the u.s. forest service by recreational users of  the road following an article about the incident in the sun, said newton.
i talked with the county manager in mineral county about the east fork  ranch earlier this month.
durkee joins current board members linda delyria, bobra schaeper, julia donoho, lynn constan, bob lynch, betty shahan, judy james, and ed knight from the southern ute tribe.
"if our reintroduction program is successful, there will be no need to place the lynx on the endangered list in colorado.
not all will find homes.
i'm so tickled for you i can hardly stand it." "good," answers a much-relieved number one son.
if you want to brag about the trip to friends and relatives, throw in the camera.
," said newton, "is we were able to resolve the situation as a result of a lot of public input.
first, they held the animals  longer in pens, ensuring that they were in good condition.
otherwise  the eventual new bureaucracy will continue to do all it can to justify its  existence, expand its size and increase its salaries and benefits and spend  someone else's money.
arts line by jan brookshierarts line
the commissioners are  empowered to render any decision they feel is justified.
the good news is that both  had body fat along with food in their stomachs.
item a concerned "contract  negotiations with fred schmidt regarding eightmile mesa road."
including  friday's killing, seven are now dead.
in his spare time, he had both knees operated on and hopes to be back snowboarding at wolf creek ski area this winter.
they've been joined by a fresh new soul, and the birth of miss mallory's baby may represent to english majors the rebirth of the other pilgrims.
it provides access to the loma linda subdivisions and eightmile mesa.
these sheep produced an average of four pounds of wool per year per head for a total of 420,000 pounds.
eightmile mesa road is located on the west side of u.s. 84 approximately 8 miles south of pagosa springs.
all in all, you won't want to miss a minute of this weekend.
her maternal grandparents are barton and erika cox of pagosa springs.
just like they do for weddings, you understand.
mitchell, incidentally, won  an academy award for his portrayal of doc.
every time my breathing started  sounding like a steam locamotive, my sister discreetly stopped to identify the  wild flowers or examine the interesting rocks.
a year has passed and folks are still creating full-page "chicken little" advertisements to warn their neighbors the sky is falling.
united way did a filmed documentary that day on the life of myrtle hopper and how the services of the senior center give her independence and make her lifestyle possible in the atmosphere where she lives.
please call dan at 731-2162 if you plan to join the hike.
at monday's meeting, nell said she was resigning because of  "micro-managing by the board.
she asked for aug. 9 and 10 or for saturday, so that she can be present.
the warrant was served by deputy byrne, who, when he wasn't chasing criminals, also served as county superintendent of instruction.
the parties soon landed their prisoners in jail following the excitement.
"the best test is the 'flash to sound test.'
she specializes in  mosaic work of various mediums.
a meeting is any kind of gathering  convened to discuss public business, in person, by telephone, electronically or  by other means of communication.
the wife calls from the kitchen.
one consideration for  not requiring street lights is the proximity of stevens field.
there really isn't a choice.
"how do i get tickets for  such an inspiring journey?"
mrs. dotson was preceded in death by her two sisters, sarah guzman and sophie montoya and her brother, baylor quintana.
the horse fell and o'neal continued another 20 feet before uniting with the ground in a heap somewhat separate from the horse.
" i am convinced both justifications, even if legal, are a real stretch of  the intent of the open meetings act.
including friday's killing, seven are now dead.
once inside (in the stagecoach or in little outpost cabins), however,  you have the film's major characters squeezed together, rubbing shoulders,  knocking knees and smelling each other's breath.
pershing was his commander.
a few years earlier, the railroad had reached within three miles of pagosa springs.
as the party passed the ranch of gordon grimes on their way back to town, byrne got off his horse to tighten the cinch strap.
they said they  would leave the facility clean.
hearings start at the end of the regular tuesday morning commissioners meeting at about 10 a.m. and continue through regular working hours.
they've been joined by a fresh new soul, and the birth of  miss mallory's baby may represent to english majors the rebirth of the other  pilgrims.
"i introduced myself, shook his hand and thanked him for letting us use the gymnasium."
fees to be paid by the county are $71 for individual contact for more than 30 minutes, $35 for individual contact for up to 30 minutes, $50 for group contact, and $68 for case management.
in those days, the colorado judicial system included the justice of the peace function.
prior asked the commissioners to postpone the hearings because she will  be out of town aug. 3.
the july display features the colorado mounted rangers troop f,  and the august display will possibly be one of glass work done by local talent.
persons who oppose those actions, or who simply oppose any illegal  actions by any board, may find cause to bring suit, have the actions negated  and in some instances obtain criminal sanctions against the offending board.
the san juan outdoor club through dan aupperle is coordinating a hike up to pagosa peak on sunday, aug. 8.
that judgment should always lean in the direction of holding meetings  and discussions open to the public.
261 for activities  menu or 262 for lunch menu.
just as he was about to putt the ball into the hole he was hit in the head with a golf ball, knocking him out cold.
collections for june of this year amounted to $313,150, or 16.96 percent  ahead of the $267,751 collected during june of 1998.
had to settle for making a movie based on a well  written story and focusing on interesting, well developed characters.
the structure had walls of railroad ties and burned  for several hours.
donations are needed for this restoration project.
concerning the proposed contract with colorado management and associates  inc., ebeling said he saw it "as providing interim management.
byrne then drew his winchester from its scabbard and fired at the  running horse at a distance of 100 yards.
we do not know what fate the  justice system granted o'neal, but we know his bond was set at $1,500.
mrs. dotson was born aug. 27, 1934, in calabozone, a small community  near pagosa springs.
as a legislative policy, the law avers: "it is declared to be a matter of statewide concern and the policy of this state that the formation of public policy is public business and may not be conducted in secret."
3) a requirement for paved sidewalks on both street frontages was waived  to allow a gravel sidewalk on one side only.
it should be clear to all citizens that the press has no special  privileges relevant to open meetings or freedom of information.
at a recent meeting of the pagosa area water and sanitation district board of directors, several votes and actions were taken on items not listed on the agenda.
members of the board should be reminded that such actions are  illegal.
officials at eaton international corporation, developer of pagosa in  colorado, announced today that the results of additional studies by retail  merchandising experts have convinced them to delay construction of the pagosa  village center, just off u.s. 160 west of town, while changes to the site plan  are made by the developer.
dallas sits a little too near miss mallory who is then quickly ushered away by the gallant hatfield, making the lovely young pariah feel like something the cat drug in.
one can make a onetime donation of $500 (or pay $25 a month for 3 years) and become a member of the headgate club; or make a donation of $1,000 (or $30 a month for 3 years) and become a member of the pipeline club; or make a $5,000 donation and be a member of the reservoir club; or give $10,000 and be a member of the waterwheel club.
rowe told the sun that nell did come to her with problems concerning the  board.
item a concerned "contract negotiations with fred schmidt regarding eightmile mesa road."
community news local chatter by kate terry
the senior citizens second "picnic in the park" of the summer  was scheduled for july 16, due to bad weather and unsafe conditions it was held  at the el centro dining room.
frances rock graduated from pagosa springs high school in may of 1931,  one of a class of 11.
he was not considered a very smart cookie, wasting much of his dough on half-baked schemes.
" harrington said the problems reflect poorly on local cyclists who do not  appreciate a negative image for their favorite activity and on other cycle  tours (such as ride the rockies, which has been through the area twice) whose  organizers "come in at least a year ahead, contact everyone and make sure  plans are in place that will work."
" elected public officials should serve public editor's note: having personally reported on the regular public meetings of the county commissioners, hospital district, school board and town board for many years, i know the frustration a reporter experiences when elected officials conduct public business in private.
in a parallel vein, almost everyone is familiar with another of those cherished freedoms, the open meetings and open records laws.
he addresses the glories of wolf creek ski area for both skiers and boarders, our 27-hole golf course, the san juan national forest, abundant fishing, hiking, biking, camping, bird-watching, hunting opportunities, local museums and of course, the hot springs.
i also said at the time that if the board didn't make some changes in the way it related to the staff, the result would be mass staff walkouts.
" the colorado wildlife commission authorized the reintroduction of lynx and wolverines last year.
on may 29, 1999, with a bachelor of arts degree in sociology.
- during 1913, an estimated 105,000 head of sheep grazed on u.s. forest service land in archuleta county.
i'd like to see us come back to  pagosa.
so what normally drives a western becomes only  window dressing in ford's masterpiece.
doc and dallas are on the stagecoach because they've been driven out of town by the nice ladies of tonto's law and order league.
- during 1920, the unincorporated town of edith, located in archuleta county on the navajo river about 25 miles south of pagosa springs, boasted of a hotel, company store, public hall (for the knights of pythias), post office, light plant, and a big lumber mill owned at the time by mcphee and mcginnity of denver and e.m. biggs.
the general manager who will  be down here managing the association will be under the direction of the  board." director dick hillyer said that "present department managers of  recreational amenities, lakes and fisheries, public safety and covenant  compliance will continue to run their respective departments."
a company railroad ran from lumberton, n.m., six miles to the south, and to logging camps north of edith.
the warrant was served by  deputy byrne, who, when he wasn't chasing criminals, also served as county  superintendent of instruction.
by the time byrne died in 1932, he had lived in pagosa country about 54 years.
asked how the performance of the tour organizers would affect future  requests for use of the facility, charles said: "i'm a year smarter now.
he  said he attended one meeting in durango held in conjunction with the colorado  state patrol and said a list of concerns he had was largely ignored.
"if our reintroduction  program is successful, there will be no need to place the lynx on the  endangered list in colorado.
when completed the village center will house a variety of retail shops and offices to serve the residents of the 26,000-acre resort community.
fortunately, the affable and naive ringo is there to treat dallas like an actual human being.
the information they provided allowed us to identify the parties responsible for the damage.
- approval of a proposed intergovernmental agreement with hinsdale  county regarding management of undesirable plants was postponed based on advice  from holthus.
and does the secretary have an aide or a clerk?
"they postponed the decision for six months while they gather  additional data," malmsbury said.
if you would like to fill that position or have questions regarding the tuesday hikes, please contact bob 731-5160, or jerry 731-2302.
she was born on sunday, may 16, 1999, at 7:07 a.m. in durango.
the  scrabble board is getting cold.
we will have demonstrated that they cannot  survive here.
the outcasts, for example, are dr. josiah boone (thomas mitchell), an alcoholic physician; dallas (claire trevor), a lady of the late afternoon and evening; and the ringo kid (john wayne), an escaped convict.
colorado division of wildlife biologists were notified of the feline's untimely death by a motorist who noticed the animal's body lying along the shoulder of the highway.
following the meeting, i wrote a news story on the presentations, including estimated costs.
i had some concerns, but they seemed to think they had everything taken care of.
patterson changed the name to the arlington hotel.
frances attended the school on  the hill at the corner of u.s. 160 and fifth street.
i have gotten out of touch with you all, and the truth is that i was careless, to ever think that i should move on, get new friends.
regarding the promised clean up of the school property, powell said the  tour "hired a custodian" and it was expected the work would be done  by the custodian.
with little technical wizardry at his disposal, pappy (as ford was called by his cast and crew) had to settle for making a movie based on a well written story and focusing on interesting, well developed characters.
the rest have been molded into unselfish, brave,  decent human beings.
this sculpting duo is quite unique in the respect that they have their own foundry (an establishment in which metals are cast and molded).
the same is true with fire  protection which the tax-supported pagosa fire protection district provides the  area.
they also sent a list of regional bookstores  that deal in rare books.
they should have been here in the early 1970s and saved the former john stevens ranch from becoming today's fairfield pagosa.
dozens of celebrities turned  out including mrs. butterworth, the california raisins, hungry jack, betty  crocker, chef boyardee and the hostess twinkies.
after telling the byrne story, the newspaper editor completed his column with the following, unrelated item.
e.m. biggs managed the plant and pagosa pioneer welch nossaman was assistant superintendent of the logging camps.
marrie was elected to membership in epsilon kappa epsilon, the biola university scholarship honors society.
261 for activities menu or 262 for lunch menu.
"no one got in touch."
the following story recorded in an early newspaper before the turn of the century provides ample evidence of why a sheriff would want byrne for a deputy.
her paternal grandparents are thomas and kathryn greenly of berthoud, colo. dixie marie chacon selene nevarez and al chacon are proud to announce the birth of their daughter, dixie marie chacon.
other passengers taking the long, dangerous, symbolic journey from tonto  (which means "foolish," as you probably know) to lordsburg (the  lord's town?) are the above-mentioned curly; the gentle but cowardly peacock  (donald meek), a whiskey salesman often mistaken for a preacher; hatfield (john  carradine), a decadent southern aristocrat prodigal son who boards the coach  "for the lady's protection;" and buck (andy devine), the coach's dim,  squeaky-voiced driver.
in "stagecoach," ford deftly contrasts the expansive nature of  the western landscape (the film was shot on location at nearby monument valley)
at monday's meeting, nell said she was resigning because of "micro-managing by the board.
mrs. coffee told me that she learned how to play the piano when she was  about 8 years old.
persons caught on open ground without cover should curl up in a ball, but remain on their feet.
mrs. dotson moved to prairie city, ore., in 1980 where she worked as a dietary technician at the blue mountain nursing home.
thank you, e mail good-bye pagosa dear editor, being a resident of archuleta county was the absolute best that god  could ever do for me.
following october, the next best months in  order were july with $393,335, january with $372,755, and september with  $349,915.
are two managers, an assistant, a clerk and an aide really needed to  operate a property owners association?
little frances attended school in dulce where her grandfather was  employed by e.m. biggs.
the same is true with fire protection which the tax-supported pagosa fire protection district provides the area.
pick up a  copy of the flyer at the desk.
know you are loved and please keep us in your prayers.
the wolf creek lynx death is the second in colorado caused by a motorist.
for more information call 264-2167.
hats off to the boys and girls who read this summer.
"we made the goal," said patterson.
newton said all the suspects but egg entered guilty pleas, were sentenced and were in the process of satisfying the penalties assessed by the magistrate .
according to harrington, "an important thing is that, as a  community with a tourism economy, we rely on special events to boost that  economy.
when i went down to the building, people were in the gym and people wearing cleats were walking through the building.
i just can't be held responsible when they subsequently fall in love and decide to move here.
she was born on june 29, 1999, at mercy medical  center in durango.
if you went to the shelter and saw how many are already there, you might realize what a serious problem this is.
any donation is welcomed,  regardless of how small, but there is a donation system that could help in a  mighty big way.
"art of the hopi" will run from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. tuesday through saturday, until aug. 18.
saturday morning we rode our mountain bikes up to plumtaw road as far as cottonwood creek just so we could turn around and enjoy the ride home.
the incident which led to the charges occurred in early may when the  suspects took off-road vehicles to a meadow on eightmile mesa road, south of  pagosa springs.
national weather service storm warnings are not particularly effective in pagosa country because no weather warning transmitters exist in southwest colorado.
everyone who celebrates their birthday in july should sit at our  birthday table on friday, july 30.
i realize some of what goes on is from  ignorance and even just downright stupidity, so i'm hoping to get through to  some of these people.
on june 20 of the same year, george l. scott purchased lot 11 of block 57 for $4 and thomas cruise purchased lots 13 through 17 of block 59 for $4 each.
i know, as i am fostering two  young mixed-breed female dogs who were dumped in aspen springs along with their  brother.
we  have the excellent good fortune to have found this divine place and it only  makes sense that others will follow suit.
if 1999 is like 1998, the months for collecting the largest amount from  sales tax levies still remain.
" charles said tour organizers "did not contact us when they arrived  in town.
on  july 1, schutz using a pitching wedge at hole no. 3, hit his tee shot 130 yards  for the hole in one.
adequate drinking water, a  nutritious lunch and rain gear are necessary.
congratulations to the county for picking tracy for the job.
" patterson said she wanted to thank the 12 volunteers who assisted with the event and expressed her thanks to relay participants.
during winter months, the sheep were driven by easy stages 50 to 100  miles south of the colorado/new mexico line where they were wintered.
the organizers paid us a $250 use  fee, a $250 deposit, plus $50 to use the kitchen for each of three meals.
concerning the space needs assessment, i sat in a public meeting as each of the bidders presented an explanation of his bid, including price.
inside the sun durkee named to planning board
are two managers, an assistant, a clerk and an aide really needed to operate a property owners association?
by seventh grade, the rocks had returned to pagosa springs to live.
each town we come into prospers by  $120,000 to $150,000 in revenue.
judgment is required and that brings us to a  conclusion.
by john m. motter little known facts of pagosa history some facts from pagosa country history should be filed under the heading  of "who cares?" or "i'll bet you didn't know that."
a 10-year resident of pagosa springs, durkee's work history includes 25 years in the ski industry, logging, general contracting, and time as a fishing guide.
- approval of a proposed intergovernmental agreement with hinsdale county regarding management of undesirable plants was postponed based on advice from holthus.
we appreciate the help from members of the local community.
only last week, a tourist was killed in estes park by a lightning bolt.
"this was a huge accomplishment for a community this size, doing the event for the first time, in the rain.
both lynx are among those released this past winter in the san juan  mountains as part of a dow plan to reintroduce lynx into colorado.
e.m. biggs managed the plant and  pagosa pioneer welch nossaman was assistant superintendent of the logging camps.
"the  treasurer is very dedicated to her responsibility," nelson said.
the organizers paid us a $250 use fee, a $250 deposit, plus $50 to use the kitchen for each of three meals.
the initial releases were made near wagon wheel gap between creede and south fork during february.
about this restaurant.
mrs. dotson was born aug. 27, 1934, in calabozone, a small community near pagosa springs.
"we're spending this money for a general manager, but that general manager will not be our employee.
two primary conditions are involved in the creation of thunderstorms and their attendant high energy levels, according to pringle.
on july 30 and 31, the rocky mountain antiquarian booksellers association will hold a book fair in denver at the merchandise mart.
these electrical potential differences can amount to millions of volts.
" canadian lynx killed on wolf creek pass
two lynx have been killed on the highway, one lynx was shot near antonito by an unidentified gunman, and four lynx died of starvation during the early stages of the release.
rather than being concerned about the survival of an expensive bureaucratic structure, it's time to decide what facets - such as road maintenance, recreational amenities, fisheries - are of the most concern to the overall membership of the association.
an especially severe storm tuesday evening caused weather observers in  the national weather service office in grand junction to issue a severe  thunderstorm warning at about 5 p.m. such warnings indicate possible high  winds, large hail, and intensive localized rainfall.
san juan outdoor club will hold its august meeting on thursday, aug. 5 at 7 p.m. in the parish hall.
he said that other than an informal meeting between the piano creek proponents and the county commissioners, nothing in the way of preliminary plans have been prepared or submitted.
what negotiations remained that should be hidden from the public?
for july, the general fund received  $62,630, the road and bridge fund $15,660, and the road improvement fund  $78,290.
ringo is a good-natured, good-hearted, lovable, courageous kid whose only crime was avenging the death of his father and brother at the hands of the good-for-nothing plummers.
newton said all the suspects but egg entered guilty pleas, were  sentenced and were in the process of satisfying the penalties assessed by the  magistrate .
relay walkers and runners kept up their efforts on the course for 18 hours, until the finish line was crossed at noon on july 24.
"everyone knew i was doing this for  my dad (pat patterson).
my sister, kathryn, and her husband, john lye, are visiting from st.  catharines, canada.
" colorado has asked the federal wildlife agency to consider colorado as a separate district when classifying the lynx, malmsbury said.
any donation is welcomed, regardless of how small, but there is a donation system that could help in a mighty big way.
when four of those early releases died of  starvation, the dow altered the release protocol.
- a contract with southwest colorado mental health services was renewed  providing certain mental health care for prisoners incarcerated in the  archuleta county jail.
item b  involved "review of requests for proposal regarding space needs  assessment.
a 10-year resident of pagosa springs, durkee's work history includes 25  years in the ski industry, logging, general contracting, and time as a fishing  guide.
mitchell, incidentally, won an academy award for his portrayal of doc.
by october, the may lambs reached a weight of 75 pounds and were sold to eastern feed lots.
the response was more silence."
"a lot of circumstances could have been different . . .
as a town, you'll have to weigh that out.
if the friends of the east fork valley want to be the self-appointed protector of private lands in this area, they are a little late.
it was directed by john ford,  considered by film scholars as one of the old american masters of cinematic art.
views from the top  are breathtaking.
bud mcgonagill, club pro, said that this is the first hole in one made at the club.
when four of those early releases died of starvation, the dow altered the release protocol.
by the end of june this year, $1,787,765 had been recorded, a pace that is 13.83 percent ahead of last year's record setting pace.
byrne was accompanied by lee parr and frank  brown as he served the warrant on o'neal just below the crossing of the  summitville road and four mile creek a few miles east of town.
you guys were funny, you guys kept me smiling and busy.
they represented an investment of  approximately $500,000.
the commissioners are empowered to render any decision they feel is justified.
"based on our experiences this  year, we continue to supply them with data.
my hat is off to each and every one of you involved in the relay for life with the ultimate goal of defeating cancer.
he was a fireman and thus on the safety squad.
by john m. motter with one-half of 1999 accounted for, sales tax receipts continue to fatten county and town coffers at a record pace.
her maternal grandparents are apolonia and alfredo nevarez.
in order to locate the  lynx, the collars are monitored by aircraft with radio receivers, and by  personnel traveling on the ground.
the condition of the pagosa springs high school property following the  departure of the cyclists provided even more evidence the tour had been in town.
according to u.s. forest service law enforcement agent roger newton of  the pagosa ranger district, five local residents were charged on june 2 with  unreasonably damaging land, vegetation or resources on the forest.
volunteers are needed.
the general manager who will be down here managing the association will be under the direction of the board." director dick hillyer said that "present department managers of recreational amenities, lakes and fisheries, public safety and covenant compliance will continue to run their respective departments."
fewer books were read this year, but more "hands-on" activities were enjoyed.
during july of 1957, 5.78 inches or rain fell, the record amount ever recorded during july in pagosa springs.
about 75,000 head of lambs and a few old ewes were sold at the end of  summer for an average of $3.25 a head or a total of $250,000.
adequate drinking water, a nutritious lunch and rain gear are necessary.
but gatewood is a pompous, selfish windbag who has just robbed his own bank, and miss mallory is a cold-hearted snob - even though, to her credit, it took a lot of gumption for her to be out in the frontier in her condition.
the address is san juan historical society, p.o. box 1711, pagosa springs, co 81147.
the plans for the pioneer museum are to repair and stabilize the water  holding tanks.
" true, the county manager lists many items under his portion of the agenda.
"as a general manager, i think  you've been flunking your job by not bringing staff problems to the board."
regarding the promised clean up of the school property, powell said the tour "hired a custodian" and it was expected the work would be done by the custodian.
"waynette was the first to announce her resignation and it kind of  had a trickle-down effect.
mrs. coffee grew up in and around pagosa springs and shared some of her memories with me which i will, in turn, pass on again this week.
the first shot broke one of the animal's legs.
" the list goes on and on and includes questions asked on employment forms  and credit applications.
that step of the appeal process is now closed.
luminarias devoted to the memory of cancer survivors and those who  unsuccessfully fought the disease were lit and lined the pathway on which relay
weather and trail conditions can change, so hike coordinators bob tillerson and jerry sager can never know for sure until just before each hike itself.
later frances played three years for the silent movies at the local theater.
some of her work includes table tops, counter tops and backsplashes in kitchens and bathrooms.
obituariesobituaries phyllis dotson phyllis dotson, 65, died june 26, 1999, in boise, idaho.
the seventh was located near carbondale.
one of the more significant promises made by the tour organizer, said  charles, was that "they would have a large clean-up crew.
they don't get off to a very good start.
the parties soon landed  their prisoners in jail following the excitement.
(this is courtesy of librarian james larue, douglas county public  library.)
- a miserable imposter is said to be working his game in some of our  neighboring towns, selling from house to house a salve which he guarantees to  cure warts.
delicious fresh vegetables and fruits are always available in season.
(director judy esterly serves as the  association's treasurer.
they go beyond their types and thus surprise us,  making us doubt our ability to peg people at first peek.
emily creates masterpieces made of granite,  marble, tile, stained glass, as well as recycled goods and broken dishes.
i will always think of my tender years from 3-12 were so special to me.
"the treasurer is very dedicated to her responsibility," nelson said.
pagosa lakes by ming steen gray wolf ski club staying busy hiking plpoa board of directors will hold a special meeting today at 2 p.m. in  the pagosa lakes clubhouse to discuss the proposed contract with colorado  management, a private management firm, and to explore other options that may be  available.
to  remember the fun we had, the laughs, the crys.
one of her  favorite memories was playing the organ in the methodist church.
the san juan outdoor club through dan aupperle  is coordinating a hike up to pagosa peak on sunday, aug. 8.
each five seconds equals  one mile.
although nell was asked by director nelson to name the board member or members who were guilty of micro-managing, she refused to do so.
bike riders blocked roadways in construction zones and were not stopping at (stop) lights and stop signs.
since tuesday of last week i've tried to juggle my responsibilities as editor and as a host.
the release of wolverines has been  postponed indefinitely by the dow.
i'm sure you will agree that we experienced a  most unusual couple of weeks weather-wise.
clouds in the pagosa springs area must reach immense heights in order to  be detected by the national weather service radar beam transmitted from an  elevation of about 10,000 feet on grand mesa east of grand junction.
each town we come into prospers by $120,000 to $150,000 in revenue.
don't pin your faith on  wart salve, when so cheap a remedy is available.
so far this year, county sales tax receipts have totaled $893,885.
the hours at the museum are 9 a.m. till 4 p.m. mondays through fridays, and an  occasional saturday.
sponsorship deadline liz marchand would like to encourage everyone to sign and submit those balloon rally sponsorship checks to her before the absolute deadline of aug. 4.
of that amount, $357,555 has gone to the general fund, $89,390 to the road and bridge fund, and $446,940 to the road improvement fund.
he's in san antonio  fighting lung cancer.
the first-ever  psac artists studio tour will take place on aug. 14.
during this season, tropical moisture is  picked up over southern mexico and transported to the four corners area where  it is released.
funeral services were held friday, july 2, 1999, at the immaculate heart  of mary catholic church.
the  other applicants were todd shelton, nan rowe, michael j. mitchell, bob moomaw,  and claudia smith.
so far, lynx from the release  have been detected as far south as 50 miles inside of new mexico, as far east  as the sangre de cristo mountains, as far west as mancos, and as far north as  the vail area.
the address is san juan historical  society, p.o. box 1711, pagosa springs, co 81147.
glen vanderweele was senior of the week for july 19.
pershing is better known as general  "black jack" pershing, the leader of american expeditionary forces  during world war i. for younger readers, pershing was the ww i equivalent to  gen. dwight eisenhower of ww ii fame.
the trail was cleared of fallen trees, and drainage ditches were installed to help control erosion.
through july 27 the total rainfall this month is 3.21 inches.
the owner's frown matched my own.
"we tried to coach people and we let the town know beforehand that  we were coming in," said powell.
the funeral was held at 3:50 for approximately 20 minutes."
when participants in the bicycle tour of colorado left pagosa springs on the morning of july 21, they left some disgruntled residents and officials in their wake.
it's a contradiction of terms to drive to or through an unspoiled valley or wild area.
for starters, i'll bet few people know that john j. pershing purchased three pagosa springs lots during 1888.
a company railroad ran from lumberton, n.m., six miles  to the south, and to logging camps north of edith.
because they are present at most meetings, the mantle of "sounding the alarm" is often draped across the shoulders of representatives of the press.
gray wolf ski club members are enjoying a busy summer of hiking (for some) and golfing (for others).
twelve months ago a supposed "brand new day in the plpoa"  became a reality.
his employer will be six hours away in denver."
as i understand it, it is my job to encourage folks to come to pagosa as a vacation destination.
by john m. motter a planning commission member was appointed, dates set for board of  equalization hearings, and other business conducted by the archuleta county  commissioners while meeting in regular session tuesday.
how could that apply in this instance?
county road and bridge trucks will pick up the bags after they are filled.
plan on meeting at 7:30 a.m. at norwest bank parking area to drive to the trailhead.
"lightning causes more deaths in colorado than any other weather  phenomena," pringle said.
the storm seemed to contain some  rotation (potential for tornadoes) and an enormous amount of electrical  energy."
traffic and the safety of cyclists and motorists was a primary worry for  harrington and volger.
sixty-seven locals and many visitors were served faithfully by our wonderful kitchen staff.
the adobe building housing the bear creek saloon on lewis street first opened to the public sept. 1, 1900.
the lambing season usually began about the 10th of  may and lasted to the first of june.
the danger from lightning  and flash floods is severe.
may i play through, please?
"three months ago, i called a special board meeting in executive session to discuss these issues," she said.
the ground is normally positively charged, but can be negatively  charged.
the sales tax rate in archuleta county is 7 percent, both inside and  outside the town of pagosa springs.
she was born on june 29, 1999, at mercy medical center in durango.
after fumbling  around, getting the receiver in your hand, placing the proper end against your  ear, dropping it and going through the process of orienting the receiver one  more time, you say "hello." "hello.
it  provides access to the loma linda subdivisions and eightmile mesa.
it's a contradiction of terms to drive to or through an unspoiled valley  or wild area.
" powell responded wednesday by phone to questions about the experience in  pagosa springs.
hearings start at the end of the regular tuesday morning commissioners meeting  at about 10 a.m. and continue through regular working hours.
the property owners, dick ray and jack adams, are  responsible for installing right of way fences using materials supplied by  schmidt.
in those days, the colorado judicial  system included the justice of the peace function.
"the silence of the other board members in response was deafening.
this year's annual meeting is an opportune time to seriously consider a new course of action that would best protect and enhance property values in the subdivisions.
the first engine from that line, which connected pagosa springs with pagosa junction, rolled into town on a saturday night, oct. 9, 1900.
now being located in asheville, n.c., has been hard at first but also great at the same time.
the number of books read is still  impressive, and we feel good about the participation.
if such actions do not violate the letter of the law, they certainly violate the moral intent of the law.
almost secondary to the growth of these intriguing characters are the typical western plot devices: the terrorizing of the group by geronimo and his posse, escaped from the reservation; and a final showdown between ringo and the dirty rotten plummer boys.
it is difficult to ascertain if the violations occurred because of ignorance, laziness or because of an unwillingness to conduct public business under public scrutiny.
it must be an eight-hour job for the top administrator to manage all the  managers, assistants, clerks and aides that fill the lower links on the chain  of command in the administration office.
frances rock graduated from pagosa springs high school in may of 1931, one of a class of 11.
the paper picked us to  finish next to last in our league, yet we ended up third.
each team developed themes and decorated themselves and their campsites  accordingly.
through it all, he often found time to serve as a deputy sheriff.
the commissioners agreed to supply trash bags for the project from colorado department of transportation supplies.
senior news by dennis martinez seniors' scrabble board awaits thelma's return due to illness, for the past two weeks mrs. thelma risinger has been  unable to write her "senior citizens news" column which is a very  important means for informing our local senior citizens and their families of  the senior citizens center's important services to the community.
on july 6, my son left for the marines and i am left waiting for this irresponsible attorney to call.
they read 2,700 books  in the six-week period.
she was too small to reach the pedals on the pump organ, so her teacher would pump the organ and frances would play.
this year you simply have to add a touch of red to your black and  white ensemble and you're set to come and enjoy the fabulous wines and cheeses  we'll have for your tasting pleasure.
doc, for all of his drunkenness, is the wisest of the lot, and serves as  a kind of father to the orphaned dallas and ringo.
asked how the performance of the tour organizers would affect future requests for use of the facility, charles said: "i'm a year smarter now.
a variance from the performance bond requirement was granted on the condition that the certificate of occupancy not be allowed until all improvements are completed.
for the next few weeks, we will be featuring three to four different artists involved, so you can learn a bit about each of them and their creations.
dow officials have  said if about 50 percent of the 29 animals released during may die of  starvation, they will recommend that similar releases planned for the coming  winter not be made.
when the press is denied access to a meeting or to information, every citizen is effectively denied that same access.
volunteer firemen tore down the walls and let the debris  burn.
directors nelson and ebeling defended esterly's actions.
we  will list all of the final winners next week after the party.
they should  have been here in the early 1970s and saved the former john stevens ranch from  becoming today's fairfield pagosa.
he had no insurance - violation no. 2.
we will have demonstrated that they cannot survive here.
dallas sits a little too near miss mallory who is then quickly ushered  away by the gallant hatfield, making the lovely young pariah feel like  something the cat drug in.
i have gotten out  of touch with you all, and the truth is that i was careless, to ever think that  i should move on, get new friends.
and despite owning a word processor, laser printer and fax machine, i'm not going to try to save dan mccarthy's or anyone else's private land.
we like to do these things if people are responsible, but not with the way these people did it, at the expense of the schools.
clancy would say only that she was "looking for something that uses my education and experience a little more thoroughly than this job has."
traffic and the safety of cyclists and motorists was a primary worry for harrington and volger.
- a miserable imposter is said to be working his game in some of our neighboring towns, selling from house to house a salve which he guarantees to cure warts.
through his choice of characters, ford assembles a kind of microcosm of  western society as it was depicted on the silver screen.
2) a provision requiring alleys was waived because entrance to the  proposed building is in the front.
i talked with the county manager in mineral county about the east fork ranch earlier this month.
i, ii and iii are available at the  museum.
in his exterior shots, you can see  forever, around and beyond the massive 1,000-foot buttes on the valley's floor.
the young couple moved to amarillo, texas, where they raised a family of four daughters.
henry  gatewood (berton churchill), whose wife is head of the ladies' law and order  league, and lucy mallory (louise platt), a southern gentlewoman - in a delicate  condition - in search of her husband in the cavalry.
the next phase will be to construct a roof over the tanks and to move the original fort lewis officers' cabin now housed at the hott ranch on four mile road to the museum to be placed in a tank.
you know how i love the taste of  lemon-lime shaving cream.
rare books quite often we're asked about book dealers that might buy your old books, or at least tell you if they are valuable.
and there will always be another director who is willing to help micro-manage the operation.
"mack just wanted to be sure, when he died, that everything would go as planned, so we went through a dress rehearsal, you know, nailed him in a coffin, lowered the coffin in the grave, and threw dirt on it.
three of the individuals charged were juveniles.
"i was just sitting here with  the phone in my lap and wondering what to do next when, miracle of miracles, it  rang.
i don't know how much of an effort they made to solve that  problem, but it never got solved.
over 100 select dealers from across the nation will be in attendance.
a few years earlier, the  railroad had reached within three miles of pagosa springs.
the "extra-large mirrors" on his pickup truck were of  legal width.
"i was just sitting here with the phone in my lap and wondering what to do next when, miracle of miracles, it rang.
newton reported that each suspect who entered a guilty plea was assessed a small fine by the court and each agreed to do public service work for the u.s. forest service.
we have already received the colorfest/balloon rally shirts that you will want for your own and the wine glasses are on the way.
in the meantime, the county has a lawsuit in place against schmidt, in  order to guarantee that the work be finished.
the storms produced above average rainfall leaving the countryside green and soggy.
they begin to move up from the south in march or april and reached the lambing grounds during the latter part of april.
paternal grandparents are alcario and rosalia chacon.
tracy used to be one  of our best customers years ago.
our new director, cindy archuleta, was interviewed about  her position and responsibilities.
this venture allowed tom the opportunity to  draw on the beautiful and sacred land surrounding him.
the adobe building housing the bear creek saloon on lewis street first  opened to the public sept. 1, 1900.
by october, the may lambs  reached a weight of 75 pounds and were sold to eastern feed lots.
tom holt is an experienced painter of landscape, having lived in the new  mexico wilderness for many years.
the requirement for street lights was waived.
during the board of appeals session, taxpayers state their case directly to the commissioners.
for senior information updated weekly, call 264-news (6397) ext.
the total revenue from sheep for the year was about $300,000.
we will list all of the final winners next week after the party.
county road and bridge trucks  will pick up the bags after they are filled.
post-publication cost is $25.
the trail  connects the turkey springs area with the first fork road, located along the  piedra river west of chimney rock.
i would like to say a  special hello to andrea archuleta, sunni goodrich, mike valdez, mark ginn (the  funniest guy alive), mia vanhorn, the richey's, the staff at the rolling pin  (you guys were great to us), sarah blackman, ashley snow, stephany montoya and  ashley lord.
it's one of our very best.
by john m. motter a canadian lynx died friday morning on wolf creek pass after being struck by a hit-and-run motorist.
a lot is going on at the san juan historical society and pioneer museum.
fresh rose quickly in show business, but his later life was filled with many turnovers.
waynette nell, general manager; janet thompson, accounts  manager; maureen clancy, administrative assistant; erika cox, accounting clerk;  and jean sanft, administrative aide, will all resign.
my sister, kathryn, and her husband, john lye, are visiting from st. catharines, canada.
thank you, jerry nabors e mail
please, folks take an hour or so out of your weekend and come out this saturday to give some exercise and loving to these very needy animals.
relay walkers and runners kept up their efforts on the course for 18  hours, until the finish line was crossed at noon on july 24.
we can now add to that list an extremely complimentary article that appeared in the june/july edition of "sw aviator" written by greg gibson.
we made reasonable requests and agreed  there would be camping allowed on the soccer field only and that people could  sleep in the commons area of the building.
- a contract with southwest colorado mental health services was renewed providing certain mental health care for prisoners incarcerated in the archuleta county jail.
"how do i get tickets for such an inspiring journey?"
to join the fun, meet  the hiking group at the west end of the country center city market parking lot  by 8:30 a.m. every tuesday.
plan on meeting at  7:30 a.m. at norwest bank parking area to drive to the trailhead.
please, folks  take an hour or so out of your weekend and come out this saturday to give some  exercise and loving to these very needy animals.
at that same instant, o'neal touched spurs to the flanks of his own mount and was soon galloping up the road at a forty-mile gait, ignoring byrne's call to halt.
the best lambs in 1913 brought an average price of $4.
the three "status quo" candidates in fact did "go" once the votes were tallied at the annual election.
instead, the builder  will install downward-pointing lights on the buildings.
"the tops of the cloud approached 40,000 feet above mean sea level and the coverage of the storm equaled about two-thirds of the area of archuleta county.
"waynette was the first to announce her resignation and it kind of had a trickle-down effect.
durkee was selected from among six applicants for the position.
rare books quite often we're asked about book dealers that might buy your old  books, or at least tell you if they are valuable.
relay for life surpasses goal
if you don't understand this tale then ask a golfer.
additional information about the case was subsequently provided to his office  by sources in the community.
gibson acknowledges that, "though marquee resort towns like aspen, vail and telluride are more likely to be covered in mainstream travel publications, pagosa springs is as worthy a destination as any other in the state."
saturday morning we rode our mountain bikes up to plumtaw road as far as  cottonwood creek just so we could turn around and enjoy the ride home.
there are no excuses for such  violations.
charlotte just took the big dive into the chamber and has become  one of our valued diplomats as well as an associate member.
the first logical  thing for us to ask was if the school would be cleaned.
approximately 25 appeals are anticipated this year, more than last year  but less than in some previous years, according to county manager dennis hunt.
obituary "pop n. fresh dies.
according to powell, volger's assertions that there was a lack of  communication and that his concerns fell on deaf ears are not true.
with little technical wizardry at his disposal, pappy (as ford was  called by his cast and crew)
lettersletters plea for animals dear editor, i will never ever understand how so many humans can be so cruel and unfeeling towards children and animals.
will difficult circumstances prompt them to tear each other apart or to grow more tolerant, become more of a community, willing to work for each other's survival?
i also have an extremely abused ausie mix that, i believe, has been kicked so much and so hard that this has caused physical and mental problems.
on a related subject, the commissioners regularly vote on items  obscurely listed on the agenda as "county manager's report,"  "unfinished business" or "other business.
any public body which creates the impression that it is hiding from the public is in big trouble.
"the rumor that they were heading north, trying to get back to their alaska or canada homes, is simply not true.
ford's classic will be watched, enjoyed, praised, imitated and written about long after "wild, wild west" has settled comfortably into the junk heap of pop culture.
"if they classify us separately, then the decision about colorado will be a separate decision," malmsbury said.
in the meantime, u.s. fish and wildlife officials have postponed until  next year, any decision connected with placing lynx on the threatened and  endangered species list in the lower 48 states.
also, there are so many animals at the humane society right now who need  socializing and though there have been notices in the sun recently about dog  walkings on saturday mornings from 10 to noon, not one local person has shown  up.
loma linda developer fred schmidt and the county, along with two adjoining property owners, are involved in the project.
it's about 3 miles from some public campgrounds and 5  miles from a heavily-traveled, paved u.s. highway.
they have contracts with him and a law suit pending to ensure he complies with the contracts.
you may feast your eyes on tom and donna's exhibit right here through  aug. 4.
(this is courtesy of librarian james larue, douglas county public library.)
so, please, get smart and find some compassion in your hearts and stop adding to our already overpopulated pet world.
the archuleta county commissioners recently conducted an executive session, with two items listed on the agenda.
last year, three people were killed and 18 injured by lightning in colorado, pringle said.
o'hare presented himself as a concerned citizen.
if those of you who have allowed your dogs and cats to have litters just so your dog can be a mother just one time or your children can see the baby kittens, think about what happens to them down the line.
she learned from a mrs. green in dulce, n.m.
durkee joins current board members linda delyria, bobra schaeper, julia  donoho, lynn constan, bob lynch, betty shahan, judy james, and ed knight from  the southern ute tribe.
he said that other than an informal meeting between  the piano creek proponents and the county commissioners, nothing in the way of  preliminary plans have been prepared or submitted.
the july display features the colorado mounted rangers troop f, and the august display will possibly be one of glass work done by local talent.
first of all, it is so extremely important to spay and neuter your dogs and cats, especially the females, so that there are not so many more unwanted animals added to our already over-burdened pet population.
features video review by roy starling west pretty wild in 'stagecoach'
cost of the county's culverts is about $11,800.
i'm sure you will agree that we experienced a most unusual couple of weeks weather-wise.
the scrabble board is getting cold.
(town and school officials) probably had complaints, and  it's easy to throw it back on the tour.
buckles  moved to arizona, where he passed away.
biggs operated a lumber mill.
ringo is a good-natured, good-hearted, lovable, courageous kid  whose only crime was avenging the death of his father and brother at the hands  of the good-for-nothing plummers.
what remains to be done that must be hidden from the public?
hikes for the rest of the season are: opel lake  via v-rock trail, aug. 10; turkey creek falls, aug. 17; table mountain, aug.  24; little blanco trail, aug. 31; alberta peak, sept. 7; leche creek trail,  sept. 14; bonita pass-silver mountain, sept. 21; chama basin (to see the fall  colors) sept. 28.
assessor keren prior attends this session and presents her side of the case.
the artists participating in this terrific fundraiser for the arts council are as follows: deborah robinson, roberto and ana garcia, cappy and monica white, emily tholberg, linda lerno, kent gordon, virginia bartlett, soledad estrada-leo, betty slade, joe leal, kathleen wolfe, and john and sandy applegate.
hope you all are doing well.
within a few years, in 1904 to be precise, bryce patterson of georgia colony  and silverton fame purchased and enlarged the building, and added geothermal  bath facilities.
and, like the  church bells, it is periodically incumbent upon the citizenry to remind their  elected servants that public business should be conducted through "open  doors."
" volger said tour organizers did not respond to a request he made in a letter dated march 15 in which he asked for clarification of event plans.
one consideration for not requiring street lights is the proximity of stevens field.
"under those circumstances, we have no choice  but to hold the hearings by aug. 5," crabtree said.
an early scene succinctly  captures the tension within the group, especially that rising out of the too  close proximity of a lady and a prostitute.
just like they do for weddings, you  understand.
director fred ebeling said that "the board is entitled to get information from the staff, and that's what the treasurer was trying to do.
the result can be devastating.
answer - some; (2) eyes?
the pagosa springs lots purchased by pershing were apparently not sold  during the 1885 government auction of pagosa springs town lots.
the local boy scouts did one in june.
they specialize in homemade products produced locally to include jams, jellies, syrups, toppings and fruit butters.
"people need to take cover sooner than they think," pringle  said.
i thought i'd lather up and lick it off like a popsicle.
the trail was cleared of fallen trees, and  drainage ditches were installed to help control erosion.
if you would like to fill that position or have  questions regarding the tuesday hikes, please contact bob 731-5160, or jerry  731-2302.
the privilege of attending or not attending the church of our choice is among the most cherished of american freedoms.
when he came to a few minutes later, he looked around and saw the deaf mute sternly looking at him, one hand on his hip, the other holding up four fingers.
during the board of appeals session,  taxpayers state their case directly to the commissioners.
i was really impressed with the commitment, considering the rainy weather.
editorials an association at risk this time last week i had the misconception that the passage of a year  could make a difference.
dow observers have located seven of the eight lynx released during  march.
newton identified two local adults charged in the case as benjamin murphy, 21, and jacob egg, 20.
if you haven't done this hike yet, i recommend going up with someone familiar with the route.
on june 20 of the same year, george l.  scott purchased lot 11 of block 57 for $4 and thomas cruise purchased lots 13  through 17 of block 59 for $4 each.
isolated, tall trees should be avoided.
he addresses the  glories of wolf creek ski area for both skiers and boarders, our 27-hole golf  course, the san juan national forest, abundant fishing, hiking, biking,  camping, bird-watching, hunting opportunities, local museums and of course, the  hot springs.
but because ford was an artist and not just some hack trying to make big  bucks through commercial tie-ins with fast-food companies, his characters  aren't so easy to categorize.
"everyone knew i was doing this for my dad (pat patterson).
"i asked them at the durango meeting to contact us and let us know how to get emergency messages to tour participants," said the chief.
what is left to negotiate?
pick up a copy of the flyer at the desk.
people  had entered the wrestling room when we had asked that it remain closed.
her body was discovered about 11 a.m., but she was probably hit several hours earlier.
there will be book signings, a mystery writers panel, and information about book collecting on the internet.
in the meantime, the county has a lawsuit in place against schmidt, in order to guarantee that the work be finished.
all sensible people know that the only way to remove a wart is to rub it with a half raw potato, which must afterward be buried by a pigeon-toed school boy in the northwest corner of a graveyard at midnight during the dark of a storm.
while we understand there would be mud tracked into the building with the conditions at the site, we are very disappointed with the lack of clean up.
otherwise the eventual new bureaucracy will continue to do all it can to justify its existence, expand its size and increase its salaries and benefits and spend someone else's money.
after fumbling around, getting the receiver in your hand, placing the proper end against your ear, dropping it and going through the process of orienting the receiver one more time, you say "hello." "hello.
asa poor was the first station  manager.
the county is responsible for supplying culverts across the main road  bed and also for driveways.
the shelter has a fund to help with this if you cannot afford it.
we've  received numerous responses from town residents about their concerns with a  lack of traffic control.
he will not return phone calls to the pagosa springs police department  or to myself.
"we tried to coach people and we let the town know beforehand that we were coming in," said powell.
the average flock of sheep ranged from 1,500 to 2,000.
eight to 10 artisans from the hopi reservation in second mesa, ariz., will participate in a two-week show featuring traditional artwork including jewelry, baskets, kachinas, paintings and drawings.
often a 100 percent crop in lambs were marketed, and when such is the case it represented a 75 percent profit less the cost of the year's running expenses, which ought not to exceed 50 percent of the gross income.
director  fred ebeling said that "the board is entitled to get information from the  staff, and that's what the treasurer was trying to do.
veteran pillsbury spokes-model pop n. fresh  died yesterday of a severe yeast infection.
the first condition is ordinary daytime heating.
national weather service storm warnings are not particularly effective  in pagosa country because no weather warning transmitters exist in southwest  colorado.
he was there when pancho villa attacked the town.
singe, the great restaurant, wearing a robe, bathroom slippers, and a deep  frown.
andy left pagosa springs in february to take a coaching position with the san marcos high boy's volleyball team.
while we  understand there would be mud tracked into the building with the conditions at  the site, we are very disappointed with the lack of clean up.
being able to spend some protracted time enjoying the nearby national forests raised some questions about the "san juan citizens alliance."
dallas turns out to be the typical tart with a heart, unselfishly caring for one of the other passengers who i'll mention later.
byrne then drew his winchester from its scabbard and fired at the running horse at a distance of 100 yards.
she was raised in pagosa springs and graduated from pagosa high school.
- frank frakes built the pagosa and northern railroad's station house in pagosa springs, starting in october of 1900.
" i asked county attorney larry holthus why either item should be  conducted in executive session, an environment hidden from the public.
by the time the coach makes it to lordsburg - ironically, a dark, sleazy, western version of sodom and gomorrah - one member has perished, another has been seriously wounded, and a certain unrepentant white-collar criminal has been arrested.
the number of books read is still impressive, and we feel good about the participation.
to remember the fun we had, the laughs, the crys.
when the coach stops at an outpost for some vittles, there ensues a mealtime scene that is downright painful to watch.
oran coffee was a veteran of world war i. mrs. coffee wrote to me in 1994 about her husband, "he drove a truck in the area squadron, 15 planes.
"the county attorney has instructed us that the language concerning the deadline for hearings says 'shall be done by aug. 5,' " said commissioner gene crabtree.
"i was afraid you might be asleep.
today's meeting, at 2 p.m. in the pagosa lakes clubhouse, will be a continuation of a discussion that began monday at 8 a.m.
other passengers taking the long, dangerous, symbolic journey from tonto (which means "foolish," as you probably know) to lordsburg (the lord's town?) are the above-mentioned curly; the gentle but cowardly peacock (donald meek), a whiskey salesman often mistaken for a preacher; hatfield (john carradine), a decadent southern aristocrat prodigal son who boards the coach "for the lady's protection;" and buck (andy devine), the coach's dim, squeaky-voiced driver.
that's the group that is "organizing for the people and land of the san juan basin."
he currently owns and operates pagosa lawn and landscape and pagosa  nursery company.
mrs. green was  the only lady in dulce who knew how to play, and she was deaf.
the pattern of recurring thunderstorms should continue through august, according to pringle.
" i am convinced both justifications, even if legal, are a real stretch of the intent of the open meetings act.
i will always miss you and just to let you know we will be visiting next spring to see you all.
a variance from the performance bond requirement was granted on the  condition that the certificate of occupancy not be allowed until all  improvements are completed.
item b involved "review of requests for proposal regarding space needs assessment.
the rest have been molded into unselfish, brave, decent human beings.
we have to do something quickly.
now the directors are wanting to spend $144,000 of the property owners  money over the next 12 months in order to hire a management firm to carry on  the responsibilities of the general manager, accounts manager, administrative  assistant, accounting clerk and administrative aide whose resignations become  effective tomorrow.
examples of foolish questions are endless.
the sales tax rate in archuleta county is 7 percent, both inside and outside the town of pagosa springs.
charlotte just took the big dive into the chamber and has become one of our valued diplomats as well as an associate member.
ford's classic will be watched, enjoyed, praised, imitated and written  about long after "wild, wild west" has settled comfortably into the  junk heap of pop culture.
what i've described so far conveys the film's real dramatic conflict, even though it doesn't sound much like a western.
the other  board members knew this, but i was told it had to be taken up at 8 a.m." as of tomorrow, the association will have several gaps to fill in the  administrative staff.
upon observing a  lightning flash, a person should count the seconds.
- approval of a proposed intergovernmental agreement with hinsdale  county for law enforcement and emergency services was postponed based on advice  from holthus.
according to director jim carson, nell should have brought those  disruptions to the attention of the board.
"the only thing the company is providing," ebeling said,  "is a computer-generated accounting service.
please join us for the reception of this truly cultural festivity on aug. 5, from 5 to 7 p.m. refreshments will be provided.
when the voltage potential between positive and negative areas is sufficient, electrical discharges in the form of lightning occur.
when the coach stops at an outpost  for some vittles, there ensues a mealtime scene that is downright painful to  watch.
pershing is better known as general "black jack" pershing, the leader of american expeditionary forces during world war i. for younger readers, pershing was the ww i equivalent to gen. dwight eisenhower of ww ii fame.
there was no monitor there early."
here's the scoop: tickets may be purchased beginning aug. 1, for $8 in advance and $10 on the day of the tour.
damage was reported to the u.s. forest service by recreational users of the road following an article about the incident in the sun, said newton.
the funeral was held at 3:50 for  approximately 20 minutes."
we have included a few of those facts in this week's column.
the grave site was piled high with flours as longtime friend aunt jemima delivered the eulogy, describing fresh as a man who never knew how much he was kneaded.
monday afternoon we parked at the fourmile road trailhead and hiked to fourmile falls.
pagosa lakes by ming steenpagosa lakes
gibson acknowledges that, "though marquee resort towns like aspen,  vail and telluride are more likely to be covered in mainstream travel  publications, pagosa springs is as worthy a destination as any other in the  state."
the people i knew, the friends i made.
it's only a  one-year contract.
the food is great, but the prices are a little steep.
she went off on adventures to alaska, and is  now back home.
the first building  was two-story, but considerably smaller than the current building and operated  as a general store.
the positive  discharges connect positive electrical fields in the cloud peaks with a  negatively charged ground surface.
he said he'd be here next year when we do this again.
schmidt is responsible for rebuilding the primary road bed stretching  approximately between u.s. 84 and the entrance to the loma linda subdivisions.
an uninhabited house in the southwest corner of town was destroyed by  fire last saturday night.
mrs. coffee told me that she learned how to play the piano when she was about 8 years old.
in 1964 she married royce dotson.
and despite owning a word processor, laser printer  and fax machine, i'm not going to try to save dan mccarthy's or anyone else's  private land.
there  really isn't a choice.
these sheep produced an average of four pounds of wool  per year per head for a total of 420,000 pounds.
honestly, kids, this is going to be some kinda  wonderful this year with a record number of balloons participating and all the  peripheral activities taking place over one of the most exciting weekends of  the year.
2) a provision requiring alleys was waived because entrance to the proposed building is in the front.
i submit that no citizen, even with a copy of the agenda which is posted  according to law at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, could reasonably  anticipate a commissioner action taken under such a non-descriptive heading.
also, the pioneer museum will soon have available another volume of "remembrances" (a series of local histories) that has stories about logging, ranching, and businesses in this area.
by karl isberg four of five suspects charged with damaging a meadow on san juan  national forest land in early may entered guilty pleas and were sentenced by a  durango-based federal magistrate.
"look for a 30 percent chance of afternoon and evening thundershowers through the weekend," klenk said.
earlier this month i received a fax from the sjca regarding a  "citizen rally to oppose exclusive resort development in the east fork  valley."
if  such actions do not violate the letter of the law, they certainly violate the  moral intent of the law.
the topic for executive session must be announced to the public.
but gatewood is a pompous,  selfish windbag who has just robbed his own bank, and miss mallory is a  cold-hearted snob - even though, to her credit, it took a lot of gumption for  her to be out in the frontier in her condition.
" "good," answers a much-relieved number one son.
the section of road next to the meadow was closed to motorized  vehicles.
her maternal  grandparents are apolonia and alfredo nevarez.
there were 26 survivors who walked in the event.
in "stagecoach," ford deftly contrasts the expansive nature of the western landscape (the film was shot on location at nearby monument valley) with the claustrophobia of close quarters.
teams raised $100 each as entry fees and individual team members raised additional funds to contribute to the total.
mrs. coffee grew up in and around pagosa springs and shared  some of her memories with me which i will, in turn, pass on again this week.
as the board of equalization,  the commissioners listen to property owners protesting the value placed on  their property by the county assessor.
i hope they are enjoying themselves as much as i enjoy having them visit.
we've received numerous responses from town residents about their concerns with a lack of traffic control.
i'm talking about  "stagecoach," made back in 1939, the same year as "gone with the  wind" and "wizard of oz."
instead, he used a quirt on the steed, causing it to jump to the side on which byrne was standing.
this summer pattern is identified as the monsoon season by the grand junction weather people.
i would first of all say that i  have had a great summer, but have missed you all atrociously.
still, even as a crusty old man, he was a roll  model for millions.
mrs. dotson moved to prairie city, ore., in 1980 where she worked as a  dietary technician at the blue mountain nursing home.
" the colorado wildlife commission authorized the reintroduction of lynx  and wolverines last year.
david durkee was appointed to the upper san juan regional planning commission board, thereby filling all vacancies on that voluntary body.
"i'm the credit card fairy.
" bicycle tour of colorado leaves bad impression
the only things they were worried about were left turns.
the archuleta county commissioners recently conducted an executive  session, with two items listed on the agenda.
that  step of the appeal process is now closed.
- a resolution was approved endorsing a plan by property owners in the lower blanco basin to clean up the shoulders and ditches along lower blanco road.
and, like the church bells, it is periodically incumbent upon the citizenry to remind their elected servants that public business should be conducted through "open doors."
they will  be sold at the psac gallery in town park, at the chamber of commerce visitors  center and at the library.
"we're spending this money for a general manager,  but that general manager will not be our employee.
"stagecoach" is a pivotal work in the history of american cinema.
the storms produced above average rainfall leaving the  countryside green and soggy.
by seventh grade, the  rocks had returned to pagosa springs to live.
the positive discharges connect positive electrical fields in the cloud peaks with a negatively charged ground surface.
while most lightning discharges are negative, about one out of 100  lightning discharges are positive, according to pringle.
you are invited to create your own  gift basket with the many selections available.
byrne  was the county's first superintendent of schools.
from the moment you examine one of the many pieces, whether it be a deer skin pouch, an elk skin rattle garnished with a lovely pheasant feather, or my personal favorite - intricately woven pine needle baskets - you soon realize the amount of time, patience and creativity donna has emitted into each thoughtful work.
i was unable to do my job, and my health was being affected by it."
chamber news by sally hameister pagosa keeps showing up in the news
bud mcgonagill, club pro, said that this is the first hole  in one made at the club.
whopper thunderstorms leave pagosa soggy by john m. motter powerful thunderstorms swelled by towering cumulus clouds, spectacular lightning, and booming thunderclaps swept across archuleta county almost daily this past week.
the other board members knew this, but i was told it had to be taken up at 8 a.m." as of tomorrow, the association will have several gaps to fill in the administrative staff.
do i  look different?
"within the town limits," said harrington, "there was a  lack of course marshals to ensure it was a safe riding environment.
that's the group that is "organizing for the people and land of the san  juan basin."
"stagecoach" is a pivotal work in the history of american  cinema.
father john bowe officiated.
i know when people get past a certain age, they  need more sleep.
we wanted the kids to appreciate  resource values with some sweat equity.
you know how i love the taste of lemon-lime shaving cream.
powell said  concern was voiced by the police that an alternate route to the high school be  established due to construction on south 8th street and it was satisfied when  he personally rerouted cyclists to hot springs boulevard.
when pressed to define micro-management, nell said  "disrupting the daily activities of the office."
consequently, any increase of closed meetings or of locked information files is a loss for all citizens of a free and open society.
sales tax receipts for one calendar year set a new record last year when  the total reached $3,719,235.
the intense heating of the atmosphere creates a shock  wave, identified by the familiar thunderclaps.
the sidewalk on that side enters a common green area.
when pressed to define micro-management, nell said "disrupting the daily activities of the office."
last year, three people were killed and 18 injured by lightning in  colorado, pringle said.
luminarias devoted to the memory of cancer survivors and those who unsuccessfully fought the disease were lit and lined the pathway on which relay members walked through the night.
the first man whacked the ball onto the green and left to finish the hole.
even if it was for sale, i couldn't afford to buy it.
fresh is survived by his second wife.
i have in front of me four or five articles that appeared in newspapers in indiana, arkansas, california and washington, d.c.
the lambing season usually began about the 10th of may and lasted to the first of june.
the commissioners followed the  recommendations of the planning commission concerning the variances.
"but i'm only one vote."
it's just setting in, but everyone's already talking about next year.
the section of road next to the meadow was closed to motorized vehicles.
rather than being concerned about the survival of the plpoa, it's the ideal time to implement a cost-effective down sizing of the association's expensive administrative chain of command and costly staff structure.
for every one that goes out, two more come in.
that amounts to seven cents on each dollar  of taxable sales.
his article is a chamber of commerce dream come true because he  addresses just about all of the area attractions that we would normally spend  thousands of dollars extolling in all the various mediums.
the  following story recorded in an early newspaper before the turn of the century  provides ample evidence of why a sheriff would want byrne for a deputy.
but it makes me sick to think of what they have been through.
his five  days of work must be complete by sept. 1." newton said another of the young men who entered a guilty plea will  complete five miles of trail work on the san juan national forest while two  other members of the group will each perform 20 hours of general maintenance  work at the pagosa ranger district office building in downtown pagosa springs.
one of her favorite memories was playing the organ in the methodist church.
we made reasonable requests and agreed there would be camping allowed on the soccer field only and that people could sleep in the commons area of the building.
his given name was felix and he arrived in pagosa country during 1878, having reached the swashbuckling age of 19 years.
she  weighed 7 pounds, 7 ounces and was 18 1/4 inches long.
prior agreed to send a deputy, because she will not be able to attend  the hearings.
the lynx project involved two winters, with the  release of about 50 animals each winter.
the county commissioners will sit as a board of equalization concerning  property valuations for taxing purposes aug. 3.
consequently, persons traveling through the high country or traveling under other conditions where they are exposed to the weather should study weather forecasts and always watch the surrounding skies for changing weather conditions.
by karl isberg call it an involuntary local donation to public television in denver and  grand junction.
eight to 10 artisans from the hopi  reservation in second mesa, ariz., will participate in a two-week show  featuring traditional artwork including jewelry, baskets, kachinas, paintings  and drawings.
afterwards frances found herself attending a makeshift school at the baptist church while a new school was constructed.
for the next few weeks, we will be featuring three to  four different artists involved, so you can learn a bit about each of them and  their creations.
everyone who celebrates their birthday in july should sit at our birthday table on friday, july 30.
library news by lenore brightlibrary news by lenore bright 276 children read 2,700 books in 6-week period we're proud we continue to watch with pride as our library users grow up, excel in college and go on to lead productive lives.
next month's activities calendar is available at the senior center  located at 475 zuni and south 8th streets where we serve our wonderful lunches  monday, wednesday and friday at noon.
relay for life our congratulations and great respect go out to all those dedicated folks who braved the soggy conditions that prevailed throughout the night to walk in the relay for life.
persons caught in a lightning storm while passing through a forest  should choose the lesser evil by moving to a section of the forest where the  trees are lower.
but she was unable to  get information in a timely manner.
just so you know, this year's wine and cheese event will be named, "black, white and red all over."
arts line by jan brookshier brooks, holt featured at gallery
we will have the community picnic and concert in town park and a concert for your listening pleasure and a balloon glow at dusk for your visual pleasure.
it's bounded on one side by a highly-used forest service road.
they will be sold at the psac gallery in town park, at the chamber of commerce visitors center and at the library.
we wanted the kids to appreciate resource values with some sweat equity.
we're delighted to welcome two new members this week and as an aside, to  welcome the sun back to pagosa.
first, there is deborah robinson.
i know  that i have left out so many others that i would just love to say  "thanks" but being so far apart, i can't.
the grave site was piled high with flours as longtime friend aunt jemima  delivered the eulogy, describing fresh as a man who never knew how much he was  kneaded.
on that same date, mrs. ida hodgsen, also from fort stanton, purchased  lots 16 and 17 of block 48 for $10.
according to charles, the school district agreed to allow tour participants to use select parts of the high school property "because it was a charitable event and because the organizer told me there would be only 400 to 500 people at the high school.
director pat curtis told the sun that the board "had no other choice" but to seek help from the outside.
this seems to be our year for being in the news.
i'm talking about "stagecoach," made back in 1939, the same year as "gone with the wind" and "wizard of oz."
"i didn't see  any overwhelming traffic problems, and i was out there all the time" he  said.
"i didn't see any overwhelming traffic problems, and i was out there all the time" he said.
a man was about to tee off when he felt a tap on his shoulder and a man  handed him a card that read, "i am a deaf mute.
"i prefer to do a search and hire a general manager rather than a consulting firm," director nelson said.
but because ford was an artist and not just some hack trying to make big bucks through commercial tie-ins with fast-food companies, his characters aren't so easy to categorize.
"of course the death of these lynx is unfortunate," said todd  malsmsbury, chief of information for the dow.
"art of the  hopi" will run from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. tuesday through saturday, until aug.  18.
"i asked them at the durango meeting to contact us and let us  know how to get emergency messages to tour participants," said the chief.
the danger from lightning and flash floods is severe.
when the voltage potential between positive and negative areas is  sufficient, electrical discharges in the form of lightning occur.
views from the top are breathtaking.
if it is unsuccessful, we believe lynx in colorado  still should not be on the list.
the lumber milling plant had a capacity of 80,000 feet per day and included a planing mill and box factory.
david 25 years ago25 years ago schutz sinks first hole in one taken from sun files of aug. 1, 1974 harold schutz, chairman of the county commissioners and a chromo rancher, is the first golfer to make a hole in one at the pagosa golf club.
her work is produced using watercolor techniques.
of schutz, we know nothing.
we have already received the colorfest/balloon rally shirts that you  will want for your own and the wine glasses are on the way.
does each of them have their own desk, computer, calculator, phone, medical and dental coverage, paid vacation and other benefits?
you'll recall that the last two years have been "an evening in black and white" and "an evening in black and white: the sequel."
it was while she was in seventh grade that the school burned.
and you're set to come and enjoy the fabulous wines and cheeses we'll have for your tasting pleasure.
"within the town limits," said harrington, "there was a lack of course marshals to ensure it was a safe riding environment.
you need to weigh that.
" in closing, i would like to thank mrs. coffee and her daughter for  taking time to visit with me and share their memories of days gone by.
patterson's name was associated with the building for many years.
weather statsweather stats date high lowdate high low precipitationprecipitation type depth moisture 7/21 74 51 r - .64 7/22 78 50 r - .02 7/23 79 50 r - .22 7/24 78 51 r - .06 7/25 89 54 - - - 7/26 82 50 r - .12 7/27 83 51 r - .03
the plpoa continues to waste money by providing 24-hour emergency medical responses that the tax-supported san juan hospital district provides at a much higher level of competence and experience.
thanks to the rotary club for the good-looking sign out front.
get those sponsorship checks off to liz right away or give her a call at 731-5190.
she is survived by her  husband, royce dotson of prairie city; her daughters tina willet of prairie  city and crystal quintana of pagosa springs; her sisters, cleo quintana of  pagosa springs, josie romero of albuquerque, n.m.; her brother frank quintana  jr. of pagosa springs; and her grandson, timothy quintana of pagosa springs.
the second step, for those unsatisfied with the assessor's findings, is the coming board of appeals session.
fees to be paid by the county are $71 for individual  contact for more than 30 minutes, $35 for individual contact for up to 30  minutes, $50 for group contact, and $68 for case management.
folks who are willing to invest the sweat and accept the soreness  can hike into such areas, but they are not reached by maintained roads.
the san juan historical society is recognized by the internal revenue service as a 501 (c) (3) corporation.
consequently, any increase of closed meetings or of  locked information files is a loss for all citizens of a free and open society.
she loved cooking, music, dancing, reading and spending time with her family.
surely there is an effective, affordable software program on the market that is capable of handling the management needs of a property owners association.
if anything, dan mccarthy's privately-owned east fork ranch is far from being a wild, unspoiled valley.
"all of the youngsters have to go at their own expense and under our supervision to reseed and rehabilitate the area they damaged," said newton, "and the work must be complete by sept. 1.
that amounts to seven cents on each dollar of taxable sales.
there are those of you who jokingly (and sometimes, not so jokingly) accuse me of doing my job too well in getting the word out about pagosa springs so, in my defense, i had nothing to do with the aforementioned publicity although i must admit that i celebrate the advertising dollars saved when someone else writes about us.
the local boy scouts did  one in june.
if those of you who have  allowed your dogs and cats to have litters just so your dog can be a mother  just one time or your children can see the baby kittens, think about what  happens to them down the line.
she went off on adventures to alaska, and is now back home.
four plead guilty to damaging meadow
ringo is picked up early in the trip (he's had to euthanize his horse) and promptly arrested by sheriff curly wilcox (george bancroft).
there are outcasts and  aristocrats, good guys and bad guys, rich and poor, outlaws and businessmen,  brave and cowardly.
local public  bodies that give the impression they are hiding from the public create public  suspicion and lose public approval.
about one month ago, a lynx was struck and killed by an interstate 70 motorist on vail pass.
by karl isberg call it an involuntary local donation to public television in denver and grand junction.
she loved cooking, music,  dancing, reading and spending time with her family.
this year's annual meeting is an opportune time to seriously consider a  new course of action that would best protect and enhance property values in the  subdivisions.
they loaded bombs there also.
donations financial help came from james and barbara corboy, sid and phyllis  martin in memory of leda hubert, paul and mary alice behrents in memory of leda  hubert and mary daltroff's granddaughter natalie.
"i  was in his office with him for 30 minutes," said powell.
within a few years, in 1904 to be precise, bryce patterson of georgia colony and silverton fame purchased and enlarged the building, and added geothermal bath facilities.
one can make a onetime donation of $500 (or pay $25 a month for  3 years) and become a member of the headgate club; or make a donation of $1,000  (or $30 a month for 3 years) and become a member of the pipeline club; or make  a $5,000 donation and be a member of the reservoir club; or give $10,000 and be  a member of the waterwheel club.
(director judy esterly serves as the association's treasurer.
each five seconds equals one mile.
i don't know how much of an effort they made to solve that problem, but it never got solved.
they said they would have a traffic monitor at the  intersection of south 8th street and u.s. 160 to direct bikers to the high  school.
both men were from fort stanton.
through his choice of characters, ford assembles a kind of microcosm of western society as it was depicted on the silver screen.
there you are at a great restaurant.
if in fact there are a sufficient number of folks who are willing to spend $500,000 on an eight-week time share, the mineral county commissioners won't hesitate one second on approving a feasible planned unit development for the east fork ranch, and accepting the subsequent property tax revenues.
now showing at the pagosa springs arts council gallery in town park, "gifts from the mother," a two-person exhibit featuring handwoven items of all natural materials, created by donna brooks.
harrington's comments about a lack of marshals at major intersections were dismissed by powell.
upon learning of the five resignations, i had to ask myself, who thought up the titles for all these positions?
"the county attorney has instructed us that the language concerning  the deadline for hearings says 'shall be done by aug. 5,' " said  commissioner gene crabtree.
okay, well now i am at the end, goodbye pagosa springs.
the lynx project involved two winters, with the release of about 50 animals each winter.
the san juan historical society is recognized by the internal revenue  service as a 501 (c) (3) corporation.
- one of my favorite old time pagosa characters was fil byrne.
as i understand it, it is my job to encourage  folks to come to pagosa as a vacation destination.
when he came to a few minutes  later, he looked around and saw the deaf mute sternly looking at him, one hand  on his hip, the other holding up four fingers.
the crocodiles are on display at the library along with some of the haiku poetry and collages made by these wonderful young artists.
because wool sold for 12 cents a pound, archuleta county income from the sale of wool amounted to about $50,000.
the  owner's frown matched my own.
if it is unsuccessful, we believe lynx in colorado still should not be on the list.
dozens of celebrities turned out including mrs. butterworth, the california raisins, hungry jack, betty crocker, chef boyardee and the hostess twinkies.
the next phase will be to construct a roof over the tanks and to  move the original fort lewis officers' cabin now housed at the hott ranch on  four mile road to the museum to be placed in a tank.
the bicycle tour of colorado was held to benefit rocky mountain public broadcasting which operates public television stations krma in denver and krmj in grand junction.
she was  raised in pagosa springs and graduated from pagosa high school.
by john m. motter little known facts of pagosa history some facts from pagosa country history should be filed under the heading of "who cares?" or "i'll bet you didn't know that."
" in addition to the reseeding and rehabilitation work at the meadow, said  newton, "one of the youngsters will do public service work by removing  abandoned properties on forest lands, especially old hunters' camps.
local public bodies that give the impression they are hiding from the public create public suspicion and lose public approval.
according to town administrator jay harrington, police chief don volger,  and high school assistant principal kahle charles, few arrangements with local  officials were made by tour organizers and when plans were made, many were not  observed.
but as  predicted in a maligned pre-election editorial, other than names, not much  changed in the tumultuous and expensive operation of the property owners group.
for july, the general fund received $62,630, the road and bridge fund $15,660, and the road improvement fund $78,290.
approximately 25 appeals are anticipated this year, more than last year but less than in some previous years, according to county manager dennis hunt.
how do these people from their various backgrounds and with their differing agendas survive the long journey through hostile territory in the wild, wild west?
delicious fresh vegetables  and fruits are always available in season.
they left us with the impression that it would be done."
the town site  was surveyed in 1883 and the lots auctioned by the u.s. land office in 1885.
little frances attended school in dulce where her grandfather was employed by e.m. biggs.
according to powell, volger's assertions that there was a lack of communication and that his concerns fell on deaf ears are not true.
every time my breathing started sounding like a steam locamotive, my sister discreetly stopped to identify the wild flowers or examine the interesting rocks.
my hat is off to  each and every one of you involved in the relay for life with the ultimate goal  of defeating cancer.
the sound of the chimes serves as a friendly reminder that church services are still being held.
director pat curtis told the sun that the board "had no other  choice" but to seek help from the outside.
july's  long-time average rainfall is 1.63 inches.
we are quite  impressed with this year's talent crop.
in general, all bodies formed by the public or appointed by public  bodies are subject to open meetings laws.
while most lightning discharges are negative, about one out of 100 lightning discharges are positive, according to pringle.
on the inside there is a large case for changing displays.
we asked that tents be pitched on the soccer  field and we found tents on the newly-sodded areas next to the building.
tour organizer was kent powell, of denver.
ana chooses to work in smaller, tabletop sculptures,  while roberto takes on colossal life size statues.
the plaintiff alleges that because of the dismissal she has since been unable to obtain a job.
because the cooling atmosphere releases energy, vertical convection currents are created.
byrne was accompanied by lee parr and frank brown as he served the warrant on o'neal just below the crossing of the summitville road and four mile creek a few miles east of town.
as the hike moved further uphill i realized that though my breathing resembled the huffing and puffing of an engine, i was trailing behind like a caboose.
i don't own the land.
the final decision concerning releases during the 1999-2000  winter may be postponed until november in order to gather as much data as  possible, malmsbury said.
average pagosa country rainfall through july is 9.79 inches.
twelve months ago a supposed "brand new day in the plpoa" became a reality.
cost of the  county's culverts is about $11,800.
as the hike moved further uphill i realized that though my  breathing resembled the huffing and puffing of an engine, i was trailing behind  like a caboose.
" in addition to the reseeding and rehabilitation work at the meadow, said newton, "one of the youngsters will do public service work by removing abandoned properties on forest lands, especially old hunters' camps.
the suspects drove their vehicles off the road and cut deep ruts throughout the fragile meadow environment as well as up the side of an adjacent slope.
the same weather conditions that have prevailed in pagosa country over the past two weeks should continue at least through the coming weekend, according to becky klenk, a forecaster from the grand junction office.
i will always miss you and just to let you  know we will be visiting next spring to see you all.
according to director jim carson, nell should have brought those disruptions to the attention of the board.
she specializes in portraits, of children in particular.
the fax claims that the "piano creek ranch" being proposed for development on dan mccarthy's property will be "constructed in one of the last unspoiled valleys in the san juans." monday, an article on piano creek in the denver post repeated sjca's concern about one of the last unspoiled valleys in the san juans and reported on the proponent's desire "to develop a ranch in the wilds of colorado."
in those days, each county had a superintendent of schools who presided over the many school districts.
as the board of equalization, the commissioners listen to property owners protesting the value placed on their property by the county assessor.
even if it was for sale,  i couldn't afford to buy it.
he said he was unaware that cyclists had entered the wrestling room and suggested there would have been no tents on newly-sodded lawns if the district had roped off those areas.
the plpoa continues to waste money by providing 24-hour emergency  medical responses that the tax-supported san juan hospital district provides at  a much higher level of competence and experience.
he currently owns and operates pagosa lawn and landscape and pagosa nursery company.
about one month ago, a lynx was struck and killed by an interstate 70  motorist on vail pass.
byrne is said to have been the community's first school  teacher, holding forth in a little log cabin on the east side of the river and  opposite the fort.
"i was  afraid you might be asleep.
front page july 29, 1999front page july 29, 1999 staff resigns plpoa may hire management firm by roy starling
the scene unfolds something like this.
they represented an investment of approximately $500,000.
answer - two and (3) sex?
i realize some of what goes on is from ignorance and even just downright stupidity, so i'm hoping to get through to some of these people.
this trail is  important because it's a part of a future hut and trail system, but, as of now,  it is not open for motorized use.
does each of them have their own desk,  computer, calculator, phone, medical and dental coverage, paid vacation and  other benefits?
the county commissioners will sit as a board of equalization concerning property valuations for taxing purposes aug. 3.
"of course the death of these lynx is unfortunate," said todd malsmsbury, chief of information for the dow.
"high temperatures should be in the mid-80s to low 90s and lows should be in the 50s."
closed, also known as executive, meetings are allowed only during a  regular or special meeting and must be preceded by a notice and an agenda.
"high temperatures  should be in the mid-80s to low 90s and lows should be in the 50s."
during an earlier first step of the  appeal process, the property owners presented their case to the assessor.
i have in front of  me four or five articles that appeared in newspapers in indiana, arkansas,  california and washington, d.c.
i told him about it and he cried.
it is difficult to ascertain if the violations occurred because of  ignorance, laziness or because of an unwillingness to conduct public business  under public scrutiny.
she would go to work in the afternoons after school and this  allowed mrs. pim to have some relief from operating the switchboard.
the incident which led to the charges occurred in early may when the suspects took off-road vehicles to a meadow on eightmile mesa road, south of pagosa springs.
when i  went down to the building, people were in the gym and people wearing cleats  were walking through the building.
there are no excuses for such violations.
" the first man angrily gave the card back, and communicated that "no, he may not play through, and that his handicap did not give him such a right."
some of the people you have given them to may not want them when they start getting bigger, or if they become a problem, may dump them.
lightning moves from cloud to cloud or from clouds to the ground.
the local school board, superintendent and former high school principal are the defendants in a recently filed suit by the former secretary to the high school principal.
an early scene succinctly captures the tension within the group, especially that rising out of the too close proximity of a lady and a prostitute.
for every one that goes out, two more  come in.
andy rice, veteran staff member at the recreation center, reports from carlsbad, calif.: "coaching went really well. . .
the hours at the museum are 9 a.m. till 4 p.m. mondays through fridays, and an occasional saturday.
consequently, persons traveling through the high country or traveling  under other conditions where they are exposed to the weather should study  weather forecasts and always watch the surrounding skies for changing weather  conditions.
the commissioners conducted the following additional business tuesday.
it is credited with raising the western from silly "b" movies intended mainly for country boys to a respected art form and for making a legitimate star out of wayne, who was 31 at the time.
inside the suninside
"i'm grateful  for everyone's help," she said.
for the year of 1999, 15.5 inches of rain have been measured through july 27.
only last week, a tourist was killed in estes park by a  lightning bolt.
madison was welcomed home by her proud parents, thomas and julie greenly.
but she was unable to get information in a timely manner.
if 1999 is like 1998, the months for collecting the largest amount from sales tax levies still remain.
get those sponsorship checks  off to liz right away or give her a call at 731-5190.
they were obviously not treated well, as they were terrified of  people.
thanks to the sheriff's department decision to grant them limited authority as level-3 deputies, the association's over paid and over-equipped safety office is authorized to issue traffic citations within the subdivisions included in the association.
but with all the assistants, clerks  and aides it must be a doable task.
the town site was surveyed in 1883 and the lots auctioned by the u.s. land office in 1885.
she is survived by her husband, royce dotson of prairie city; her daughters tina willet of prairie city and crystal quintana of pagosa springs; her sisters, cleo quintana of pagosa springs, josie romero of albuquerque, n.m.; her brother frank quintana jr. of pagosa springs; and her grandson, timothy quintana of pagosa springs.
many, many thanks go out to our ever so special volunteers, jerry and  joann sager, june nelson, mae boughman, teresa diestlekamp, wanda aeschliman,  jo rose, lena bowden, johnny martinez, george ziegler and our favorite pianist,  dorothy o'hara and teddy cope for donating a new piano and kendall mcallister  for the flower baskets he donated from ace hardware.
clouds in the pagosa springs area must reach immense heights in order to be detected by the national weather service radar beam transmitted from an elevation of about 10,000 feet on grand mesa east of grand junction.
i walked up to the table, credit card in hand.
a climactic layer called the "tropopause" normally establishes  a ceiling for the clouds, but some cloud peaks pierce the tropopause, pringle  said.
the commissioners listened to a suggestion from tom o'hare that water  rights and their availability be included in the county master plan.
letters plea for animals dear editor, i will never ever understand how so many humans can be so cruel and  unfeeling towards children and animals.
an uninhabited house in the southwest corner of town was destroyed by fire last saturday night.
persons caught in a lightning storm while passing through a forest should choose the lesser evil by moving to a section of the forest where the trees are lower.
concerning schmidt's portion of the work, a $93,250 contract has been  let with u-can afford.
two primary conditions are involved in the creation of thunderstorms and  their attendant high energy levels, according to pringle.
sponsorship deadline liz marchand would like to encourage everyone to sign and submit those  balloon rally sponsorship checks to her before the absolute deadline of aug. 4.
- frank frakes built the pagosa and northern railroad's station house in  pagosa springs, starting in october of 1900.
nine teams with 134 team participants began their overnight relays at 6 p.m. on july 23 at town park.
volunteer firemen tore down the walls and let the debris burn.
mrs. dotson was preceded in death by her two sisters, sarah guzman and  sophie montoya and her brother, baylor quintana.
rather than being concerned about the survival of an expensive  bureaucratic structure, it's time to decide what facets - such as road  maintenance, recreational amenities, fisheries - are of the most concern to the  overall membership of the association.
now the directors are wanting to spend $144,000 of the property owners money over the next 12 months in order to hire a management firm to carry on the responsibilities of the general manager, accounts manager, administrative assistant, accounting clerk and administrative aide whose resignations become effective tomorrow.
closed, also known as executive, meetings are allowed only during a regular or special meeting and must be preceded by a notice and an agenda.
when the "talkies" came, she collected tickets for the movies.
some of that work relates directly to resource management and protection.
oran coffee was a veteran of world war i. mrs. coffee wrote to me in  1994 about her husband, "he drove a truck in the area squadron, 15 planes.
as a legislative policy, the law avers: "it is declared to be a  matter of statewide concern and the policy of this state that the formation of  public policy is public business and may not be conducted in secret."
if you haven't done this hike yet, i recommend going up with  someone familiar with the route.
"the tops of the cloud approached 40,000  feet above mean sea level and the coverage of the storm equaled about  two-thirds of the area of archuleta county.
materials came from jean sparks, medora bass, donald mowen, rosemary and don horstman, evelyn kantas, scotty gibson, penny follett, mary hannah, joan seielstad, tom schoemig, julie gates, carol muratides, jane slaughter, windsor chacey, pat jackson, richard miller and jeanne simpson.
following lambing season, the flocks were driven to the highest mountains until october.
on july 6, my son left for the marines and i am left waiting for this  irresponsible attorney to call.
some  of her work includes table tops, counter tops and backsplashes in kitchens and  bathrooms.
because of the curvature of the earth, the beam averages over 27,000 feet above mean sea level by the time it reaches pagosa springs.
the curling up but remaining on the feet principle is especially important for people caught in lightning storms above timberline.
they  loaded bombs there also.
the "extra-large mirrors" on his pickup truck were of legal width.
leah levitan people marrie swansonpeople marrie swanson marrie swanson, daughter of jerry and joan driesens of pagosa springs, has graduated magna cum laude from biola university in la mirada, calif.
dow observers have located seven of the eight lynx released during march.
i know, as i am fostering two young mixed-breed female dogs who were dumped in aspen springs along with their brother.
members walked through the night.
i am in the bathroom in front of the medicine cabinet mirror, face covered with lather from sideburn to sideburn, my mouth contorted, and razor in hand.
also, there are so many animals at the humane society right now who need socializing and though there have been notices in the sun recently about dog walkings on saturday mornings from 10 to noon, not one local person has shown up.
"three months ago, i called a special board meeting in executive  session to discuss these issues," she said.
rain fell, but did  not dampen the enthusiasm of the participants.
concerning the proposed contract with colorado management and associates inc., ebeling said he saw it "as providing interim management.
we first welcome bill goddard and connie bunte who bring us the choke  cherry tree located at 1501 west u.s. 160, unit 1.
even though church doors have swung open each sunday for the last 2,000 years, many churches still ring the bells each sunday morning.
art of the hopi an upcoming exhibit celebrating the art of the hopi reservation will open on aug. 5, at the psac gallery.
surely there is an effective, affordable  software program on the market that is capable of handling the management needs  of a property owners association.
the hike is not especially strenuous if you take it slowly.
although nell was asked by director nelson to name the board member or  members who were guilty of micro-managing, she refused to do so.
they should take great care not to create such an impression.
in order to locate the lynx, the collars are monitored by aircraft with radio receivers, and by personnel traveling on the ground.
o'hare  presented himself as a concerned citizen.
in his spare time, he had both knees operated on and hopes to be back  snowboarding at wolf creek ski area this winter.
anything less is reversion to the tyranny and despotism millions of americans have rejected, even sacrificing their lives in the effort.
honestly, kids, this is going to be some kinda wonderful this year with a record number of balloons participating and all the peripheral activities taking place over one of the most exciting weekends of the year.
he also carried mail from  summitville to pagosa springs, drove the stage from amargo to pagosa springs,  and was county judge for many years.
all in all, you won't want to miss a  minute of this weekend.
you can't miss these folks as you head west from town on put hill with their white tent and fresh offerings.
" the complaint by charles that there was little contact between the school district and tour organizers was dismissed as false by powell.
waynette nell, general manager; janet thompson, accounts manager; maureen clancy, administrative assistant; erika cox, accounting clerk; and jean sanft, administrative aide, will all resign.
some of that work relates directly to resource management  and protection.
locally, several violations of open meetings laws have occurred  recently.
in the meantime, u.s. fish and wildlife officials have postponed until next year, any decision connected with placing lynx on the threatened and endangered species list in the lower 48 states.
his life spanned the transition of pagosa  springs from a frontier fort community with almost as many bars as people to a  modern mountain resort.
among the upset citizens, you can count frustrated motorists, as well as representatives of the town of pagosa springs and school district 50 joint.
because they are present at most meetings, the mantle of "sounding  the alarm" is often draped across the shoulders of representatives of the  press.
i've always been tempted to provide the following  answers to questions about my appearance: (1) hair?
i'm so tickled for you i can hardly  stand it.
she was the daughter of anna and frank quintana.
paternal grandparents are  alcario and rosalia chacon.
this company is very well thought of, has been around  for a long time, and has managed 50 or so other associations in the state.
by the end of june this year, $1,787,765 had been  recorded, a pace that is 13.83 percent ahead of last year's record setting pace.
fewer books were read this year, but more  "hands-on" activities were enjoyed.
the sun durkee named to planning board by john m. motter a planning commission member was appointed, dates set for board of equalization hearings, and other business conducted by the archuleta county commissioners while meeting in regular session tuesday.
it's bounded on one side by a highly-used  forest service road.
catching up on some old news, the senior of the week for the week of july 12 was lena bowden.
now being located in asheville, n.c., has been hard at first but  also great at the same time.
before that work can begin, the county must install four approximately 36-inch culverts where squaw creek crosses the road.
i can hope for the best.
don't pin your faith on wart salve, when so cheap a remedy is available.
well, the new "wild, wild west" is finally here, playing at a theater near you, and i'm sure it's very good, stretching the fine art of film making to new heights.
when participants in the bicycle tour of colorado left pagosa springs on  the morning of july 21, they left some disgruntled residents and officials in  their wake.
that information led newton to the suspects.
for july of this year, the county received $156,575 and the town the  same amount.
persons who oppose those actions, or who simply oppose any illegal actions by any board, may find cause to bring suit, have the actions negated and in some instances obtain criminal sanctions against the offending board.
officials at eaton international corporation, developer of pagosa in colorado, announced today that the results of additional studies by retail merchandising experts have convinced them to delay construction of the pagosa village center, just off u.s. 160 west of town, while changes to the site plan are made by the developer.
"that storm was a whopper," said jim pringle, a forecaster from the grand junction office.
the same weather conditions that have prevailed in pagosa country over  the past two weeks should continue at least through the coming weekend,  according to becky klenk, a forecaster from the grand junction office.
"flash floods rank second."
powell said concern was voiced by the police that an alternate route to the high school be established due to construction on south 8th street and it was satisfied when he personally rerouted cyclists to hot springs boulevard.
still, even as a crusty old man, he was a roll model for millions.
many, many thanks go out to our ever so special volunteers, jerry and joann sager, june nelson, mae boughman, teresa diestlekamp, wanda aeschliman, jo rose, lena bowden, johnny martinez, george ziegler and our favorite pianist, dorothy o'hara and teddy cope for donating a new piano and kendall mcallister for the flower baskets he donated from ace hardware.
(i'm not counting july 4th and pet pride day, of course.)
i was unable to do my job, and my health was  being affected by it."
if you want to brag about the  trip to friends and relatives, throw in the camera.
that is absolutely untrue.
often a 100 percent crop in lambs were marketed, and when such is the  case it represented a 75 percent profit less the cost of the year's running  expenses, which ought not to exceed 50 percent of the gross income.
the former pershing lots are located on the southeast corner of the intersection of pagosa and 3rd streets.
earlier this month i received a fax from the sjca regarding a "citizen rally to oppose exclusive resort development in the east fork valley."
the first building was two-story, but considerably smaller than the current building and operated as a general store.
most people fail to realize that lightning can strike at a distance of 10 miles from the clouds denoting the obvious location of a thunderstorm.
it was while she was in  seventh grade that the school burned.
"i  prefer to do a search and hire a general manager rather than a consulting  firm," director nelson said.
when the shelter gets way overcrowded, which is often, someone takes them to the dumb friends league in denver, but that only gives them a second chance.
before that work can begin, the county must install four  approximately 36-inch culverts where squaw creek crosses the road.
years later, "oran worked at pantex, amarillo, where part of the atomic bomb was assembled.
if anything, dan mccarthy's privately-owned east fork ranch is far from  being a wild, unspoiled valley.
everyone got to dance and sing, and a grand time was had by all.
they left us with the  impression that it would be done."
the final decision concerning releases during the 1999-2000 winter may be postponed until november in order to gather as much data as possible, malmsbury said.
members of the board should be reminded that such actions are illegal.
"people need to take cover sooner than they think," pringle said.
during high school, she worked for mrs. pim at the telephone  switchboard.
a climactic layer called the "tropopause" normally establishes a ceiling for the clouds, but some cloud peaks pierce the tropopause, pringle said.
we will have the community picnic and  concert in town park and a concert for your listening pleasure and a balloon  glow at dusk for your visual pleasure.
many just get dumped by the side of the road.
he also carried mail from summitville to pagosa springs, drove the stage from amargo to pagosa springs, and was county judge for many years.
some very sick person has obviously taken his frustrations out on this helpless animal and he will suffer for the rest of his life from the abuse he has received.
it's only a one-year contract.
i share this with you just so you will know that our secret is  out.
o'neal had sold  the cattle to a gentleman from monte vista, and they were on their way then  driving them over the range.
it takes a lot of pluck to stick to a task that requires walking through the rain at all hours of the night and morning, but these folks clearly had what it takes to complete a mission.
the structure had walls of railroad ties and burned for several hours.
streets and lands between measured lots continued to belong to the federal government until years later.
but no horses were sent, just trucks (solid rubber tires and carbide lights).
"we'll be sending $12,000 per month out of our local economy and up to  denver," she said.
have a good week, i'm still playing with my children.
holthus replied that "we are negotiating with schmidt," and "we want to feel free to say things to schmidt we wouldn't want to say in public.
it was built by frank buckles, of whom we know quite a bit, and a mr. schutz, of whom we know little.
we were especially pleased to find tracy allen, hired as the county's new financial officer.
there will be book signings, a  mystery writers panel, and information about book collecting on the internet.
this year you simply have to add a touch of red to your black and white ensemble
by the time the coach makes it to lordsburg - ironically, a dark,  sleazy, western version of sodom and gomorrah - one member has perished,  another has been seriously wounded, and a certain unrepentant white-collar  criminal has been arrested.
rain fell, but did not dampen the enthusiasm of the participants.
if you would like to talk to these folks, just call 264-6846.
by karl isberg four of five suspects charged with damaging a meadow on san juan national forest land in early may entered guilty pleas and were sentenced by a durango-based federal magistrate.
his life spanned the transition of pagosa springs from a frontier fort community with almost as many bars as people to a modern mountain resort.
the suspects drove their vehicles off the road and cut deep ruts  throughout the fragile meadow environment as well as up the side of an adjacent  slope.
funeral services were held friday, july 2, 1999, at the immaculate heart of mary catholic church.
with the claustrophobia of close quarters.
two lynx have been killed on the highway,  one lynx was shot near antonito by an unidentified gunman, and four lynx died  of starvation during the early stages of the release.
i, ii and iii are available at the museum.
the sound of the chimes  serves as a friendly reminder that church services are still being held.
according to records in the archuleta county courthouse, on june 1, 1888, the u.s. land office in durango received from john j. pershing of fort stanton, n.m ., $15 in full for lots 13, 14, and 15 of block 28, each containing 50 by 150 feet.
will difficult  circumstances prompt them to tear each other apart or to grow more tolerant,  become more of a community, willing to work for each other's survival?
(in the absence of commissioner ken fox, crabtree acted as chairman of the board.)
relay for life our congratulations and great respect go out to all those dedicated  folks who braved the soggy conditions that prevailed throughout the night to  walk in the relay for life.
by jan brookshier brooks, holt featured at gallery
" i asked county attorney larry holthus why either item should be conducted in executive session, an environment hidden from the public.
"i  introduced myself, shook his hand and thanked him for letting us use the  gymnasium."
dow officials have said if about 50 percent of the 29 animals released during may die of starvation, they will recommend that similar releases planned for the coming winter not be made.
the first man whacked the ball onto the green and left to finish  the hole.
sales tax receipts for one calendar year set a new record last year when the total reached $3,719,235.
but with all the assistants, clerks and aides it must be a doable task.
the program for that evening will be ron from switchback mountain gear and apparel who will give a rundown on what's new in the world of sports relative to equipment.
say, i've just found the greatest  restaurant.
the best  lambs in 1913 brought an average price of $4.
next month's activities calendar is available at the senior center located at 475 zuni and south 8th streets where we serve our wonderful lunches monday, wednesday and friday at noon.
during this season, tropical moisture is picked up over southern mexico and transported to the four corners area where it is released.
they have obviously learned to  find food in colorado."
rainfall has been recorded on 11 of the last 14 days, including eight straight days from july 17 through july 24.
editorialseditorials an association at risk this time last week i had the misconception that the passage of a year could make a difference.
here's the scoop: tickets may be purchased  beginning aug. 1, for $8 in advance and $10 on the day of the tour.
well, the new "wild, wild west" is finally here, playing at a  theater near you, and i'm sure it's very good, stretching the fine art of film  making to new heights.