top re: thoughts on sun exposure times and apples by megamav »
i don't think this invalidates what you observed.
the more the noon sun is  blocked, the leggier and less productive the trees are.
if you like this topic, then share it or bookmark it: this forum is dedicated to the discussion of  growing pome fruits, including apples, pears and other pome fruits, discuss  varieties and how to store, prepare and process pome fruits.
pm climate zone: 5a axel wrote:eric, you shouldn't have to worry about what apples  you can grow based on the amount of shade your apples are getting.
you will  only be limited by the length of your season, which means you should try to  grow apples that do well in ny.
what's interesting is that for example stone fruits like peaches are much less sensitive, fruiting like crazy in the same locations.
i've not seen any issues with northern spy, mine gets sun  from am until about 1pm and is loaded with fruit.
in general, the apples that get morning sun until noon  seem to fruit prolifically, whereas the apples that get no morning sun, but  afternoon sun seem to fruit a lot less, much more biennially.
so noon time sun seems  the most critical.
from  the sounds of it, yours is actually under canopy of other trees.
my apples: jonamac, kidds  orange red, orleans reinette.
i've found that apples don't like to have overhead canopy of any sorts.
the kor and or are british and french, and i figured since those regions get much less sun (about 30% less) than i do here in ny, my situation may work well for them.
(most winter apples can tolerate short exposures to 20f, the types of frosts  that might be common in the fall.)
orleans reinette, i've seen late september and early october.
thanks again for your wisdom and this great community.
thu mar 15, 2012 11:44 am i was wondering if you could expand your thoughts on sun and fruiting and ripening.
page 1 of 1 thoughts on sun exposure times and apples by megamav »
thu mar 15, 2012 8:34
cox's orange pippin grows at an  orchard close to here (40 min away), and they're ripe early/mid september as  well.
post a reply 5 posts •
who knows what will happen, i remember 1 quote though: "remember, the biggest mistake about planting a fruit tree is not to do it!"
i've not seen any issues with northern spy, mine gets sun from am until about 1pm and is loaded with fruit.
thats great to hear!
macs off the tree here are very bitter and sour.
the more the noon sun is blocked, the leggier and less productive the trees are.
for fun, i've attached my climate data as well as orleans  france and southampton england, places known to grow these varieties.
im so new to this, i dont know where to turn for answers sometimes.
pm - climate zone: 5a axel wrote:eric, with full sun from 10:30am to 3:30pm i can't see that you would get that much of a delay, if any at all.
its a very odd situation, different native climates between me and england, i get more sun, but im simulating their climate with some shade.
30391.html posted by axel_sc z9b/suns16 (my page) on tue, aug 24, 10 at 1:03 interesting observations, i'll add a few more.
other than that,  don't worry about the shade they're getting.
my property is  surrounded by oak trees, and i've pushed the envelope by growing fruit trees  right up to the canopy.
i have a few scions from yesterday's clippings if you want some, free of charge for you (contact me via pm).
pm location: santa cruz mountains climate zone: sunset 15/usda 9b megamav wrote:i was wondering if you could expand your thoughts  on sun and fruiting and ripening.
eric, you shouldn't have to worry about what apples you can grow based on the amount of shade your apples are getting.
its going to be interesting, and i  hope i didnt make a mistake by choosing these 2 varieties.
its the crispness and juiciness of a mac
the sun angle is  getting higher and higher now, clearing the trees more and more so it may not  have as much of an effect as i'm thinking.
you will only be limited by the length of your season,  which means you should try to grow apples that do well in ny.
i also don't think you have to pick varieties from cool climates like england.
however gets dramatically less sun, like 4-5 hours worth a day, mostly late morning to mid afternoon.
my season isnt exceptionally long like yours, but blossoms here are usually 2nd week in may, typically we dont get a strong freeze until around 2nd or 3rd week in november at the earliest.
if you like this topic, then share it or bookmark it: this forum is dedicated to the discussion of growing pome fruits, including apples, pears and other pome fruits, discuss varieties and how to store, prepare and process pome fruits.
i've not seen any issues from that.
so in ny you  would probably just want to make sure your apples ripen before the onset of  extended periods of sub-freezing weather.
fruits, rare fruits, orchards and exotics introductions exchange scions apples pears, and other pome fruits citrus and citrus orchards food and recipes northwest palms and subtropicals urban homesteading vegetables and herbs garden tours getting started wiki comments - discussions - the team
its going to be interesting, and i hope i didnt make a mistake by choosing these 2 varieties.
i dont think its a crime, because i can go to any orchard and pick/buy them, but i wouldnt anyway.
page 1 of 1 return to apples pears, and other pome fruits jump to: select a forum ------------------
cox's orange pippin grows at an orchard close to here (40 min away), and they're ripe early/mid september as well.
other than that, don't worry about the shade  they're getting.
im in the situation where i get low angle sun thru trees in the morning for about an hour from 9am to about 10am then slight shade until about 10:30am.
that makes me feel a lot better about my situation.
maybe i've had so many that i've been turned off.
eric, you shouldn't  have to worry about what apples you can grow based on the amount of shade your  apples are getting.
• delete all board cookies • all times are utc - 8 hours
adjacent is ok,  but directly overhead even if only half of the tree is covered is detrimental  to any apple tree.
if you like macs, try a jonamac.
from:  http://forums2.gardenweb.com/forums/loa ... 30391.html posted by axel_sc z9b/suns16 (my page) on tue, aug 24, 10 at 1:03 interesting observations, i'll add a few more.
for kidd's orange red there is an orchard about 90 minutes south of me that has it, i've never been there but they record "early october" as the harvest date.
pm - climate zone: 5a axel wrote:eric, you shouldn't have to worry about what apples you can grow based on the amount of shade your apples are getting.
you will only be limited by the length of your season, which means you should try to grow apples that do well in ny.
as a whole, i've  noticed much more open growth near the oak trees.
i guess you really dont know  until you put the tree in the ground.
who knows what will happen, i remember 1 quote though:  "remember, the biggest mistake about planting a fruit tree is not to do  it!"
they're exceptional eaters and superior to macs imo.
i guess you really dont know until you put the tree in the ground.
thu mar 15, 2012 4:37 pm - megamav - - posts: 6 - joined: sat nov 12, 2011 9:16
let's get some facts straight first, my garden is in central california, not southern california, we get a lot of fog in the hills right above santa cruz, for example my cox orange pippin will get foggy mornings with sun from maybe noon-4pm, after which it's shaded from the oaks.
for kidd's  orange red there is an orchard about 90 minutes south of me that has it, i've  never been there but they record "early october" as the harvest date.
(most winter apples can tolerate short exposures to 20f, the types of frosts that might be common in the fall.)
since you're in socal, i thought maybe you had some european varieties that would need some shade in your area to make it to harvest without crumbling on the tree.
let's get some facts  straight first, my garden is in central california, not southern california, we  get a lot of fog in the hills right above santa cruz, for example my cox orange  pippin will get foggy mornings with sun from maybe noon-4pm, after which it's  shaded from the oaks.
my property is surrounded by oak trees, and i've pushed the envelope by growing fruit trees right up to the canopy.
so in ny you would probably just want to make sure your apples ripen before the onset of extended periods of sub-freezing weather.
anything past october 1st
axel wrote:so in ny you would probably just want to make sure  your apples ripen before the onset of extended periods of sub-freezing weather.
- join the cloudforest - login (delete cookies) search advanced search getting around the cafe - discussions - help center - the team - print view login username password i forgot my password log me on automatically each visit hide my online status this session the cloudforest gardener credits
from the sounds of it, yours is actually under canopy of other trees.
pm - location: santa cruz mountains - climate zone: sunset 15/usda 9b i seriously doubt you have anything to worry about.
if anything, your apples may even be better quality with the extra chill in the late fall from the extra shade you will get after sept. 21st.
during the peak summer months, i will get about 6 hours of this intense open aired sun.
so if your situation with less sun holds true for me, im looking at a tight harvest every year contending with the first freeze.
i think it gets enough overhead light  to really fruit well.
i've found  that apples don't like to have overhead canopy of any sorts.
weather wiki you are here: home >  discussions > fruits, rare fruits, orchards and exotics > apples pears,  and other pome fruits > thoughts on sun exposure times and apples
thu mar 15, 2012 11:44 am megamav joined: sat nov 12, 2011 9:16
pm climate zone: 5a i was wondering if you  could expand your thoughts on sun and fruiting and ripening.
my kidds orange red ripens when expected and it looses sun about 3:30pm.
axel wrote:so in ny you would probably just want to make sure your apples ripen before the onset of extended periods of sub-freezing weather.
thu mar 15, 2012 4:37 pm megamav joined: sat nov 12, 2011 9:16
(most winter apples can tolerate  short exposures to 20f, the types of frosts that might be common in the fall.)
you need to select varieties that are good for ny.
- megamav - - posts: 6 - joined: sat nov 12, 2011 9:16
im in the situation where i get low  angle sun thru trees in the morning for about an hour from 9am to about 10am  then slight shade until about 10:30am.
posted by axel_sc z9b/suns16 (my page) on tue, aug 24, 10 at  19:21 harvestman, my northern spy is not under the oaks, but next to  them with east facing sun until 1 or 2pm.
we'll see if "morning sun, afternoon shade" is  good enough.
intense sun 10:30 until around 3:30 then  again sun thru trees until about 5:30.
posted by axel_sc z9b/suns16 (my page) on tue, aug 24, 10 at 19:21 harvestman, my northern spy is not under the oaks, but next to them with east facing sun until 1 or 2pm.
pm - climate zone: 5a from: http://forums2.gardenweb.com/forums/loa ...
during the peak summer months, i  will get about 6 hours of this intense open aired sun.
the sun angle is getting higher and higher now, clearing the trees more and more so it may not have as much of an effect as i'm thinking.
we'll see if "morning sun, afternoon shade" is good enough.
for fun, i've attached my climate data as well as orleans france and southampton england, places known to grow these varieties.
other than that, don't worry about the shade they're getting.
the kor and or are british and french, and i  figured since those regions get much less sun (about 30% less) than i do here  in ny, my situation may work well for them.
the cloudforest gardener a community of eclectic gardeners - home - about - apples - cafe - citrus - ethnobotany - events - food - palms - permaculture - weather - wiki you are here: home > discussions > fruits, rare fruits, orchards and exotics > apples pears, and other pome fruits > thoughts on sun exposure times and apples
i did notice that apples closer to the oaks that provide western shade delay the harvest by about 3-4 weeks.
pm eric, with full sun from 10:30am to 3:30pm i can't see that you would get that much of a delay, if any at all.
i think it's a crime that you don't have a macintosh, given that the best macs come out of ny.
so noon time sun seems the most critical.
thu mar 15, 2012 3:55 pm axel joined: thu nov 18, 2010 8:49
what's  interesting is that for example stone fruits like peaches are much less  sensitive, fruiting like crazy in the same locations.
i only have room in my yard for these 3 trees.
axel wrote:i think it's a crime that you don't have a macintosh, given that the best macs come out of ny.
i think it gets enough overhead light to really fruit well.
for example, my cox orange pippin ripens in early october while the one up the hill where there is more sun ripens early september.
for example, my cox orange pippin ripens in early october while the  one up the hill where there is more sun ripens early september.
top - attachments - - - climates.png (233.26 kib) viewed 54 times re: thoughts on sun exposure times and apples by axel
[dst ] - sitemapindex - rss feed - channel list welcome guest please register or login if you would like to post.
have you found  intense noon time sun for 4-5 hours and light sun outside of that frame to work  well on these types of apples?
in general, the apples that get morning sun until noon seem to fruit prolifically, whereas the apples that get no morning sun, but afternoon sun seem to fruit a lot less, much more biennially.
(all times are utc - 8 hours
intense sun 10:30 until around 3:30 then again sun thru trees until about 5:30.
have you found intense noon time sun for 4-5 hours and light sun outside of that frame to work well on these types of apples?
i did notice that  apples closer to the oaks that provide western shade delay the harvest by about  3-4 weeks.
thu mar 15, 2012 10:21 pm - megamav - - posts: 6 - joined: sat nov 12, 2011 9:16
the trees that have that much delay are right next to the oaks, almost under them, so that they get shaded after about 1pm.
adjacent is ok, but directly overhead even if only half of the tree is covered is detrimental to any apple tree.
attachments climates.png (233.26 kib) viewed 54 times top re: thoughts on sun exposure times and apples by axel
let me know if you can  expand on your experiences with less than all day sun thanks man, nice  work on the site.
let me know if you can expand on your experiences with less than all day sun thanks man, nice work on the site.
as a whole, i've noticed much more open growth near the oak trees.
- axel - site admin - - posts: 1306 - joined: thu nov 18, 2010 8:49
top re: thoughts on sun exposure times and apples by axel »
pm - location: santa cruz mountains - climate zone: sunset 15/usda 9b megamav wrote:i was wondering if you could expand your thoughts on sun and fruiting and ripening.
my apples: jonamac, kidds orange red, orleans reinette.
but with the spicy undertones of a very ripe jonathan.
its a very odd situation, different native climates  between me and england, i get more sun, but im simulating their climate with  some shade.
thu mar 15, 2012 3:55 pm - axel - site admin - - posts: 1306 - joined: thu nov 18, 2010 8:49
it is currently fri mar 16, 2012 4:10 am.
since you're in socal, i thought maybe  you had some european varieties that would need some shade in your area to make  it to harvest without crumbling on the tree.
so if your  situation with less sun holds true for me, im looking at a tight harvest every  year contending with the first freeze.
however  gets dramatically less sun, like 4-5 hours worth a day, mostly late morning to  mid afternoon.
top display posts from previous: all posts1 day7 days2 weeks1 month3 months6 months1 year sort by authorpost timesubject ascendingdescending post a reply 5 posts •
my season isnt exceptionally long like yours, but blossoms here are  usually 2nd week in may, typically we dont get a strong freeze until around 2nd  or 3rd week in november at the earliest.