settlers cut down olive trees in nablus area wafa government directly responsible for ongoing harm to residents of qusra b'tselem 5
idf detains kids for picking olives ynet news - officer reprimands kids aged 6, 11, and 12 for taking handful of olives from....
local sources reported monday that  israeli soldiers are currently surrounding the al walaja village, near  bethlehem, and are uprooting dozens of olive trees in order to construct a  section of the illegal annexation wall in the area.
together with the beit hanoun local initiative,  international solidarity movement (ism) volunteers picked olives with families  near the buffer zone in the village of burej and in two different locations in  beit hanoun this week.
idf detains kids for picking olives ynet news -  officer reprimands kids aged 6, 11, and 12 for taking handful of olives from....
israel urged to clamp down on jewish terror al-ahram weekly 10/13/2011 desecration of graveyards and destruction of  olive groves are just two manifestations of violence palestinians -- on the  west bank and inside israel -- face daily from israeli society the palestinian authority (pa) as well as arab leaders  in israel have urged the israeli government to "swiftly and decisively  clamp down on spiralling jewish terror and vandalism against palestinian  targets, including mosques and islamic as well as christian cemeteries",  writes khaled amayreh in occupied jerusalem.
the remaining 130 villages and towns had most of their land taken  and now the remaining palestinians who comprise 20% of the israeli population  live on about 2% of the land while the jewish population controls the rest  (which is mostly palestinian property).
the general manager of the  reconstructing hebron committee, their lawyers and a group of people were  present during the process.
sunbula offers a wide variety of palestinian traditional crafts...more.. threads of tradition: palestinian traditional costumes online gallery:
that culture is alive and well in spite of it all, and perhaps healthier than many would expect.
why did you end up spending your life in the middle east, particularly in its more violent corners?
al-habbash accused the israeli  government of supporting the "terrorism of settlers who are corrupting the  west bank, burning palestinian olive orchards, and attack palestinian villages  with the support and protection of the israeli army," he said in a  statement.
al-quds tv representatives said that a journalist and a cameraman were detained near the illegal settlement of ariel, south of nablus.
a security guard working at the itamar jewish settlement, near the northern west bank city of nablus, torched a number of olive trees that belong to resident of awarta village, east of the city, no'man
the palestinian preventive security forces on tuesday afternoon seized 46 tons of dates and pickled olives with expired validity dates.
colonialism and violence mondoweiss - as we bear witness to the daily, ever escalating,  ever-unprecedented yet routine israeli collective punishment and cruelty and  torment inflicted on the palestinians—men and women, young and old, boys  and girls, children and infants, farm animals, fruit orchards, and olive  trees—one cannot but be awed at... palestine papers under the  spotlight samira quraishy, middle east monitor  (memo) 2/25/2011 a seminar planned to  put the "palestine papers under the spotlight" has been held in the  senate house of the university of london.
israeli settlers uprooted 200 olive trees in qusra village near nablus overnight wednesday, a palestinian authority official said.
in the aftermath residents of al walajeh called for a presence of media and activists to highlight this illegal destruction carried out by the israeli government.
no complaint was submitted to israel's civil administration, a spokesman said.
a natural  spring, countless olive trees, a mosque and virtually every stone used to build  the village's unmistakable houses -- yacoub odeh remembers it all.
mihmas residents blamed settlers for the attack  and said this was the third time the settlers had uprooted trees in the area.
kayemeth leisrael-jewish national fund  (kkl-jnf).
i wanted to sleep so that 7 am today would come quickly, but all my attempts failed.
firefighters contained a large fire which ripped through an area of olive trees in the village of beit lid in the northern west bank on monday evening.
a total of five  tents, two wells and a number of olive trees were demolished.
as thousands of olive trees have been bulldozed, uprooted and....
agricultural  committees:
for they are still dead, and thousands more are still maimed.[1] we will never forget the last 63 years during which our land, homes, olive groves, lemon trees and cherished way of life was taken away from us, while israeli soldiers held our fathers faces in the sands, imprisoned them, or shot them in front of us.
more.. e-mail the battle
palestinians  traditionally marry young, between 18 and 25, but more and more now pass their  mid-twenties single.
journalists and cameramen were prohibited from accessing the area, as israeli  forces enforced a closed military zone. . . . .
hebron copes with self deifying israeli military and its settlers alistair george, international solidarity movement 11/4/2011 the streets of tel rumeida are locked-down and divided; physically occupied by a forceful israeli military.
he said he was.... report: security at mt. olives slipping ynet news, 13 jun 2011 - 'one jerusalem' group sees 50% rise in hostile activity on cemetery grounds;....
by samah sabwai to the people of israel who fear our freedom:  don’t be afraid, we will liberate you too.
israeli forces demolish 17 buildings in northern west bank 1/11/2010 - international solidarity movement - 10 january - israeli  military forces have demolished 17 buildings in the palestinian community of  khirbet tana for the second time.
according to eyewitness reports, idf soldiers violently beat, up to 6 palestinian...
oct 2011 - courtesy: salem-news.com by mazin qumsiyeh /  intifada palestine latest roundup of stories from palestine (bethleham) western  media try to make palestinian political prisoners mere numbers while  personalizing one israeli soldier.
tear gas canisters resulted in the setting of several  small fires and burning of numerous olive trees.
for  villagers in al-walaja, a... the real enemy of the palestinians dr. elias akleh, intifada-palestine 10/15/2011 when i was young i perceived the zionist  israelis to be the palestinians, and my, only enemy.
dozens of villagers tried to stop military....
fayyad: pa will declare state in summer 2011 jeruslalem post 28
poems about hooves thumping hearts too, of golden olive oil and the laughter of children, those who dig in our minds in sweat-tinged soil, of the joy of making of the family of man in places both ordinary and sacred where a close hug negates languages of confusion?
oct 2010 - following un envoy's comments in which he compared alleged settler vandalism against olive trees to terrorism, israel reacts: "does serry pretend israeli suicide bombers attack palestinian buses?" un rep.:
the battle for al-walaja palestine monitor - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
one of the protesters was  identified as haitam al-atrash, and four were reported injured.
i'm just saying that the ex-president was in no mental state to write a book - certainly not a book of this size.
" pa holds olive branch in one hand, stone in the other ha'aretz 7 mar 2010 - discussing a final-status agreement while allowing a mini-intifada to unfold gives the pa leverage.
we all know about the devastation in gaza, we know about the siege, the destruction and the crimes against humanity.
in beit jala, this is the second  time that this particular garden and playground has been bulldozed.
dozens of settlers from the elon moreh jewish-only settlement  attacked palestinians picking olives in azmut village east of nablus, pa  settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas told ma'an.
21 apr 2011 - yesterday, 20 april,  the village of bil'in commenced its sixth annual conference on popular  resistance.
the shelves of  bethlehem's tourist shops this winter are filled with the gifts you might  expect.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 15 olive trees near dir estia imemc - friday april 09, 2010 - 01:09, a group of extremist jewish settlers uprooted on thursday 15 olive trees in wadi qana area, north east of dir estia, near the central west bank district of salfit.
zionist settlers damage olive trees using chemicals uruknet october 9, 2010 --
in one case, settlers assaulted farmers who had come to their land to pick olives.
they come from across the planet and  meet in the shadow of israel's 12m concrete wall.
the  farmers of hares who have land near the settlement of revava still cannot get  to it as often as they would like.
egyptians say military discourages an open economy palestine note 18 feb 2011 - new york times - the egyptian military defends the country, but it also runs day care centers and beach resorts.
the.... related: source the olive and the f-16: autumn in gaza radhika  s, notes from behind the blockade 10/28/2011 today completes another week of olive picking in  gaza.
yet many of the tombstones have been smashed,  litter is strewn... south hebron hills: palestinian man stabbed by  settler near at-tuwani two days after settler riot disrupts replanting of  damaged olive trees christian peacemaker teams - palestine - provocations and attacks by israeli settlers obstruct palestinian  nonviolent action in the south hebron hills: two palestinians are arrested 3/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - 19 march,  operation dove - at-tuwani -saturday morning, around 9:00 am, during a  nonviolent action, the inhabitants of at-tuwani, accompanied by several  international, planted some olive trees in palestinian-owned humra valley.
a mob of extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and uprooted olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian officials said.
my gazan sisters are  inspirational.
at approximately 10am on  tuesday several residents from the village, joined by ism and other activists,  walked down to the site of the olive grove, which is now a wasteland.
according to the man, settlers live in a world of no consequence as if removed  from the normal social contract of western societies.
on this anniversary we demand an international  liberation movement that eventually leads to just that, liberation for us  palestinians from 63 years of brutal military occupation and ethnic cleansing  that pours shame on any organisation or government claiming to endorse  universal human rights.
in my ignorance i had just assumed that palestinians don't pay a great deal of attention to these things, after all it's not unusual for farmers anywhere in the world to allow groves and orchards to grow quite wild.
those wishing to travel  into h2 from palestinian-controlled h1 must pass through metal detectors and  checkpoints, where they may be arbitrarily harassed or detained by bored  israeli soldiers.
palestinian arts and crafts trust (pact) offers sales venues for artisans while educating the american public about the rich traditional palestinian cultural heritage.
iaf air craft attack terror tunnel in northern gaza jerusalem post 5 jul 2011 -
settlers torch olive groves in northern west bank 10/15/2010 - qalqiliya (ma'an) --
israeli  failed state the timing of the us move toward new  talks is rather conspicuous as well.
the  planting went without disturbances from the surrounding.... pleasure hunting / winter on the mount of olives ha'aretz - 3 feb  2012 [uruknet.info] greenwashing the occupation uruknet february 1, 2012 - one of the things that have affected me greatly from  all the horrors of the israeli occupation is the uprooting of palestinian olive  trees.
jewish settlers destroy 200 olive trees in nablus pic 26 oct 2010 - citizens in deir al-hatab village were stunned at the sight of 200 of their olive trees damaged after jewish settlers poured sewage water from the nearby allon moreh settlement into their land.
yet approximately 22 incidents of this kind were reported this year for the same period.
in the afternoon of 14 january palestinians discovered that a family owned olive grove in khoruba valley had been recently destroyed.
friedman, who  commands a $75,000 speaking fee (more than most americans make in a year),  wrote in his book the lexus and the olive tree that when he did his first  column as the new york times' chief diplomatic correspondent in 1989: "i  certainly did not know anything about most of the issues the senators were  quizzing
faces in the sands, imprisoned them, or shot them in front of us.
accompanied by ism volunteers the family climbed the  hillside above beit furik and marched through the olive groves to within....
one of the settlers was appointed "security guard" to ensure no journalists were able to record the incident, haaretz wrote.
yesterday, february 22 2011, a number of palestinian news agencies,  including the agency that i work for, published articles on the destruction of  olive fields in the west bank town of jab’a,... hebron  settlers attack at tiwana, uproot trees imemc - wednesday february  23, 2011 - 02:28, a group of armed extremist jewish settlers attacked on  tuesday at tiwana village, near the southern west bank city of hebron and  uprooted several olive trees.
a group of palestinian youth said they were attacked by israeli soldiers while planting olive trees on wednesday.
once the adjusted route is implemented, residents of bil'in are expected to restore almost half of their 2,300 donums confiscated during the construction of the wall's original route.
the two are crouching before a small, stained tent.
it can’t help producing pages by the hour, by the minute.
several of the attacks were done with full cooperation of the israeli army and in plain sight of soldiers, who did nothing to prevent the settlers from attacking and burning trees.
invitation: join the palestinian olive harvest efforts!
i dreamt about my travel to jerusalem, the smell of its air, the view of its nature, its streets, and its people.
the attack took place while thousands of jewish...
here's a video round-up of what happened.
nawal started her embroidery business in the small village of idna but struggled due to a lack of customers.
the village of burin: under  attack
the filmmaker's son, sean stone, is in tehran, possibly plotting a film on iran.
settlers uproot 270 olive  trees near nablus palestine note 21 feb 2011 - ma'an - a mob of  extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and uprooted olive trees near  nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian officials said.
the animals are believed to have been released from the nearby itamar settlement.
almost immediately, dust kicked up just  ahead of us, a warning shot rang out.
the midnight  raids did nothing to deter the groundswell of the popular struggle.
on the... easing of gaza blockade  fails to reverse housing crisis 12/21/2010 - jabalia, gaza strip  (irin) --
the 100 or so olive  trees that had escaped the winter 2008-2009 israeli massacre of gaza and prior  and later military invasions this time went with the 4 towering military  bulldozers and 3 tanks.
jewish settlers burnt or uprooted 7500 olives trees in 9 months pic - jewish settlers burnt or uprooted 7500 palestinian olive trees in the first nine month of 2011, a report by ocha said on tuesday.
ghassan doughlas, who holds the settlements file for the northern west bank, said settlers from yizhar settlement torched trees on land belonging to madama and asira villages south of nablus.
the palestinian authority's ministry of agriculture will not fix olive oil prices ahead of the 2010 harvest season, the minister said, announcing a new mechanism of support for farmers.
the villagers tried to put off... may  day in gaza: an olive oil producer is turning production waste into an energy  source palestine note 4 may 2010 -
jewish settlers burn and uproot trees belonging to palestinians in the west bank pic 23
the real estate bubble crashed.
dec 2010 - nablus, december 18, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli settlers uprooted at friday night tens of trees belonging to palestinians in tal village, in south of nablus.
report: israel to expand hotel owned by jordan 12/15/2010 - tel aviv, israel (ma'an) -- israel is planning a major expansion to a jordanian-owned hotel atop the mount of olives in jerusalem, an israeli newspaper reported wednesday.
they were drawn into the fight permanently  when in 2004 their land was annexed by israel following the construction of the  apartheid wall.
ghassan douglas, in  charge of settlements file at the palestinian authority in the northern part of  the west bank, stated that a number of extremist israeli settlers set fire to  dozens of... why doesn’t the world offer assistance when  settlers set fire to west bank land?
7-17: a day earlier, israeli border police clashed with palestinian protesters as bulldozers continued work near route 60 on the edge of town.
soldiers continued shooting toward the olive groves with the goal of setting trees on fire, even after the demonstration ended and protesters returned to the village.
four decades of occupation in hebron uruknet february 25, 2010 - i have been to hebron three times, but each visit was like entering a different city.
a private twitter released...
farmers' valley declared closed military zone 7/11/2011 - nablus  (ma'an) --
oxfam: israeli policies damaging to the palestinian olive oil industry uruknet october 15, 2010 -
where are the poets of hope, bringing us this precious land and its active people in odes, sonnets, magic speech and children's songs of hope, prosperity and peace?
but yasser was too excited about his... israeli settlers torch olive trees near bethlehem uruknet  october 19, 2010 -
oxfam, the union of agricultural work committees and the  palestinian agricultural relief committees estimated that olives collected this  year would produce half the oil of the 2010....
scorched hillsides and charred olive groves near nablus pinpoint the latest acts of arson by...
economic statistics in the palestinian territories, sampled during the fourth quarter of 2006 ma’an news agency 2/7/2007 bethlehem - the palestinian central bureau of statistics, has released the results of its labour force survey, conducted from october to december 2006.
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 13:06, on  saturday, palestinian prime minister dr. salam fayyad participated in picking  olive trees in the west bank villages of iraq and burin, near nablus.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 15 olive trees near dir estia imemc - friday april 09, 2010 - 01:09, a group of extremist jewish settlers  uprooted on thursday 15 olive trees in wadi qana area, north east of dir estia,  near the central west bank district of salfit.
along with these closures, israel has imposed a ban  on all palestinian vehicular traffic on shuhada street, which was once the  vibrant main street – connecting the north with west of al-khalil.
from it's release in 1988 in algiers until... declaration of independence palestine monitor: 14 mar 2011 -  renouncing violence and terrorism, recognizing israel, accepting united nations  resolutions 242 and 338 and negotiations leading to a two-state solution,  mahmoud darwish's crafted declaration of independence is a foundational  document for the palestinian struggle for freedom and independence.
residents and firefighters rushed to the scene, eyewitnesses said, but israeli soldiers would not allow them to access the land.
the hebron-france association for cultural exchange is organizing a crafts festival in hebron on october 15, a statement said.
the general manager of the palestinian organization of marketing  centers, zuheir al-eseily, also took part in the opening ceremony.
all that remains of this once-prosperous village are the shells of dozens of houses dotted throughout the valley, their outer walls largely intact but now overgrown with wildflowers and weeds.
noting a recent escalation in attacks on palestinian lands and farmers, the agricultural support organization said it will organize groups of volunteers to accompany workers.... as israeli violence spreads across israel/palestine, shin bet worries it will soon target law enforcement mondoweiss - settlers uproot dozens of olive trees near nablus imemc 1 oct -- a group of extremist armed israeli settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
in photos: olive harvest in west bank village 10/17/2011 - maanimages / trevor lewis - the badar family harvest olives in the village of beitillu, northwest of ramallah.
the israel land administration, now the legal owner of the land, is marketing plots to developers to construct an upscale neighbourhood based on the buildings that already exist.
sometimes even that is impossible.
a note: the  millions of "trees" planted by zionists, including... activists work to stop wall construction and uprooting of olive trees in beit  jala 3/5/2010 - international solidarity movement - beit jala  popular committee, 4 march - in the early morning on march 2, 2010, israeli  bulldozers started uprooting ancient olive trees in the garden of a palestinian  family in the town of beit jala, north-west of bethlehem, in order to make room  for the construction of yet another section of the apartheid wall.
the israeli military sent eight jeep loads of soldiers to iraq burin, near nablus, on saturday to prevent villagers from accessing their farmland.
fayyad spoke with international activists and palestinian committee members at the site of wall's latest construction in beit jala, condemning the israeli annexation of land and uprooting of olive trees to build the separation wall.
the village of battir, north west of bethlehem, was once a haven for  farmers.
an.... more than an olive branch uruknet october 21, 2010 - the palestine liberation organisation (plo) has expressed willingness to offer israel far-reaching concessions in return for the establishment of a viable palestinian state in all or most of the west bank, gaza strip and east jerusalem.
al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers uruknet april 26, 2010 - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
false  prophets, destroyer of 800,000 olive and citrus plants, subjugation.
the latest call came after suspected jewish terrorists vandalised and defaced muslim and christian graves at the main cemetery of jaffa.
the  badil resource center for palestinian residency and refugee rights recently  published rights in principle -- rights in practice , which examines a  rights-based approach to crafting durable solutions for palestinian refugees.
but in the end he sat, battered on their bridal bed under the olive tree, in black despair.
they then warned us that they would intercept us, that this could be dangerous for the crew and damaging for the boat.
as a bumper crop year, the olive industry promises to contribute over 118 million usd (based on 2003/4 figures)
locals said israeli residents of the nearby illegal betar illit settlement obstructed palestinian firefighters....
they have been here, looking like this since antiquity.
but this christmas they showed less hostility against the west bank.
they destroyed 30 to 40 makeshift homes and uprooted hundreds of olive trees belonging to the villagers, they said.
two palestinian youths in their twenties were hit by live ammunition today, during a demo against illegal....
fair trade olive oil will hit the shops in 2009 as tourist numbers in bethlehem reach their highest levels for a decade.
despite the israeli military  interventions, the palestinians successfully planted 20 olive trees during  their demonstration.
gaza is without proper sewage pumps, bombed as they are  rebuilt.
these are the guerilla gardeners of the occupied west  bank.
the village is one of fourteen such ‘blockations' in the west bank.
discussing a final-status agreement while allowing a  mini-intifada to unfold gives the pa leverage.
olive trees burned in  fire sparked by tear-gas palestine note 6 jun 2011
israel overturns land in bethlehem-area village 5/24/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israel's civil administration, reportedly accompanied by border guards, bulldozed land in the nahalin village in bethlehem and uprooted a number of olive trees on monday, a village council official told ma'an.
settlers uproot 270 olive trees near nablus uruknet february 21,  2011 - a mob of extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and uprooted  olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian officials said.
to harvest olives takes time, as each one of the olives must be cut from the tree with the hands one by one, so that is why this year tamir was helped by a group of volunteers.
iran's nuclear chief turned foreign minister reaches out to west ha'aretz 19 dec 2010 - ali akbar salehi does not mention u.s. or israel in inaugural speech, but seemed to extend olive branch to the european union., egyptian leaders tells parliament session that israel is to blame for stalemate in talks, urges u.s. and other peacebrokers to 'assume' responsibility., israeli officials fear that washington will not rush to exercise its veto power against such a resolution, which calls for international pressure for construction freeze.
as some of the trees...
qumsiyeh  hopes this recent “freedom ride” – possible because a bus driver  let them ride by mistake, he said – will spark the same kind of response  that its namesake did across the united states in the early 1960s, when  interstate bus trips helped end racial segregation in the south.
jewish settlers cut off palestinian olive trees pic - jewish  settlers cut off olive and fruit trees in the cultivated land lots of beit  ummar village north of al-khalil province on wednesday, a local source reported.
outpost are responsible for the vandalism.
unlike most harvests around the world  which are collected either by local farmers or migrant workers, in the case of  palestine people are literally flying in from all over the... psp  accompanied farmers` olive harvest in surif palestine solidarity
eventually the tear gas started a fire near three homes and grape and  olive fields.
settlers riot in burin, shooting and setting fire to olive trees uruknet july 27, 2010 - at 11:30 yesterday, 26th july 2010, settlers from the berakha shomronim settlement began shooting at palestinians in the village of burin and setting fire to crops on their land.
now  that the... settlers uproot olive trees in northern west bank imemc - tuesday february 23, 2010 - 17:18, a group of israeli  settlers uprooted, on tuesday at dawn, olive trees that belongs to palestinian  farmers from the village of burin, near the northern west bank city of nablus.
oct 2010 - israeli settlers under military escort attacked a number of university students as they were en route to help farmers in harvesting olive trees in tel armida and
bab al-amoud in occupied jerusalem.
this place name was al-saha.
the whole of the bethlehem district has been surrounded by the separation wall and... a cloud over jerusalem uri avnery, dissident voice 5/1/2010 everyone has the right to change his or her mind.
6th annual conference on popular resistance in bil'in palestine monitor:
we eat breakfast, thank our hosts, and get in a bus with the right  color license plate, driven by a driver with the right color id card, and head  towards the city of yafa.
this site may contain copyrighted material the use of  which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner.
the group tore down the produce in the valley neighboring the tappuah settlement, between yaduf and jamain villages, palestinian authority official monitoring settlement activity ghassan doughlas said.
clashes were reported; soldiers fired gas bombs at the protesters leading to a  number of injuries.
…and when the world is celebrating the rescue of 33 chilean miners trapped  underground- whom we all are glad to see brought back to life again-
the journalist was reporting on a  demonstration organized by palestinians from the village of at-tuwani after the  recent destruction of an olive grove.
protect olive harvest from settlers 10/3/2011 - nablus  (ma'an) --
amir levy, spokesman  for the firefighter squad in the western galilee, said that in some of the  situations, arson was suspected, but a formal investigation has not been opened  yet.
once i entered the dirt road leading to the village i saw scores of vans with heavily armed policemen getting ready to leave.
demonstrators  chanted against the discriminatory policies of the occupation and reminded that  only this morning, farmers who were picking olives on their lands in the  surrounding villagers were harassed by settlers while israeli soldiers stood by.
no freedom in the land of false prophets a poem palestine chronicle: 2 dec 2011 -
life in the "buffer zone" palestine monitor: 13 feb 2010 -
gaza, this narrow strip of land - the aching remnant of palestine - where the orange and olive trees have been growing for hundreds of years has lately turned into death fields and a hunting ground for the people who planted and watered those evergreen trees generation after generation.
the annual olive harvest has been hit by an upsurge in violence this year, attributed to a rise in settler militancy west bank olive groves become battleground
" al ma'sara: house on the seam of looming apartheid wall becomes center  for peaceful resistance 2/14/2012 - international solidarity  movement - by aaron, 14 february 2012, international solidarity movement, west  bank - there is a place where a ground-level concrete line runs beside a  country road through olive orchards, grape vines, blossoming almond trees, and  homes"”all palestinian.
the capture of jerusalem during the six-day war (june 5-10, 1967) between israel, egypt, jordan, and syria was not fully anticipated, given the united nations presence in the city and the accords that had been reached through the 1949 armistice agreements following the 1948 arab-israeli war.
the israeli army demolished a house and cowshed, bulldozed an olive  orchard, and confiscated two caravans in the village of beit ola, northwest of  the west bank city of hebron, palestine news & info agency (wafa) reported  on tuesday.
seven years ago, i met muhammad for the first time.
related: villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land 2/23/2012 - hebron (ma'an) --
what was there to gain from killing civiliansat least nine are dead, along with several dozen injuredattempting to deliver desperately needed humanitarian aid for the 1.5 million people of gaza suffering under an israeli blockade?
live ammunition fired at nonviolent demonstrators in ni’lin 4/9/2010 - international solidarity movement - facing tear gas,  rubber-coated steel bullets and live ammunition, roughly sixty palestinians  gathered outside of ni'lin today.
a  group of 50 settlers from the neighboring settlement of halamish watched as  theisraeli occupation forces attacked the palestinians.
settlement guards threaten farmers near nablus 3/13/2010 - nablus - ma'an - guards protecting israeli settlers assaulted a palestinian farmer in the wadi qana area of the salfit governorate on friday, mayor of the nearby town of deir istya reported.
jewish settlers, returned to the land of the bible, burn a girls school and beat farmers trying to harvest olives mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers/land, property & resource theft and destruction/ethnic cleansing settlers torch, vandalize nablus school nablus (ma'an) --
uruknet may 14, 2011 -  palestine is neither a memory nor a dream - it is a homeland to which millions  will one day return.
last week, i watched several youtube videos filmed by activists in the village, providing vivid visual images of the forceful arrests of protesters by the army.
nearly  100 residents of budrus, israli activist and internationals comemorated land  day with a nonviolent march and tree planting action.
all the groves i had seen before today belonged to the farmers of mas-ha and were beyond the annexation fence (a "security fence" if you're israeli!).
nasser, a carpenter from the village of jit, took a day off on sunday to pick olives from his 30 olive trees ....... olives stolen from hundreds of trees west bank wafa - tel aviv, october 10, 2010 (wafa)_
the village has been continuously  inhabited for well over 2,000 years, long before the establishment of the state  of israel.
the use of emigration as an escape valve led 500,000 to migrate to the united  states and...more palestinian youth attacked while planting olive  trees 4/2/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- a group of palestinian youth  said they were attacked by israeli soldiers while planting olive trees on  wednesday.
over 530 palestinian towns and villages were  depopulated.
fires rage throughout western galilee; arson suspected in some cases jack khoury, ha’aretz 6/24/2007 dozens of dunams of  fields and groves burned saturday as brush fires raged throughout the western  galilee.
journalists, including ma'an photographer rami swidan, said  soldiers descended on the group, insisting that because they were in a closed  military zone, no photographs could be taken in the area.
approximately 200 palestinian, israel and international demonstrators tried to block bulldozers uprooting an olive grove, sitting in the place where the bulldozers staged.
in the last  couple of months it has intensified its activities aiming to achieve an  ambitious list of tasks and ensure development of palestinian cinematography  and its networking with the other world cinematographies.
wadi qana is a valley south west of nablus where numerous springs supply water to the surrounding palestinian villages.
but before these kilos can be poured on pasta, heated to fry, or... intimidation continues in susiya as peace activists are arrested palestine monitor:
the family discussion over, they headed to the beach, where the children dashed over the dunes, chased the surf, and wrote their names in the sand.
(photo: hamde abu rahmah) intimidation continues in susiya as peace activists are arrested uruknet novrember 4, 2010
settlers uproot 15  olive trees near dir estia uruknet april 8, 2010 - a group of  extremist jewish settlers uprooted on thursday 15 olive trees in wadi qana  area, north east of dir estia, near the central west bank district of salfit.
today we joined the demonstration in beit jala as we did not have a competing  event at ush ghrab.
israel plows farms paving way for apartheid wall extension in bethlehem village pic - israeli bulldozers began tuesday plowing through ''vast'' palestinian farmlands and uprooting olive trees to pave the way for an extension of the apartheid wall in al-walaja village.
under the new regulations implemented by egypt... where are the israeli poets?
but, there is a light of life in the old city market.
speaking to reporters on the mount of olives in east jerusalem, pinera  said chile wanted to help the two sides work towards a peace agreement that  would see....
settlers raze palestinian olive trees daily star 29 sep 2011 dozens of palestinian olive trees were destroyed in an attack near the city of hebron, local residents said thursday, calling it an act of revenge carried out by israeli settlers.
mufeed abdul-halim ash-sheikh, 62, his wife fahmiyya, 60,  and his son mahmoud, 26, were evacuated to the darwish nazzal hospital after  they collapsed at the scene....
the magic of  bali is the night time encounter of the divine in the form of moon, mountain,  sea and trees with the worshipping faithful.
farming is now difficult and in some areas  impossible.
a palestinian farmer informed  internationals who documented the destruction that this was the fifth time  since 1997 that settlers have destroyed the olive trees in this grove.
oct 2010 - photo gallery: both ismail haniyeh and salam fayyad turn up to be photographed picking symbolic fruit in palestinian villages.
e-mail homes and livelihoods gone in an instant in gaza: 11 mar 2010 - israeli bulldozers destroyed three homes and 17 dunams of agricultural land in eastern khan younis on 18 february.
standing outside my hosts house, one of the nine slated for demolition, bassem tamimi must knock on his own door which his mother always keeps locked for fear of the soldiers.
witnesses said israeli forces used limited force against protesters who attempted to prevent the bulldozers from approaching the trees, planted in beit jala.
"deep in the roots  of these olive trees, there is something that reminds us that our people lived  here from the beginning and will continue to the end," he told the  gathered crowds of protestors.
2/23/2010 - international solidarity movement - bil'in  popular committee, 22 february - palestinian and internationals help plant  olive trees in bilin to replace those destroyed by israeli troops and settlers.
my husband's  family had 50 dunams, which were a mixture of olive groves and vegetable  patches, as well as another 50 dunams of land which was stolen after 1967  (after the war of this year, israel began it's occupation of the west bank and  gaza).
the different abu taima brothers and cousins speak of their land, all in or near the israeli-imposed “buffer zone” (officially 300m in which palestinians cannot enter without fear of being shot, killed; but in reality a land-annexation which extends even up to nearly 2 km, driving farmers off their land and rendering land un-used…a waste of space in a strip that has no space to waste).
the midday  prayer to finish.
within 10 minutes... witnesses: settlers set fire to olive trees in burin 7/29/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers on friday torched olive trees in burin village, south of nablus, and fired live ammunition at firefighters' trucks trying to reach the blaze, palestinian authority officials said.
despite the protests of residents,  soldiers declared the area a closed military zone, bringing in heavy machinery  to begin work.
it has been reported in the israeli newspaper ha’aretz, that president obama submitted a letter of commitment to the palestinian side to get these indirect "proximity talks" off the ground.
a jewish group from yitzhar settlement near nablus, in north west bank, cut down 45 olive trees belonging to residents of bourin village on tuesday morning.
mohamed ashure  shimbari lives on the edge of the no-go zone.
eu launches $2.8 million support to olive farmers 2/7/2012  - bethlehem (ma'an) --
(photo: palestine solidarity  project )
israeli settlers uprooted at friday night tens of trees belonging to  palestinians in tal village, in south of nablus.
secret memo justified killing of  u.s.-born
she walks over felled trees, past the  bulldozed cistern, and to the ruins...
he said the trees were planted on land belonging to village residents muhammad jaber abdullah, ahmad jaber abdullah and yasser hassan.
more pa ministry holds rally in jerusalem 10/24/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
palestinian youth threw stones at the settlers, and the israeli army then attacked the youth with live ammunition, injuring ten, three seriously.
i was convinced that there  must have been stone-throwing by the shabab in the village which provoked the  violent army responses.
israeli soldiers attacked demonstrators: among them, dr mustafa barghouthi,  secretary general of the palestinian national initiative who declared that  “despite the attempt of israeli authorities to weaken and interrupt the  protest, the non-violent struggle will continue weekly rallies to stop the  construction of the apartheid wall”.
jewish settlers burn olive trees in nablus pic 14 nov 2010 - jewish settlers burnt dozens of palestinian  olive trees east of salem village, nablus district, on sunday, local sources  reported.
report: palestinian olive trees in  west bank uprooted in suspected 'price tag' attack ha'aretz -  writing found at scene indicates that incident may have been response to a  palestinian stone throwing attack last week that killed an israeli man and his  son.
demonstrators to protest arrest of prominent grassroots activist wa’el
when my wife was pregnant and was about to give birth, they didnt let us cross the checkpoint.
beit ummar farmers, whose lands were affected, said they believed residents of the nearby bat ayin settlement were behind the arson, which destroyed dozens of fig, olive and pine....
according to the latest un report on freedom of movement in the west bank,  there are 90 different closure obstacles in the h2-area, that all interfere  with freedom of movement for the palestinians living in or having errands in  h2.
more importantly, they will not...
home demolitions in amniyr, a community north of  susiya in the south hebron hills uruknet february 22, 2011 -
"we are here, in palestine, facing them.
firefighters controlled blazes in  several villages throughout the week which had burned around 300 olive trees, a  civil defense report said.
the placement of the barrier wall annexed another 50% of the remaining ni'lin property to the jewish settlers, with over 6,000 of the oldest...more the unexpected sound of christmas: palestinians and the bagpipe pnn - bethlehem – pnn - to an outsider, palestinian culture can be recalled with a few recognizable motifs: the keffiyeh, the olive tree, a plate of hummus, or a darwish poem.
settlers clashed with  palestinian farmers in a nablus village on monday, a palestinian authority  official said.
tree planters say soldiers used riot dispersal methods on volunteers 2/10/2010 - hebron - ma'an - international and palestinian tree planters were dispersed with tear gas and sound bombs as they attempted to work land belonging to local farmers on wednesday, the palestinian solidarity project said.
we met them inside a small tent and they  explained to us the situation.
israeli forces detained five people overnight saturday across the west bank, palestinian police and the israeli army said.
the trees were uprooted and confiscated, deputy to the nablus governor anan
u.n. diplomats say they have made progress on a security council resolution,  but challenges remain.
the  israeli military says it has launched an investigation....
i met the mayor of hebron and he told  me 6 million palestinians live abroad, he said those palestinians were  prohibiting from sending more than 2,000 us dollars a year home to their  families and palestinian charities.
tears of gaza dr. ashraf  ezzat, dissident voice 11/4/2010
the  israeli army arrived this morning to the village in a convoy of jeeps and  bulldozers and razed 17 buildings to the ground.
the al-kurd family live in the back half of their home, but were  evicted from the newly built front partition in december 2009.
army fires on iraq burin during olive tree planting 4/10/2011 - international solidarity movement - ism - bullets and tear gas were fired upon palestinians and internationals whilst they planted olive trees on the land legally owned by the village of iraq burin yesterday.
media spokesman for the project mohammad awad said the volunteers, participating in the "voluntary day to protect lands under threat of confiscation" brought 500 olive tree seedlings to lands registered to hasan awad, husam ahmad bahar and ibrahim abed al-hamid abu maria.
as he points out the old mosque and olive press, names come tumbling back, events, memories a life before 1948, the fateful year that hundreds of thousands of palestinians fled their ancestral homes during israel's war of independence, most of them never to return.
for centuries christians from around the world have reenacted the triumphant entry of jesus to jerusalem from the mount of olives one week before his crucifixion, burial and resurrection.
in  hebron imemc - tuesday april 12, 2011 - 05:17, a group of  extremist israeli settlers uprooted and destroyed more than 45 olive trees that  belong to the residents of beit ummar village, near the southern west bank city  of hebron.
by oliver loode estonia will  mark the 20th anniversary of the restoration of its independence in august of  this year.
beginning early on tuesday morning, farm workers, palestinian and international activists marched with flags, buckets, step ladders and hessian bags ready for a mornings work picking olives, accompanied by the cameras of arabic and international media.
the soldiers regularly met us with clubs, rubber-coated bullets, curfews, arrests and even live ammunition.
residents petition high  court to access olive groves 10/12/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --  residents of the wadi ar-rasha village filed a petition tuesday with the  israeli high court of justice to secure access to their land during the olive  harvest, an israeli rights group said.
80 olive trees uprooted  in walaja 6/8/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israeli bulldozers began  overturning agricultural land and uprooting trees in the al-walaja, a village  south of jerusalem inside the 1967 green line, palestinian landowners said.
his dreams foretold of a sturdy son working alongside of him multiplying loaves and fish.
towards the end of the planting, a settler from the illegal settlement of shilo came down in a pickup carrying an assault rifle....
-- links:this week in palestine (pdf)
its rich soil, water resources and favourable climate produced  abundant harvests of olives and vegetables.
israeli army uproots over 230 olive  trees near bethlehem imemc - tuesday february 22, 2011 - 17:26,  the palestine news network reports that the israeli army uprooted over 230  olive trees near bethlehem.
the saplings which had been planted three months  previously had been systematically uprooted from the earth and broken with  their remains left.... settlers uproot 20 olive trees near hebron imemc - sunday may 29, 2011 - 05:25, a group of extremist israeli  settlers, living at the beit ayin illegal settlement built on palestinian lands  the belong to beit ummar village, north of the southern west bank city of  hebron, attacked on saturday palestinian orchards, and uprooted twenty olive  trees.
with their legal challenges exhausted, settlers are increasingly nervous israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu's right-wing coalition is preparing to enforce court orders to dismantle outposts.
ghasan daghlas, who is charged with monitoring settlement activity in the northern west bank, told ma'an: "the settlers set fire in the.... settlers torch olive trees south of nablus 11/30/2010 - nablus (ma'an) -- residents of illegal settlements in the nablus district set fire to olive trees on tuesday, a palestinian authority official said.
accepting united nations resolutions 242 and 338 and negotiations leading to a  two-state solution, mahmoud darwish's crafted declaration of independence is a  foundational document for the palestinian struggle for freedom and  independence.
international law clearly defines what an independent state is and any attempt  to redefine it is an act of bad faith.
an interactive map...more we are here because we exist.
witnesses said israeli forces used limited force against protesters who  attempted to prevent the bulldozers from approaching the trees, planted in beit  jala.
soldiers and police also behaved aggressively towards palestinians, forcing a pregnant women to spend 30 minutes at a flying checkpoint, for example, and aided settler harassment of palestinians.
threatens to drive yet more palestinians from their homes.
the first blaze hit an an olive tree  grove in the northern west bank district of tubas, after which forces put out a  fire in a citrus grove near the far'un village....
in may of 1967, the  entire west bank including hebron was under jordanian rule.
the first phase of the olive press: all the olives from one batch are put in this funnel.
ethnic cleansing in the israeli negev neve gordon, redress 7/29/2010 neve gordon recounts his experience of visiting the israeli arab village of al-arakib moments after it had been razed to the ground by the israeli authorities, in the latest example of ethnic cleansing in the negev desert.
demonstrators, made up of  palestinian, israeli and international activists, proceeded from bil'in mosque  to the fence.
i find it hard to describe the palestinian girls and young women i met in gaza.
two  occupations and a faux museum sits on desecrated tombs.
the homes of four batch brothers once stood next to each other overlooking a grove of olive and lemon trees, after israel's three week war on gaza, however,all that is.... iran's nuclear chief turned foreign minister reaches out to west ha'aretz - ali akbar salehi does not mention u.s. or israel in inaugural speech, but seemed to extend olive branch to the european union., egyptian leaders tells parliament session that israel is to blame for stalemate in talks, urges u.s. and other peacebrokers to 'assume' responsibility.
in photos:  bethlehem souvenirs 7/12/2010 - maanimages / luay sabab - a  palestinian man works at a mother-of-pearl factory south of bethlehem on 10  july 2010.
we will not  forget the sickening cowardice of the international community that has allowed  and enabled this ethnic cleansing of our people, subjecting us to israel’s  racist zionist vision that defines us, the indigenous people of palestine, as  the undesired ‘ethnic group’ for the region.
it  presents a synopsis of the violations of international law committed by israeli  settlers and israeli occupation forces during the months of the harvest, and in  one case of land confiscation, before the start of the season.
official records indicate that in 1931, the number of houses stood  at 410, most of which were built by lifta's palestinian residents using the  famous jerusalem stone from nearby quarries.
until 18 february 2010, they had nearly 600 olive, fruit, date and nut trees, an agricultural cistern, a water well, various vegetables and a house.
the military trial of the four men charged with the death of  italian international solidarity movement activist vittorio arrigoni continued  in gaza city today.
4/22/2010 - international solidarity movement - israeli bulldozers today  destroyed a garden and children's playground in beit jala, and 100 fruit and  olive trees in al walaja, both in the bethlehem district, to make way for the  continued construction of their illegal apartheid wall.
from there, we began a trek of about an hour through the hills, finally arriving, after a steep climb, at the edge of the village.
see also: flickr: freedom march from bethlehem to jerusalem 3/28/2010 more.. e-mail gazans plant trees on land day 30 mar 2010 - gaza, march 30, (pal telegraph) gazan children along side with security men and government officials planted olive trees on the ruins of an emptied israeli military position in the martyrs square south of gaza city, in commemoration of the thirty-fourth land day anniversary.
ros-lehtinen," reported the jewish telegraph agency on 11 january, shortly  after the congresswoman claimed her new post.
the midnight raids did nothing to deter the groundswell of the popular struggle.
we want very little a sip of fresh water, a small piece of bread,  perhaps an olive again, if the trees have not been smashed, a door my key will  fit, so i can go home, quiet, so there are no more drones, and when you come  by, in your heavily laden uniforms, every now and then a smile, and from allah,  a bit of sunshine, even some rain, just small things, not much a bit of fresh  air, without the smell of gunfire, rockets or phosphorous, just a sky clear of  jets and rockets, so that we may see a sun that wanders off late in the  afternoon and a moon that whispers, we shall sleep now, praying, tomorrow will  be a better day - (c: sam hamod, 2010)
the march then  proceeded to meet with the larger than usual number of border policemen and  soldiers, some of whom had taken over the rooftops of nearby houses, aiming  guns at the demonstration.
last friday (4th june) in the  west bank village of bil'in, israeli occupation forces kidnapped thirteen years  old fadi al-khatib in full view of his distraught parents whilst working with  his father on the families olive grove adjacent to the apartheid wall prior to  being carted off to a detention centre, the lightly clad youth...
this  “development” includes last year’s prawer plan, which recommends  that israel relocate between 30,000 and 40,000 bedouin citizens, ripping them  from their villages and sticking them in impoverished townships, to clear the  area for jewish-only settlements.
the pa information ministry organized a volunteering day for approximately 40 journalists and 20 ministry employees to help villagers in kafr qaddum pick olives....
[ official: settlers uproot 200 olive trees south of nablus uruknet august 16, 2010 - israeli residents living on an illegal west bank outpost uprooted over 200 olive trees near the qusra village in the nablus district monday, a palestinian authority official said.
the smell produced is overpowering at times, a sickly-sweet stench of rotting organic matter and chemical effluvia, which sticks to clothes and hair despite the light breezes that sweep over the hilltop.
over the past decade, workmen have returned to both sites.
uncovering the ancient crafts of nablus palestine monitor - the old city of nablus is one of the oldest cities in the world.
community members hold up signs that tell the names of their family  members that have been killed by israeli forces.
the attack was captured on film and uploaded to the internet.
by cyril mychalejko (the imperial messenger: thomas friedman at work by belén fernandez.
akram jamil uweis said his family  headed to their field to harvest olives, and found their trees destroyed.
the group tore down the  produce in the valley neighboring the tappuah settlement, between yaduf and  jamain villages, palestinian authority official monitoring settlement activity  ghassan doughlas said.
gaza father torches son 10/10/2010 - gaza city (ma'an) --
the inquiry follows a  long line of similar inspections conducted across the west bank where large  quantities of expired goods have been confiscated by the ministry of economy.
the popular committee asked for a group of internationals to assist them in planting olive trees on the village land which is close to an army out.... hamas: commander killed in gaza ynet news, 8 apr 2011 -
ma'an - a group of palestinian photojournalists documenting tree-planting near nablus on thursday afternoon said they were accosted by israeli forces, who declared the area a closed military zone.
justice struggle al walaja ni'ilin knocking on doors: qalandiya shuafat a-infos 31 aug 2011 -
he  said the.... in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees uruknet october 23, 2010 -
kayemeth leisrael-jewish national fund (kkl-jnf).
[uruknet.info] the israeli government is directly responsible for the  ongoing harm inflicted on the residents of qusra uruknet october  6, 2011 - this morning (6.10.2011), palestinian farmers from the village of  qusra, south of nablus, discovered that approximately 200 of their olive and  fig trees were completely destroyed or uprooted.
the bulldozers also destroyed 18 almond trees, 27 pine trees, and 8 fruit trees.
the palestinian authority says 800,000 trees have been destroyed since the 1967 war, when israel seized the territory.
founded by the religious settlement movement gush emunim in 1975, qedumim is populated by settlers infamous for their violence, which inevitably increases during the olive harvest.
its gardens are lush with fig  and olive trees, roses and newly planted rows of vegetables.
they are actually a theater set of a cemetery because no one really knows where  the people are buried; fragments of their headstones lay in piles left by the  jordanian bulldozers..... --
among  them was my family, whose property; home and ranch planted with citrus and  olive trees and vineyards, were seized by israeli terrorists.
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not to be  worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an area  (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,...
this has aroused tension in the are and for tamir the work of harvesitng olives has turned very complicated, beyond the physical effort it may require.
wild boars in nablus awad, from awarta, nablus, had been harvesting his olives in fields near the illegal itamar settlement with his family.
they will be welcomed at the border by israeli  prime minister benjamin netanyahu, israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman  and thousands of cheering israelis.
when the wall falls, will the scar left be permanent?
the leaders of beit orot, an illegal israeli settlement on the hill north of the old city of jerusalem, are aggressively expansionist.
more.. e-mail bitter olive harvest adds to  animosity 11/2/2011 - awarta (reuters) --
shortly before reaching the soldiers who  awaited the protest, demonstrators stopped to watch the minister plant two  olive trees at the end of the built area in the village.
calls to israel's civil administration, a branch of the country's defense ministry that handles civilian affairs in the occupied palestinian territories, were not immediately returned.
my grandmother's depleted voice can't but play and  replay the same ecstatic melodies of a womanhood (... french  cultural center and sunbula organize palestinian handicrafts fair in jerusalem pnn - pnnon saturday afternoon, the palestinian fair trade  organization sunbula and the french cultural center in jerusalem held a  handicrafts fair to promote and sell embroidery, jewelry, and other craft work  from palestinian...
"this is the first time i've returned here since my friends were killed," ahmad hammad says....
israeli settlers raid olive orchards, attempt to  steal olive imemc - 21
for their part, palestinian olive  farmers in the west bank considered the report as good omens for them, hoping  that they could be included in the decision as importation of foreign olives  and olive oil badly affected the local products.
the photographer, cris toala olivares, took the shot in october 2009 when he was in the west bank for its annual olive harvest.
the release announces a day of action to "knock on  jerusalem's gates" by marching on the city from... settlers  raid nablus village 8/21/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
reuvan, our 82-year-old holocaust survivor, was amazing,  confidently swimming away from the boat and me trying to keep him within reach  of the safety line!
palestinians rally  against settlers at mount of olives 2/12/2010 - jerusalem - ma'an  -jerusalem residents and fatah official hatem abdul qader interfered with a  group of israeli settlers as they attempted to claim lands on the mount of  olives on thursday morning.
adli eshtayyaa, spokesperson of the salem village council, stated that  the settlers were seen heading to elone...
brother bassem ibrahim abu rahmah was killed in 2009 when idf soldiers shot him  in the chest with a teargas canister.
mary is due to deliver our son any day.
the joint struggle in the occupied west bank continue  on the back ground of the wide spread social justice struggle in israel.
we also follow the racist ethnic cleansing in east jerusalem.
palestinian official ghassan  douglas told ma'an that two cars were set alight in the village of qabalan,  south of nablus.
at this point clusters of shacks and tents begin to appear on the surrounding slopes, some nearly two kilometers adrift adrift of the shoulder.
settlers have escalated their attacks on... [uruknet.info] gaza olive trade recovers slowly from siege, attacks uruknet october 31, 2011 - seventy-five-year-old khaled ali al-farra leaned on  a stick as he waited at the olive oil extraction plant near the entrance of his  home town of khan younis in the gaza strip.
settlers  denied the allegations.
but in the areas of west jerusalem, we could still see  many signs of the three dozen palestinian villages depopulated since 1948.
israeli settlers  monday uprooted newly planted olive seedlings in nabi saleh village near  ramallah, according to witnesses.
nine homes are due to be demolished next month.
azzun village, west of qalqiliya in the northern....
he tours us around, points out vacant plots where almond, fruit and olive trees once stood,... israel to adjust walls route in bilin 2/5/2010 - ma’an news agency - ramallah maan attorney of bilin local council, michael sfard, said on saturday that israeli authorities informed him of the new route of the separation wall, adjusted according to a decision by the israeli supreme court of justice in 2007.
security  cameras reduce vandalism on mount of olives jerusalem post 21 dec  2011 - vandals desecrating graves are caught more often, and are more easily  convicted due to video evidence; 80 out of 147 planned cameras are already  monitoring the cemetery.
"this is life:" remembering earlier massacres in gaza uruknet january 14, 2010 - it's a sunny day in the border region east of beit hanoun.
one way to describe the  hills wedged in between route 317 and the west bank’s southern border is  to say that they cover approximately four square kilometers, yet can take as  long as two hours to traverse....
bumper olive crop expected in syria jerusalem post 5 nov 2011 -
the month of october was thus  particularly characterized by a new wave of violence, land grabbing and  destruction due to the construction of new outposts and the expansion of  existing settlements.
the group tore down the produce in the valley neighboring the tappuah settlement, between yaduf and jamain villages,palestinian authority official monitoring settlement activity ghassan doughlas said.
in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees 10/23/2010 - maanimages - on saturday morning, salima ewes, 73, and her family found 40 olive trees had been cut down in their field in the northern west bank village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city.
the remaining  olive trees had been marked with yellow-tags, to be uprooted another day.
the park opening was  attended by the local government's minister of the interior fathi hammad,  minister of agriculture muhammad al-agha, plc member ahmad bahar and de facto  police chief jamal al-jarrah amid a large festival to celebrate the event.
electronic intifada radia abu sbaih, 47,  lives with her sister and one niece on family land roughly 700 meters from the  “green line” boundary between israel and gaza.
sana ad-dabagh, one of the participants, said she hoped that by joining the harvest she would reveal the reality....
“a whole village  comprising between 40 and 45 houses had been completely razed in less than  three hours.”
the old  city of hebron was divided in two areas: h1 under palestinian control and h2  under israeli contro.
israeli troops told  harvesters in qaryut and azmut villages that security coordination had expired  and blocked them from picking olives, a ma'an correspondent said.
settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas said dozens of residents of the illegal esh kodesh outpost raided qusra and destroyed trees belonging to locals rabi abu bakr, samir hasan and jabali abu....
in photos: the  survival of olives 10/19/2011 - international solidarity movement  - 16 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - the olive  harvest started in thewest bankin early october and will continue in some  villages until mid-november.
[uruknet.info] planting olive trees and keeping hope alive in west bank uruknet february 17, 2012 - fifty supporters of justice arrived at the occupied territories of palestine on 4th february.
– josé carlos luque brazán, professor and researcher of political science and urban planning at the autonomous university, mexico city 1 puerto rico has historically been a laboratory for social, economic, political and scientific experiments.
five years ago, in the wake of the palestinian intifadah uprising, israel  began to build its concrete security wall to fend off would-be bombers coming  into jerusalem.
if this was  a sitcom it would be the opportune time to crack up laughing; regretfully this  is not the case.
although they are not among... 3500 olive trees victims of settler crimes in past week pnn - ramallah – pnn - the plo international relations department  warned of a war by israeli settlers against olive trees, saying that in the  past few days over 3500 trees had been burned...
the olive grove is in area c, only a... settlers prevent farmers from harvesting olive trees wafa
, human rights organisation bt selem has released footage of israeli settlers from the yitzhar settlement in the west bank setting fire to fields near olive orchards belonging to palestinians in the nearby villages of burin and huwara.
israeli forces  'block olive harvest in nablus' 10/14/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
first established in 1968 and made a national holiday in 1998, it  marks an annual occasion to celebrate the repossession of the western wall and  the unification of jerusalem under israeli control more generally.
a group of jewish settlers monday  stoned an elderly palestinian lady as she was picking olives in mukhmas, a  village southeast of ramallah in the west bank, according to local sources.
olivares, a dutch citizen originally from ecuador, also visited the gaza strip in january 2009 and produced a series of photos during israel's assault on the coastal enclave over the winter. . . . .
both moves are a mistake.
on a makeshift stage is the governor of bethlehem,  salah tamari, and several other dignitaries.
islam afana, a high school student and saed afana, a  university student, were detained by israeli soldiers while they were picking  olives in the.... abbas: continuous attempts to drop arafat’s  olive branch wafa hundreds mourn rabbi killed by idf  fire in w. bank jerusalem post 11 nov 2011 -
according to participants, israeli forces  responded by firing tear gas, rubber-coated bullets and live ammunition.
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 13:06, on saturday, palestinian prime minister dr. salam fayyad participated in picking olive trees in the west bank villages of iraq and burin, near nablus.
"i want to fly, daddy," said his daughter, aya.)
a legal  injunction preventing further destruction expired this week.
home vermonters for a just peace in palestine/israel march 12: vtjp meeting /
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not  to be worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an  area (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,... random violence
of course the times was not enough, so he continued harvesting the olives out of the permit time, untill he was arrested.
the 100 or so olive trees that had escaped the winter 2008-2009 israeli massacre of gaza and prior and later military invasions this time went with the 4 towering military bulldozers and 3 tanks.
there was no work, not even for a skilled  carpenter.
crafting the voice of nablus palestine  monitor - buried in the worn stones of nablus' old city - through its maze of  alleys and market stalls, past the big hammam, the surviving soap factories and  underneath countless posters of victims and martyrs of the occupation - is a  special workshop, one of a kind... settlers uproot olive trees
conversely, the olive season was lucrative, which was  substituted lost incomes and provided temporary employment to families.more.. opening "the blessed tree" exhibition at the plaza marketing  center ma’an news agency 1/25/2007 ramallah - chief of  the union of palestinian chambers of commerce, ahmad hashim, has on thursday  opened an exhibition of products of the olive tree, entitled "the blessed  tree".
according to participants, israeli forces responded by firing tear gas, rubber-coated bullets and live ammunition.
on september 5th at 5 am, locals in  the village of burin and other surrounding areas awoke to the.... army surrounds bethlehem village, uproots olive trees imemc -  monday september 05, 2011 - 12:57, local sources reported monday that israeli  soldiers are currently surrounding the al walaja village, near bethlehem, and  are uprooting dozens of olive trees in order to construct a section of the  illegal annexation wall in the area.
palestinian sources that this attack is the  "fiercest" on the palestinian lands, the maan news agency reported.
correspondent for al-quds tv mus'ab al-khatib, 25, and ahmad al-kilani, 23, who works for pal media, were arrested whilst preparing a news report about a university near the settlement that was recognized recently by israeli authorities.
the plantation belongs to abdul rahman sharif sultan, said syfian sultan, who estimated damages caused to reach thousands of dollars.
oct 2010 - photo gallery:  both ismail haniyeh and salam fayyad turn up to be photographed picking  symbolic fruit in palestinian villages.
traditional palestinian cloth articles, in the form of...more.. palestinian heritage foundation
his land abuts the settlement  boundary fence.
the army collaborates with the violent settler aggression against palestinian residents; proof of this link includes military harassments against palestinian farmers and residents who are trying to defend their villages and lands against settler attacks.
it was choice real estate for any settlement expansion.
oct 2010 - source: oxfam awarta man suffers broken legs after settler pig attack uruknet october 16, 2010 - farmer ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
earlier tuesday, troops advanced on the farmers planting trees, who responded to the encroachment by throwing rocks.
the army arrested abdel-razaq in an olive field near “al ze’if’ settlement while he was checking...
15km out of haifa sits the notorious jelemeh prison, known for its interrogation and ill-treatment of palestinian political prisoners.
had the  settlers only been defending themselves, one wonders why they would cover their  faces—a practice popular among setters engaged in wanton violent attacks  on palestinian civilians and their supporters.
land owned by 40  families in battir village – 148 dunums of vegetable, fruit and olive  groves – is earmarked for confiscation, villagers said.
palestinians claim that the settler attack was driven by pure malice.
chile's  pinera seeks to push peace on mideast trip 3/4/2011 - jerusalem  (afp) --
what effect did your first  experience of the middle east have on you?
the settlements were still being  built, financed mostly by jewish money from america, contributions from wall  street speculators and owners of gambling dens.
after the  israeli cabinet passed the prawer plan in september 2011, adalah legal center  for arab minority rights in israel likened it to “a declaration of  war.”
eu officials to attend palm sunday detainees’  court appearance 3/31/2010 - hebron - ma'an - representatives of  the european union, french and spanish offices in jerusalem will attend the  court appearance of a plo executive committee member detained on palm sunday  during bethlehem protests, the official's aides said.
the israeli military ordered villagers to stop picking olives on their  own land in burin, near nablus, today.
land owned by 40 families in battir village -- 148 dunams of vegetable, fruit and olive groves -- is earmarked for confiscation, villagers told ma'an.
the old city market  in hebron has turned into a ghost town.
on saturday morning, salima ewes, 73, and her family found  40 olive trees had been cut down in their field in the northern west bank  village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city.
the olive season produced jobs, which reduced unemployment in  the fourth quarter of 2006.
climbing a small embankment we waved our palestinian flags and chanted to the  soldiers hidden in the guard towers.
israeli settlers set fire to palestinian-owned olive groves near the evacuated settlement of homesh, near the west bank city of nablus thursday, a palestinian authority official said.
in photos: confrontation in beit jala 3/3/2010 - maanimages / luay sababa - israeli border police clash with palestinian protesters at a demonstration against the separation wall in the west bank city of beit jala, near bethlehem, on 3 march 2010.
bil'in has been at the  forefront of the non-violent resistance movement against the... humanitarian flotilla versus zionist navy gilad atzmon, dissident  voice 5/27/2010
“several hundred people were taken back to the  rahat area where they originally came from,” he told the afp news agency,  referring to a nearby bedouin town in israel’s arid south.
on the one hand, by stopping the flotilla israel attempts to maintain its regional status as an omnipotent super power that controls the land, the air and the sea.
former police  officers from sweden, german punks, australian conservationists, leftist  activists from the us, south african priests, and a celtic fringe of welsh  students join israeli anarchists and palestinian pacifists.
they were all more or  less prepared for ten days of an intense experience; exploring discrimination  and separation, hatred and fear.
for example, none of  these reports mention that the location of the murders, itamar (near nablus),  is an illegal jewish-only settlement on stolen palestinian land in the midst of  refugees whom israel pushed off their ancestral land through massacres and  ruthless military actions.
the three-story, 36-room cliff hotel used to  be a favorite for western pilgrims in search of the "authentic holy land  flavor" because of its extensive gardens; it was a favorite also among  jerusalem palestinians for wedding parties.
palestinian singer to perform in bethlehem 10/27/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) -
in a large industrial center, everyone from olive vendors to owners of large textile conglomerates says the shifting geopolitics are proving bad for business.
settler attacks damage the  olive harvest in the west bank pic - israeli settlers’  destruction of palestinian olive trees will reduce this year’s harvest by  an estimated usd $500,000 as 7,500 olive trees were destroyed in acts of  settler violence..
rashed mazar, yanun village chief, told ma'an that  residents saw settlers from the gideonim outpost in the.... settlers destroy olive trees near nablus pnn - nablus – pnn  – israeli settlers destroyed on wednesday olive trees that belongs to  palestinian farmers from the villages of howwara and yanon in northern west  bank.
but it is much deeper and more disturbing than simply “the random actions  of a few fanatics.”
when dawn marches over the hills of palestine and  the sun begins to cast its light over lemon, olive and orange trees, dusty  narratives of hard-working peasants escape their time and ride in the air  through history to our lungs.
most people live their lives never thinking about nor contemplating death.
the iof used tear gas,  sound bombs and rubber-coated steel bullets to violently repress the  commemoration.
the israeli army  exercised excessive use of force to silence palestinian protest.
b'tselem worker beaten by israeli soldier palestine monitor: 5 jan 2011 - two palestinian family members were beaten and arrested by an israeli soldier in their own olive grove last november, following an unlawful detainment of their two teenage relatives.
protesters declared the event a victory, after reportedly stalling  construction for three hours in al-walaja.
see also:the costs to american taxpayers of the israeli-palestinian conflict: $3 trillion more.. e-mail honeymoon in gaza 10/16/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, gaza - i had just finished off a plate of homemade bread knaffe yesterday with a family in the south of gaza, when we got the call: farmers in beit hanoun, a village in the north of the gaza strip, requested that ism volunteers accompany them to pick olives near the buffer zone....
the palestinian villagers were accompanied by many international volunteers  – around thirty people from an american group called....
reporting from aaron dearborn.... fires in jenin controlled, authorities say 7/1/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - palestinian firefighters have controlled two fires in jenin, civil defense reported thursday.
jewish settlers uproot scores of palestinian olive trees daily star 6 oct 2011 occupied west bank: around 150 olive trees in the occupied west bank were cut down overnight in an attack blamed by palestinians on jewish settlers.
the night that the army  arrested wa'el al faqeeh, they also arrested 8 other grassroot activists from  nablus and surrounding areas.
it is surrounded on one side by the separation wall and on the other by two settlements, bitay illet and walja.
imagine a movie about genocide that's, well, sort of uplifting.
"during hard times, we have survived off olive oil," says ahmed sourani from the palestinian agricultural relief committee.
in a matter of  seconds, abu nidal was running all the way down the... new labeling  laws for olive oil will be introduced: ministry daily star 28
project 19 oct 2011 - october 19th, 2011, psp, members from the popular  committees of beit ommar and surif, several international volunteers, and boy  shouts from the area supported palestinian farmers from abu shook in surif  while they harvested their olive trees.
swaths of land were eaten by the military bulldozers’ blades, also seemingly randomly: the wheat crop which might mature to waist high if not bulldozed was left to grow, but the calf-high beans and onions were mowed, not fully but insultingly so.
locals said that bulldozers and military jeeps arrived in the  village of surif at dawn and began digging up land in order to confiscate it.
one of...more first bullets, now bulldozers: nabi saleh pays the price for protests palestine monitor: 16 jun 2010 -
- israeli occupation authority barred palestinian farmers from reaching their fields while extremist jewish settlers opened fire at farmers and set fire to olives groves.
one local protester was removed from the area by ambulance when he was shot with a rubber-coated steel bullet.
some of the trees were owned by the grandfather of essam badran, who was killed last by israeli occupation forces during clashes sparked when settlers tried... setters uproot 400 olive trees south of nablus.
we met them inside a small tent and they explained to us the situation.
israeli military unsuccessfully attempt to invade iraq burin: repeat tomorrow?
the homes of four batch brothers once stood  next to each other overlooking a grove of olive and lemon trees, after israel's  three week war on gaza, however,all that is.... iran's nuclear  chief turned foreign minister reaches out to west ha'aretz - ali  akbar salehi does not mention u.s. or israel in inaugural speech, but seemed to  extend olive branch to the european union., egyptian leaders tells parliament  session that israel is to blame for stalemate in talks, urges u.s. and other  peacebrokers to 'assume' responsibility., israeli officials fear that  washington will not rush to exercise its veto power against such a resolution,  which calls for international pressure for construction freeze.
the popular committee asked for a group of internationals to assist  them in planting olive trees on the village land which is close to an army  out.... hamas: commander killed in gaza ynet news, 8  apr 2011 -
more.. e-mail budrus marks land day with olive tree planting and nonviolent resistance 4/1/2010 - international solidarity movement - 31 march - nearly 100 residents of budrus, israli activist and internationals comemorated land day with a nonviolent march and tree planting action.
he opened them with a persistence to inhale as much of  the smell as he... israel demolishes industrial buildings north of  jerusalem, settlers uproot 30 olive trees pnn - jerusalem –
i am 55 years old, and have been demonstrating since the age of 12.
where are the  olive groves i love so much?
jewish lobby has  distorted united states foreign policy for years mycatbirdseat.com: 26 jul 2010 - stone said that israel had distorted  “united states foreign policy for years,” adding he felt u.s.  policy toward iran was “horrible.”
woman flees harvest to escape violent settlers and wild boars 10/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - 20 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - early thursday morning, a palestinian woman in beit furik was picking olives when a settler began to chase her and set loose wild hogs to chase after her, causing her to fall and suffer broken bones in both her legs.
when demonstrators understood that the fire was aimed directly at their bodies, they began to run.
more.. e-mail fire devours  hundreds of olive trees west of jenin pic - a massive fire erupted  saturday night in anin village west of jenin city in the west bank, devouring  hundreds of olive trees, locals reported.
the court decision was issued....
however, since 2000 burin's olive groves and land have been  preyed upon by the surrounding settlers, who have declared their desire to  annex the entire area into their own territory.
palestinian authority settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas told ma'an that farmers from farata village, east of qalqiliya had arrived at their land to find that olives had been stolen.
agricultural committees:
in the dark of... in palestine, to exist is to resist melinda tuhus,
the book is the result of  conversations the two had while working on two documentaries, south of the... [uruknet.info] gaza: the olive fights the occupation uruknet january 8, 2012 -
the settlement of beitar illit is located between the villages of wadi fukin, nahalin and husan, west of bethlehem.
autumn in gaza 10/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by radhika s. - 27 october  2011 - notes from behind the blockade - today completes another week of olive  picking in gaza.
"i immediately agreed," vixie relates.
israeli failed state the timing of the us move toward new talks is rather conspicuous as well.
it was a  revelation to find out what well-tended olive groves look like.
it was world peace day, and  speaker after speaker reaffirmed a commitment to peace and to nonviolent  resistance to the occupation.
they have been a major source of  livelihood for palestinians for thousands of years.
a week later, ashraf climbed a crane to... more video: keep hope alive-
the villagers refused  to abandon their.... settlers attack olive harvesters in nablus  district pic - 10/10/2011 - 10:10 am jewish settlers  torch 20 palestinian dunums of olive trees pic - palestinian fire  fighters managed on monday morning to put off a huge fire that was blazing in  20 dunums of olive farmland in orta village, south of nablus, a statement for  the fire brigades said.
but the actions of these few fanatics correspond directly to settler policy, which, while not explicitly declared, is certainly normatively inscribed.
we were not convinced that it was vital for security reasons to maintain the existing route that passes through a topographically low area of bilin land and that there was no fitting security substitute to the construction of the barrier in order to protect the residents of modiin illit, justice supreme court president dorit beinisch wrote in her decision.
four decades of occupation in  hebron uruknet february 25, 2010 - i have been to hebron three  times, but each visit was like entering a different city.
the alleged attackers were seen heading in the  direction of the nearby elon moreh settlement after setting fire to the trees  on land owned by....
according to swidan, israeli soldiers told the journalists they were not allowed to take pictures because the area was a closed military zone.
peaceful olive harvest yields little 12/22/2009 - irin, huwwara/tel aviv - three hundred olive trees in shaer's plot near the village of jit in the west bank's nablus region are almost bare.
israel continues to uproot hundreds of olive trees for construction of separation wall alternative information center -
hanan’s eight-year battle with yitzhar settlers 1/7/2010 - nablus - ma'an -
the big sign which welcomes visitors at the entrance has one and so do the two small plants that are put next to it.
sowing wheat in israel’s kill  zone radhika sainath, notes from behind the  blockade 11/22/2011 one need not be an  agronomist to know that its been a long time since the farmers of  khuza"™a, gaza have tended to their land near the border.
after everything that happened between us, we are sorry for the inconvenience caused by our refusal to give up our soul.
the olive tree is a national symbol for palestinians.
'beware of small states': journalist david hirst interviewed robin yassin-kassab, electronic intifada 7/9/2010 veteran middle east correspondent david hirst,  author of the seminal work on the palestinian plight the gun and the olive  branch, has a new release:
bulldozers demolished two homes belonging to ali and salem suleiman ibn said  northeast of deir al-balah, both on the outskirts of al-masaddar, and large  swaths of olive groves, relatives said by phone.
sunbula support palestinian women by buying their handicrafts through sunbula - a not-for-profit organization in jerusalem.
but it is much deeper and more disturbing than simply the random actions of a few fanatics.
her brother bassem was shot and killed by an israeli soldier at a protest in the village just under two years ago.
just as the large, important, ancient muslim cemetery in mamilla is in the heart of jewish-israeli jerusalem, the large, important, ancient jewish cemetery on the mount of olives is in the heart of the muslim-palestinian city.
the village of kafr ad-dik, and the greater  salfit district, is located on top of the largest water table in the west bank,  thus providing it with some of the most fertile land in the region.
micha’el thanked the palestinian pharmaceutical company bier ziet for the donation of the trees and everyone who helped in the action and encouraged the residents of the city to protect the trees and help in keeping them alive.
abu  rahmah is a school teacher and coordinator of the bil'in popular committee  against the wall and settlements, which has carried out a five year campaign of  non-violent protest and legal challenge against the wall that separates israel  from the west bank.
[uruknet.info] army surrounds bethlehem village, uproots olive trees uruknet september 5, 2011 -
the settlers arrived at the wadi qana spring, as dozens of farmers, who had not been notified of the visit, were irrigating orange groves, salman reported.
everybody has an excuse to go to jerusalem and waiting to get permission to pass.
trouble is punctuated by tragedy, as the friday demonstrations often end in tear gas, rubber-coated metal bullets, arrests, and sometimes death.
they were prevented by israeli soldiers and border guards deployed in the area.
israeli occupation bar farmers from harvesting their olives pic 15
some  70 demonstrators, palestinian, israeli and international, marched from the  centre of the village towards the route of the apartheid fence, carrying young  olive trees to be planted in the lands near the fence.
the settlers claim that the palestinians provoked them by throwing stones, a claim denied by the palestinians and activists.
israeli settlers chopped down more than 100 olive trees belonging to palestinians south of nablus on friday evening, a pa official said.
several olive trees were also razed to the ground.
in 2008, brother ashraf was arrested, blindfolded and shot in the leg.
oct 2010 - nablus, october 23,  (pal telegraph)
when the protesters arrived at  the checkpoint they appear to have caught the israelis totally off guard even  though the march that was sponsored by the palestinian ngo holy land trust was  publicized using local media for the past week.
gazan ngos often call it the "hot zone."
at least 45 trees uprooted, "price-tag  infiltration" sprayed on boulder; vandalism apparently in response to  fatal car accident near kiryat arba.
then, there is the trend of other countries  - many repressive and undemocratic - to defend their borders with minefields  and walls.
under the cover of  dark, settlers entered the olive groves of the sufan family home at around 3am  and began chopping the trees.
a jewish group from yitzhar settlement near nablus,  in north west bank, cut down 45 olive trees belonging to residents of bourin  village on tuesday morning.
we visited devastated palestinian  villages like iqrit (a catholic christian community of which only the church  remains), al-zeeb (a fishing muslim community where the mosque and the few  remaining buildings are converted for recreation of israelis), and al_bassa  (that used to be a thriving mixed town of christians and muslims and was filled  with jewish immigrants initially from bulgaria and is now called shlomi).
we  ran off immediately,” says sbaih.
i was convinced that there must have been stone-throwing by the shabab in the village which provoked the violent army responses.
oct 2010 - farmer ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
muhaya khatatba was in her olive  groves....
the olive harvest: open season for settler violence uruknet october 13, 2010 -
prime minister salam fayyad is sponsoring the event scheduled for saturday in the city's nativity square.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] libyan leader gaddafi vows to fight to the death uruknet june 7, 2011 - libyan ruler muammar gaddafi vowed to fight to the death in a defiant speech after nato military craft unleashed a ferocious series of some daytime airstrikes on tripoli.
this month also saw israeli settlers perpetrate violence against palestinian property, destroying six olive trees.
oxfam, the union of agricultural work committees and the palestinian agricultural relief committees estimated that olives collected this year would produce half the oil of the 2010 harvest, a statement...
settlers plant trees on palestinian land 4/12/2011 - tubas (ma'an) -- residents of the rotem settlement continued planting olive trees on lands on which they are squatting.
waving flags and chanting we reached the edge of the buffer zone and continued walking.
on saturday, for  the first time in several years, families in the village of qusin with  properties close to the illegal settlements shave shomeron and shave shomron,  were able to spend a few hours harvesting their olives before soldiers forced  them to leave.
home to around 2,000 people, mainly  agricultural workers, the land is rich in olive trees, summer crops and other  natural resources.
e-mail jerusalem day, 2011 christopher j. lee,  jerusalem quarterly file 10/29/2011 autumn, 2011
the anti-apartheid wall campaign and its popular committees are coordinating collective efforts to safeguard the annual olive harvest and are calling on volunteers to stand in solidarity with palestinian communities and join in the harvest on october 5 until november 15, 2010.
in area h2 palestinians are daily exposed to human  rights violations to an extent that can hardly be overestated.
un envoy demands israel act against settler  attacks ynet news - a senior un official condemned attacks by  jewish "settler extremists" on palestinians' olive trees in the west  bank and called on israel to "combat violence and terror by .......
jewish extremists take over al-aqsa gates 2 apr 2010 - jerusalem, april 2 nd , (pal telegraph)
commemorating naksa: report on weekend anti-occupation protests dolev rahat, alternative information center 6/6/2011
on 26 september, settlers and their supporters publicly celebrated the beginning of a new wave of illegal construction in the west bank, a celebration they had been preparing since the beginning of september.
amidst this chaos and all the people around me who are  chatting as an attempt to make time pass faster, i’m putting my headphones  in my ears and listening to fairoz, trying to live in my own world.
h1 refers to 80% of the city, which is officially under control of the palestinian authority, while h2 makes up the remaining 20% and falls under full israeli military control.
instead he decided his girls' deaths must not be in vain and slowly he has turned his family tragedy into a force for peace
i wondered what would happen  today.
"this morning, an idf soldier  was lightly injured when an explosive device was detonated against a force  patrolling the israeli side of the central gaza strip's security fence," a  military spokesman told ma'an.
the israeli military rerouted the barrier in budrus, allowing us access to almost all of our land.
this doctrine had been affirmed by the us supreme court in 1896 — plessy v ferguson – and the court contained such notables as oliver wendel holmes.
around 40 students from different palestinian universities marched  onto the land...
since  1948 olive trees have been uprooted, quarries mined, the most fertile lands  taken for settlements and water illegally extracted.
settlers chopped down more than 500 olive trees owned by palestinians in the west bank district of nablus on friday, palestinian authority officials said.
settlers steal olive-crops in northern west bank; troops open fire at gaza farmers pnn - nablusgaza – pnn – a number of villagers from burin, near nablus in northern west bank, were injured during clashes with israeli settlers on tuesday midday.
over 300  people from palestine and all over the world sat under the blue and white tarp  of the conference's tent.
settlers uproot 15 olive trees  near dir estia uruknet april 8, 2010 - a group of extremist jewish  settlers uprooted on thursday 15 olive trees in wadi qana area, north east of  dir estia, near the central west bank district of salfit.
silwan residents say settler arson behind olive grove fire 5/13/2010 - jerusalem " ma'an " eleven dunums of olive trees were reported destroyed by the awad family, who blamed nearby settlers for setting the wednesday night blaze.
- ma'an -  israeli forces stationed along the separation wall near the jerusalem-area  village of qatanna fired tear-gas canisters at a group of young farmers on  monday, the heat from which caused a brush fire damaging 40 trees.
swaths of land were eaten by the military  bulldozers’ blades, also seemingly randomly:  the wheat crop which  might mature to waist high if not bulldozed was left to grow, but the calf-high  beans and onions were mowed, not fully but insultingly so.
oct 2010 -  zionist settlers stormed the village of al-mughir in northern ramallah on  sunday and wreaked havoc in olive fields, cutting trees, and stealing the  harvest.
it was a glorious sunny day, the spectacular valley sprawling below.
civil defense control fires in the north 8/16/2010 -  ramallah (ma'an) -- palestinian civil defense crews controlled a house fire and  a blaze in two olive fields in the northern tulkarem and qalqiliya districts on  monday morning.
"many people who  couldn't leave their homes had only bread and olive oil to... mideast:
residents of the  illegal shvut rachel settlement raided qusra village and chopped down the  trees, said ghassan doughlas, pa official for settlement affairs in the  northern west bank.
but we won in the end.
settler violence against palestinians up 57 percent in the west bank daily star 14 jul 2011 scorched hillsides and charred olive groves near nablus pinpoint the latest acts of arson by hard-line jewish settlers against palestinians who say they are ever more the victims of such attacks in the west bank.
"attacks by settlers on palestinians in the nablus district continue, almost every day," said ghassan daghlas, a palestinian authority official.
zionist settlers burn olive fields, run over a youth pic 19
bil'in has been at the forefront of the non-violent resistance movement against the... humanitarian flotilla versus zionist navy gilad atzmon, dissident voice 5/27/2010 haaretz reports that israel will attempt to block the humanitarian freedom flotilla heading toward gaza.
israel radio reported that the plan includes three new five-story buildings on a 5,000-meter plot of land, funded by jewish american gambling tycoon irving moskovitz.
israeli soldiers uprooted a number of trees on monday in the village of al-walaja, north of bethlehem, the official palestinian authority news agency wafa reported.
have we all not seen and read about life in palestine under occupation?
80 olive trees uprooted in walaja 6/8/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israeli bulldozers began overturning agricultural land and uprooting trees in the al-walaja, a village south of jerusalem inside the 1967 green line, palestinian landowners said.
a month ago near to where we were picking the olives grandfather ibrahim  abu sayed, his 17 year-old grandson and friend were mutilated and killed by  israeli tank shelling despite being twice as far from the border as we were.
illegal extension to mount of olives mosque almost complete jerusalem post 4 oct 2011 - j'lem municipality says building under freeze order but being treated sensitively; police say building violations are city's responsibility.
the vandalism occurred south of the village, in an area adjacent to the location of several outposts of the shilo settlement.
they said that they hoped that the price of one kilogram of olive oil would be between us $3. 5 and $ 4.
updated on october 23,  2011....
palestinian official in charge of settlement watch in the north ghassan daghlas said villagers reported to him seeing several men wearing skullcaps who they identified....
israeli forces prevent farmers from planting trees with riot gear 1/12/2010 - hebron - ma'an - two palestinians and one child were injured on tuesday as israeli forces prohibited farmers from tending to their land in safa village in the northern hebron governorate, solidarity workers said.
recently i was someone, now i'm nobody' palestine chronicle: 8 aug 2011 -
he pointed out those settlers uprooted 300 centuries-old olive trees in the village of mikhmas, north of jerusalem, on tuesday at the same time that the military ruling authority in the west bank announced the confiscation of hundreds of acres in anata. . .
"we have one small craft so far, in which  there will be between 12 and 16 people, mostly jews."
the national 17 aug 2011 - lights are part of ramadan tradition but the flood  of cheap, ready-made goods threaten fanoos craftsmen in ancient quarters of  cairo.
oxfam: palestinian olive oil profits affected by settler violence pic 15
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info]  libyan leader gaddafi vows to fight to the death uruknet june 7,  2011 - libyan ruler muammar gaddafi vowed to fight to the death in a defiant  speech after nato military craft unleashed a ferocious series of some daytime  airstrikes on tripoli.
border police beat protesters demanding  halt to wall 4/25/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - demonstrators  participating in a sit-in protest against the continued construction of  israel's separation wall in beit jala and al-walaja were beaten with sticks and  batons by israeli border police, witnesses said.
twilight zone / mourning uprooted olive trees in west bank  villages ha'aretz 20 nov 2009 -
settlers torch nablus village fields 8/1/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
for three days they visited the fields,  starting very early in the morning and picking the fruits of their land.
two families were made homeless.
video - settler attacks during olive harvest not random moriel rothman, +972 magazine 10/30/2011 notes and stories from the olive harvest: palestinian farmers tell stories of intimidation, vandalism and violence from settler neighbors, as they attempt to harvest their olives.
pa: settlers uproot 400 olive trees near nablus 9/25/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
israel is proving itself to be a failed state; a rogue state which has become a liability to its allies.
the documents, he said, exposed the main players in the israel-palestine peace process negotiations, primarily the state of israel, the palestinian authority and the united states; the british government and intelligence services, the french and other western states were also mentioned in the papers....
soldiers prevent farmers from planting olive trees near  bethlehem imemc 1 feb 2010 - monday february 01, 2010 - 13:36, the  israeli military prevented, on monday, palestinian farmers and their  international supporters from planting olive trees near the southern west bank  city of bethlehem.
responding to the  soldiers, family members of the siblings came to the farm and, according to  b'tselem: "among them were nasser a-nawaj'ah, a b'tselem field researcher,  and ahmad a-nawaj'ah, who volunteers in b'tselem's camera distribution project.
rivlin visits mount of olives project jeruslalem post 22 jul 2010 -
the land private land reverted to its original owners, including the sites worked on today.
this money is used to cover the expenses of  hoarding to israel, housing, re-socializing, and absorbing every zionist jewish  immigrant.
in the bedouin town of segev shalom and in the palestinian village of kharbata, she founded an arts and crafts workshop for women.
all...more recognizing palestine: estonia's iceland moment palestine chronicle: 13 mar 2011 -
they replied that gaza was within a prohibited area and that we should change our course.
related:israeli missile strikes beit hanoun: click for  images resistance is fertile: palestine's eco-war 11/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - james brownsell, al jazeera  english - after uprooting thousands of olive trees, israel's latest plantation  may pose a fire risk to its own citizens.
once the adjusted route is implemented,  residents of bil'in are expected to restore almost half of their 2,300 donums  confiscated during the construction of the wall's original route.
settlers torch crops  in bethlehem village 10/19/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
we crossed from bethlehem to occupied  east jerusalem with a wave of an israeli soldier’s hand (who did not  bother to check papers of an israeli car.
soldiers present used violent force to remove palestinian, israeli and international activists who attempted to prevent the destruction....
the lonely olive tree of bil'in 10/14/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west bank - near the concrete wall which separates bil'in from modiin illit colony, occupied by ultra-orthodox jews, there is an olive tree.
settlers cut down 45 olive trees in nablus 23 feb 2010 - west bank, february 23, 2010 (pal telegraph)-
while salaried work has traditionally been the man's role, many women have been adding to the family's income – or have sometimes been the sole provider – by selling hand-stitched embroidery.
as one stands in  the village to take in the view, one sees the wall that cuts through the  landscape like a jagged scar and the expanding settlements lie beyond.
the room was very dark and no sound could be heard but the sound of me moving in bed continually.
pa customs agents  continue to enforce settlement goods ban 2/18/2010 - ramallah -  ma'an - approximately one and a half tonnes of cardboard two tons of processed  pastry dough produced in settlements built on palestinian lands in the west  bank were seized by palestinian police said customs officers on thursday.
the trees and the land belong to at-tuwani resident salman jibrin raba'i.
breaking gaza: 2 martyrs and many critically injured in  khan younis 26 mar 2010 - gaza, march 26, (pal telegraph)
wadi qana is a valley south west of nablus where  numerous springs supply water to the surrounding palestinian villages.
israel is proving itself to be a  ‘failed state;’ a ‘rogue state’ which has become a  liability to its allies.
a supervisor, a freedom fighter, a peacemaker, a leader of compassion; you stood your ground and held on with a tight grip to both the olive branch and the freedom fighter's pistol.
with support from the israeli government, it has also become an attraction specifically for zionist youth groups from the united states, europe, and other nations to come and fulfill the passover seder prayer of next year in jerusalem.
the minister and other demonstrators gave speeches  in arabic and hebrew, and left two plants near the fence.
bu he  could not even pick his own lottery ticket.
ghassan douglas, in charge of settlements file at the palestinian authority in the northern part of the west bank, stated that a number of extremist israeli settlers set fire to dozens of... why doesn’t the world offer assistance when settlers set fire to west bank land?
currently there 400 settlers living in the h2 area, who  are protected by between 2,500 to 3,000 soldiers; and also about 30,000  palestinians live in that area.
demonstrators planted olive  trees and hung palestinian flags and banners outside the prison gates, calling  for the release of palestinian political prisoners.
during the  period of mass worker’s strikes and school closure, many palestinians  found work helping with the annual olive harvest.
my grandmother's depleted voice can't but play and replay the same ecstatic melodies of a womanhood (... french cultural center and sunbula organize palestinian handicrafts fair in jerusalem pnn - pnnon saturday afternoon, the palestinian fair trade organization sunbula and the french cultural center in jerusalem held a handicrafts fair to promote and sell embroidery, jewelry, and other craft work from palestinian...
we are sorry that we disturb you by having a higher birth rate than yours, that we became a demographic threat to your existence and future, and your jewish state and its total destruction of us.
one of these families has been unable to access their land for the last nine years due to settler attacks and pressure from israeli... jewish settlers on the rampage in salfit pic 31
nativity scenes, miniatures of the dome of the rock, and religious scriptures are crafted out of the iridescent material and sold in souvenir shops....
gaza is not big just 25 miles long, and nine miles across at its widest but the situation being what it is, it can take time to move around and abuelaish was determined that they make the most of the hours ahead.
he always carries with him a large bundle  of maps which he lays before the judges, earnestly explaining why the wall must  pass here and not there, why the security of the state demands that the  palestinian villages be separated from their land, why leaving an olive grove  in the hands of its owner would expose israeli soldiers to mortal danger.
a group of jewish settlers monday stoned an elderly palestinian lady as she was picking olives in mukhmas, a village southeast of ramallah in the west bank, according to local sources.
villagers told local media that...
but since the start of the occupation, battir's 4,000 inhabitants have faced tremendous difficulties.
israeli settlers  on sunday stormed a palestinian village near nablus and uprooted 80 olive  trees, a palestinian authority official said.
the rest are totally ignored, and hundreds of cases of abuse and  attacks are closed.
dozens of settlers torched the grove while the israeli army did  not attempt to intervene or stop them.
we went to find out  more.
today, the last friday of ramadan, mass peaceful protests took place under the slogan “knocking on jerusalem’s doors”.
this year, the stakes have been raised: palestinians have planted double the number of trees as in past seasons, and jewish settlers have responded by boosting their own olive production.
the settlers came from the illegal settlement of bracha, yitzhar  and from the outpost located on another hilltop.
obama’s spin team made a heroic effort to turn a sow’s ear into a silk purse.
anti wall protest continue at beit jala town, southern west bank.
the shouts demanded an end to apartheid and access to farmlands.
the missile landed in a grove surrounded by homes, creating a crater the  size of a tennis court and destroying over forty orange and olive trees.
according to israeli law, soldiers have limited jurisdiction over  internationals as internationals are governed by civil law (unlike the  palestinians who suffer under unjust military rule) and therefore only the  israeli police have the legal authority to demand an international or israeli  citizen to provide their passport for inspection.
olives have been cultivated in palestinian land for thousands of years.
israeli settlers monday uprooted newly planted olive seedlings in nabi saleh village near ramallah, according to witnesses.
yesterday afternoon, villagers rushed to quench  a fire in an olive tree sited close to the apartheid-annexation wall which had  to...
one day, she heard on television that internationals frequently visited the ibrahimi mosque.
israeli warplanes struck two targets in the northern and southern gaza strip on tuesday morning, with no casualties reported.
“we were in  our home when we heard the israeli tanks and bulldozers approaching.
israelis, themselves, are as victims as the palestinians although to a very lesser extents.
punishing the victims
six days earlier, israeli settlers had attacked and...
jewish  settlers burn 300 olive trees near salfit pic - 13/10/2011 - 06:04  pm the cia and the iran caper ray mcgovern,  counterpunch 10/14/2011 "which  other government in the middle east would like nothing better than to see  relations between iran and the united states take a big step toward military  confrontation?
adjacent to the  largest israeli settlement in the west bank, ari'el, salfit farmers are  enclosed on all sides by urban centers that specialists say disrupt grazing  patterns for the large animals.
the minister announced...
approximately 4,000 dunams of vital agricultural land, shared by the four villages, has been appropriated by the ioa over the past ten years.
mr. swisher  is head of the transparency unit at al jazeera which published the papers.
they said that the  settlers set fire to the trees in lands owned by two families near to the  settlement of asfar then ran away, destroying 150 trees in the... mamilla cemetery – what to do with the graves?
by jonas weber, 4 february 2012,  international solidarity movement, west bank - on the 4th of february  international solidarity movement (ism) and the ecumenical accompaniment  programme in palestine and israel (eappi) attended the replanting of 50  olive trees on the hillsides above the village of burin, outside of nablus.
sana ad-dabagh, one of the  participants, said she hoped that by joining the harvest she would reveal the  reality....
this doctrine had been affirmed by the us supreme court in 1896 -plessy v ferguson - and the court contained such notables as oliver wendel holmes.
settlement security officer  torches palestinian olive trees uruknet october 1, 2010 -
nativity scenes, miniatures of the dome of the rock, and religious  scriptures are crafted out of the iridescent material and sold in souvenir  shops....
for the israeli apartheid regime this translates as the green light to unleash the 4th most powerful military on us to do its worst against our civilian population, of which over half in gaza are children and over 2 thirds are un registered refugees.
the evidence suggests that the... meeting  senseless aggression face-to-face gershon baskin, jerusalem  post 5/23/2011 a recent trip to the  weekly demonstration in nabi saleh shed a new light on the idf and its  operations.
in the case of rula halawani (1964), an internationally renowned palestinian photographer who was born, raised, and continues to live in the mount of olives neighbourhood of east jerusalem, the camera is not only an extension of her eye,... israeli forces detain three journalists across the west bank 1/23/2010 - nablus - ma'an - israeli forces detained three journalists in separate incidents across the west bank, as they complied news reports near settlements on saturday.
local sources said that  the settlers spoiled 55 olive trees using a white chemical material unknown to  locals, adding that the material dries the trees and slowly kills them.
by ben lorber, ism, west bank
on 12 december 2008, izzeldin abuelaish, a doctor from gaza, took his six daughters and two sons on a day out.
but sales are brisk, which is good enough for canawati, who was forced to shut up shop altogether for two years when tourism slumped during the early years of a palestinian uprising -- or intifada -- that erupted in 2000 as reaction to israeli policies and long occupation.
more.. e-mail gaza doctor  izzeldin abuelaish: 'we saved lives,' i told the children.
therefore, i expect this worrying phenomenon to continue and  even escalate." last week, unidentified  jewish saboteurs, believed to be affiliated with an underground jewish terror  group in the west bank, set the local mosque at the israeli palestinian village  of tuba zangariya on fire.
outgoing unrwa director plants  saplings near nablus 2/14/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -
four human rights organizations collaborated on a project documenting settler vandalism during the 2010 olive harvest, reporting a total of 35 incidents of tree vandalism during the six-week season.
the organizations, all based in israel, included the association of civil rights in israel (acri), b'tselem, rabbis for human rights....
locals said that  bulldozers and military jeeps arrived in the village of surif at dawn and began  digging up land in order to confiscate it.
there were random checkpoints and  inspections, sometimes in the middle of the night, such as occurred in umm  fagarah.
last month,  the ioa significantly increased its total of annexed land in the area when it  earmarked an additional 1,000 dunums for the alleged expansion of the nearby  illegal israeli outost, ale zahav.
the village council of wadi e-rasha in the west  bank petitions high court to issue an order allowing village residents to  access their olive groves.
approximately 200 palestinian, israel and  international demonstrators tried to block bulldozers uprooting an olive grove,  sitting in... palestinian popular struggle against home  demolitions, olive tree destruction in bethlehem area alternative  information center - tuesday, 27 april 2010, one of the fronts of the popular  struggle in the west bank is now beit jala, bethlehem district.
the gate was  unlocked at 7:00am to allow farmers to reach their.... related:pictures of  salim's olive harvest ordeal army demolishes a house and cowshed,  bulldozes olive orchard in hebron imemc - tuesday october 04, 2011  - 13:42,
on tuesday israel's  jerusalem planning and building committee approved the construction of four new  settler buildings on the mount of olives, in the heart of east jerusalem.
preserving essential ingredients of traditional mediterranean cuisine from palestine and italy, our classic dishes are reinvented to gourmet standard in a fine dining experience welcome to liberty enclave, where residents experience a taste of prosperity and rising quality of life in this small but significant part of palestinian west bank society.
mihmas residents blamed settlers for the attack and said this was the third time the settlers had uprooted trees in the area. ...
a group of israelis from the bracha settlement attacked noon wednesday famers  in the village of burin, moderately injuring a palestinian man and destroying a  number of olive trees.
ramallah's downtown  olive press was founded in 1972 and when in season, it produces on average 2.5  tons of olive oil a day.
oct 2010 - israeli occupation forces destroyed four palestinian water wells in deir abu da'if village, east of jenin city, on wednesday and served a demolition notice to the owner of an olive pressing factory.
israeli military profiling and assaulting international observers in hebron international solidarity movement 11/8/2011 novermber 5
muhammad came towards me, pointed towards the olive grove and presented me to the long gray dragon that was approaching his house.
the  protest on march 28th focused on the israeli restrictions to palestinians from  bethlehem from participating in the palm sunday events in the holy city of  jerusalem, a mere 8 miles away.
the  demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of palestinian land for  approximately one hour before soldiers violently broke up the... wasteland in al walajeh: israeli military destruction of farmland international solidarity movement 9/7/2011 on tuesday september 6th local palestinians from  the village of al walajeh gathered with international activists to protest the  building of the illegal separation barrier as well as the destruction of  ancient olive trees.
one of the protesters was identified as haitam al-atrash, and four were reported injured.
join the  2011 olive harvest campaign 8/31/2011 - international solidarity  movement - at a time of increasing settler violence in the west bank, the  international solidarity movement is issuing an urgent call for volunteers to  participate in the 2011 olive harvest campaign at the invitation of palestinian  communities.
trouble is a  weekly occurrence here, signified by tear gas, rubber...
young women, led by my 15-year-old daughter iltezam, ran past armed israeli  soldiers and jumped in front of the bulldozers that were uprooting our ancient  olive trees.
omar, the farmer we worked with today, said  that he had only been on his land twice this year, once to plough and repair  walls, and the second time was now - to harvest.
as harvest begins, unrest apparently hasn’t kept farmers from picking fruit; country expects to produce 200,000 tons of oil from olive trees.
now ourolive groves are bulldozed and farm workers are shot at so we are herein solidarity with farmers whose lives are made impossible by theisraeli siege and occupation."
but the $1-billion industry, reliant on exports, is feeling the squeeze of the global downturn.
jeb al theeb, a small west bank village south of bethlehem, is under  constant threat by the illegal israeli settlements surrounding it.
jewish settlers clashed with palestinian farmers on sunday, as they tried to pick olives from land owned by relatives of two men convicted of killing a settler family.
condemnation of the raid was immediate and overwhelming, with the shameful exception of the us government, whose un representative merely expressed "regrets" at the loss of life.
here what's happened.
the food co-op and many concerned citizens around the world have asked the question: how do we transform the israeli-palestinian conflict through the use of nonviolence?
a  security guard working at the itamar jewish settlement, near the northern west  bank city of nablus, torched a number of olive trees that belong to resident of  awarta village, east of the city, no'man
the first phase of the  olive press: all the olives from one batch are put in this funnel.
this is the disconnected, disaffected news i have seen in britain.
[uruknet.info] released prisoner: "the freedom of a people and the freedom of a land are inseparable" uruknet october 21, 2011 -
what effect did your first experience of the middle east have on you?
the family rose early, packed a picnic and, at 7am, climbed into his old  subaru and headed out.
local official in charge of the settlements file in the northern west  bank ghasan daghlas said the fire was set in the jabal marwes area, the hill...
as naser guided ism volunteers through his village, the roadblock obstructing  the village from free movement was visible.
her death  leaves a hole in her family that will be hard to fill.
or a palestinian woman from  gaza who keeps coming back to hold a vigil before the red cross office with a  framed photo of her once-young son, now ailing in some israeli jail?
israeli authorities attack agricultural project of  palestinian children alternative information center - project  olive trees , conducted by the italian-palestinian association amal since  christmas 2010 in the palestinian village of al walaje, is currently under  threat by israel.
in gaza: 7 mar 2010 - * the destruction begins as far as 700 metres from the border it was senseless, random, gratuitous violence against the farmers and their hopes.
it is  a craft that has been passed down from one generation to the next.
about two dozen people waving palestinian flags marched down the dusty path towards the buffer zone.
armed settlers uprooted more than 45 olive... settlers uproot dozens of olive trees near nablus imemc - saturday october 01, 2011 - 23:20, a group of extremist armed israeli  settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that belong to  residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
israeli bulldozers bury bedouin village uruknet february  22, 2011 - - the five tents giving shelter to some 50 bedouin residents of  amniyr, a tiny community north of susiya in the south hebron hills, were torn  down on monday, their olive trees uprooted and water sources covered over.
approximately 60 people live in the valley itself, and  many more own land in the area in which they farm animals and cultivate both  citrus and olive trees.
iof violently suppresses weakly peaceful protest at nil’in 19 jun 2010 - ni’lin, june 19, (pal telegraph – by olathe litonya)
left with no land to  farm, and consequently no source of income, kafr ad-dik’s farmers have  been forced to either rent out small plots from farmers who still have access  to their lands in neighboring villages, or work their own land, now owned by  the illegal israeli settlements, for a paltry wage of around $13 a day.
akram jamil uweis, whose family owns the trees, said his family  headed to the field early saturday morning to harvest olives, and found 40....
'palestinian olives stolen, groves vandalized' jeruslalem post 13
international activists have been prevented by the military from attending olive harvests during the past two days in some areas and settlers harassed and threw stones at... [uruknet.info] this year's olive harvest in walaja may be the last uruknet october 17, 2011 - this week, the olive harvest began across the west bank, with people returning to villages from city jobs to assist with the picking.
iof soldiers detain three palestinians for trying to extinguish fire pic 18 nov 2010 - iof soldiers on wednesday detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of al-khalil, for participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers in olive and almond trees.
the union’s embroidery project aims for the preservation and revival of bethlehem heritage and for meeting the economic needs of women in the area.
as residents worked the land, others began clearing the large earth  mound that had been constructed across the small dirt road serving as qaryut's  sole link to road 60.
the talk was of cousins khwaylid and nizar ramadan, two native sons freed from israeli military prison as part of mid-october's prisoner...
we will not leave our land for it is our life or be deterred by demolitions in all circumstances, though we were left in the rain and cold, mohamed talalqah, one of taweel abu jarwal residents, said.
a number of palestinian farmers were "brutally  beaten" as they harvested olives in the northern west bank village of  burin in nablus on monday by extremist settlers, locals said.
palestinians rally against settlers at mount of olives 2/12/2010 - jerusalem - ma'an -jerusalem residents and fatah official hatem abdul qader interfered with a group of israeli settlers as they attempted to claim lands on the mount of olives on thursday morning.
on 5 may 2002, dozens of  armed settlers from the yitzhar settlement attacked the safwan family, setting  fire to their home, sending dogs into the home and damaging most of the  furniture.
the unidentified.... israeli military 'superiors' interfere in burin's olive harvest 10/12/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west bank -
about fifteen demonstrators were treated on-site for severe tear gas inhalation.
after the bedouin residents of al arakib rebuilt their village, israeli forces returned and destroyed it again.
ghassan doughlas, who heads the palestinian authority file on northern west bank settlement activity, told ma'an that several....
mayor: israeli settlers uprooted 40  olive trees uruknet march 12, 2010 – israeli settlers  uprooted dozens of olive trees in qaryut, south of nablus, at dawn on friday,  officials said.
construction of jewish neighborhood in east  jerusalem underway ynet news - construction commenced on wednesday  on a new residential jewish neighborhood atop the mount of olives ridge in east  jerusalem, near hebrew university.
the israelis better save us from their spins and manipulations.
getting to the root of the conflict mondoweiss - 13 jan 2010 -
according to the notices... locals: israeli forces hand bethlehem village confiscation orders 9/28/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
"if we had money we'd get married right away," says samir*, 23.
israeli settlers uproot trees in nablus 18
2010 -  mommy wake up!
agricultural engineer, khalid junaidi, said “i have informed several... palestinian envoy plants olive seedlings in dubai 4/5/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an/agencies - commemorating earth day in a unique way, the palestinian consul general to the united arab emirates has planted two olive seedlings in dubai, naming them "jerusalem" and "church of the holy sepulcher" respectively.
the electronic intifada gaza strip qusay al-astal, the owner of an olive oil extraction plant in gaza, has been in the business for seven years but even in that short period he has seen dramatic changes.more “save the land – donate an olive tree seedling” campaign palestine solidarity project 31
the only thing that can be grown, because it does not require constant attention, is wheat.
home demolitions in amniyr, a community north of susiya in the south hebron hills uruknet february 22, 2011 -
israeli settlers attack peace activists attempting to harvest olives in  hebron imemc - 10
the congresswoman "endorses us imperial wars, police state laws, corporate empowerment, tax cuts for the rich, laying waste to libya, perhaps a second bay of pigs, and israeli lawlessness, while, at the same, opposing palestinian statehood," according to lendman.
oct 2010 - wednesday october 13, 2010 - 11:14, palestinian sources reported on wednesday that settlers attacked palestinian olive groves in boreen village, in the southern part of nablus.
bitter olive harvest adds to animosity crispian balmer, ma’an news agency 11/2/2011 awarta (reuters) --
nour rida/  english.moqawama.org “marches of return” encircle the occupied  palestinian territories (opt) while the palestinians inside the opt rally from  within… restating commitment to the right of return of all palestinians,  all palestinians, and marking the 1948 nakba in which...
settlers destroy 55 olive trees south of hebron wafa israeli forces hand bethlehem village confiscation orders palestine solidarity project 29 sep 2011 - bethlehem -israeli forces notified villagers near bethlehem that their land will soon be confiscated, local residents said wednesday.
sep 2010 - tuesday september 21, 2010 - 18:18, a number of palestinian civilians were wounded in clashes with israeli settlers who invaded the olive orchards that belong to the palestinian farmers in the village of burin, near the northern west bank city of nablus, in the early hours of tuesday morning.
the goods were confiscated from a warehouse in the eastern neighborhood of nablus.
but the $1-billion  industry, reliant on exports, is feeling the squeeze of the global downturn.
we believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such  copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the us copyright law.
this year hundreds of trees were damaged and/or harvest stolen by settlers.
the international al quds film festival took place between 21 and 23 december ‘09 and film makers from 11 arab countries showed 52 documentary and feature films, two of which were made in cooperation with spanish and dutch filming associations.
they just go to provoke the volunteers looking for clahses, he said.
as every friday for the past three years, they were intercepted by israeli soldiers who had put up a fence of barb wire at the entrance to the village, effectively cutting off the villager's access to their lands.
inside israel, the state seeks to judaize the negev (naqab) desert.
no soldiers appeared to stop them,  no one declared the area a military zone and so the protesters which included a  senior member of the fatah movement continued their march.... --
in the washer, twigs and dirt are removed from the...
israel's 'final solution' palestine chronicle: 18
but from a different political standpoint, this holiday has also reinforced the  israeli occupation for palestinians, with zionist youth and families  re-enacting the 1967 entry into the old city by rallying and chanting  nationalist slogans as they proceed to the western wall.
demonstrations in ni'lin: routine or resistance?
palestinian popular struggle against home demolitions,  olive tree destruction in bethlehem area alternative information  center - tuesday, 27 april 2010, one of the fronts of the popular struggle in  the west bank is now beit jala, bethlehem district.
demanding the ouster of president bashar assad, syrians  carried olive branches as they gathered in the flashpoint city of hama.
by mariam hamed in gaza -  special to palestine note saturday was may day (international labor day), and  cities across the world celebrated their workers with parades, but in gaza,  being able to produce something valuable... zionist settlers burn  olive trees in hawara pic
we marched to the buffer zone with about 20 others  including members of the beit hanoun local initiative who have been organizing  non-violent demonstrations for the past three years, as well as several members  of gybo (gaza youth break out).
israel's ynet news site said two slogans were sprayed near the orchard.
"this tree is blessed for usand our  grandfathers and ancestors have taken care of this tree forgenerations.
yousef karajah, member of the popular committee  against the.... report: soldiers guard settlers as they torch olive  grove palestine note 23
young olive trees were replanted in place of  the mature trees that were destroyed during the first days of uprooting last  week.
the former military  base at osh grab was abandoned by the israeli military in april 2006, and part  of the site was transformed into a public park and centre for the residents of  beit sahour by the town's municipality.
an.... more than an olive branch uruknet october 21, 2010 - the palestine liberation organisation (plo) has  expressed willingness to offer israel far-reaching concessions in return for  the establishment of a viable palestinian state in all or most of the west  bank, gaza strip and east jerusalem.
for  three days the israeli occupation forces fired from their automated turret  while the farmers continued to harvest their grain.
with a mind for  business, she left idna to seek out the promising, new, international market....
settlers attack burin olive  farmers 10/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - by evie -  today farmers in burin, a village located south of nablus, were forced to  abandon their olive harvesting when about one hundred settlers came down to  their fields.
germany nearly succeeded....more [uruknet.info] israeli settlers harass released prisoners, threaten them with death uruknet december 1, 2011 -
i will walk on the ravished desolation of destroyed lives places where apache helicopters fired yet another missile on to crowds reduced to charred remains.
residents believe that the attack was carried out by settlers  from the outpost of havat ma'on.
the rest were destroyed...
it is here where you can find the palestinian women's embroidery co-operative.
a  private twitter released...
moshe dayan's widow: israel doesn't know how to make peace ha'aretz 28 feb 2010 -
police investigating qalqiliya village fire 10/29/2011 -  qalqiliya (ma'an) --
settlers also vandalized a mosque in yatma village south of nablus, spraying... al walajeh: demonstrators , military clash over olive trees uproot.
""the rule of evil is persecuting the settlements.
clashes were reported; soldiers fired gas bombs at the protesters  leading to a number of injuries.
[uruknet.info] 300 trees uprooted in salfit  village by iof uruknet june 28, 2011 - today, 28 june, the israeli  occupation forces uprooted 300 olive trees in the palestinian village of deir  estia in the salfit district of the west bank.
settlers fire at  teenage palestinian farmers uruknet august 31, 2010 - ten zionist  settlers fired at and chased three palestinian farmers in deir istiya village,  nablus, on tuesday morning while tending to their lands.
the study and challenge centre....
palestinian olive farmers have been hit by a third consecutive bad or poor harvest.
the village is one of fourteen such  ‘blockations' in the west bank.
the rest  were destroyed during the 2008-9 war, much of it uprooted from white  phosphorous and other chemicals.
tamir has to face the attaks of the settlers  who are protected by the israeli police and soldiers.
tonight, i’m repaying a debt that is long overdue.
petition: authorities block palestinian villagers from harvesting their olives wafa - tel aviv, october 12, 2010 (wafa)- villagers of wadi a-rasha in the west bank filed 98 requests to access their olive groves which are beyond the separation wall, but the requests were all declined.
some other people decided over his  future.
most students take za’atar (wild thyme) and olive oil sandwiches to school...more video: 10 years of struggle for justice us campaign to end the occupation 4 jan 2012 - var a2a_config =
but, the farmers in the  west bank village of al-walaja say the construction of an israeli barrier is  threatening this activity.
beneficiaries: 150 women from villages and refugee camps  in bethlehem area.
related: video - footage contradicts arson allegations and youtube settlers  burn olive trees near nablus imemc - 15 nov 2010 - monday november  15, 2010 - 11:00, a group of extremist jewish settlers torched, on sunday, at  least 200 palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of salem village,  near the northern west bank city of nablus, and also torched a number of nearby  farms.
popular committee leader of ni'lin arrested and two protesters injured by live ammo in deir qaddis 6/16/2011 - international solidarity movement - 15 june 2011,
another group of... settlers destroy 100 olive trees near salfit wafa - 09:32-salfit, january 14, 2012 (wafa) – israeli settlers from tappuah settlement in the northern west bank cut off and destroyed on friday around 100 fully-grown olive trees northwest of yasouf, a town east...
iof troops block planting olive trees, shoot at palestinian driver pic 12 jan 2010 - israeli occupation forces (iof) on tuesday  blocked palestinian farmers and foreign solidarity activists from planting  olive trees in safa area to the north of beit ummar village, al-khalil district.
it reached the highest level with 26.
"according to the daily, the assailants cut branches from nearby olive trees to make improvised weapons and began hurling stones.
at around 5pm a group of 25 palestinian and international activists joined 10 families whose homes were destroyed....
" [uruknet.info] bethlehem's modern nativity scene - crib, wise men and  separation wall uruknet december 23, 2009 - the shelves of  bethlehem's tourist shops this winter are filled with the gifts you might  expect.
on the mount of olives, a  major project is underway to restore the part of the cemetery that was  destroyed.
the israeli military ordered villagers to stop picking olives on their own land in burin, near nablus, today.
unsurprisingly,  ros-lehtinen has been rewarded handsomely for her die-hard support of israel by  some of the most powerful pro-israeli individuals and lobby groups in the  united states.
the village of bil'in is  beautifully situated amongst soft green hills.
the festival is open to children and adults, locals  and foreigners.
there are already some ripening loquots....
unencumbered by scores of roadblocks, or by delays caused by the arbitrary decisions of teenaged soldiers, these palestinians can now enjoy a modicum of freedom to move about and do business....
settlers torch olive orchards near ramallah imemc -  thursday june 16, 2011 - 11:24, a number of armed extremist israeli settlers  torched on wednesday at night dozens of olive trees that belong to villagers of  bil’in village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
for our movement to thrive and serve as a true alternative to violence, we need americans to demand that israel, a close us ally, end this repression.
despite the overbearing army presence, residents' convictions were strong  enough for them to stand their ground and finish work for the day.
a group of 50 settlers from the neighboring settlement of halamish watched as theisraeli occupation forces attacked the palestinians.
it is just getting worse and worse," said thawabteh, sitting beneath one  of his trees, with the west bank city of nablus shimmering in the distance.
of looking inward on a barren moonlit landscape while wandering the winding paths stepping on rubble on ancient villages which are no longer but villages whose souls still weep for the familiar voices they may sometimes hear in the distance when the wind is right - william james martin contributed...more occupied palestine from a to z: canaan of palestine uruknet march 27, 2011 -
, a statement said tuesday.
jewish settlers uproot hundreds of palestinian olive trees pic - jewish settlers cut off more than 200 olive trees south of  qasra village south of nablus city after midnight wednesday, local sources  reported on thursday.
they strap olive saplings and water bottles to the back of a donkey, silent under its burden.
it was simply a codification of the religiously framed devaluation of all non-jewish life that is rampant throughout the settlements.
meanwhile, israeli forces destroyed farmland in al-baq'a east of the west bank city of hebron, residents said.
settlers uproot olive trees in qaryut wafa 20 apr 2010 - nablus, april 20, 2010 (wafa) – jewish settlers uprooted at night tens of olive trees in west bank village of qaryut south of nablus.
he said he was.... report: security at mt.  olives slipping ynet news, 13 jun 2011 - 'one jerusalem' group  sees 50% rise in hostile activity on cemetery grounds;....
one day, she heard on television that  internationals frequently visited the ibrahimi mosque.
soon  after the.... related:palestinian dies after run over by settler near salfit settlers uproot thirty olive trees near nablus imemc - a  group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted at least thirty olive trees on  monday.
the pcbs noted that results showed that the extraction rate  increased, reaching 24.
for they are still dead, and thousands more are still  maimed.[1] we will never forget the last 63 years  during which our land, homes, olive groves, lemon trees and cherished way of  life was taken away from us, while israeli soldiers held our fathers’
all of their trees are located behind a settlers´  road leading to the illegal settlement of elon more: a settlement which has  stolen much of the village'.... opt: fierce clashes over west bank  olive harvest relief web 21 oct 2010 - source: agence france-presse israeli settlers attack olive pickers in nablus imemc  - 20 oct 2010 - wednesday october 20, 2010 - 12:16, on wednesday morning, a  citizen from the village of burin, south of nablus, was wounded by israeli  settlers who attacked him with sharp objects while he was picking olives.
theirs was one of three  homes demolished by israeli military bulldozers that day in al-mossadar,  eastern gaza.
the israelis call it the “buffer  zone.”
more.. e-mail us a link to your favorite related site palestine diaries courtesy the electronic intifada
this is to  all of the palestinian parents in exile and the long trail of olive trees  they've planted around the globe.
the apparent vandalism was discovered as residents of the village woke up on friday morning, al-qaryuti said... settlers torch olive orchard in hebron imemc - friday march 12, 2010 - 10:22, a group of fundamentalist jewish settlers burnt on thursday at night an olive orchard in safa village, north west of hebron, in the southern part of the west bank.
while heading to his daughter's school to attend an awards ceremony, rajih abu al-sukkar was notified that israeli forces uprooted dozens of olive trees in lands belonging his village turmusayya near ramallah.
more.. e-mail settlers torch hundreds of nablus olive trees uruknet june 2, 2010 - residents of the illegal yitzhar settlement set fire to more than 100 dunums of palestinian lands near urif village, southwest of nablus on wednesday afternoon, palestinian officials said.
in a phone call to libyan state television station,  gaddafi angrily denounced the rebels who rose up against him in mid-february,  inspired by a wave of... olive trees burned in fire sparked by  tear-gas 6/6/2011 - jerusalem (ma'an) --
more.. e-mail remember these children
we are  sorry that our land has many olives on it that obstruct your eyes which are  used to seeing imported or artificial plants and trees, and that you have to  pay for your settlers' wars as they chase villagers and set fire to trees and  olives.
the  israeli military sent eight jeep loads of soldiers to iraq burin, near nablus,  on saturday to prevent villagers from accessing their farmland.
they seem to think that the israelis were less likely to use lethal  violence when americans, italians, and brits walked with them.
when demonstrators reached the  separation wall, israeli soldiers shot tear gas and skunk water at them.
activists planted three olive trees outside the gates of the prison,  in tribute to similar actions organised by al faqeeh in numerous west bank  villages.
nilin protest photo wins silver camera award pnn 26 jan 2010 - holland –cris toala olivares, a dutch citizen of ecuadorian origin, has won the “silver camera award” in the foreign news category for a photo taken during a protest in nilin village in the west bank in october 2009.
protesters plan to plant olive trees outside the prison, in celebration of al faqeeh's organisation of numerous tree-planting actions in palestinian villages close to settlements.
tuba is in the upper galilee, nearby is the jewish town of safed.
one organizer was arrested and many olive trees were burned.
the yearly settler festival of destroying the palestinians’ olive trees and orchards mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine settlers/ land, property, resource theft & destruction/ethnic cleansing abbas pressures u.s. to aid in stopping israel settlement building the palestinian president says israel is 'still putting obstacles' in the path of peace talks, singles out west bank settlement building....
settlers uproot 80 olive saplings near nablus 21 aug 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)- settlers from the  illegal settlement of eish kodash uprooted 80 newly planted olive saplings in  the south of al-masara village, southeast of the northern west bank city of  nablus.
the quiet that hangs over neighboring olive groves, in the far south of the west bank, is broken here by the shouts of workers, many of them children, and the grinding of a bulldozer covering the picked-over trash with sand and dirt.
soldiers invaded the village's olive groves, where they continued opening fire,  but there were no injuries, a statement from the international solidarity  movement said.
however, despite the enduring hardship in tel rumeida, resistance to the israeli occupation remains strong.
local official in charge of the settlements file in the northern west  bank ghasan daghlas said the fire was set in the jabal marwes area....
the fire in the southern town of maamarieh in the zahrani region had trapped several civil defense personnel.
you are not listening attentively mr president; that’s because you’ve been genuflecting on the christmas message of that other great statesman prime minister netanyahu, “we are living in a time of great uncertainty and instability in the middle east and israel, throughout this instability, remains a beacon of religious freedom and pluralism.”
instead, settlers swarmed  the group, smashed the... (en)
moskovitz caused a diplomatic storm last year when he obtained a permit to bulldoze east jerusalem's historic shepherd hotel in order to build a settlement.
unbearable lightness of thomas friedman – book review palestine chronicle: 18
the  olive harvest is the definitive mediterranean tradition.
in a "day... jewish settlers uproot 500  olive saplings to the south of nablus pic 4 mar 2011 - jewish  settlers, at dawn friday, uprooted more than 500 olive saplings from fields  belonging to the residents of the village of qasra to the south of the northern  west bank city of nablus.
two days before this protest, our group wakes up at the yafa cultural center in balata refugee camp, nablus.
i do pray for healing and understanding among those who support and those who oppose such a boycott in the community of olympia, washington and around the world.
only one  entry and exit point, under complete military control, will remain.
almost 19,860 tons of olives were pressed  in 2009, extracting 4,771 tons of olive oil -- a decline in olive press output,  which in 2008 saw 17,584 tons of oil extracted from 76,388 tons of pressed  olives in 2008, the pcbs statistics indicated, revealing a poor olive harvest  in 2009.
america to the rescue,  (not) again sam bahour, ma’an news agency 3/12/2010 we are told that us president barack obama has  taken a leap of political faith in trying to bridge a final peace settlement  between palestinians and israelis.
ammar recently participated at a lebanese performing contest and won second place....
according to a report published by the united nation's office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs during the olive harvest 50... notes from the olive harvest uruknet december 7, 2010 -
the president of al-loja town, saleh  khalifa, said the israeli vehicles uprooted 100 olive and cypress trees which  were planted for more than 100 years.
al arakib could be considered an  opening battle.
settlers 'chop down 100 olive trees' in nablus 1/14/2012 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers chopped down more than 100 olive trees belonging to palestinians south of nablus on friday evening, a pa official said.
closure obstacles can be staffed checkpoints, roadblocks, electric fences  with barbed wire, and more.
settlers who were travelling on the road stopped their cars and threw stones at the students.
wadi qana farmland being polluted by settlement sewage 7/31/2010 - international solidarity movement - ism and iwps (international women's peace service) -
both in the northern and southern west bank, the army  intervenes to facilitate settler violence, instead of stopping it.
e-mail jerusalem official condemns plans for jordan hotel 12/16/2010 - jerusalem (ma'an) --
the ....... settlers violence --  interview with ahmad jaradat alternative information center - fall  2010 was marked by a drastic raise in attacks by israeli settlers against  palestinians.
the first day of the palestinian olive harvest  officially began on 15 october, and rani ali and his family -- like hundreds of  others -- were out among their olive trees, starting to bring in what looks to  be a good harvest.more gaza govt says israel barring entry of olives 10/18/2010 - gaza city (ma'an) --
fayyad spoke with  international activists and palestinian committee members at the site of wall's  latest construction in beit jala, condemning the israeli annexation of land and  uprooting of olive trees to build the separation wall.
founded by romans  nearly 2,000 years ago, the city has survived byzantine, crusader, islamic, and  ottoman rule.
more.. e-mail police: settlers uproot  olive trees in jerusalem 10/27/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
just as  the large, important, ancient muslim cemetery in mamilla is in the heart of  jewish-israeli jerusalem, the large, important, ancient jewish cemetery on the  mount of olives is in the heart of the muslim-palestinian city.
a natural spring, countless olive trees, a mosque and virtually every stone used to build the village's unmistakable houses -- yacoub odeh remembers it all.
at one point, the best i could muster to a young soldier... video - bil'in, a day in the life: live fire, tear gas, sound bombs, detentions, torched olive tree.wmv uruknet may 25, 2010 - this morning, as is their wont, israeli occupation forces intruded into the village of bilin, this time there were only three to the forefront with backup behind them, when challenged they beat a retreat.
yash adam settlers attacked a palestinian-owned farm noon sunday, chopping down hundreds of olive trees.
early tuesday morning israeli soldiers raided the town of bil'in in the central west bank.
i grew deeply interested in the politics of the region; i also like to think that -- having come to the area entirely devoid of preconceptions, or anything more than the most rudimentary knowledge, tabula rasa as it were -- the opinions and interpretations i developed about the arab-israeli conflict were always as near as possible spontaneously personal and first-hand ones....
written and photographed by brynn ruba.
today the trees have been uprooted, the plants destroyed.
approximately 200  palestinian, israel and international demonstrators tried to block bulldozers  uprooting an olive grove, sitting in the place where the bulldozers staged.
he has found his bride, but not the  money to hold the wedding.
villagers from burin were picking....
standing outside my  hosts house, one of the nine slated for demolition, bassem tamimi must knock on  his own door which his mother always keeps locked for fear of the soldiers.
israeli forces  accompanied the settlers in the "khilet hamad" area in the northern  jordan valley.
this  doctrine had been affirmed by the us supreme court in 1896 — plessy v  ferguson – and the court contained such notables as oliver wendel holmes.
witnesses said two bulldozers uprooted the trees, which were loaded onto trucks and transported to israel.
in the face of overwhelming power, the message that  underlies this story is the very idea of palestinian existence.
"including during the last war," says sourani, referring to the 23 day war israel waged on gaza three years ago.
israeli  air crafts fired at a target in beit lahiya in the northern gaza strip causing  material damage but no human casualties, medical sources told ma'an's  correspondent....
yes, the acts of violence themselves are generally carried out by a few fanatics.
members of beit ummar and al-ma'sara local popular committees said they tried to stop the uprooting....
it’s not fair at all  that i need an excuse to go there!
was there a time  when you felt you were so close to losing your own life?
from the pyrennes to the atlases, tunis to athens, jerusalem to damascus, farmers and families are climbing trees and filling sacks in their grey-green groves.
"ya abu nidal, lahhiq ibnak, lahhiq darak, hurry up, the soldiers are raiding your home and want to take your son nidal."
as the servees enters village land we pass a synagogue and a forest villagers are forbidden from reaching.
the congresswoman  "endorses us imperial wars, police state laws, corporate empowerment, tax  cuts for the rich, laying waste to libya, perhaps a second bay of pigs, and  israeli lawlessness, while, at the same, opposing palestinian statehood,"  according to lendman.
fayyad: unilateral declaration of statehood coming in 2011 palestine note 28
it was a lottery with a winning ticket and a loosing ticket.
so let me just give you the names and brief  story of...more harvesting olives as a statement of resistance electronic intifada: 24 oct 2011 - ben lorber the electronic  intifada nablus palestinian olive farmers face violence from both the settlers  and the israeli military during the harvest season.more i wish to  tell you about gaza palestine chronicle: 24 oct 2011 - '
how international law affects the palestine 'peace  process' | oliver miles the guardian 22 nov 2010 -
human rights group yesh din, which is part of a  coalition of ngos which are helping palestinians during the olive harvest  season, issued sunday a letter to several zionist settlers attack  palestinian farmers, hurt old man pic 10
they also removed  the water supply donated on the soul of samer sarhan and the olive tree planted  in the place, although the tree was present prior to the monument.
olive harvest,  operating mills timing determined wafa - settlers  uproot 100 grape trees east of hebron 9/20/2010 - hebron (ma'an)  -- several israeli settlers uprooted approximately 100 grape trees in the  al-buera village in the southern west bank district of hebron on monday, owners  of the grape plantation said.
al faqeeh is now being held at jelemeh prison in  haifa, israel.
the history the protests have occurred every friday since may of 2008, when israel began to build their 8-metre barrier wall across the village of ni'lin, in order to “protect” the jewish settlements of modin illit and hashmonaim.
the mandatory israeli military escort that is  supposed to ensure that palestinian children arrive to school safely failed to  walk with the children 95% of the time since the school year began in  september.
no  creature to soothe your piercing screams your...more israeli  occupation forces invade wadi qana stop the wall - jul 11, 2011--  israeli occupation forces invaded on monday
that was the start of a very interesting conversation about our lands, which all palestinian refugees were cleansed from in 1948.
bush didn't write no damn book palestine chronicle: 11 nov 2010 -
whenever this happens at the following day my children are always scare of going out and run into the settlers," tamir said.
the village has now turned back to farming as the primary source of income and grows olives, pumpkins, tomatoes.... burin: zionist soldiers and colonists collaborate against harvesting 10/17/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west bank - the israeli military conducted arrests, mistreated detainees and continued to prevent villagers from picking olives in certain areas of burin, near nablus, yesterday on october 16 2011.
meanwhile in gaza radhika s, notes from behind the blockade 11/15/2011 i awoke today with the news that the nypd was clearing out occupy wall street and that israeli tanks were shelling northern gaza.
but at the  same time the world is playing deaf and blind to the 1.5 million gazans-  virtually buried above ground and besieged like animals- then something is  terribly wrong with the morality of the international community.
each once housed 400 tear gas  canisters and the evidence they had been filled to the brim was scatted about  the farmfield.
the israeli prime minister, binyamin netanyahu, has bowed to  american demands to suspend the construction of settlement homes in east...
they come from across the planet and meet in the shadow of israel's 12m concrete wall.
a few weeks ago i was in al-nabi salih, a  palestinian village northwest of ramallah in the occupied west bank.
here are three pictures from hamde  abu rahmah’s facebook page .
the mandatory israeli military escort that is supposed to ensure that palestinian children arrive to school safely failed to walk with the children 95% of the time since the school year began in september.
at  bil'in's demonstration a week earlier, 36-year-old jawaher abu rahmah inhaled a  lethal dose of tear gas.
saleh khalifa, head of the village council, said that soldiers entered the village monday morning and cut down olive trees to make way for a section....
"when there is a lot of people near by house, the presence of the stettlers increases, as well as the atacks," tamir said.
'price-tag' vandals uproot olive trees near hebron jerusalem post 29 sep 2011 -
the photograph on the cover was telling: a kindly old man with a white beard, who could have been any palestinian or middle-eastern grandpa, is lovingly touching the hair of a toddler.
professor dominique metras, chief of pediatric cardiac surgery at the hopital d'enfants de la timone in marseille, france, completed a week of providing life-saving open heart surgery on over a dozen babies from the west bank and gaza strip at makassed hospital on the mount of olives in east jerusalem, a statement read.
in ni’ilin, in the dark of night, israeli  soldiers have staged hundreds of military raids and arrests of civilians from  the village; hundreds more were injured — forty by live ammunition, and  five, including a ten year old, were shot dead.
[secretary of state james] baker about, such as the start treaty, the contras, angola, the cfe (conventional forces in europe) arms control negotiations and nato...
this insistence on one’s  humanity has been the key strength which has allowed the palestinian people to  preserve their struggle and resistance before the wicked arm of occupation and  oppression for nearly 63 years.
around  the unilaterally imposed israeli buffer zone – a 300 metre wide belt of  land along the israeli border, farm workers have been picked off by snipers and  shelling as a matter of course, often over a kilometer beyond the designated  area.
whilst  returning from collecting his olives, abdullah was last seen riding his donkey  back towards his village of deir istia – 7km northwest of salfit.
introduction as will be demonstrated, settler attacks continued during this period and were  concentrated in the north of the west bank, especially in the nablus district.
seven years after your death, the palestinian cause  remains one of the biggest problems in the world, and despite their receding  hopes of viable statehood in the west bank and gaza, palestinians still  consider a man, abu ammar, to have been the person responsible for making it so.
no one saw,  no one heard: 300 palestinian olive trees uprooted ha'aretz 14
mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers/ land, property, resource theft & destruction/ethnic cleansing official: settlers set fire to west bank land nablus (ma’an) --
the citizens said on tuesday that the settlers usually discharge polluted water from factories of canned meat and...
bulldozers continued work on wednesday near route 60 on the edge of town.
the olive  groves where peaceful solidarity grows | seth freedman the  guardian 28 oct 2010 - while some israelis are vandalising west bank farms,  others are volunteering to help the harvest with the olive harvest in full  swing across the west bank, reports are flooding in of settler attacks on  palestinian farmers...
""in 24 hours, we will set this place up anew.
"we had lots and lots of trees, countless trees, so many trees that stretched as far as the eyesight would reach, planted by my father, his father and his grandfather...
on the boat to gaza glyn secker, ma’an news agency 10/1/2010
settlers set fire to olive groves near nablus pic - extremist jewish settlers on friday afternoon set fire to olive groves in mount sulaiman near the village of bourin to the south of the northern west bank village of nablus.
there’s just something about those colorful swooping colors, long,  trailing ribbons, and the sensation of controlling a thing that can soar high  above it all.
the soldiers refused to acknowledge that the area was private palestinian farmland, instead proclaiming it a ‘closed military zone', a common but illegal method of crowd...more ramallah's olive press palestine monitor: 3 nov 2010 -
particularly eloquent was ali abu awwad, a young activist who runs a new organization, the palestinian movement for non-violent resistance, with its offices in bethlehem and growing influence throughout the occupied territories.
settlers from the nearby yitzhar settlement ascended upon the village at 2am and sprayed graffiti, including a star of david and racist slogans across the the bilal ben rab mosque in the qoza area of the village, said ghassan doughlas, palestinian authority official in charge of the settlement portfolio in the northern west bank.
times  were tough for joseph and mary.
the odd and surreal status quo was maintained this friday.
soldiers uprooting olive trees were confronted in beit jala and later landowners with help of other locals and internationals went back and replanted these trees and rebuilt a bulldozed childrens playground in beit jala....
the ministry of agriculture in  ramallah said a 30 percent drop in olive oil production was expected for the  2010 season, over the 2008 yield.
the israeli siege imposed shortly after hamas's  election in early 2006 has ruled out marriage for many.
we are everywhere: sew far sew good palestine monitor: 19 jun 2010 -
israeli movement restrictions, like the closures and the barrier, which israel has stated are meant to protect israeli citizens, raise concerns over the ability of palestinian farmers to complete this cycle....
"sha'ban termed any construction on  privately owned land as illegal, but said the beit jala construction flaunted  the law, noting previous remarks by fayyad nasser, a lawyer who represents the  beit jala municipality.
this is the only palestinian city where the stettlers are actualy inside the city and not in the near by settlements.
jawher  area in al-khalil city.
a recent flurry of demolition orders in silwan have raised fresh  tensions between palestinian residents and the ever-growing settler community.
the  jerusalem post, an israeli daily, has reported, via their website, on tuesday  that the state of israel intends to open a new police station at the mount of  olives in occupied east jerusalem. ...
by clive hambidge happy christmas mr president or may i call you
aref daraghmeh, head of al-maleh village council, said the lands are for palestinian citizens who live near ein al-baida village.... jewish telegraph agency mentions putting an olive on the seder plate jewish voice for peace - settlers uproot olive trees in al-khalil pic - jewish settlers on monday attacked the palestinian village of beit ummar in al-khalil and destroyed 45 fruitful olive trees under protection of the iof, local sources reported.
they told  farmers that settlers would be in the area between 7am and 2pm, and they could  not harvest or tend crops during the visiting hours.
locals reported that residents of the illegal ariel  settlement attacked villagers as they harvested their olives.
the ‘study and  challenge centre’ is located on palestinian land that is surrounded by  four israeli settlements – the closest of which is only metres from the  rear of the building.
we all know about the devastation in gaza, we know  about the siege, the destruction and the crimes against humanity.
hebron copes with self deifying israeli military and its settlers alistair george, international solidarity movement 11/4/2011 the streets of tel rumeida are locked-down  and divided; physically occupied by a forceful israeli military.
this  week, the demonstrators were joined... witnesses: israeli forces  uproot olive trees in qalqiliya village 2/5/2012 - qalqiliya  (ma'an) --
popular committee leader of ni'lin arrested  and two protesters injured by live ammo in deir qaddis 6/16/2011 -  international solidarity movement - 15 june 2011, ni'lin - demonstrators  disrupted new construction in the israeli colony of nili.
the official of  west bank settlements file, ghassan douglas, said that number of israeli  settlers uprooted today 250 olive nurslings which the palestinians citizens  plant in the palestinian land day.
however, jordans alliance with egypt and syria and its consequent attack on israeli positions in west jerusalem provided a pretext for the israeli assault, one that fulfilled long-standing zionist ambitions for the city and led to the israeli occupation of the entire west banka legacy that continues to this day.
israeli occupation forces demolish eight homes, tents in negev region 12/8/2009 - political theatrics - pic - the israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday demolished eight palestinian homes as well as tents and uprooted dozens of olive saplings in different areas of the occupied negev region.
the month of october was thus particularly characterized by a new wave of violence, land grabbing and destruction due to the construction of new outposts and the expansion of existing settlements.
as diamonds are normally not hallmarked, consumers cannot distinguish an israeli diamond from one crafted in india, belgium, south africa or elsewhere.
in september alone, 2,500 olive trees were destroyed,  out of 7,500 destroyed so far this year (and a conservative estimate of 800,000  destroyed since israel’s annexation of the west bank in 1967).
iof  troops bulldoze land in gaza, detain jerusalemites for planting olives uruknet january 12, 2010 - israeli occupation forces (iof) advanced east of  shujaia suburb in gaza city afternoon tuesday and bulldozed palestinian  plantations, local sources said.
most people dont know that the holy land is a windy place.
like all  kids, their imaginations take them up with those kites, and i know that while  they fly them they, too, are up there—free.
a small french pleasure craft with eight protesters on board  left greek waters overnight and set off for gaza in an attempt to break an  israeli naval blockade, organizers said tuesday.
she turned 93 last friday, according to the hebrew  calendar.
after the world cup, a big flotilla to set  out for the land of burning olive trees mondoweiss - and other  news from today in palestine: land theft and destruction/ethnic cleansing iof  burns large areas of olive trees to suppress ni'lin protest june 26th, 2010--  the occupation forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s cement  blocks, fired tear gas at the demonstrators and opened the... farmer says israeli forces confiscate tractor 6/27/2010 - hebron -  ma'an - israeli soldiers prevented a farmer from working his land by  confiscating his bulldozer and driving it away, the farmer reported sunday.
the settlement of beitar  illit is located between the villages of wadi fukin, nahalin and husan, west of  bethlehem.
despite the hostility, at safed’s  academic college over 50% of the student body is palestinian israeli.
introduction as will be demonstrated, settler attacks continued during this period and were concentrated in the north of the west bank, especially in the nablus district.
but, the farmers in the west bank village of al-walaja say the construction of an israeli barrier is threatening this activity.
the month of december was characterized by increased israeli military and police actions against the palestinian communities of the south hebron hills.
new israeli military tactic: headbutting in al-
jewish settlers cut off palestinian olive trees pic - jewish settlers cut off olive and fruit trees in the cultivated land lots of beit ummar village north of al-khalil province on wednesday, a local source reported.
on the mount of olives, a major project is underway to restore the part of the cemetery that was destroyed.
officials said three others, an ap photographer and two demonstrators, were also injured and evacuated to a hospital.
resistance is fertile: palestine's  eco-war james brownsell, al jazeera 11/1/2011 after uprooting thousands of olive trees,  israel's latest plantation may pose a fire risk to its own citizens.
with a population of approximately 3,500 that is wholly  dependent on the yields of their olive trees, burin’s lands are hemmed in  by two settlements on the north and south ends of the village, named bracha  and... the village of burin: under attack by surrounding settlements palestine monitor - the village of burin is located less than 10  kilometers south of nablus in the occupied west bank.
demonstrators chanted against the discriminatory policies of the occupation and reminded that only this morning, farmers who were picking olives on their lands in the surrounding villagers were harassed by settlers while israeli soldiers stood by.
the settlers were armedand they damaged farmland in the village, residents said.
in may of 1967, the entire west bank including hebron was under jordanian rule.
they also said that the israeli troops tore down tents of palestinian citizens in the village of taweel abu jarwal for the 37th time and delivered 13 demolition orders against homes in an area near the village of umm numeila.
all that is left for israel  is to come to terms with its true nature: a shameless racist, murderous and  terrorist state.
the us continues to ‘reward’ israel with 6  billion dollars of tax-payers money while the eu increases its trade and  diplomatic relations.
we support palestinian state by next year jeruslalem post 26
they  also removed the water supply donated on the soul of samer sarhan and the olive  tree planted in the place, although the tree was present prior to the monument.
spate of road accidents across israel  kills 5, including 2 children ha'aretz 10 mar 2010 - five people  died in car accidents throughout israel on wednesday, including an  eight-year-old boy who was hit by a car in jisr az-zarqa.
activists planted three olive trees outside the gates of the prison, in tribute to similar actions organised by al faqeeh in numerous west bank villages.
15km out of haifa sits the notorious jelemeh  prison, known for its interrogation and ill-treatment of palestinian political  prisoners.
resolute throughout that history, the palestinian arab people  forged its national identity, rising even to unimagined levels in its defense,  as invasion, the design of others, and the appeal special to palestine's  ancient and luminous place on the eminence where powers and civilizations are  joined.
israeli forces assaulted a man in jenin on tuesday morning, witnesses told ma'an.
2010 -  source: european union, oxfam settlers torch olive orchard near  nablus uruknet december 3, 2010 - israeli settlers torched on  thursday evening palestinian olive orchards near the homesh evacuated  settlement, west of the northern west bank city of nablus.
settlers attack farmers, foreign volunteers harvesting olives wafa ongoing murder trial of vittorio palestine chronicle: 21
a number of jewish settlers accompanied by israeli military forces started uprooting 25 olive trees near the fureidis mount in the east of bethlehem and attacked civilian houses.
sure, there is no official siege on bethlehem, hebron or ramallah, and for the most part, west bank kids sleep without the images of carnage burnt into the memories, and in some cases, the bodies of gazas children.
[uruknet.info] i wish to tell you about gaza uruknet october 25,  2011 - gaza life exists in a cage, an open air prison that has been kept mostly  isolated from the world.
of course the times was not enough, so  he continued harvesting the olives out of the permit time, untill he was  arrested.
although they are not among... jnf plants trees to uproot bedouin uruknet israel has exploited the country's natural environment for its own political ends for decades.
this webpage uses javascript to display some content.
why i support the olympia  co-op boycott mondoweiss - dear friends, the olympia food co-op  boycott of israeli products (except for fair trade olive oil) has generated  much controversy and emotion.
in a phone call to libyan state television station, gaddafi angrily denounced the rebels who rose up against him in mid-february, inspired by a wave of... olive trees burned in fire sparked by tear-gas 6/6/2011 - jerusalem (ma'an) --
khuzaa is a village near the israeli border in the southern gaza strip.
as these olive trees have been uprooted or burned, the state of israel has attempted to sow these popular demonstrations with salt.
but those groves and the greenhouses too, were long gone: the israeli army bulldozed them in 2002 to create the ever-expanding no-mans land israel calls the buffer zone and gazans call the kill zone any palestinian who steps foot inside is subject instant death or dismemberment by the israeli army fire.
some were able to secure special permits during harvest seasons from israeli authorities, however this did not always guarantee access to groves and orchards if settlers were present in the area.
the iof carried an invasion in khan younis opening random fire on civilians causing many injuries among them.
shift - fatima mohammed yassen, aged 49, is a farmer from bil'in.
on june 17, israeli soldiers interrupted a funeral by throwing tear gas canisters all over the surrounding region.
seven years after your death, the palestinian cause remains one of the biggest problems in the world, and despite their receding hopes of viable statehood in the west bank and gaza, palestinians still consider a man, abu ammar, to have been the person responsible for making it so.
onlookers said residents of the revava settlement chopped down  trees using a chainsaw in qarawat bani hassan village near deir istiya.
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 14:17, israeli settlers attacked palestinian and israeli solidarity activists in the northern settlement of susya,in the southern west bank city of hebron, while the activists accompanied palestinian farmers to their olive groves to harvest.
the  latest diggings are in preparation for the further construction of israel's  separation wall, as israel attempts to enlarge its jerusalem municipal borders  into the west bank.
they were on 10 dunams of their land, collecting the golden-yellow wheat in bundles and they thought that the presence of activists (foreign and not) could protect them at work, and decided to go farther than usual to collect plants to feed their animals.
where are the palestinian poets who'll tell us all dreams, dreams of quiet olive groves, villagers' meetings, the rich quiet of rain on straw grass and dust?
ahmed, an olive farmer form  the qalqiliya region, about 30 minutes drive from tel aviv, said the meager  crop was not worth harvesting.
after the israeli cabinet passed the prawer plan in september 2011, adalah legal center for arab minority rights in israel likened it to a declaration of war.
with a population of  approximately 3,500 that is wholly dependent on the yields of their olive  trees, burin's lands are hemmed in by two settlements on the north...
settler vandals continue to do damage palestine note 17 mar 2011 - ma'an - at least 100 olive trees were ripped out and four water tankers ruined thursday afternoon, by what witnesses said was a mob of at least a dozen settlers.
settlers set fire to olive trees in ramallah 2
according to a report published by the united nation's office for  the coordination of humanitarian affairs during the olive harvest 50... notes from the olive harvest uruknet december 7, 2010 -
oct 2010 - extremist jewish settlers on sunday attacked  palestinian citizens while harvesting their olive crops west of salfit and  tried to rob their harvest, local sources reported.
settler torch olive orchard
the official added that settlers crashed into another vehicle belonging to zaher's brother.
i would have perhaps even signed a petition or two.
its remaining houses look like jewels of a necklace,... "solidarity with the entire palestinian people" electronic intifada: 2 sep 2010 -
palestinian agricultural relief  committees: 3.5 olive trees destroyed per hour in 2011 pnn -  pnnthe palestinian agricultural relief committees (parc) released its monthly  report on monday, revealing that about three and half olive trees were  destroyed per hour during the 2011 season.
the  palestinian film forum (the forum) was established in 2004 as a branch of the  pal estinian artists union covering both gaza and the west bank.
the former military base at osh grab was abandoned by the israeli military in april 2006, and part of the site was transformed into a public park and centre for the residents of beit sahour by the town's municipality.
on the deck we have 35 european parliamentarians who must have decided to say no to zionist fund raisers.
bethlehem resident in  30-year fight to defend land 6/13/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
israel plows 15 donums in  east of bethlehem 25 may 2010 - west bank, may 25, 2010 (pal  telegraph) – israeli bulldozers plowed palestinian lands in nahlen  village in the west of bethlehem city.
for years i  kept meeting him in the halls of the supreme court.
“preserving essential ingredients of traditional mediterranean cuisine  from palestine and italy, our classic dishes are reinvented to gourmet standard  in a fine dining experience…” welcome  to liberty enclave, where residents experience a taste of prosperity and rising  quality of life in this small but significant part of palestinian west bank  society.
those israelis are being misguided, mass-brainwashed, and militarily driven by deliberately distorted and misinterpreted theology, political rabbis, and western zionist imperialist powers to execute the colonial zionist project of establishing greater israel in the heart of the middle east.
israel’s policies are just as inhumane on the other side of the green  line, where the so-called “civil administration” seeks to remove  27,000 bedouin from area c in order to expand illegal israeli settlements.
after the bedouin residents of al arakib rebuilt their village,  israeli forces returned and destroyed it again.
while the palestinian olive harvest is a tradition that  stretches back countless generations, the phenomenon of settler violence during  the olive harvest is.... testimony of an israeli activist who was  robbed and beaten by settlers while attempting to assist the olive harvest mondoweiss - this is a testimony of a', a 61 year old peace  activist, who was beaten badly with clubs on his head and entire body by jewish  settlers during an olive harvest in the palestinian village of jalud; his ribs  and several fingers were broken, and his... [uruknet.info]  harvesting olives as a statement of resistance uruknet palestinian  villages across the west bank are undertaking their annual olive harvest this  october, amid fears of harassment and violence from israeli settlers and  soldiers.
the old city of nablus is one of the oldest cities in the world.
gaza is without proper sewage pumps, bombed as they are rebuilt.
according to a report  written by the israeli organization peace now, 1,126 construction sites have  been opened in the west bank since the end of the settlement freeze.
neighbors, friends and supporters  cleaned up the garden and planted olive trees.
"we had  lots and lots of trees, countless trees, so many trees that stretched as far as  the eyesight would reach, planted by my father, his father and his  grandfather...
dozens of settlers accompanied by guard dogs blocked farmers from accessing olive tree groves near their nablus village on saturday morning, a palestinian authority official said.
situated on the north-west edge of jerusalem, the village is divided by the 1949 armistice green line, which leaves part of it in west jerusalem and part in east jerusalem.
civil defense crews put out fires across west bank 7/13/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - palestinian civil defense forces said they extinguished three fires in agricultural areas of the northern and eastern west bank on tuesday.
israeli settlers set fire to palestinian-owned olive groves near the evacuated settlement of homesh, near the west bank city of... to gaza with humble apologies a poem palestine chronicle: 3 dec 2010 -
work day to rebuilt  bulldozed playground in beit jalla, bethlehem successful 3/11/2010  - international solidarity movement - palestinians, israelis and internationals  met in beit jallah today to rebuild a playground that bulldozers destroyed last  week while clearing the path to complete the wall near bethlehem.
masri said there was some confusion over the trees, explaining that pine trees near the city were actually in area c, a.... related:rawabi implicates pa in zionist project israel & palestine: breaking the silence david shulman, 2/6/2011 what is a palestinian state worth?, by sari nusseibeh, harvard university press, 248 pp., $19.95 occupation of the territories: israeli soldier testimonies 20002010, by breaking the silence, jerusalem, 431 pp.
israeli soldiers and police also entered the area.
un envoy demands israel  act against settler attacks ha'aretz - un mieast peace coordinator  'appalled at acts of destruction of olive trees and farmlands, desecration of  mosques and violence against civilians'.
fayyad picks olives in tulkarem 10/9/2010 - tulkarem ( ma'an) -- palestinian authority prime minister salam fayyad marked the start of the olive harvest on saturday with farmers in the tulkarem district.
related:international womens’ peace service a state for jews dissident voice: 4 jun 2011 - i grew up in north carolina and was around for the transformation to an integrated society where in the laws of the state and nation became color-blind; and blacks were afforded equal protection under the law.
yes, the acts of violence themselves are generally  carried out by a “few fanatics.”
the  ensuing fire consumed dozens of dunams of land and 400 olive trees according to  media.
on 24-26 oct. '11, b'tselem documented four cases of attacks  on farmers from beitillu, a palestinian village near ramallah, and their  property.
related:source [uruknet.info] settlers stone elderly palestinian lady uruknet october 31, 2011 - a group of jewish settlers monday stoned an elderly palestinian lady as she was picking olives in mukhmas, a village southeast of ramallah in the west bank, according to local sources.
israeli soldiers uproot 300 olive trees in salfit wafa the liberation anthem - a poem palestine chronicle:  27 jun 2011 -
the  room was very dark and no sound could be heard but the sound of me moving in  bed continually.
abdul nasser al-qaryuti, head of the village council, called on human rights organizations to intervene and halt settler assaults on palestinian lands.
several demonstrators were dragged on the ground as they refused to  leave, but no serious injuries were reported.
the planting went without disturbances from the surrounding.... pleasure hunting / winter on the mount of olives ha'aretz - 3 feb 2012 [uruknet.info] greenwashing the occupation uruknet february 1, 2012 - one of the things that have affected me greatly from all the horrors of the israeli occupation is the uprooting of palestinian olive trees.
the ministry is currently testing the produce to verify the olive oil's source and will release its findings once the investigation is complete, tubeleh added, further. . .
in photos: protests continue in beit jala 3/4/2010 - maanimages / luay sababa - 1-6: palestinians and foreign activists  replant uprooted olive trees during a protest against israel's separation wall  in the west bank village of beit jala, near bethlehem, on 4 march 2010.
die on my palestine land 12/16/2009 - international  solidarity movement - jody mcintyre, ctrl.
according to an israeli military spokesperson, the troops responded with "riot dispersal" mechanisms.
but at the same time the world is playing deaf and blind to the 1.5 million gazans- virtually buried above ground and besieged like animals- then something is terribly wrong with the morality of the international community.
in memory of the fifth year since the death of yaser arafat, who was poisoned by the israeli army, villagers of al-ma'sara gathered today along with israeli and international activists in protest against the illegal apartheid wall and settlement building.
approximately 200 palestinian, israel and international demonstrators tried to block bulldozers uprooting an olive grove, sitting in... al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers palestine monitor: 26 apr 2010 - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
a demonstration was held outside jelemeh  prison in haifa today in protest against the arrest and imprisonment of  grassroots activist wa'el al faqeeh abu
now ive completed two hours of waiting and i dont know for how much longer ill have to wait.
they call it museum of  tolerance, i call it ethnic cleansing, killer of those deemed inferior.
by lillian rosengarten gaza life exists in a cage, an open air prison that has been kept mostly isolated from the world.
the olive groves of hares revealed not only my ignorance of how much the farmers care for their land, but also my lack of understanding of the impact of the annexation boundary fence on the farmers of mas-ha.
the olive fights the occupation in gaza: 8 jan 2012 -
oct 2010 - saturday october 23, 2010 - 10:48, a group of fundamentalist israeli settlers uprooted on saturday at least 40 olive trees in al lubban al sharqiyya village, south the northern west bank city of nablus.
thanks to your generosity, the us campaign will be able to... hamas cracks down on fortune-tellers, mannequins 12/31/2011 - gaza city (ma'an) --
"we were not convinced that it  was vital for security reasons to maintain the existing route that passes  through a topographically low area of bil'in land and that there was no fitting  security substitute to the construction of the barrier in order to protect the  residents of modi'in illit," justice supreme court president dorit  beinisch wrote in her decision.
the 500 residents of nabi saleh, all from the tamimi family, are demonstrating against the continuous encroachment of the helamish settlement on their land.
the emirates news  agency, quoting a statement from the consul general, reported that on this  occasion, "earth day comes at a time when our people in jerusalem are  threatened by a vicious plan by israel to swallow the holy land."
now under israeli occupation, the old city of nablus  remains a charming and well-preserved cultural...
e-mail valley flavors: part 1 jerusalem post 27 jan  2012 - as part of emek izrael’s annual food festival, yokneam moshava  residents open their houses to the public to view and buy arts and crafts.
for a  city whose complex history embodies so many religious, national, and ethnic  narratives, jerusalem day marks a more exclusive and contested story of this  city....
" palestinian olive grove destroyed in the night 1/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - 15 january,  christian peacemaker team -
while the people in the household were at the cemetery to attend the funeral, settlers from the adjacent berakha settlement took the opportunity to visit the household'....
israeli forces were uprooting the trees to extend israel's contentious west bank separation wall.
destroying dozens of olive trees....
on saturday, february 4th, 2012, palestinian villagers in  beit ommar conducted their weekly demonstration against the settlement  appropriation of their lands.
about  two dozen people waving palestinian flags marched down the dusty path towards  the buffer zone.
jewish  settlers burn olive trees west of ramallah pic - jewish settlers  torched tens of palestinian olive trees in bilin village land behind the  separation wall west of ramallah city, the popular anti wall committee said in  a statement on thursday.
i couldn't keep straight whether the contras were our  guys or their guys, and i thought the...more settlers cut down  olive trees south of nablus wafa japanese ngo  continues to support olive farmers and women’s group in tubas through  japanese fund pnn - press release on december 8th, 2011, the  representative of japan to the palestinian authority, mr. naofumi hashimoto and  ms. mayumi yoshida, the representative of niccod, a japanese ngo, signed the  grant contract... u.s. asks iran to return spy drone la times 13 dec 2011 -
-- see also:source more.. e-mail 6 trees cut down in  at-tuwani.
mediterranean waters are infested with raw sewage, while a 3 mile  limit, closely watched by the israeli navy collectively destroys a once  flourishing fishing industry, the waters now stagnant from sewage and...more in pictures: olive harvest draws internationals to west bank pnn - by lo yuk faievery october, palestinian families take to their groves  to harvest olives from the approximately 10 million olive trees throughout the  west bank.
over 8,600 dunhams (34,400 acres) of palestinian  land were stolen for the construction and roads to the settlements.
the electronic intifada contributor adri nieuwhof interviews badil director  ingrid jaradat gassner on the organization's work and the new book.more pa official:
settlers torch crops in bethlehem village 10/19/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
trees wafa jerusalem mosque expanding illegally ynet news, 17 nov 2011 -
from time to time, as bolder, more streamlined editions appear, history shakes off some footnotes altogether.
home to generations upon generations of farmers, kafr ad-dik, and the neighboring villages of rafat, balut, and bruqin, have had the majority of their agricultural land stripped away from them in the last ten years by the ioa.
muhaya khatatba was in her olive groves....
shouts will go up when...more partisan politics, neo-liberalism, and struggle for democracy and  public education in puerto rico dissident voice: 4 apr 2011 -
tamir  told me that in previous years when he and his family harvested the olives they  were frequently attaked by th settlers who threw them stones while they were  farming.
footnotes in gaza – book review palestine  chronicle: 23 feb 2010 -
an israeli military spokesman told  ma'an that the civil administration, a branch of the country's defense ministry  in the occupied territories, received a complaint about the incident, and that  civil administration officials were dispatched to the crime scene to  investigate.
omar, the man we were working with today, said that his fields had been in his family for generations, and the trees we were picking were at least one hundred years old.
two days before this  protest, our group wakes up at the yafa cultural center in balata refugee camp,  nablus.
"two thirds of palestinian businesses  are small and medium sized," bethlehem chamber of. . .
earlier this week,... settlers attack palestinian farmers, school in northern west bank alternative information center - on wednesday 20 october, israeli settlers attacked a group of farmers from the boreen village, in the southern nablus district, who were working in their fields, harvesting the olive crop.
it is not about ‘the right to  exist’; everyone has the right to ‘exist’....
finaly, tamir told me that he dreams on  the day when the palestinians can live safe in their land and the settlers  leave.
knesset to discuss mt. of olives cemetery security jerusalem post 26 feb 2012 - the 3,000-year-old cemetery suffers from rampant desecration of graves and violence against visitors.
walls, and the second time was now - to harvest.
israel prevents christian pilgrims from visiting bethlehem palestine note 3/31/2010 in a response to a totally nonviolent protest by palestinian christians and muslims demanding their freedom of movement the israeli army has effectively banned entry of christian pilgrims and tourists from visiting the birth place of christ.
an israeli border police spokesman  said he was unavailable for comment.
alongside its many successes, the american-made craft also has a long list of accidents that claimed dozens of soldiers' lives.
in budrus a demonstration was held against an israeli quarry  located on land of palestinian villages.
by mats svensson i  have visited muhammad around sixty times.
every kilometer of the wall and the fence.
they forced us to go back and my wife had to give birth at  home,” naser, a senior of the village, said.
this year,  the stakes have been raised: palestinians have planted double the number of  trees as in past seasons, and jewish settlers have responded by boosting their  own olive production.
as harvest begins, unrest apparently hasn’t kept  farmers from picking fruit; country expects to produce 200,000 tons of oil from  olive trees.
it said that serious work can only save jerusalem from "judaisation," according to the news agency.
later, an export-based developmental model was crafted, euphemistically called “manos a la obra” translated as “operation bootstrap” (in mexico called maquiladora program), which was later touted as a developmental model for the “third world.”
iof demolish eight  homes, number of tents in negev region pic 9 dec 2009 -
oct 2010 - a new oxfam report highlights that obstacles ranging from a lack of investment in farming practices to settler violence are stifling the true potential of the olive oil sector in the west bank.
the demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of palestinian land for approximately one hour before soldiers violently broke up the protest arresting one palestinian and one israeli activist.
dove, israeli authorities have been increasingly intransigent in their  obligation to protect palestinian children from settler violence in the south  hebron hills this school year.
home to around 2,000 people, mainly agricultural  workers, the land is rich in olive trees, summer crops and other natural  resources.
related:when it is illegal to use your front door: freedom of movement in al khalil and israeli court implements hebron evacuation order when it is illegal to use your front door: freedom of movement in al khalil 2/23/2012 - international solidarity movement - by andreas, 23 february 2012, international solidarity movement, west bank - al-khalil (hebron) is a divided city.
this is to all of the palestinian parents in exile and the long trail of olive trees they've planted around the globe.
petition: authorities block palestinian villagers from  harvesting their olives wafa - tel aviv, october 12, 2010 (wafa)-  villagers of wadi a-rasha in the west bank filed 98 requests to access their  olive groves which are beyond the separation wall, but the requests were all  declined.
awad... home demolitions in amniyr, a community  north of susiya in the south hebron hills 2/22/2011 -  international solidarity movement - this morning the israeli army demolished  homes, wells and trees in the village of susiya, south hebron hills.
the  electronic intifada gaza strip qusay al-astal, the owner of an olive oil  extraction plant in gaza, has been in the business for seven years but even in  that short period he has seen dramatic changes.more “save the  land – donate an olive tree seedling” campaign palestine solidarity project 31
but from a different political standpoint, this holiday has also reinforced the israeli occupation for palestinians, with zionist youth and families re-enacting the 1967 entry into the old city by rallying and chanting nationalist slogans as they proceed to the western wall.
when the...more lifta's legacy under threat uruknet september 1, 2010 - there are few villages in historic palestine which invoke the memories of the nakba (the 1948 dispossession of the palestinian people) as does lifta.
currently there 400 settlers living in the h2 area, who are protected by between 2,500 to 3,000 soldiers; and also about 30,000 palestinians live in that area.
west is east, when israel decides 11/19/2009 - antiwar.com - the family received no compensation for the  takeover. - jerusalem — along a wall not about to come down — a hotel  no longer a hotel, but an outpost.
to make matters worse, the people of immatin have the misfortune of living just south of the qedumim settlement.
all this, of course, for the  greater good of zionism, the jewish people, israel’s eternal capital, and  many tens of millions of shekels.
settlers suspected of assaulting farmers 10/20/2010 -  nablus (ma'an) --
more.. e-mail cornerstone laid for new settlement in jerusalem alternative information center -
then we head  east out to the farmland, passing between giant slabs of concrete placed at the  outskirts of the village in an attempt to protect children playing in the  streets from israeli army gunfire.
israeli settlers uprooted  over 500 olive and fig trees in deir istiya village in salfit on monday  morning, witnesses said.
everybody has an excuse to go to jerusalem and waiting to get permission to  pass.
settlers launch attacks on palestinians olive groves  in nablus, stealing fruit imemc - 13
you have saved out a couple  dozen of the best for your wife and children to eat in the evening, before  retiring for the night.
3 nov 2010 - two  activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta'ayush were arrested while  assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
before the second intifada melons were grown  there, along with other fruit trees and olive trees.
poems  about hooves thumping hearts too, of golden olive oil and the laughter of  children, those who dig in our minds in sweat-tinged soil, of the joy of making  of the family of man in places both ordinary and sacred where a close hug  negates languages of confusion?
"the idf holds hamas  responsible for maintaining the peace and quiet in the gaza strip. "
residents of an illegal outpost "waged war on olive trees uprooting 270  using chainsaws and other means," in duma and qusra villages, said ghassan  daghlas, a palestinian authority official who monitors settlement activities...
the village mayor said the field belonged to daoud yousef harb, a resident...
in his use of words, president obama has just picked up where the failures of past administrations left off.
during my visit i saw shoe factories and olive oil  presses, i met palestinian businessmen who, just like me, want to have a decent  life for themselves and their families.
tubeleh said the  confiscation was undertaken in coordination with pa security forces, after he  was informed by a colleague that a nablus shop was selling the counterfeit  olive oil, which was labeled as originating from the palestinian al-mansha  town.
they were cut off from their olive trees and left without a source of income.
media spokesman for the palestinian solidarity project muhammad awad said troops uprooted trees and destroyed land on property belonging to the abu maria family and his brothers.
remembering the american university of beirut, i wrote and asked them if there were any kind of introductory course about the middle east that i could follow there.
gaza -  olive farmers and volunteers were picking olives on 23 october 2011 when they  were circled by two apache helicopters and were faced by four tanks at certain  points in the day.
they were on 10 dunams of  their land, collecting the golden-yellow wheat in bundles and they thought that  the presence of activists (foreign and not) could protect them at work, and  decided to go farther than usual to collect plants to feed their animals.
our struggles success and the consequent expansion of civil resistance to other west bank communities may provide hope to viewers desperate for positive news from the middle east, but today an israeli crackdown on unarmed palestinian protesters is threatening this growing movement.
soldiers fired tear gas, sound bombs, and  live ammunition at villagers, detained three journalists attempting to document  the raid, and set fire to an ancient olive tree.
the  israel-palestine 'peace process' is in a vegetative state, leaving the  application of international law a complex process as a former professional  diplomat, i regard international law, with all its shortcomings, as much better  than the... friday in ni'lin:
settlers dispute vandalism allegations 10/31/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
the mikhmas village council  condemned the attacks and called...
palestinian activist in jordan uses social media for social justice palestine note 12 jul 2010 -
pa settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas told ma'an the clashes broke out between settlers from elon moreh and farmers from azmut, east of....
on tuesday september 6th local palestinians from the village of al walajeh gathered with international activists to protest the building of the illegal separation barrier as well as the destruction of ancient olive trees.
the day's actions were seen by many present as a sign of defiance against the illegal presence of israeli settlers in the front part of the house, and against the imminent court proceedings which may be used to force them from the back half.
if you look east from his land....
the joint struggle in the occupied west bank continue on the back ground of the wide spread social justice struggle in israel.
“when we returned after the war, everything was destroyed.
as long as the olive trees live… the right to return to palestine intifada-palestine: 14 may 2011 - by:
this is a no go zone for palestinians.
although they are not among... 3500 olive trees victims of settler crimes in past week pnn - ramallah – pnn - the plo international relations department warned of a war by israeli settlers against olive trees, saying that in the past few days over 3500 trees had been burned...
around 12 o' clock a villager from the area spotted two settlers picking olives from the land of....
we ran off immediately,” says sbaih.
local farmers and  international volunteers planted olive trees in the bethlehem village of  al-khader on monday as part of an ongoing advocacy initiative to protect  palestinian land.
israeli settlers have cost palestinian farmers over $500,000 this  year by destroying olive trees in the west bank, oxfam and local organizations  warned thursday.
word we dare not whisper, write or speak.
residents of an an illegal outpost "waged war on olive trees uprooting 270 using chainsaws and other means," in duma and qusra villages, said ghassan daghlas, a palestinian authority.... israelis settlers "maniacs" chop down 220 olive trees for settlements 20 feb 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) - jewish settlers in the west bank were certainly encouraged after the u.s. struck down a resolution that would have thwarted settlement activity for good.
from permission to import, export, travel, move and  order goods, excessive inspections, increased tariffs for passage and  documentation for official to even a hard time getting paid for products  because the money was coming to palestinians.
they flee on donkey carts piled  up with nothing to nowhere!
paltime paltime offers you the opportunity to choose from a large variety of your most beloved palestinian products; food, olive wood, and other traditional products...more..
sometimes  even that is impossible.
that the wind courses in  from the shores of the mediterranean and over the low hills, scrubbing the  stones white, rustling through the olive trees, and whistling through the  cracks in the windows—begging to lift aloft the dreams of the blessed,  cursed souls who must live here.
the village of burin: under attack by surrounding settlements palestine monitor: 27 sep 2010 -
locals told ma'an that troops  entered the village and fired on houses, breaking into some of the homes and  deploying on their rooftops.
the accompanying side dish for this soup is the  rayyaneh, prepared from simple bread dough cut into 2” balls and spread by  hand...more..
the ghost town between palestine’s past and its future catrina stewart, the independent 4/30/2011 catrina stewart visits an abandoned settlement, frozen in time 63 years ago, that may soon become a luxury housing development.
but israel had bulldozed it  all, claiming it needed 300 kilometers of gaza’s most fertile land, but in  reality taking more.
we are sorry to disturb you with our miserable poor workers who crowd your checkpoints at dawn with permits, and sometimes without permits, dressed in worn-out clothes, their sleepiness charged with hunger.
in the olive groves of sinjil pnn - by alessandra bajec - with the recent start of the olive  harvest, like every year there is a constant need for people to help, across  several locations in the holy land, in... oh israelis...
today, a horrid 25 foot  concrete wall stands in ni’ilin, behind which lie 620 acres of village  lands taken for the expansion of illegal israeli settlements.
the three-story, 36-room cliff hotel used to be a favorite for western pilgrims in search of the "authentic holy land flavor" because of its extensive gardens; it was a favorite also among jerusalem palestinians for wedding parties.
you need to be awful crafty to regurgitate the same wmd lies for eight years.
since the year 2001 israel through its military and settlers in the west bank and gaza has uprooted, burnt... christmas story - mary and joseph in palestine 2010 james petras, 12/12/2010 how would mary and joseph, two jews from nazareth, have fared in the context of present-day palestine where the romans have been replaced by jewish occupiers?
i remember another time, “no jews allowed.”
the leader of... jewish settlers burn 250 palestinian trees in nablus village pic - jewish settlers started a huge fire in palestinian farmland in deir al-hatab village east of nablus on monday burning 250 olive and almond trees, local sources reported.
we will never forget.
what is meaningful action?
it was hard to believe that only ten years ago fruit orchards and olive trees filled this area.
oct 2010 - wednesday october 06, 2010 - 16:46, on wednesday afternoon,israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive trees and looted the harvested fruits from villages of yanoun and hawwara near the city of nablus.
as he points out the old mosque and  olive press, names come tumbling back, events, memories – a life before  1948, the fateful year that hundreds of thousands of palestinians fled their  ancestral homes during israel's war of independence, most of them never to  return.
i met the mayor of hebron and he told me 6 million palestinians live abroad, he said those palestinians were prohibiting from sending more than 2,000 us dollars a year home to their families and palestinian charities.
3 children were  critically injured,... binyamin netanyahu holds out olive branch to  palestinians ahead of us trip
from the  funnel, a conveyor belt carries the olives to the washer.
olive trees more deep-rooted than settlements 3/7/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - "the newest olive tree in our country is more deep-rooted than the fragile walls and settlements," said caretaker prime minister salam fayyad saturday, as he met with members of the popular committee against the wall in beit jala, bethlehem.
the spokesman said the land in  question was "state land," and said all....
it was here that the old jerusalem centre, circa 1000 bc, was discovered, making it a holy site for judaism as well as a justification for deepening occupation of this area.
among the gentle slopes of  cypress-covered hills near the west bank city of hebron is an anomaly, a  stinking garbage dump that is workplace and home to dozens of men and boys.
trouble is punctuated by tragedy, as the friday  demonstrations often end in tear gas, rubber-coated metal bullets, arrests, and  sometimes death.
to us, olive trees and the shade in which our grandparents rested or lovers used to secretly meet weave together sweet pre-dispossession memories.
on 12 january 2010 my father ibrahim was arrested by the israeli army and sentenced to two years in prison for organizing and participating in nonviolent protests against the israel's wall in the occupied west bank.
settlers prevented farmers from picking olives on wednesday  in a nablus village, a palestinian authority official said.
adli eshtayyaa, spokesperson of the salem village council, stated that the settlers were seen heading to elone...
the small courtroom was packed with friends and colleagues  of arrigoni, in addition to four or five members of the defendants’  families.
settlers begin  construction of housing at east jerusalem yeshiva ha'aretz 15 dec  2010 - new construction starts on 18 apartments around the beit orot yeshiva on  the mount of olives.
[uruknet.info] settlers torch olive orchards near ramallah uruknet june 16, 2011 - a number of armed extremist israeli settlers torched on  wednesday at night dozens of olive trees that belong to villagers of bil'in  village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
he was a good man who loved his  family and you miss him.
israeli soldiers 'attack' journalists near nablus uruknet january 28, 2010
by george polley you live in a home your family has lived in for generations.
with their legal challenges exhausted, settlers are  increasingly nervous israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu's right-wing  coalition is preparing to enforce court orders to dismantle outposts.
israeli bulldozers today destroyed a garden and  children’s playground in beit jala, and 100 fruit and olive trees in al  walaja, both in the bethlehem district, to make way for the continued  construction of their illegal apartheid wall.
locals said settlers attacked othman abu sabha and his family,  damaged his car and stole their olives.
rabbi dan mertzbach,  55, laid to rest at mount of olives cemetery in jerusalem; survived by wife and  5 children.
in the last couple of months it has intensified its activities aiming to achieve an ambitious list of tasks and ensure development of palestinian cinematography and its networking with the other world cinematographies.
other muslim leaders, including some knesset members, reminded jews in israel and abroad that, "this is how the holocaust started."
a palestinian family living in jerusalem had invited me to visit their village south of hebron, where they owned acres of land with olive trees they'd...
as this year’s olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive trees, a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to die... pchr weekly report: 13 abducted in 58 separate incursions this week; settlers attack olive harvest imemc - in its weekly report on israeli human rights violations in the occupied palestinian territories for the week of 20 – 26 october 2011, the palestinian center for human rights found that israeli forces conducted 58 incursions into palestinian communities, abducting 13 and destroying palestinian farmland for the ongoing construction of the annexation wall. ...
such attacks are becoming increasingly common.
grave of rabbi who led rivlin's family to israel recently found.
see also:when it  is illegal to use your front door: freedom of movement in al khalil and  villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land more.. e-mail israeli forces destroy hundreds of olive trees and two wells in surif palestine solidarity project 23 feb 2012 -
but since the start of the  occupation, battir's 4,000 inhabitants have faced tremendous difficulties.
isnt it funny that all of us here are waiting for hours to have a pass to go to our capital, jerusalem?
in photos: west bank olive harvest 10/26/2011 - reuters / darren whiteside - palestinian farmers sort and process harvested olives at a grove near farha village, north of the west bank city of ramallah in the occupied west bank, on oct. 25, 2011....
every... [uruknet.info] as settlers disrupt olive harvest, israeli officer  declares: "i am the law, i am god." uruknet october 23,  2011 - intimidation of palestinians in the israeli-controlled h2 section of  hebron continued today as the israeli military and settlers harassed  palestinians and international observers as they attempted to pick olives on  their land in tel rumeida.
zionist settlers damage olive trees  using chemicals pic 9
how much longer the village will remain in this state  is anyone's guess.
e-mail srulik, meet handala palestine note
also, israeli forces raided qbatia village and erected number of ambuscades in the olive fields, but no detentions were reported....
if...more settlers attack olive pickers in nablus imemc - 15 oct 2010 - friday october 15, 2010 - 11:34, israeli settlers attacked, on friday morning, palestinian olive pickers, and fired rounds of live ammunition at them, near the village of 'azmout, in the northern west bank city of nablus.
olive oil  production in 2010 increased by 400% more than in 2009 wafa syria protesters demand release of detainees la times 13  apr 2011 -
2/23/2010 - international solidarity movement - bil'in popular committee, 22 february - palestinian and internationals help plant olive trees in bilin to replace those destroyed by israeli troops and settlers.
you are the father of palestine, president yasser  arafat.
the ras el-amud mosque, situated on jerusalem's mount of olives, has been illegally expanded by 217 square meters (about 2,335 square feet) over the past year, ynet ... ....
their radiant smiles, warm hugs and bright laughter belie the  staggeringly awful times they've had to endure, and are still going through.
9% in qalqiliya governorate while the lowest level was in gaza and deir al-balah governorates at 16.
no  complaint was submitted to israel's civil administration, a spokesman said.
this is to all of the palestinian parents in exile and the long  trail of olive trees they've planted around the globe.
the israeli occupation forces (iof) set fire to dozens of fruitful olive trees, some of them perennials, in kafr kadum village, qalqiliya city.
to many palestinians my generation, raised in the diaspora, palestine is more than the landscape, old stones and holy places that so many have written about yet most of us on the outside have never seen.
getting  to the root of the conflict mondoweiss - 13 jan 2010 -
immediately, several israeli army jeep reached....
israeli settlers have cost palestinian farmers over $500,000 this year by destroying olive trees in the west bank, oxfam and local organizations warned thursday.
"lawless extremists infest congress like crabgrass besets lawns.
the minister and other demonstrators gave speeches in arabic and hebrew, and left two plants near the fence.
a number of settlers destroyed trees in the south of the village at midnight, days before the olive harvest is due to begin, the fatah official monitoring settlement activity in the northern west....
on the afternoon of 14 january palestinians discovered that a family-owned olive grove in khoruba valley had been destroyed.
settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas said settlers attacked fields between qusra and duma villages south of nablus.
awad, from awarta, nablus, had been harvesting his... opt: oxfam urges lifting of barriers to olive production relief web 16
climbing over a heap of withered branches in his  olive grove on a rocky hillside near the village of burin, the palestinian  farmer said they...
on tuesday, a statement read.
illegal extension to mount of olives mosque  almost complete jerusalem post 4
after the world cup, a big flotilla to set out for the land of burning olive trees mondoweiss -
an israeli military  spokeswoman said construction equipment did enter the area, but that it was  there "extracting a stuck idf vehicle. " . . . .
militarily and politically israel locked itself into a limbo.
the attack on the freedom flotilla is the culmination of more than four years of failed policy, in which a siege has been imposed on the entire population of gaza in an attempt to weaken and isolate hamas after its victory in the 2006 parliamentary elections.
we  put out a long line with a fender on the end and in we all plunged – a  swim to remember.
they also removed the water supply donated on the soul of samer sarhan and the olive tree planted in the place, although the tree was present prior to the monument.
on the boat to gaza glyn secker, ma’an news agency 10/1/2010
unbeknown to his family, abuelaish had recently bought a small olive grove, about an acre in size.
many houses have a  demolition order as do its trees, plants, fences, walls and mailboxes.
palestinian official ghassan douglas told ma'an that two cars  were set alight in the village of qabalan, south of nablus.
all of their trees are located behind a settlers´ road leading to the illegal settlement of elon more: a settlement which has stolen much of the village'.... opt: fierce clashes over west bank olive harvest relief web 21 oct 2010 - source: agence france-presse israeli settlers attack olive pickers in nablus imemc - 20 oct 2010 - wednesday october 20, 2010 - 12:16, on wednesday morning, a citizen from the village of burin, south of nablus, was wounded by israeli settlers who attacked him with sharp objects while he was picking olives.
now in rafah where entire neighborhoods are reduced to rubble where israeli tanks and bulldozers made in usa add an extra 2000 families left homeless.
boycott is the primary tool of those engaged in nonviolent resistance to systematic injustice.
typical for israel, it tries to win a lost battle.
america to the rescue, (not) again sam bahour, maan news agency 3/12/2010 we are told that us president barack obama has taken a leap of political faith in trying to bridge a final peace settlement between palestinians and israelis.
the image is of a cluster of tear gas grenades exploding over a grove of olive trees while demonstrators take cover.
but it is as  implausible as it sounds, says every professional intelligence officer i have  talked with since the “plot” was somberly announced on tuesday.
dec 2010 - nablus, december 18, 2010 (pal telegraph) –
the zone was illegallyannexed to israel following the 1967 war, and now faces.... settlers torch olive orchard in silwan uruknet may 13, 2010 - a group of fundamentalist israeli settlers torched, wednesday night, an 11-dunam olive orchard in al-rababa valley, in silwan, south of the old city of jerusalem.
soldiers are  involved in cruel episodes of violence, arresting palestinians who denounce  settler aggressions or even pushing them out of their own lands.
akram  jamil uweis said his family headed to their field to harvest olives, and found  their trees destroyed.
the national 17 aug 2011 - lights are part of ramadan tradition but the flood of cheap, ready-made goods threaten fanoos craftsmen in ancient quarters of cairo.
we are in the middle of the olive harvest season and with it comes episodes of violence as... civil resistance to bring down the walls ayed morrar, huffington post, international solidarity movement 11/1/2010 budrus, a documentary film now debuting across the us, tells the story of a successful protest campaign by unarmed palestinian civilians against israels military occupation in my small west bank village.
organised by the middle east monitor (memo) in conjunction with the federation of students islamic societies (fosis), the event sought to draw attention back to the important documents leaked to and published by al jazeera and the guardian newspaper; the publication of the papers was overshadowed by the turbulent political situation in egypt and elsewhere across the middle east.
4 arrested for desecration of 20 tombs on mt. of olives jerusalem post 8 jul 2011 - three arab boys from a-tur in e. j'lem allegedly  damaged tombstones in the cemetery's american section.
"many people who couldn't leave their homes had only bread and olive oil to... mideast:
israeli soldiers torch dozens of olive trees in w. bank village pic -
7 of us rode with  mahmoud on his tractor as it jumped up and down the street filled with  un-repaired potholes.
2010 - mommy wake up!
like the rocky, palestinian  landscape, dotted with olive trees, this resistance is fertile.
he reckoned this year's crop would be less than a quarter of last year's  "and last year it was not good at all. "
the women and children blocking a roadway  outside the north syrian coastal village of baida shook olive branches as  symbols...
unbeknown to his  family, abuelaish had recently bought a small olive grove, about an acre in  size.
palestinians, jews race to  plant olive trees in west bank ha'aretz 26
last sunday, settlers smashed windshields of cars driving along the nablus-jenin road and assaulted a palestinian doctor.
if  it turns out that the murderer or murderers were israeli, as some previously  presumed “terrorists” have turned out to be, or a foreign worker who  had previously threatened the family over unpaid wages, as some reports from  the area suggest, it is likely that coverage of the incident will quickly  vanish from u.s. headlines.
israeli forces are forbidding truckloads of olives to enter to gaza via the kerem shalom crossing even though there is security coordination, theenclave's.... awarta man suffers broken legs after settler pig attack uruknet october 16, 2010 - farmer ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
an hour into the  planting, an israeli soldier appeared on the other side of the wall and gave a  warning shot.
the hilltop village of an nabi salih has a population of approximately 500  residents and is located 30 kilometers northeast of ramallah along highway 465.
according to eyewitnesses, a number of israeli  settlers from "givat bride" settlement located nea the village,  assaulted a number of palestinian farmers while they were in their olive  fields, destroying a number...
on tuesday afternoon, beitar illit settlers torched a number  of olive trees that belong to residents of the village of husan.
of looking inward if only in a dream on a  barren moonlit landscape while wandering the winding paths stepping on the  rubble on ancient villages which are no longer but villages whose souls still  weep for the familiar voices they may sometime hear in the distance when the  wind is rightmore
e-mail palestinian olive farmers welcome decision of not importing foreign olive oil palestinian information center 9/6/2008 ramallah, (pic)-- news on the decision of the agriculture ministry in the legitimate pa caretaker government of premier ismail haneyya of halting the importation of foreign olive oil have relieved palestinian olive farmers in the gaza strip.
"the mosaic is particularly important because the small colored tiles forming...more.. bethlehem makes best of christmas despite israeli policies middle east online 12/19/2007 bethlehem, west bank - bethlehem souvenir store owner mike canawati is gearing up for his merriest christmas in years.
un: nine violent settler incidents this week palestine note 7 may 2010 - new york - israeli settlers were involved in nine separate attacks that injured palestinians or damaged their property, a united nations agency said on thursday.
this is the fifth time since 1997  that settlers have destroyed the olive trees in this grove.
as  hard as we try to imagine the magnificence of our ancestors' orange groves, or  the enchantment of the scent of jasmine flowers as it lingers at night, we know  that we are severed from that world.
it is the third attack of its kind in the last two months alone, with the family losing 96 of their olive trees in november directly after the harvest.
more.. e-mail israeli settlers uproot  olive trees in nablus imemc - 7
the court appearance was set for wednesday, when abbas zaki will stand on as yet unannounced charges for his role in a non-violent protest against the israeli decision to refuse entry of west bank christian worshipers to jerusalem for the palm sunday march from the mount of olives into the old city.
how do we both construct peace and engage in non-cooperation with policies that systematically violate human rights on a daily basis?
"we have one small craft so far, in which there will be between 12 and 16 people, mostly jews."
source more.. e-mail israeli settlers' terror palestine  chronicle: 1 nov 2010 -
we are sorry for the patience of our detainees and female prisoners who even after 33-year sentences still remain steadfast and dare to defend their hope for freedom without despair.
"he tried to protect his family, but it bit him and  pushed him so that he fell a long way into a ditch.
the  harvest had been interrupted by israeli soldiers who claimed the land was  disputed, although israeli government-issued aerial maps showed it to be  palestinian.
flowers are no longer  exported.
official records indicate that in 1931, the number of houses stood at 410, most of which were built by lifta's palestinian residents using the famous jerusalem stone from nearby quarries.
[uruknet.info] wasteland in al walajeh:
[ army gas  canisters set fire to palestinian land 7/15/2011 - jerusalem  (ma'an) -- israeli soldiers fired gas canisters at residents in the town of  qatana, near jerusalem, on thursday,causing fires which spread through olive  and fig groves, reports say.
[uruknet.info] pa report: israeli settler violence on the rise uruknet july 7, 2011 - - israeli settler violence against palestinians  increased "dramatically" in june, according to a palestinian  authority report released wednesday.
journalist haled manasara was injured in his leg from a tear gas canister.
this flotilla is a clear signal to israel that the game is over.
the valley and its springs have been suffering... aqraba plants olive trees to ward off settlers 8/1/2010 - international solidarity movement - residents of the village of aqraba, near nablus, planted forty young olive trees on their land on thursday (29 july 2010) to send a message to settlers who have been plowing the area in an attempted land-grab.
to... israeli army raids bil'in and burns olive tree uruknet may 26, 2010 - early tuesday morning israeli soldiers raided the town of bil'in in the central west bank.
sure, there is no official siege on bethlehem, hebron or  ramallah, and for the most part, west bank kids sleep without the images of  carnage burnt into the memories, and in some cases, the bodies of gaza’s  children.
more.. e-mail israeli forces detain 5 people overnight 11/13/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
one.... israel uproots 100 trees in wb 8 jun 2010 - west bank, june 8, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli  occupation forces uprooted today tens of olive trees in al-loja town, in west  of the west bank city of bethlehem.
jewish settlers uproot 300 olive trees in wb pic 15 apr 2010 - jewish settlers rooted out 300 olive trees in the palestinian west bank village of muhmus in one night, a hebrew daily reported on thursday.
israeli occupation forces demolish eight  homes, tents in negev region 12/8/2009 - political theatrics - pic  -
but it was characteristically bloodless and completely tone deaf.
witnesses told ma'an that one of the farmers, munir qadus, sustained several cuts and bruises in the assault and was.... residents allowed access to land after court petition 10/20/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
we went to find out more.
mohammed, the 14 year old son of one of the discouraged me, knows the land and its history.
zionist settlers attack farmers during olive  harvesting pic 9 oct 2010 - zionist settlers attacked palestinian  farmers in burin village, south of nablus, on saturday morning while harvesting  olives, local sources reported.
for the last...more locals: settlers burn olive trees in ramallah villages 10/2/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
2010 - a group of israelis from the bracha settlement attacked noon wednesday famers in the village of burin, moderately injuring a palestinian man and destroying a number of olive trees.
one explanation for the  violent evolution that took place over the past two months is the end of  israel’s ten month partial settlement freeze on 26 september 2010.
the signs of destruction were immediately evident.
israel raids  jenin, no reported detentions 28 apr 2010 - jenin, april 28, 2010  (pal telegraph) – israeli occupation forces raided jenin today, no  detentions were reported.
he had become almost a fixture: the star witness, the expert and the moving spirit in scores of hearings dealing with the separation and annexation wall.
they are blocking the road ahead so as  not to allow people to arrive in the palestinian village of bil’in.
in palestine, olive trees are valued for their historical presence, their beauty, symbolic connotations, and most importantly for their economic significance.
the word is already out that condi rice...more israeli forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily unrest in silwan 9 nov 2010 - jerusalem, november 9, (pal telegraph - ism)
west bank: settlers destroy 500 olive saplings, three arrested and car impounded in hebron pnn - nablus – pnn - israeli settlers near the northern west bank city of nablus destroyed at least 500 young olive saplings before dawn on friday, according to local sources.
the unnamed man was stopped at a flying checkpoint near  the jenin village of yabad.
the wall cuts us off from our land and our olive groves, robbing our family of its livelihood.
history chokes on  fresh episodes and swallows whatever old ones it can.”
international and israeli activists gathered under grey skies  outside the prison yesterday, beating drums and chanting pro-palestinian  slogans.
the alternative tourism group and the ymca-ywca began the  olive planting program on feb. 4, and it will last until feb. 13.
palestinian authority settlements  official ghassan doughlas said settlers set fire to 150 dunums of fields  belonging to palestinian villagers south of the northern west bank city,
all four defendants appeared unshackled behind a caged-off portion of the courtroom and remained standing throughout the trial.
an israeli military spokesman said he had no knowledge of the  incident. . . . .
the.... in photos: settlers riot in burin 7/28/2010 - maanimages / rami swidan - israeli settlers hurl stones toward palestinians, not seen, during clashes near the west bank city of nablus on 26 july 2010.
mihmas residents blamed settlers for the attack and said this was the third time the settlers had uprooted trees in the area.
cpj: journalists assaulted south of nablus 3/28/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a group of palestinian journalists was assaulted on 28 january 2010, while reporting on olive tree planting in burin village, south of nablus in the west bank, the us-based committee to protect journalists reported saturday.
less than ten villagers were hit with rubber-coated steel bullets resulting in no serious injuries.
protesters plan to plant olive trees outside the prison, in  celebration of al faqeeh's organisation of numerous tree-planting actions in  palestinian villages close to settlements.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] 20 points that are made in  dr. qumsiyeh speech (palestine-israel in brief) uruknet january  21, 2012 -
by cyril mychalejko (the imperial messenger:  thomas friedman at work by belén fernandez.
settlers attack irraq burin farmers 14 oct 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli settlers attacked on friday palestinian farmers who were trying to harvest their olive trees in the village of irraq burin, southwest of nablus.
he said the lands were registered to palestinian families living in the city, and that he went to warn the settlers against continued colonization of the lands.
unemployment  soared among construction workers.
few readers of mainstream media are aware of  palestinians' longstanding creative efforts to use non-violent direct action in  their struggle for self-determination.
israeli settlers of the "aleih” settlement, which is  built on the territory of “al laban” town located to the south of  nablus in the west bank, attacked dozens of olive trees today morning.
israeli troops told harvesters in qaryut and azmut villages that security coordination had expired and blocked them from picking olives, a ma'an correspondent said.
israel is a military subsidiary of the us; a  forward-deployed american military base in the middle east, who is totally  dependent on american funds.
more.. e-mail gaza olive trade recovers slowly from siege, attacks electronic intifada: 31
bitter olive harvest adds to animosity crispian balmer, ma’an news agency 11/2/2011 awarta (reuters) --
at dawn on tuesday, women and  children in al-arakib watched as land administration bulldozers demolished  their houses, israeli press reports said.
but there are also unexpected nativity scenes complete with joseph,  mary, crib, wise men and large israeli...
much of gaza looks like a war zone, bullets holes visible on the  sides of buildings.
in silwan imemc - 13 may 2010 - a  group of fundamentalist israeli settlers torched, wednesday night, an 11-dunam  olive orchard in al-rababa valley, in silwan, south of the old city of  jerusalem.
they likened the indonesia speech to his cairo offering seventeen months ago,... more iof soldiers detain three palestinians for trying to extinguish fire uruknet november 17, 2010 -- israeli occupation forces (iof) on wednesday detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of al-khalil, for participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers in olive and almond trees.
chile's recognition in january of a palestinian state was aimed at  helping end the middle east conflict, president sebastian pinera said on  friday.
have you ever experienced that scary feeling-except maybe in the movie theatres?
the old tractor sputtered up the  hill, its engine seemingly about to expire, but its big wheels bumping across  the rocky terrain.
""we will not be broken.
we had a  demonstration in al-walaja on sunday morning (23 may 2010) which went smoothly.
for most palestinians farmers, the olive harvest is their primary source of income for the year and the price of olive oil has a significant impact on their livelihood for the whole year.
mohsen abu eita, the ministry's under-secretary for natural resources, asserted in a statement that israeli rabbis permit the settlers to steal the palestinian olive trees and crops...
jul 2010 - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
jul 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli occupation  bulldozers started thursday uprooting several olive trees and razing farmlands  in the southwest of beit eska village in jerusalem.
we will not forget the sickening cowardice of the international community that has allowed and enabled this ethnic cleansing of our people, subjecting us to israels racist zionist vision that defines us, the indigenous people of palestine, as the undesired ethnic group for the region.
i sought and secured permission to use a fortnight’s leave to travel round syria, iraq, jordan and lebanon.
separated from the urban sprawl by a 10ft-high fence, it was "a  utopia, a little piece of shangri-la".
but it is only now that we begin to really talk to each other.
but before these kilos can be poured on pasta, heated to fry, or... olly and the olive factory palestine monitor: 3 nov 2010 -
un envoy demands israel act against  settler attacks ha'aretz 26 oct 2010 - un mieast peace coordinator  'appalled at acts of destruction of olive trees and farmlands, desecration of  mosques and violence against civilians'.
a few days ago, my father emailed me a photo of my mom and him standing proudly next to my newest sibling; a young olive tree they've planted in their garden in queensland australia....
israeli soldiers  responded with baton charges, tear-gas, rubber-coated bullets and live  ammunition.
in the sunday interview, stone reportedly said u.s. public opinion was focused on the holocaust as a result of the “jewish domination of the media,” adding that an upcoming film of him aims to put adolf hitler and soviet dictator joseph stalin “in context.”
more.. e-mail cornerstone laid for new settlement in jerusalem alternative  information center -
i call on israeli officials to  release abu rahmah immediately and unconditionally. . .
former police officers from sweden, german punks, australian conservationists, leftist activists from the us, south african priests, and a celtic fringe of welsh students join israeli anarchists and palestinian pacifists.
more.. e-mail israeli settlers tear up olive grove, uprooting 40 trees near  nablus imemc - saturday march 13, 2010 - 10:21, local municipal  officials in the palestinian authority reported friday morning that overnight,  a group of israeli settlers had ambushed a palestinian olive grove in the town  of qaryut, uprooting and completely destroying 40 trees.
in the bedouin town of segev shalom and in the  palestinian village of kharbata, she founded an arts and crafts workshop for  women.
the operation threatens 35 family homes, municipality officials said.
“many people who couldn’t leave their homes had only bread and olive oil to sustain them for long periods.”
written and photographed...
nawaf thawabteh said he had barely started  picking his oil-rich fruit in early october on a rocky hilltop near the elon  moreh settlement when three masked men brandishing clubs charged through his  orchard and grabbed his half-filled sacks.
[uruknet.info] palestine's farmers: refusing to die in silence uruknet january 10, 2012 - a new organization in the west bank, refusing to die in silence, offers support to the palestinian farmers who face violent attacks from jewish settlers as they attempt to harvest their olives.
once we arrived at the family's olive trees, mahmud....
background few villages capture the tragedy of the nakba (the 1948 dispossession of the palestinian people) quite like lifta.
a civil defense report said a fire broke out in the living room  of a residential home in the wadi shahin area in qalqiliya.
liza oliver - dutch band, de fanfare van de eerste lief des nacht (the first night of love brass band) performed in the streets of beit sehour saturday night,... iof uproots, robs 100 olive trees pic -
in one case, soldiers stopped a car carrying a pregnant woman and sick child at a flying checkpoint outside of at-tuwani; soldiers forced the family to remain there for more than thirty minutes.
as you turn the corner and start toward your home you  notice the family gathered in front of it with all of their belongings  surrounding them.
for over a week now, ism activists have been continually harassed, and on one occasion assaulted, by israeli soldiers who have frequently demanded that internationals to hand over possessions of their passports.
in public, the fbi had taken the lead role, presumably because the key  informant inside a mexican drug cartel worked for u.s. law enforcement via the  drug enforcement administration.
the al-mathloums were one of the best-known bamboo furniture-making families in gaza but now, of his brothers, only zakariya, the eldest son, is struggling to keep the tradition and the business alive.more [uruknet.info] property damaged, palestinians attacked in weekend of settler violence uruknet january 15, 2012 -
around 40 students from  different palestinian universities marched onto the land at.... israeli tanks patrol olive farmers in gaza 10/23/2011 -  international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement,
both of his legs were  broken and he received many cuts."
south hebron hills: palestinians prune  trees as act of resistance in susiya christian peacemaker teams -  palestine - on the morning of 23 april, palestinians from the village of susiya  pruned olive trees on their land in an act of protest against land confiscation  and violence by residents from the nearby israeli settlement, also named  susiya.
the animals can weigh up to 200 pounds and are extremely aggressive.
the settlers' claim to the land derives from the alleged presence of king  solomon's treasures, buried deep beneath wadi hulwah, a densely populated  suburb of silwan.
the tomatoes spoiled and the man lost both  his customer and his cargo.
during that visit i saw with my own eyes the fact that israel does not want peace with palestine.
the  expanding no go zone imposed by israeli bullets and bulldozers constantly erode  the amount of land left for palestinians to farm in gaza.
in al-walaja, as in many palestinian villages, the  construction of the wall has resulted in the destruction of palestinian olive  groves and orchards.
at mamilla, excavations have been undertaken to remove skeletons to  make room for the museum of tolerance.
– a poem palestine  chronicle:
the first lie you'll encounter in  'decision points' is the identity of the author; bush didn't write no damn book  and if i'm wrong about that, i'll eat the shoe that iraqi journalist threw at  him.
less than ten villagers were hit with rubber-coated steel  bullets resulting in no serious injuries.
"we learned several new things about olive trees and plant diseases and how to deal with them.
you need  to be awful crafty to regurgitate the same wmd lies for eight years.
wadi qana is a valley  south west of nablus where numerous springs supply water to the surrounding  palestinian villages.
the  settlers looked down on joseph.
israelis from a settlement outpost in the central west bank set fire to dozens of dunams of olives tree forest belonging to farmers in ras karkar village on friday evening, locals told ma'an.
this is the projected path of a new segment  of israeli apartheid wall through al-ma'sara, a small.... ex-cop:  mount of olives stonings are ‘attempted murder’ jerusalem post 14 feb 2012 -
related: video - footage contradicts arson allegations and youtube settlers burn olive trees near nablus imemc - 15 nov 2010 - monday november 15, 2010 - 11:00, a group of extremist jewish settlers torched, on sunday, at least 200 palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of salem village, near the northern west bank city of nablus, and also torched a number of nearby farms.
nir hasson, haaertz, israeli occupation archive 5/20/2010 skeletons should not be sanctified but replacing muslim graves with an ostentatious building dedicated to tolerance will only serve as a provocation haaretzs investigative reporting on the eve of shavuot about the removal of skeletons from the mamilla muslim cemetery so the museum of tolerance can be built there rightly prompted questions from the people at the simon wiesenthal center, which had initiated the museum project.
and  then finally after all these days and weeks of anticipation we identified a  frigate on the horizon.
al-agha’s statements came during a speech he delivered over the phone in a meeting of the palestinian council of olives and oil, held in the west bank city of ramallah on wednesday.
maan also reported that the settlers... ‘i better not  call betty’ — my long path to unreasonable optimism about the  conflict mondoweiss - kevin r vixie editor: some weeks back we  asked mathematician kevin r. vixie to write up the story of his disaffection  from zionism.
we arrived around 11 a.m. and gathered in front of a  bombed-out house down a dusty road leading to the border.
the position of nearby settlements mean the wall will encroach... iof burns large areas of olive trees to suppress ni'lin protest stop the wall - the occupation forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s cement blocks, fired tear gas at the demonstrators and opened the gate of the wall to chase the protesters after have been inhaling gas in unsuccessful efforts to arrest them.
tuba village residents believe that the attack was the result of incitement from the rabbis in safed.
a steady stream of pilgrims are trickling into his shop, snapping up olive wood crosses and nativity scenes as keepsakes from the town revered as jesus’s birthplace.
palestinian prime minister helps palestinian farmers harvest olives
consequently, the agriculture ministry has placed great importance on planting olive trees and producing quality olive oil products.
settlers 'chop down 30 olive trees' in nablus 11/8/2011 -  nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers chopped down more than 30 trees in madama  village south of nablus on monday, a local official said.
without such an inquiry, it’s unlikely that those responsible for this assault will be held accountable.
-- see also:video - israel police raze illegal bedouin village in negev
in the beginning of the afternoon, villagers and international activists gathered at the mayor'....
the difficulties i observed did not just stem from the reality of a military occupation, but of a planned and calculated policy to make life in the west bank difficult - too difficult - for palestinians in what i believe to be an effort leaning toward expulsion.
eventually the tear gas started a fire near three homes and grape and olive fields.
israeli settlers occupying the homes above the market, use the walkways below as their personal trash can and the constant harassment from israeli soldiers has forced shopkeepers to move.
mayor: israeli settlers uprooted 40 olive trees 3/12/2010 - nablus - ma'an - israeli settlers uprooted dozens of olive trees in qaryut, south of nablus, at dawn on friday, officials said.
olive groves and orchards once bloomed  on your land, fishermen now dead.
the settlers attacked the home of um sufan, located close to yitzhar  settlement, and hurled stones and empty bottles at it;... dozens of  settlers attack home in burin, cut olive trees imemc - palestinian  sources reported that dozens of armed israeli settlers attacked, on monday  evening, a home in burin village, near the northern west bank city of nablus,  and chopped several olive trees.
winter traditions in palestine by wilhelmina & george baramk, this week in palestine 2/7/2007 dear kyoto, in reply to your letter which we received a few days ago and in which you wrote at length about the traditions of your country, japan, mainly the ceremonial way of preparing tea, the arrangement of flowers in their simple yet elegant way, and the traditional dishes that accompany religious festivities, we would like to tell you about the many culinary and cultural traditions that we, in palestine, have.
public security  minister says station will increase security against vandalism, stone throwing.
israeli settlers  set fire to more than 2,500 olive trees in burin pic 20 oct 2010 -
the demonstration follows yesterday's  incursion, in which israeli soldiers fired tear gas and a sound grenade at  villagers as they attempted to plant olive trees on village land close to the  nearby settlement of yitzhar.
in these times 1/24/2012 behind the headlines, palestinians are using nonviolent direct action to protest the status quo.
and we’re visiting the abu taima region.
demonstrators plant olive trees at al-ma’asara, one arrested 1/24/2010 - international solidarity movement - 22 january - this week's friday demonstration in al-ma'asara celebrated the palestinian day of the tree.
on november 15, mazin qumsiyeh and other palestinian activists boarded public bus number 148, an israelis-only bus that normally takes jews from the israeli west bank settlement of ariel to jerusalem.
the palestinian preventive security forces on tuesday  afternoon seized 46 tons of dates and pickled olives with expired validity  dates.
without a doubt,  the wind in gaza is stronger than the west bank; maybe because it must work so  much harder to keep dreams in the sky.
we  are making such material available in our efforts to advance understanding of  environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and  social justice issues.
construction continues despite municipal stop-work order; located next to  rotary at main entrance to ras el-amud, mosque was built in 1950s.
it has become obvious to all, by now, that israel could not have been created nor could it continue to exist as a viable state without the assistance of the west especially the usa.
israeli authorities were operating in an area that includes over  2,000 olive trees, all owned by palestinians in the predominantly christian  city between bethlehem and jerusalem.
"the settlers want to scare us and be despair, they want us to leave this area, that is why they do all this.
the israeli military conducted arrests, mistreated detainees and continued to prevent villagers from picking olives in certain areas of burin, near nablus, yesterday on october 16 2011.
" pa holds olive  branch in one hand, stone in the other ha'aretz 7 mar 2010
citizens shocked this morning when they saw their trees jewish settlers uproot olive trees in nablus, iof soldiers  terrorize al-khalil pic 20
knesset to discuss security at mount of  olives cemetery jerusalem post 26 feb 2012 -
in beit jala, this is the second time that this particular garden and playground has been bulldozed.
so i decided i had to see for myself.
at my first, two weeks ago, the israeli army had fired a  few shots from the military towers at the border.
according to the report, 55 attacks took place across 37....
tamir or abu taleeb (the father of taleeb) is shoemaker and lives in the h2 are of hebron's old city.
israeli settlers attacked palestinian farmers  while they were picking olives on friday, onlookers said.
facing a dry year and an unprecedented... as settlers  disrupt olive harvest, israeli officer declares: 'i am the law, i am god.'
pa official: 45 olive trees chopped down near nablus 2/23/2010 - nablus - ma'an - israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive trees in  the occupied west bank on tuesday, a palestinian authority official said.
chile's recognition in january of a palestinian state was aimed at helping end the middle east conflict, president sebastian pinera said on friday.
we will not  leave our land for it is our life or be deterred by demolitions in all
international activists support olive  harvest in surif palestine solidarity project 2 nov 2011 -
they said that 15  settlers from yizhar settlement attacked one of the village's fields and threw  stones at the farmers and threatened to expel them and steal their crops.
one resident was injured by a teargas canister and dozens suffered tear gas inhalation.
beit ummar farmers, whose lands were  affected, said they believed residents of the nearby bat ayin settlement were  behind the arson, which destroyed dozens of fig, olive and pine....
support ahmad mesleh & support independent  media in israel/palestine mondoweiss - 11 jan 2010 - (photo:  ahmad mesleh )
such assaults included  the uprooting of thousands of olive trees, for the sake of expanding the  israeli settlements, and the burning and cutting of thousands more by settlers.
- two activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta’ayush were arrested while assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
harvest daily star 4 nov 2011
join the 2011 olive harvest campaign 8/31/2011 - international solidarity movement - at a time of increasing settler violence in the west bank, the international solidarity movement is issuing an urgent call for volunteers to participate in the 2011 olive harvest campaign at the invitation of palestinian communities.
inside, his olives were being pressed, an annual autumn ritual that he and many other farmers undertake to obtain a staple food for...
boycott targets unjust policies.
while palestinian farmers, accompanied by internationals,  were planting olive trees, fifteen settlers approached the area, some carrying  slingshots.
olly and the olive factory palestine monitor -
however,  jordan’s alliance with egypt and syria and its consequent attack on  israeli positions in west jerusalem provided a pretext for the israeli assault,  one that fulfilled long-standing zionist ambitions for the city and led to the  israeli occupation of the entire west bank—a legacy that continues to this  day.
passing through the checkpoint, the scents, sounds and sights of the vibrant commercial city center give way to a deserted area where the only people to be seen are a few settlers strolling down emptied streets and israeli soldiers posted on rooftoops and street corners.
we are sorry that we disturb you by  having a higher birth rate than yours, that we became a demographic threat to  your existence and future, and your jewish state and its total destruction of  us.
settlers uproot 270 olive trees near nablus uruknet february 21, 2011 - a mob of extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and uprooted olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian officials said.
it also runs the bethlehem museum, where one can learn about local cultural heritage.
it is at the centre of a wrangle over whether it should be  preserved in its current state as a reminder of the palestinian dispossession  or redeveloped into luxury housing.
we were born to live and think about how to best enjoy our life while we are  still alive.
by sam hamod  (for our brothers and sisters in palestine, pakistan, iraq, afghanistan and  somalia)
may 2010 courtesy: oren ziv - activestills six  people were arrested in bil'in on friday during a demonstration to commemorate  the 62nd anniversary of al-nakba.
so let me just give you the names and brief story of two of those  released palestinian political prisoners.
i would have perhaps even signed a  petition or two.
during his visit, al-habbash relayed  president mahmoud abbas and the palestinian authority's praise. . .
army better prepared aljazeera 25 nov 2009 - this year, security forces were better prepared to protect farmers from settler violence during the olive harvest in the west bank.
during the 1948 war, one of the goals of the jewish  armed forces was securing the western exit of the city.
the settlers' claim to the land derives from the alleged presence of king solomon's treasures, buried deep beneath wadi hulwah, a densely populated suburb of silwan.
we will never forget the  hurt of 3 years ago, the criminal onslaught that we lived through, the blood of  over 1400 murdered men, women and hundreds of children running through the  streets of gaza, between the rubble, soaking our beds and etched on our minds.
olive harvest in gaza 10/15/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, gaza - gaza doesn't have very much farmland left.
but in the occupied palestinian territories, it is a slightly different story.
at 11:30 yesterday, 26th july 2010, settlers from the berakha shomronim  settlement began shooting at palestinians in the village of burin and setting  fire to crops on their land.
akram jamil uweis, whose family owns the trees, said his family headed to the field early saturday morning to harvest olives, and found 40....
what might look like ad hoc  violence is actually a tool the settlers are using to push back palestinian  farmers from their own land," stated a spokeswoman...
in the aftermath residents of al  walajeh called for a presence of media and activists to highlight this illegal  destruction carried out by the israeli government.
israeli warplanes struck two targets in the northern and  southern gaza strip on tuesday morning, with no casualties reported.
they noted that... israeli settlers attack farmers in nablus 9
appearing... white house works to ease  iran proposal in congress la times 11 jun 2010 -
fire crews control orange grove fire 5/25/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - palestinian firefighters said they were able to gain control over a number of blazes across the northern west bank
i met tamir and his  family the day when a group of young palestinia and forigner volnteers met in  his lands to harves olives.
at one  point, the best i could muster to a young soldier... video -  bil'in, a day in the life: live fire, tear gas, sound bombs, detentions,  torched olive tree.wmv uruknet may 25, 2010 - this morning, as is  their wont, israeli occupation forces intruded into the village of bilin, this  time there were only three to the forefront with backup behind them, when  challenged they beat a retreat.
the bethlehem arab women's union (bawu) has a long history of community service, dating back to 1947 when it was founded as a first aid center to care for refugees from the first arab-israeli war.
it has succeeded in reinstating farmers confidence in collective work and the...more.. palestinian arts and crafts al badia: traditional palestinian embroidery /
biblical prophets, revered rabbis and a  prime minister are buried there.
all  films focused on al quds or palestine and explored issues of life under siege  and occupation and five of them were awarded gold olive prices.
serry slammed for equating israeli and palestinian 'terror' jeruslalem post 26
however, they continued to limit palestinian farmers'  access to land lying near settlements or on the other side of the sep expired olive oil and produce confiscated in hebron 11/26/2009 - hebron - ma'an - palestinian officials confiscated 50 containers  of expired olive oil and a significant quantity of expired produce in downtown  hebron, according to the committee of local market officials on thursday.
it is here where you can find  the palestinian women's embroidery co-operative.
'price tag': olive trees uprooted near hebron ynet news,  29 sep 2011 - anonymous vandals mutilate palestinian olive trees in west bank,  spray paint....
nawal started her embroidery business in the small village of idna  but struggled due to a lack of customers.
an olive tree has been dismembered to make  way for more land confiscation for a settlement in the first shot, in the... israeli merchant sells peat oil as 'olive' oil 7 apr 2010  - west bank, april 7, (pal telegraph)
an observer with the christian peacemaker teams  said israeli demolition crews arrived before sunrise....
speaking at the  event,socio-cultural committee chairman basim eissa hailed. . .
the village of battir, north  west of bethlehem, was once a haven for farmers.
the farmers of hares do not have to contend with the annexation fence, so they can access and tend their land more often than the farmers of mas-ha, who before this week hadn't been allowed to get to their land for nine months.
jewish settlers destroy 200 olive trees in nablus uruknet october 26, 2010 - citizens in deir al-hatab village, nablus district, were stunned at the sight of 200 of their olive trees damaged in the fields after jewish settlers poured sewage water from the nearby allon moreh settlement into their land.
while salaried work has traditionally been the man's role, many women have been  adding to the family's income – or have sometimes been the sole provider  – by selling hand-stitched embroidery.
palestinians to sell first fair trade product nick mathiason, the observer, the guardian 12/28/2008 the glimmers of an  economic revival for palestinians will grow early next year with the launch of  their first fair trade product.
walking through the abandoned palestinian village of  lifta, yacoub odeh is transported back to a time more than 63 years ago when as  a child he would play in these streets before his carefree existence came to an  abrupt end.
a steady stream of pilgrims are  trickling into his shop, snapping up olive wood crosses and nativity scenes as  keepsakes from the town revered as jesus’s birthplace.
after all, if we start putting back cemeteries that have disappeared, the country will quickly fill up with gravestones and there will be no space for the living.
approximately 200 trees were planted as part of the ongoing popular resistance  to the israeli apartheid wall and settlements.
bt selem release footage of settler  attack imemc - wednesday july 06, 2011 - 16:24
facing the busy nablus - ramallah road 60 route, and  the israeli settlements of shilo and eli behind them they set to work planting  the new trees in the land oft neglected by farmers from fear of settler or army  reprisal.
despite this barrage of weaponry, villagers refused to run and hide, and the soldiers ultimately retreated at dusk.
settlers attack demo in qaryut 2/12/2012 - international  solidarity movement - 10 february 2012, popular struggle coordination committee  - demonstrators in qaryout attempted to plant olive trees to resist land grab.
related:israeli court implements  hebron evacuation order and villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on  hebron land [uruknet.info] villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive  trees on hebron land uruknet february 23, 2012 -- israeli forces  bulldozed olive trees on village land in hebron overnight wednesday, villagers  told ma'an.
this decision along with the inability of international leaders to force israel to apply a new settlement freeze so that negotiations could continue was largely perceived by the settlers and their leaders as recognition of their presence in the west bank and as encouragement to go ahead with their colonization.
mary is due to deliver our son any  day”.
palestinian popular struggle against home  demolitions, olive tree destruction in bethlehem area alternative  information center - tuesday, 27 april 2010, one of the fronts of the popular  struggle in the west bank is now beit jala, bethlehem district.
jewish control of the media is preventing an open discussion of the holocaust, prominent hollywood director oliver stone told the sunday times, adding that the u.s. jewish lobby was controlling washington’s foreign policy for years.
the attack is the third of its kind in the last two months, with the family losing 96 trees in november.
gaza city, jan 8, 2012 (ips) –
several beit ommar residents and a fire truck with high-pressure hoses spent over... settlers torch palestinian orchards near nablus imemc - friday june 17, 2011 - 09:25, on thursday evening, dozens of extremist israeli settlers torched palestinian olive orchards near the illegal itamar settlement, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
chile's pinera seeks to push peace on mideast trip 3/4/2011 - jerusalem (afp) --
this was the fourth cardiac mission to palestine in 2010 and dozens of sick babies with congenital heart disease have already had life-saving surgery through these teams.
during those same years, the  jordanians destroyed part of the jewish cemetery to build a gas station.
oct 2010 - source:  integrated regional information networks activist: forces ban  students, farmers from olive harvest 10/16/2010 - hebron (ma'an)  -- a human rights activist said israeli forces banned farmers and students from  access to a field for the olive harvest on saturday in the illegal hebron  settlement of tel rumeida.
there are somethings we can be certain of.
the president of qarout village council, abed al-naser al-qaruoti, confirmed...
pa settlement affairs officer in the northern west bank ghassan doughlas said residents of the nearby svhut rachel outpost ascended upon the village....
israeli military destruction of farmland uruknet september 7, 2011  - on tuesday september 6th local palestinians from the village of al walajeh  gathered with international activists to protest the building of the illegal  separation barrier as well as the destruction of ancient olive trees.
here in gaza, we head to beit hanoun for their weekly  nonviolent protest in the buffer zone.
the trees belonged to the thalji aady family, who have  been subject to frequent settler violence and military harassment.
considerable damage was done in the al-matwi, ash-shala and an-nejarah areas, farmers said, with othman balasmah reporting that "the fields in al-matwi were totally destroyed.
an israeli military spokesman confirmed the incident, saying troops responded to the group of farmers with "riot dispersal means," after youth threw rocks at the encroaching soldiers.
our struggle’s success  and the consequent expansion of civil resistance to other west bank communities  may provide hope to viewers desperate for positive news from the middle east,  but today an israeli crackdown on unarmed palestinian protesters is threatening  this growing movement.
asked how jews should  treat their neighbors he said: “the only way to fight a moral war is the  jewish way.
"dozens of olive trees from the at-tyur area east of... israel uproots palestinian olive trees near nablus 3/16/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli troops blocked off access to agricultural fields near the village of beit dajan on wednesday, while bulldozers tore out dozens of olive trees from privately owned property, officials said.
it will be a major milestone in a remarkable year - one that brought the european capital of culture to tallinn and the euro to estonia.
israeli settlers denied allegations tuesday that they flooded a  palestinian olive grove with sewage from an illegal settlement in the occupied  west bank.
theres just something about those colorful swooping colors, long, trailing ribbons, and the sensation of controlling a thing that can soar high above it all.
israeli bulldozers enter beit jala for wall construction 3/3/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israeli forces enforced a closed military zone in beit jala, bethlehem, on tuesday, to assist bulldozers in overturning land in the area to make way for further construction of the separation wall, witnesses said.
settler violence on the rise; violent incidents in 2011 may double those in 2010 mondoweiss - in west bank, settler violence seen on the rise huwara, west bank (reuters) 14 july – scorched hillsides and charred olive groves near nablus pinpoint the latest acts of arson by hardline jewish settlers against palestinians who say they are ever more the victims of such...
in addition to palestinians, the protest included members of international solidarity groups as well as a number of israeli peace activists.
then she said that  she is too a refugee.
homes and livelihoods gone in an instant in gaza: 11 mar 2010 - israeli bulldozers destroyed three homes and 17 dunams of agricultural land in eastern khan younis on 18 february.
both in the northern and southern west bank, the army intervenes to facilitate settler violence, instead of stopping it.
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not to be worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an area (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,... journalists, residents hurt in beit jala anti-wall rally 3/7/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - three journalists and several demonstrators were injured by israeli forces at a protest against israel's construction of the separation wall in the town of beit jala, north of bethlehem, on sunday.
a representative of the french foreign ministry told reporters tuesday that the ongoing detention of zaki and 11 other palestinians who participated in the non-violent protest was illegal, and their release was demanded.
the talk was of cousins khwaylid and nizar  ramadan, two native sons freed from israeli military prison as part of  mid-october's prisoner...
israeli  authorities uproot, confiscate 450 olive trees in salfit wafa the lede: u.s. ambassador greeted with roses by syrian protesters in  hama new york times 9 jul 2011 - video recorded by syrian  activists appears to show that protesters holding olive branches tossed roses  on to the american ambassador's car in hama's central aasi square on friday.
the image is of a cluster of tear gas  grenades exploding over a grove of olive trees while demonstrators take cover.
a red cross was painted two meters away from the  front door to signal where the wall is designed to pass.
die on my palestine land 12/16/2009 - international solidarity movement - jody mcintyre, ctrl.
jewish settlers attack  olive harvesters pic - jewish settlers attacked palestinian  farmers in orta village, southeast of nablus, on sunday while reaping their  olive harvest, eyewitnesses reported.
airbus, ial join forces on early-warning plane ynet news, 21 jun 2011 -
up until a month ago, i would have responded in  the standard manner on hearing it, with somewhat feeble exclamations of protest  and a few facebook and twitter posts.
many israeli lives and hopes are at stake as well.
approximately 100 residents of the qaryout joined the weekly protest against the occupation this week, aiming to plant olive trees on their lands, as an.... related:popular struggle coordination committee where is the inevitable bedouin intifada israel guaranteed?
settlers uproot olive trees near salfit 27 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-settlers of alei zahav  settlement uprooted sunday morning 21 olive trees belonged to the citizen, sami  ibraheem, in deir ballout town in salfit, northern west bank.
local sources said that the soldiers ambushed the  three, who included two children less than 18 years old, and arrested them... three palestinians arrested extinguishing settler fires in safa  village pnn - hebron – pnn - israeli forces detained three  palestinians in safa village, near hebron, for trying to put out olive grove  fires set by bat ayin settlers on tuesday night.
the demolished structures included family homes, children's classrooms and shelters for the village's livestock.
oct 2010 - farmer ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya  hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked him in his olive fields  yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
in  accordance with title 17 u.s.c. section 107, the material on this site is  distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in  receiving the included information for research and educational purposes.
on the  deck we have 35 european parliamentarians who must have decided to say no to  zionist fund raisers.
extremist settlers torch 100 olive trees near ramallah 25 aug 2011  - west bank, (pal telegraph)-extremist  settlers torched on thursday 100  olive trees planted by palestinian farmers  in makhmas, a village in the  southeast of ramallah.
the food co-op and many  concerned citizens around the world have asked the question: how do we  transform the israeli-palestinian conflict through the use of nonviolence?
but those groves and the greenhouses too,  were long gone: the israeli army bulldozed them in 2002 to create the  ever-expanding no-man’s land israel calls the “buffer zone” and  gazans call the “kill zone” — any palestinian who steps foot  inside is subject instant death or dismemberment by the israeli army fire.
among them was my family, whose property; home and ranch planted with citrus and olive trees and vineyards, were seized by israeli terrorists.
the forum recently organised the first film festival in gaza in many years.
police delay opening station at the cemetery.
it also appears that the arrival of a new commander,  who infamously boasted, “i am the law, i am god” has also contributed  to what incredibly may be a deterioration in the treatment palestinians and  internationals.
palestinian.... pa lawyers to  prosecute settler vandalism 11/30/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
the  quiet that hangs over neighboring olive groves, in the far south of the west  bank, is broken here by the shouts of... palestinians eke out  living on dump recycling afp, ma’an news  agency 3/10/2011 yatta, hebron --
[uruknet.info] settlers torch olive orchards near ramallah uruknet june 16, 2011 - a number of armed extremist israeli settlers torched on wednesday at night dozens of olive trees that belong to villagers of bil'in village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
the first day of the palestinian olive harvest officially began on 15 october, and rani ali and his family -- like hundreds of others -- were out among their olive trees, starting to bring in what looks to be a good harvest.more gaza govt says israel barring entry of olives 10/18/2010 - gaza city (ma'an) --
she's also  busy with countless humanitarian issues in the territories.
the kids here in the west bank love their kites too, just as much as any other child in the world.
“trouble” is  all they say.
in area h2 palestinians are daily exposed to human rights violations to an extent that can hardly be overestated.
when  we arrived on friday, the densely packed soil formed small hills with alien,  ridged, patterns: israeli tanks had roamed here, dozens of them.
settlers destroyed 2,600 olive trees in october 11/1/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
they were  overgrown with thistles and weeds, and the terrace walls and boundary walls  were in a poor state of repair.
related:source [uruknet.info] settlers stone elderly palestinian lady uruknet october 31, 2011 - a group of jewish settlers monday stoned an elderly  palestinian lady as she was picking olives in mukhmas, a village southeast of  ramallah in the west bank, according to local sources.
"us campaign to end  the israeli occupation's 10th anniversary video"; a2a_config.linkurl =  "http://endtheoccupation.org/article.php?id=3150"; this year,  contributions from supporters will allow us to plant 2,050 olive trees for  palestinian farming families in 2012.
from the wrinkled hands of old men and women who spent  years harvesting rows of ancient olive groves, to the soft yet determined faces  of a younger generation unfazed by decades of dispossession, palestine...
the israeli apartheid forces have been uprooting olive trees in beit jala the last few days.
you remember your  grandfather working that land, and smile.
nasser, a carpenter from the village of jit, took  a day off on sunday to pick olives from his 30 olive trees ....... olives stolen from hundreds of trees west bank wafa - tel aviv,  october 10, 2010 (wafa)_
settlers burn hundreds of olive trees 8/25/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- dozens of israeli settlers set fire on thursday to more than 100 olive trees in mikhmas village southeast of ramallah.
groups such as oxfam, the  palestinian agricultural relief committee, and other social organisations have  provided some of the poorest women with small gardens, sheep, rabbits or  chickens to tend for food and for income.
it faces south hebron, overlooking steep, dusty terraces,  planted with olive trees and cratered by old archaeological digs of excavated  roman artifacts.
pa settlement affairs officer in the northern west bank ghassan doughlas said residents of the nearby svhut rachel outpost ascended upon the village, uprooting the olive grove...
settlers chop down 500 trees in nablus 3/4/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
why did you end up spending your  life in the middle east, particularly in its more violent corners?
a lebanese army helicopter doused a fire monday that erupted in an olive grove.
he explains to the delegation...
the icj also mandated reparations for the "requisition and destruction of homes, businesses, and agricultural holdings (and) to return the land, orchards, olive groves, and other immovable property seized," obligating member states to reject the illegal construction and demand israel comply with international law.
for the  last...more locals: settlers burn olive trees in ramallah villages 10/2/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
we palestinians have nothing to cherish more than  our roots and ancestral identity.
pa: settlers damage land in northern west  bank 10/9/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
secret memo justified killing of u.s.-born awlaqi daily star 9 oct 2011 president barack obama’s administration crafted a legal document in secret ahead of the assassination of u.s.-born al-qaeda leader anwar al-awlaqi, which permitted the killing of an american citizen without trial, a report said saturday.
25 oct 2010 - the old  city of nablus is one of the oldest cities in the world.
settlers vandalize mosque, burn cars in huwwara 4/14/2010 - nablus - ma'an - israeli citizens living in an illegal west bank settlement vandalized a mosque in huwwara, after storming the nablus village early wednesday morning.
"i can only hope for the future," he said.
in an interview with watan tv, daik said 50 employees work at the department documenting settler attacks of palestinian olive groves and farm land.
the villagers were accompanied by over 20 israeli and international solidarity activists.
settlers cut down more than 500  olive trees in nablus imemc - friday march 04, 2011 - 12:18, 500  olive trees, which were planted some weeks ago near an settlement outpost  called yash adam, were cut down by the israeli settlers this morning in nablus.
the playground is used by many of the neighborhood children, and the family who owns the land welcomes people to enjoy the shade next to their home in the heat of the summer.
it will  also be an occasion for numerous speeches and newspaper articles on how our  independence was won back, whether this is "the estonia that we  wanted," and what it means for estonia to be an independent country in a  globalized world.
the brutal aggressions against lands, homes and residents are part of an obvious systematic project to render the life of palestinian residents virtually impossible.
members of beit  ummar and al-ma'sara local popular committees said they tried to stop the  uprooting.... israeli bulldozers clear land near bethlehem, destroy  230 olive trees pnn - bethlehem – pnn - on tuesday, israeli  army bulldozers cleared land near jub’a village south of bethlehem,  uprooting and confiscating hundreds of olive trees and taking them to an  unknown location.
the cranes at work on a  jerusalem skyline are worth a paragraph or two of background.
the  exhibition has been organized by the palestinian center for economic and social  development, in cooperation with other institutions, such as care  international, the australian agency for development and the swedish  cooperative center.
army harassment at peaceful tree-planting in qaryut 1/8/2010 - international solidarity movement - an overwhelming force of israeli  military soldiers converged on farmlands outside qaryut today as villagers  attempted to replenish their endangered lands with water and new olive trees.
such attacks are becoming increasingly... memo to obama: settlers torch cars, torch olive trees, and release wild boar that breaks 57-year-old palestinian farmer’s legs mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers / land, property and resource theft and destruction / ethnic cleansing israel begins expanding settlements in jenin israel began large-scale digging works on saturday in preparation for the expansion of an illegal settlement in the northern west bank district of... awarta man suffers broken legs after settler pig attack palestine monitor: 16
grey, austere watchtowers gaze over streets in which israeli soldiers and military vehicles are stationed at regular intervals, frequently stopping palestinians as they walk through their own neighbourhood to demand they prove their identity.
harvesting olive that day was not easy, all the work was done while the  volunteers were completely surronded by israeli soldiers, policemen and  settlers, who constantly provked the palestinian and foreign volunteers.
after four israeli rights groups  submitted a letter to the country's army documenting attacks on palestinians,  settlers denied the allegations and said locals were more likely to  blame.
the military's solution to these attacks has not been to protect the palestinians, but rather to deny them access to their land.
at one point in the day, the sound of israeli f-16s could be heard overhead.
ghassan doughlas, who heads the pa file on  northern settlement activity, said settlers brought sheets and ladders "as  though they were the owners of the land" and started....
israel overturns land in bethlehem-area village 5/24/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israel's civil administration,  reportedly accompanied by border guards, bulldozed land in the nahalin village  in bethlehem and uprooted a number of olive trees on monday, a village council  official told ma'an.
that is, until israel  declared it off limits.
imemc - sunday september 25, 2011 - 12:07, dozens of israeli  settlers uprooted sunday morning more than 400 olive trees in the towns of  qosrah and douma, south of city of nablus.
despite the overbearing army presence, residents' convictions were strong enough for them to stand their ground and finish work for the day.
jewish settlers burnt or uprooted 7500  olives trees in 9 months pic - jewish settlers burnt or uprooted  7500 palestinian olive trees in the first nine month of 2011, a report by ocha  said on tuesday.
but before these  kilos can be poured on pasta, heated to fry, or... olly and the  olive factory palestine monitor: 3 nov 2010 -
an olive tree has been dismembered to make way for more land confiscation for a settlement in the first shot, in the... israeli merchant sells peat oil as 'olive' oil 7 apr 2010 - west bank, april 7, (pal telegraph)
the storm clouds and cold temperatures  did not deter demonstrators, as some 100 locals (approximately a fourth of the  village), both male and female, were joined by 20 israeli and international  activists in the village square following the midday prayer.
shortly after midnight, a group of israeli  settlers invaded the village and vanadalized the orchard, eyewitnesses  reported.
this year’s olive  harvest is a source of hope for a community with over 2/3 of its population  living in poverty (less than $2.
according to abdul qader, the group of jerusalemites went to the location where beit orot settlers were working.
the soldiers, heavily deployed in the area, declared the village a "closed military zone", and are preventing... settlers set fire to olive fields in nablus area village wafa olive revolution in pictures 9/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - 29 august 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - on the final friday of ramadan, palestinians and supporters alike peacefully marched towards jerusalem from four directions in a symbolic attempt to enter jerusalem which has been illegally annexed by israel, preventing fasting muslims from worshiping during the final holy days of ramadan.
these settlers were responsible for nearly a dozen attacks during last  year’s harvest, when they burned and blocked access to fields and attacked  farmers with sticks and stones.
occupation affects every aspect of olive oil production electronic intifada: 19 oct 2010 - london, uk (irin) -
incidents of violence continue during the olive harvest imemc - 19 oct 2010 - tuesday october 19, 2010 - 11:10, according  to the israeli internal defense establishment, the current olive harvest has  been the most violent of the last several years, due to fact that trees on both
an observer with the christian peacemaker teams said israeli demolition crews arrived before sunrise....
suspended in  time, lifta under threat uruknet march 25, 2011 -
america’s weapon of choice is "proximity talks," with the threat that if either side fails to meet american expectations, the us will squarely and publicly lay blame.
when dawn marches over the hills of palestine and the sun begins to cast its light over lemon, olive and orange trees, dusty narratives of hard-working peasants escape their time and ride in the air through history to our lungs.
rashed mazar, yanun village chief, told ma'an that residents saw settlers from the gideonim outpost in the.... settlers destroy olive trees near nablus pnn - nablus – pnn – israeli settlers destroyed on wednesday olive trees that belongs to palestinian farmers from the villages of howwara and yanon in northern west bank.
zionist settlers burn olive trees in hawara uruknet may 4,  2010-- zionist settlers from the notorious yitzhar settlement on tuesday set on  fire tens of palestinian dunums cultivated with fruitful olive trees in hawara  village, south of nablus, eyewitnesses reported.
after three years at oxford, i could not think of a  career to embark on.
twelve people, representing six different nationalities, sat in front of the caterpillar bulldozer as it moved up to the garden.
settlers uproot olive trees near salfit 27 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-settlers of alei zahav settlement uprooted sunday morning 21 olive trees belonged to the citizen, sami ibraheem, in deir ballout town in salfit, northern west bank.
“i’m here to pick  olives,” declared 9-year-old mahmoud, taking a break from dumping olives  into a blue plastic crate.
related:committee: israel to build new  bypass road south of bethlehem blast destroys egypt gas pipeline to  israel for sixth time ha'aretz - local hospital says one man  admitted with burns from blast, which also set olive groves and shacks on fire;  fire brigades getting flames under control after company operating pipeline cut  off gas supply.
march against the wall in jenin 3/18/2011 - jenin (ma'an) - the popular committee against the  wall and fatah organized on thursday a march in anin village to plant 200 olive  trees.
haitham, the injured man, was transferred to hospital in ramallah.
" al ma'sara: house on the seam of looming apartheid wall becomes center for peaceful resistance 2/14/2012 - international solidarity movement - by aaron, 14 february 2012, international solidarity movement, west bank - there is a place where a ground-level concrete line runs beside a country road through olive orchards, grape vines, blossoming almond trees, and homes"all palestinian.
during his visit, al-habbash relayed president mahmoud abbas and the palestinian authority's praise. . .
for al-walaja uruknet july 1, 2010 - hidden between the ancient  cities of jerusalem and bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
the hot tear gas canisters set fire to bil'in's olive fields several places.
ma'asara 10/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by alistair george - international solidarity movement,
in palestine, olive trees are valued for their historical presence,  their beauty, symbolic connotations, and most importantly for their economic  significance.
attacked palestinian farmers in burin village, south of nablus, on saturday morning while harvesting olives, local sources reported.
gaza is not big – just 25 miles long, and nine  miles across at its widest – but the situation being what it is, it can  take time to move around and abuelaish was determined that they make the most  of the hours ahead.
olive trees uprooted; villagers say setters behind vandalism 1/7/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- more than 100 small olive trees were uprooted  from outside of qasra village in the northern west bank, with villagers saying  settlers were behind the vandalism.
part of the accords divided the land in the west bank into 3  sections; areas a, b and c. collective wall-building effort baffles  iof in an-nabi salih 2/13/2010 - international solidarity movement  - ism, 12 february - israeli army and border police used tear gas,  stungrenades, rubber- and plastic-coated bullets, live ammunition and  "stinky water"to disperse close to 150 palestinians who tried to  reach their village wellin an-nabi salih.
the very knowledge of their presence inspired dread.
unrwa sulafa embroidery project unrwa sulafa embroidery project is located in gaza city and provides income generating opportunities for hundreds of refugee women through a network of 9 community centers across the strip.
more iran unveils 'unmanned bomber' aljazeera 22 aug 2010 - ahmadinejad calls domestically built craft "ambassador of death" to country's enemies.
israeli  residents living on the illegal west bank settlement of yitzhar in the northern  west bank district of nablus have been disrupting the olive harvest in the  nearby burin village since the season began in early october.
those who would search their dreams for memories lost or denied those who would  look inward to see the archetypes of shadows fleeing in the night or who would  search the rocky landscape of the mind to see those whom they have chased away  where are those who would survey the scrubgrass and the pales horse and the  winter moon
the olive  tree of jerusalem (armenian ceramics, east jerusalem)
israeli forces stationed along the separation wall near the jerusalem-area village of qatanna fired tear-gas canisters at a group of young farmers on monday, the heat from which caused a brush fire damaging 40 trees.
neither was getting much attention, but craftmakers and officials were justifiably proud of the event.
tariq ali and oliver stone in conversation .
as you progress past turnoffs for thinly spaced israeli settlements, red- tiled roofs and agro-industrial cowsheds poised on the surrounding hilltops, these shacks slide in and out of view behind folds of scrubland, until a left turn past the settlement of susyia takes you up to the edge of the frontier in the southern west bank.
we rehearsed our strategies and waited, with adrenalin levels slowly rising.
the trial began today  with the parties checking where they had left off on the september 22 session.
from cooks own introduction, the untold story of the zionist intent to turn palestine into a jewish state to francis boyles summation of israels crimes against the palestinians, it takes the reader through an exhaustive journey, charting the course of palestinian history prior to and since the nakba, the catastrophe of 1947-48.
israeli forces  detained two palestinian teenagers picking olives near hebron on friday as  weekly anti-wall protests across the west bank marked the start of the olive  harvesting season.
a friend from jerusalem had asked us for two jerry cans of fresh olive  oil direct from the press.
residents of an an illegal outpost "waged war on olive  trees uprooting 270 using chainsaws and other means," in duma and qusra  villages, said ghassan daghlas, a palestinian authority.... israelis settlers "maniacs" chop down 220 olive trees for settlements 20 feb 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) - jewish settlers in the  west bank were certainly encouraged after the u.s. struck down a resolution  that would have thwarted settlement activity for good.
problems with the military escort of school children from tuba and maghayr al-abeed during december, the operation dove team registered 20 days of school.
it is the magic of bali at it's highest.
the accompanying side dish for this soup is the rayyaneh, prepared from simple bread dough cut into 2 balls and spread by hand...more..
police  spokesman mickey rosenfeld said the homes had been “illegally built”  and were destroyed in line with a court ruling issued 11 years ago.
to... turkey: our new  drone better than israel's ynet news - engineers say new  surveillance craft, capable of 24-hour excursions, is better....
researching deep in the history and nature of the arab/israeli conflict, watching the unfoldment of the palestinian struggle for freedom and independence against the savage israeli oppression and territorial expansion, and examining the western political policies towards the conflict i came to a new different realization.
that... 250 olive trees planted by volunteers near osh grab 2/12/2010 - international solidarity movement - international middle east media center, 12 february -
palestinians: settlers picked our olives ynet news - palestinians and settlers continue to clash over olive picking in the west bank: the residents of a palestinian village adjacent to ramallah claimed that settlers ....... all we ask a peom palestine chronicle: 4
oct 2010 - zionist settlers destroyed tens  of fruitful olive trees in al-mughir town, northeast of ramallah, on friday  after spraying them with a chemical material.
they enter in my house and  make us go to one room.
also on the mission again was  patrick siclis, a perfusionist who has been on past missions to palestine.
witnesses said that soldiers took the man to a  nearby area of olive trees where they began to assault him.
israeli forces detain journalists in nablus 10/14/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
the  guardian 24 oct 2010 - most troubled harvest yet has seen attacks by jewish  settlers on palestinian farmers and trees, say human rights groups  eighty-year-old rasmia awase had left the best olive trees until last.
nablus village stoned, clashes with settlers 2/27/2012 - nablus (ma'an) --
most people  don’t know that the holy land is a windy place.
will we reestablish  the cemetery on a site that served as a parking lot for 40 years?
a number of demonstrators dressed in black and carried a coffin with a man inside.
the animals are believed to have been  released from the nearby itamar settlement.
iof troops bulldoze land in gaza, detain jerusalemites for planting olives pic 12 jan 2010 - israeli occupation forces (iof) advanced east of shujaia suburb in gaza city afternoon tuesday and bulldozed palestinian plantations, local sources said.
i discovered that life under military  occupation does not offer many opportunities for a decent life, however.
fair trade palestinian olive oil sold by zaytoun uk.
army fires on iraq burin during olive  tree planting 4/10/2011 - international solidarity movement - ism  - bullets and tear gas were fired upon palestinians and internationals whilst  they planted olive trees on the land legally owned by the village of iraq burin  yesterday.
i watch them  sometimes, holding the string, eyes trained aloft, an open-mouthed smile  plastered on their sun-darkened faces.
they belonged to the palestinian residents of madama village, south of  the northern west bank city of nablus, the maan news agency reported. ...
wadi qana in the south of nablus  after being declared a “military closed zone” and held a number of  citizens from the nearby town of  deir esta while bulldozing around 450  olive trees and destroying 3 donoms ready to be planted.
finaly, tamir told me that he dreams on the day when the palestinians can live safe in their land and the settlers leave.
swidan said soldiers approached the group and ordered them to stop filming, but that they refused.
in photos: palestinian pms  harvest olives 10/10/2010 - maanimages / rami swidan, mohamad  al-ostaz, pool - prime minister ismail haniyeh of gaza visits an olive press on  9 october 2010, the start of the annual harvest.
they were charged with “illegal entry to jerusalem” and  “obstructing police business.”
media spokesman for the palestinian solidarity project  muhammad awad said troops uprooted trees and destroyed land on property  belonging to the abu maria family and his brothers.
the fire, in silwan's wadi ar-rababa, is located south of jerusalem's old city, and behind the green line.
medics: farmers hospitalized after  israel rips up land 11/24/2011 - qalqiliya (ma'an) - three  palestinian farmers collapsed and required medical attention wednesday when  they saw israeli bulldozers razing their olive fields in the northern west  bank, medics said.
a palestinian old man was injured when zionist settlers attacked palestinian farmers while harvesting olives south of nablus city on sunday, eyewitnesses reported.
the report documented 139  attacks on palestinians in the west bank by the israeli army and settlers  during the month, including the demolition of 95 buildings and over 3600 olive  trees and vines.
kafr ad-dik residents, however, are convinced this latest annexation of land will be allocated to the construction of an entirely new outpost.
soldiers declared the area a  closed military zone and disbanded the protest by force within an hour.
the so-called ‘buffer zone' is a military no-go  area that extends along the entire northern and eastern gazan border with  israel, as well as its southern border with egypt (known as the philadelphi  corridor).)
…have  you ever felt like not actually living, you’re still breathing … but  you’re living as dead?
al-ma’sara demonstrates against the apartheid  wall 11/17/2009 - international solidarity movement - the  al-ma'sara popular committee against the wall and settlements, 13 november -
refusing to die in silence: palestinians resist  settler violence during the olive harvest 10/29/2011 -  international solidarity movement - ben lorber, mondoweiss - as this year's  olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out  to their olive trees, a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to die
by lillian rosengarten here in bali trees are 'living beings' for nature, religion and man is one.
witnesses told  ma'an that one of the farmers, munir qadus, sustained several cuts and bruises  in the assault and was.... residents allowed access to land after  court petition 10/20/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
appearing... white house works to ease iran proposal in congress la times 11 jun 2010 -
opt: oxfam urges lifting of barriers to olive production uruknet october 19, 2010 - the first day of the palestinian olive harvest officially began on 15 october, and rani ali and his family – like hundreds of others – were out among their olive trees, starting to bring in what looks like being a good harvest.
wednesday  morning, the family, which had already lost a significant portion of its lands  when israel seized them to build the "by-pass road" 60 that  connects the equally illegal settlements, found the little playground for the  children in the garden destroyed and three olive trees directly in front of the  house chopped off.
7,563 households were selected to represent palestinian  society, of which 6,571 questionnaires were completed.
israeli bulldozers bury bedouin village uruknet february 22, 2011 - - the five tents giving shelter to some 50 bedouin residents of amniyr, a tiny community north of susiya in the south hebron hills, were torn down on monday, their olive trees uprooted and water sources covered over.
pcbs: 280 olive presses in palestine wafa 15 apr 2010 - ramallah, april 15, 2010 (wafa)- the palestinian central bureau of statistics (pcbs) said that olive presses in the palestinian territory for the year 2009, are 280, of which 235 were operating, no-one saw, no-one heard: 300 palestinian olive trees uprooted ha'aretz 15 apr 2010 - some 300 olive trees belonging to palestinians were uprooted on the night between monday and tuesday in groves near the village of mihmas, close to the illegal outpost of migron.
over 300 people from palestine and all over the world sat under the blue and white tarp of the conference's tent.
a ministry of health employee told maans reporter that 16 tons of dates and 30 tons of pickled olives were seized.more.. e-mail oxfam, palestinian farmers discuss project to improve olive oil quality with an-najah university maan news agency 5/30/2008 nablus - salfit - ma’an - a delegation from oxfam and the union of palestinian farmers’ societies visited an-najah national university on friday to discuss a project to improve the quality of palestinian olive oil for the local and export markets.
i will walk on the ravished desolation of destroyed lives  places where apache helicopters fired yet another missile on to crowds reduced  to charred remains.
bu he could not even pick his own lottery ticket.
we drove on 443 until the shilat junction, and turned toward the west bank.
by eva bartlett *(blog version longer than published version) “during hard times, we have survived off olive oil,” says ahmed sourani from the palestinian agricultural relief committee.
sunlight hides behind israeli shells
six others were arrested.
in total, 14 protesters were injured, including one hit in the face with a tear gas canister.
-  discussing a final-status agreement while allowing a mini-intifada to unfold  gives the pa leverage.
monitor: 1 jul 2010 - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and  bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
some the offered concessions constitute  clear abandonment of palestinian national constants and other long-standing  palestinian positions.
six days earlier, israeli settlers had attacked and... 'murdered simply for being a jew' ynet news, 24 apr 2011 - thousands gathered at mount olives cemetery in jerusalem to bid farewell to ben-yosef livnat, who was killed sunday morning in a shooting at joseph's tomb, presumably by ... ....
10/23/2011 - international solidarity movement - 22 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - intimidation of palestinians in the israeli-controlled h2 section of hebron continued today as the israeli military and settlers harassed palestinians and international observers as they attempted to pick olives on their land in tel rumeida.
extremist settlers torch 100 olive trees near ramallah 25 aug 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-extremist settlers torched on thursday 100 olive trees planted by palestinian farmers in makhmas, a village in the southeast of ramallah.
the goldstone report, btselem, gisha and many other organizations and individuals have documented the systematic violation of palestinian human rights in the past several years.
what  is meaningful action?
[uruknet.info] dozens of settlers attack home in burin, cut olive trees uruknet february 28, 2012 - palestinian sources reported that  dozens of armed israeli settlers attacked, on monday evening, a home in burin  village, near the northern west bank city of nablus, and chopped several olive  trees.
since then, al arakib has been demolished and rebuilt over 30 times.
the playground is used by many of the neighborhood children, and the  family who owns the land welcomes people to enjoy the shade next to their home  in the heat of the summer.
the journalist was reporting on a demonstration organized by palestinians from the village of at-tuwani after the recent destruction of an olive grove.
a number of palestinian farmers were "brutally beaten" as they harvested olives in the northern west bank village of burin in nablus on monday by extremist settlers, locals said.
olive pressing output down in 2009 4/18/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a palestine central bureau of statistics report revealed that olive pressing in the occupied palestinian territories was considerably lower in 2009, compared with previous years.
olive trees destroyed outside bethlehem 5/31/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity  movement - this morning maher abu sab'a' discovered that 248 out of the 250  olive tree saplings that had recently been planted on his land had been  destroyed over-night.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] 20 points that are made in dr. qumsiyeh speech (palestine-israel in brief) uruknet january 21, 2012 -
my husband's family had 50 dunams, which were a mixture of olive groves and vegetable patches, as well as another 50 dunams of land which was stolen after 1967 (after the war of this year, israel began it's occupation of the west bank and gaza).
awad, from awarta,  nablus, had been harvesting his... the road to olive farming -  challenges to developing the economy of olive oil in the west bank relief web 18
the filmmaker's son, sean stone, is in tehran, possibly  plotting a film on iran.
israeli settlers damaged 16 olives  trees belonging to residents in the nablus region on wednesday after harvesting  the olives and depriving several families of their income source, the village  council chief said.
but it is only now that we begin to  really talk to each other.
olive trees, like the one above, can be hundreds of years old and are a... weekly protest - video round up palestine monitor: 10 may 2010 - up and down the west bank non-violent protests took place during the last weekend.
israel vs. free press: uri blau faces seven years in prison for practicing investigative journalism tikun olam - uri blau: shining a lens on israeli society haaretz’ uri blau, one of israel’s finest investigative journalists, faces seven years in prison for doing nothing more than practicing his craft in a country that upholds the values of a national security state above those of press...
two  palestinian youths in their twenties were hit by live ammunition today, during  a demo against illegal....
how international law affects the palestine 'peace process' | oliver miles the guardian 22 nov 2010 -
village says  settlement runoff destroyed olive grove 10/26/2010 - nablus  (ma'an) --
despite these restrictions, battir's farmers retain faith  that with determination and effective use of their natural resources, the good  years...
the animals are believed to have been released from the nearby itamar  settlement.
pa  settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas said the fire continued to rage as  firefighters were unable to reach the area.
de facto government opens bissan village, latest gaza park 1/7/2010 - gaza - ma'an - a small zoo, swimming pool, park and picnic area make  up the new bissan entertainment village in northern gaza, opened for families  on wednesday by the de facto government.
"while searching the area, idf soldiers  discovered a second explosive device, which was detonated in a controlled  manner by idf sappers," the spokesman added.
activists accompanied by  israeli and international supporters will convene to launch the campaign by  marching on jerusalem from north, west, south and east, the popular....
the ma'an network produced a documentary on the project, cataloging the success of palestinian. .
dozens of settlers from the elon moreh jewish-only settlement attacked palestinians picking olives in azmut village east of nablus, pa settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas told ma'an.
soldiers fired tear gas and percussion grenades over the wall at nonviolent demonstrators, who were not deterred and continued a spirited protest.
he captured this moment when dozens of tear-gas canisters were shot at palestinians in an olive grove in nil'in.
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 14:17,  israeli settlers attacked palestinian and israeli solidarity activists in the  northern settlement of susya,in the southern west bank city of hebron, while  the activists accompanied palestinian farmers to their olive groves to harvest.
the ta'ayush activists, who specialise in supporting palestinians' legal rights to their property, showed the aerial maps to soldiers, as well as relevant land deeds.
the electronic intifada contributor robin  yassin-kassab interviewed hirst on his work and views.
onlookers said residents of the revava settlement chopped down trees using a chainsaw in qarawat bani hassan village near deir istiya.
when the wall falls, will  the scar left be permanent?
at dawn on tuesday, women and children in al-arakib watched as land administration bulldozers demolished their houses, israeli press reports said.
the trial began today with the parties checking where they had left off on the september 22 session.
negev and ethnic cleansing in the israeli  negev more.. e-mail fires reported across west bank 7/27/2010 - qalqiliya - ma'an - palestinian authority civil defense crews  controlled several fires across the west bank on tuesday, a report read.
fires ravaged agricultural  lands in the southern west bank near hebron on monday afternoon, destroying 15  dunums of fruit groves and greenhouses.
at the far end of the hill,  created entirely from layers of garbage ploughed over with sand, are makeshift  residences -- planks of wood with tarpaulin or rubbish bags strapped over them  to provide shelter.
witnesses said the  fire was caused by....
the us role | the wall | together news & articles in text format headlines in text format news archives get daily news & articles by e-mail related sites al badia embroideries al badia embroideries is a commercial outlet for traditional palestinian embroidery made by women in the refugee camps of lebanon.
soldiers are involved in cruel episodes of violence, arresting palestinians who denounce settler aggressions or even pushing them out of their own lands.
"i can remember how my kids stood in panic and fear watching the fierce  settlers' attack and seeing their father adnan suffering a heart attack. . .
countering this, the olive season was prosperous...more..
the centre is a hub of nonviolent resistance and its existence is a testament to the spirit that exists in a beleaguered community under occupation.
the 3,000-year-old cemetery suffers from rampant desecration of graves and violence against visitors.
the zionist terrorist  gangs had forcefully occupied my country, razed about 400 palestinian towns,  perpetrated many massacres against their palestinian residents, and evicted  many hundreds of thousands others out of the country into refugee camps.
local official in charge of the  settlements file in the northern west bank ghasan daghlas said the fire was set  in the jabal marwes area, the hill...
in the shade of the olive trees pnn - anera – pnn - abed abdelm’uti abu sneinih couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw the truck pull up to the school in mid-july with more than a dozen 30-year-old olive trees....
in ramallah, on a sliver of land inside the occupied west bank, its possible to imagine what palestinian freedom might feel like.
e-mail homes and livelihoods gone in an instant in  gaza: 11 mar 2010 - israeli bulldozers destroyed three homes and 17 dunams of  agricultural land in eastern khan younis on 18 february.
soldiers abandon palestinian farmers in kufr qalil 10/25/2010 - international solidarity movement - 24 october - farmers in kufr qalil, near nablus, were scheduled to receive army protection yesterday through the israeli district coordination office (dco), in order to harvest their olives on land near the illegal bracha settlement.
rabbi allows stealing palestinian crops and water pic 7 dec 2009 -
settlers set fire to olive trees in ramallah 2 oct  2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli settlers set fire yesterday to  several olive trees belonging to palestinian families in the north of ramallah  city.
they also said that the israeli troops tore down tents of palestinian  citizens in the village of taweel abu jarwal for the 37th time and delivered 13  demolition orders against homes in an area near the village of umm numeila.
[end] al-habbash calls mosque arson ’war crime’ 12/12/2009 - nablus - ma'an - palestinian minister of endowments and religious affairs mahmoud al-habbash visited the mosque set on fire allegedly by settlers early friday morning in the northern west bank village of yasuf, and described the incident as a "war crime" in a statement issued on saturday following his visit.
israeli bulldozers today destroyed a garden and children’s playground in beit jala, and 100 fruit and olive trees in al walaja, both in the bethlehem district, to make way for the continued construction of their illegal apartheid wall.
“trouble” is all they say.
civil defense crews put out fires across  west bank 7/13/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - palestinian civil  defense forces said they extinguished three fires in agricultural areas of the  northern and eastern west bank on tuesday.
-- see also:call to save the history, culture and heritage of lifta village and palestinian refugees act to save jerusalems lifta village from destruction more.. e-mail syrian forces shoot at protesters in dara’a siege new york times 29 apr 2011 -
despite  condemnation over jerusalem and gaza, israel has boasted of improved conditions  in parts of the west bank.
imemc - thursday march 04, 2010 - 13:07, residents of beit jala town, southern west bank, along with israeli and international supporters chained themselves to olive tree in protest of the israeli built wall on their land.
[uruknet.info] released prisoner: "the  freedom of a people and the freedom of a land are inseparable" uruknet october 21, 2011 -
in nablus, yash adam settlers attacked a palestinian-owned farm noon sunday, chopping down hundreds of olive trees.
[uruknet.info] oxfam: settlers cost farmers over $500,000 this harvest uruknet october 20, 2011 -- israeli settlers have cost palestinian farmers over $500,000 this year by destroying olive trees in the west bank, oxfam and local organizations warned thursday.
the israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday demolished eight palestinian  homes as well as tents and uprooted dozens of olive saplings in different areas  of the occupied negev region.
she  was only three years old when her family was expelled from her original  village, acre.... more..
the delegation was received by dr sulaiman khalil, general coordinator of the scientific centers at an-najah, along with dr hassan abu qa’oud and dr munqeth shtayeh from the faculty of agriculture, and dr nidal za’tar, director of the chemical and biological analysis center.
related:in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees
-chris bandak, a palestinian  christian from bethlehem was just 21 when he was abducted by the israeli  occupation forces.
among the gentle slopes of cypress-covered hills near the west bank city of hebron is an anomaly, a stinking garbage dump that is workplace and home to dozens of men and boys.
local sources said that the israeli soldiers who came along with the settlers threatened the students...
open border, 1000-year-old olive trees, new israeli stun guns mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: gaza travelers sought as gaza terminal empties quickly reuters 28 may -- "is there anyone who wants to travel?" asked a black-uniformed hamas policeman at a cafe near the border terminal gate.
he knows everything.
israeli settlers broke car windows tuesday evening  and cut down olive trees hours after four israelis were killed in a shooting  near a west bank settlement in hebron, an official said.
the pictures – aerial shots, action shots, urban still lifes, crafted but realist character studies – work as hard as the words.
in order to achieve  this the israeli forces launched a series of military and militia attacks on  the village including the burning of the mukhtar’s (head of the village)  house on the 11th of january 1948, and two days later 20 houses close to the  entry of the city (khalittarha) were blown up.... --
by surrounding settlements uruknet september 27, 2010 - the village of burin is located less than 10 kilometers south of nablus in the occupied west bank.
i was stunned that  two dozen people could pose such a threat to israel that the army would resort  to using live rounds of ammunition against us.
butchers displayed their wares, children laughed and kicked their  footballs about and the cries for freedom echoed off the walls.
the hot tear gas canisters set fire to bil'in's olive fields several  places.
israeli settlers torched acres of land near nablus  on sunday, a palestinian official said.
palestinian  civil defense officials in bethlehem said 20 dunums were completely burnt,  while the other 50 sustained partial damage.
we had a demonstration in al-walaja on sunday morning (23 may 2010) which went smoothly.
a high proportion of the revenue  he made from the gambling industry has been used to demolish palestinian homes,  raze ancient olive trees and fund jewish settlements.
latest in a series of similar allegationsisraeli settlers set fire to a palestinian car in the northern west bank on wednesday,. . .
the "olive revolution" was expressed mainly in friday demonstration in qalandiya.
the "dignite al  karama" is so far the only boat in a planned flotilla organized by  pro-palestinian activists to set sail from....
the settlers came from the illegal settlement of bracha, yitzhar and from the outpost located on another hilltop.
i informed them that we were heading for gaza port, that we were in  international waters and had no intention of entering israeli waters.
"we were impressed by their commitment to peaceful political action, and their success in challenging the wall that unjustly separates the people of bil'in from their land and their olive trees.
tamir decided to live in the h2 are, for two reasons, as he said: the economic reason, which is important, but not the most important; and because he considered that if palestinians give up, the settlers will occupy more palestinian houses untill arrives the moment when there will not be one palestinian in the h2 area.
julian borger: obama plays it (electorally) safe the... settlers destroy 60 olive trees in west bank village wafa israeli army detains citizens and increases checkpoints and  presence in villages pnn - the israeli army detained citizen  baha’
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has seen a troubling rise...
real people - whole generations - of palestinians are on the verge of being locked into another decade of protracted and violent military occupation.
president obama began a new effort wednesday to coax israelis and palestinians toward peace, telling middle east leaders on the eve of renewed negotiations that with sustained american help, a comprehensive deal can be sealed within a year.
fayyad was  joined in deir al ghusun by tulkarem governor talal dweikat, pa agriculture  minister ismail daiq, and farmers and residents of al karak, a village close to  the separation....
settlers cut more than 100  olive trees near salfit imemc - a number of fundamentalist israeli  settlers cut on friday more than 100 palestinian olive trees, including some  ancient roman trees that belong to residents of yasouf and jam’een towns,  near the central went bank district of salfit. ...
this was my second  buffer zone protest.
the questions went something like this: so what now?
masri said there was some  confusion over the trees, explaining that pine trees near the city were  actually in area c, a.... related:rawabi implicates pa in zionist project israel & palestine: breaking the silence david  shulman,  2/6/2011 what is a  palestinian state worth?, by sari nusseibeh, harvard university press, 248 pp.,  $19.95 occupation of the territories: israeli  soldier testimonies 2000–2010, by breaking the silence, jerusalem, 431 pp.
why i support the olympia co-op boycott rabbi lynn gottlieb, mondowiess, israeli occupation archive 8/4/2010 dear friends, the olympia food co-op boycott of israeli products (except for fair trade olive  oil) has generated much controversy and emotion.
"the family lives in the village of burin, south of nablus, a kilometer north of the yitzhar settlement.
east jerusalem’s armenian ceramic art tikun olam -
settlers have escalated their attacks on... [uruknet.info] gaza olive trade recovers slowly from siege, attacks uruknet october 31, 2011 - seventy-five-year-old khaled ali al-farra leaned on a stick as he waited at the olive oil extraction plant near the entrance of his home town of khan younis in the gaza strip.
by lillian rosengarten i am a jew symbolic of the carnage of gaza.
mondoweiss - the headline sounds like the beginning of a bad joke but it is an unfortunate reality of life in the west bank.
a delegation included official from the gaza social responsibility fund, mohammad saleem, rafiq falouji from the company that supplies the fabric, head of the solidarity mission, maha abu ramadan, and director general of cultural contributions in the communications group, anwar mahila.
the israeli  occupation authority (ioa) razed a palestinian home in tur village in the  mountain of olives in occupied jerusalem on wednesday and destroyed 20 olive  trees, local sources said.
the rest were destroyed during the 2008-9 war, much of it uprooted from white phosphorous and other chemicals.
olive season absorbs unpaid employees, reducing  unemployment in the 4th quarter of 2006 ma’an news agency  2/7/2007 bethlehem – the report of the "labour force"  quarterly survey for the fourth quarter of 2006 has been published.
by international solidarity movement - gaza
protesters marched from the nativity church in bethlehem towards the checkpoint near rachel’s tomb.
in  memory of the fifth year since the death of yaser arafat, who was poisoned by  the israeli army, villagers of al-ma'sara gathered today along with israeli and  international activists in protest against the illegal apartheid wall and  settlement building.
the story is one that has become  engrained in the history of the city.
yasur helicopter: a history of splendid service  - and deadly collisions ha'aretz 26 jul 2010 -
more.. e-mail israeli settlers uproot olive trees in nablus imemc - 7
settlers chop down 500  trees in nablus uruknet march 4, 2011 -- settlers chopped down  more than 500 olive trees owned by palestinians in the west bank district of  nablus on friday, palestinian authority officials said.
in  large sections of shuhada street, the israeli army also enforces a ban on  pedestrian traffic.
uruknet september 25, 2011 - dozens of israeli settlers uprooted sunday morning more than 400 olive trees in the towns of qosrah and douma, south of city of nablus.
more.. e-mail israeli forces detain 5 people  overnight 11/13/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
one explanation for the violent evolution that took place over the past two months is the end of israels ten month partial settlement freeze on 26 september 2010.
residents of an  illegal outpost "waged war on olive trees uprooting 270...
it wasnt so easy to get there; the israeli army had closed off the area on every side, and we literally had to crawl through the olive groves, just beneath one of the armys roadblocks, before we managed to reach the village.
from the funnel, a conveyor belt carries the olives to the washer.
but we are not  leaving.
more.. holy land olive oil following the volunteer phase of the project, holy land olive oil elected to organize as a for-profit enterprise to sustain the market for palestinian olive oil in the us and... more..
related:israeli missile strikes beit hanoun: click for images resistance is fertile: palestine's eco-war 11/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - james brownsell, al jazeera english - after uprooting thousands of olive trees, israel's latest plantation may pose a fire risk to its own citizens.
the army  failed to provide the farmers with adequate... [uruknet.info] ngo:  settlers destroyed 2,600 olive trees in october uruknet november  1, 2011 --
the trees  are located in palestinian orchards isolated behind the annexation wall.
the military trial of the four men charged with the death of italian international solidarity movement activist vittorio arrigoni continued in gaza city today.
the operation took place....
the elderly  woman, who says she does not like to talk about politics, said that she sells  her lettuce in bethlehem, and when it’s not lettuce season she does the  same with cucumbers and eggplant.
before ignatiuss article, i had seen no one allude to the fact that much about this crime-stopper tale had come from the cia.
demonstrators, made up of palestinian, israeli and international activists, proceeded from bil'in mosque to the fence.
minister isma'il d'eiq told ma'an on saturday that rather than fix  prices, the ministry.... abbas: our wounded hands still capable of  holding olive branch ha'aretz - palestinian president accuses  israel of long list of grievances during address before united nations general  assembly. abbas: our wounded hands still capable of holding olive  branch ha'aretz 25 sep 2010 - palestinian president accuses israel  of long list of grievances during address before united nations general  assembly.
we are walking through the land because israeli  soldiers are blocking the road ahead.
to a large extent, the anniversary will be a rather  esto-centric, self-congratulatory affair.
of course, we were not a physical threat, i imagine the israeli soldiers laughed at us as we turned and headed back.
israeli police on wednesday razed a palestinian house in occupied east jerusalem, shortly before the owner arrived home with a court order halting the demolition.
this recent change of approach from the israeli  military towards internationals appears to have coincided with a strong  international presence at a olive harvest within the ‘h2’ zone during  which israeli soldiers refused palestinians’ their inherent right to  harvest their own land.
my  grandmother’s trees changed the face of palestine mondoweiss  - 6 mar 2010 - peter belmont writes: here’s an interesting (if a bit  long-winded) pdf file law-professor article on the israeli government and  israeli settlers’ attacks on palestinian olive-trees, including a  discussion of the cultural meaning of olive-trees to palestinians.
today  the trees have been uprooted, the plants destroyed.
it will also be an occasion for numerous speeches and newspaper articles on how our independence was won back, whether this is "the estonia that we wanted," and what it means for estonia to be an independent country in a globalized world.
residents say settlers behind torched  grove 11/16/2010 - hebron (ma'an) --
the weather was still very kind to us and we made better progress than expected.
olive harvest reaps animosity in west bank, olive harvest reaps animosity in west bank aljazeera 11 oct 2011 - netanyahu has bowed to political pressure over illegal jewish settlements on private palestinian land, reports say.
the demonstration protested the illegal seizure of valuable agricultural land  and the january 9th, 2010 uprooting of hundreds of the village resident's olive  trees by the hallamish (neve zuf) settlement located on highway 465, opposite  an nabi salih.
settlers burn down olive trees wafa settlers uproot olive trees, grapevines, plum trees near hebron imemc - wednesday august 24, 2011 - 06:10, dozens of extremist israeli settlers of the beit ayin illegal colony, north of beit umamar, north of the southern west bank city of hebron, attacked on tuesday palestinian orchards and farmlands and uprooted dozens of olive trees, plum trees, and grapevines in wad abu al reesh area.
the group sent a letter to high-ranking  officials to remind them of israel's obligation under international law to  protect residents of territory which it occupies, a statement said.... calendar of collective olive harvest initiatives stop the  wall - the anti-apartheid wall campaign and its popular committees are  coordinating collective efforts to safeguard the annual olive harvest.
settlers harvest palestinian olives 9/20/2010 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers began harvesting palestinian  olives on monday in the northern west bank district of qalqiliya and nablus, a  palestinian authority official said.
israeli police join settler pogrom at anatot, 23 israeli, palestinian activists injured tikun olam - israeli settlers have celebrated the second day of the new year of 5772 in the only way they know how, by a pogrom which drew the blood of palestinians and israeli peace activists who’d come to a palestinian village to help a local landowner plant olive...
dozens of trees were uprooted earlier on thursday, near the central west bank city of ramallah. ...
by sarah harlan washington - activist ali dahmash , who describes himself as "originally palestinian, jordanian by nationality," through his blog under my olive tree , has taken on jordan's ills, using social media to raise awareness and... "beware of small states":
wadi  qana farmland being polluted by settlement sewage 7/31/2010 -  international solidarity movement - ism and iwps (international women's peace  service) -
israeli occupation forces uprooted today tens of olive trees in al-loja town, in west of the west bank city of bethlehem.
when the protesters arrived at the checkpoint they appear to have caught the israelis totally off guard even though the march that was sponsored by the palestinian ngo holy land trust was publicized using local media for the past week.
police spokesman mickey rosenfeld said the homes had been illegally built and were destroyed in line with a court ruling issued 11 years ago.
in some streets palestinians are allowed to walk but not drive,  forcing them to manually lug heavy supplies such as gas canisters and food.
there were random checkpoints and inspections, sometimes in the middle of the night, such as occurred in umm fagarah.
she and her family had already... a day
some the offered concessions constitute clear abandonment of palestinian national constants and other long-standing palestinian positions.
alongside its many successes, the american-made craft also has a long list of  accidents that claimed dozens of soldiers' lives.
local sources said that dozens of settlers carrying machine guns stormed yesterday night agricultural lands belong to ahmed al-wahesh and uprooted hundreds of olive trees before their withdrawing... salaam fayyad offers 'pragmatic' olive branch to hamas the national 1 mar 2011 -
even during the current economic crisis, when  american tax-paying citizens are losing their jobs, losing their homes, the  majority are without medical benefits.... --
i went picking with my mother and father, added bursa, also 9-years-old.
10 - today a family in the village of salim, southeast of nablus, was prevented from harvesting their olives for a second time this year.
unsurprisingly, ros-lehtinen has been rewarded handsomely for her die-hard support of israel by some of the most powerful pro-israeli individuals and lobby groups in the united states.
the colonel has ceased acting on behalf of the israeli army and now represents private entrepreneurs who want to build 14 thousand housing units for 45 thousand jewish souls.
soldiers present used violent force to remove palestinian, israeli and international activists who attempted to prevent the destruction.
the  minister announced...
local sources reported monday that israeli soldiers are currently surrounding the al walaja village, near bethlehem, and are uprooting dozens of olive trees in order to construct a section of the illegal annexation wall in the area.
the demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of palestinian land for approximately one hour before soldiers violently broke up the... wasteland in al walajeh: israeli military destruction of farmland international solidarity movement 9/7/2011 on tuesday september 6th local palestinians from the village of al walajeh gathered with international activists to protest the building of the illegal separation barrier as well as the destruction of ancient olive trees.
, human rights  organisation bt selem has released footage of israeli settlers from the yitzhar  settlement in the west bank setting fire to fields near olive orchards  belonging to palestinians in the nearby villages of burin and huwara.
history chokes on fresh episodes and swallows whatever old ones it can.”
it is a metaphor that has repeated itself from joshuas encircling of jericho, to the berlin wall and its remaining east side gallery, to garth hewitts ballad: theyve cancelled christmas in bethlehem - about the stranglehold the wall has placed on both day-to-day life and religious pilgrimage in the place where jesus the prince of peace was born 2,000 years ago.
a2a_config || {}; a2a_config.linkname =
settlers torch olive orchard in hebron uruknet march 13, 2010 - a group of fundamentalist jewish settlers burnt on thursday at night an olive orchard in safa village, north west of hebron, in the southern part of the west bank.
her brother bassem was shot and killed by an israeli  soldier at a protest in the village just under two years ago.
both sides have been cut down, poisoned or torched.
what can i say about such a well written book that has not already been said: well crafted, thought provoking, illuminating, enlightening, informative….most importantly fast times in palestine highlights the essential humanity of palestinians and their struggle with the constant oppression of israeli society that surrounds all facets of their lives.
the sufan family has experienced harassment from the settlement almost from the. . .
and it's a growing movement, with more than  120 international volunteers arriving in bethlehem governorate alone to assist  with this year's harvest.
climbing over a heap of withered branches in his olive grove on a rocky hillside near the village of burin, the palestinian farmer said they...
according to the man, settlers live in a world of no consequence as if removed from the normal social contract of western societies.
the entire book was probably farmed out to some neo-con boiler room operation.
desmond tutu calling for immediate release  of bil’in activist abdallah abu rahmah 12/25/2009 -  international solidarity movement - 24 december - elders' chair, archbishop  desmond tutu, has expressed his deep concern about the arrest and indictment of  abdallah abu rahmah of bil'in and has called for his unconditional release.
tubeleh said the confiscation was undertaken in coordination with pa security forces, after he was informed by a colleague that a nablus shop was selling the counterfeit olive oil, which was labeled as originating from the palestinian al-mansha town.
lasting agriculture versus lasting occupation palestine monitor - 1 feb 2010 -
construction of jewish neighborhood in east jerusalem underway ynet news - construction commenced on wednesday on a new residential jewish neighborhood atop the mount of olives ridge in east jerusalem, near hebrew university.
[ army gas canisters set fire to palestinian land 7/15/2011 - jerusalem (ma'an) -- israeli soldiers fired gas canisters at residents in the town of qatana, near jerusalem, on thursday,causing fires which spread through olive and fig groves, reports say.
security forces identified the father as an, and said the 40-year-old threatened to torch his son mohammed, 14, when he....
with a mind for business, she left idna to seek out the promising, new, international market....
she turned 93 last friday, according to the hebrew calendar.
police to open new station on mount of olives jerusalem post 31 jan 2012 -
the human rights organization yesh din says not one of the 69 complaints filed during the past four years on damage to palestinians' trees in the west bank has resulted in an indictment.
they also warned that there was a high possibility we would be arrested.
most fridays there are dramatic confrontations  between the soldiers and the villagers protesting this land grab and the other  difficulties of life under occupation.
shift - fatima mohammed yassen,  aged 49, is a farmer from bil'in.
he said there were no reports of injuries or damages, however.
im sitting in a hall among lots of people, many of them patients and traders.
this is how much it meant to mohammed el massry, a 20  year old student in al azhar university to enter a high risk area to help  farmers begin the olive harvest and help maintain land that used to be the  breadbasket of the palestinian economy.
ghassan daghlas, who holds the pa's northern settlements portfolio, said residents of the illegal yitzhar settlement chopped down 45 olive trees on land belonging to burin, a palestinian village near nablus.
jewish settlers destroy 200 olive trees in nablus pic 26  oct 2010 - citizens in deir al-hatab village were stunned at the sight of 200  of their olive trees damaged after jewish settlers poured sewage water from the  nearby allon moreh settlement into their land.
it presents a synopsis of the violations of international law committed by israeli settlers and israeli occupation forces during the months of the harvest, and in one case of land confiscation, before the start of the season.
mohsen abu eita, the ministry's under-secretary for natural resources,  asserted in a statement that israeli rabbis permit the settlers to steal the  palestinian olive trees and crops...
was there a time when you felt you were so close to losing your own life?
we are  going to bil’in in order to protest the confiscation of the village’s
1000 square metres) of land, all of them filled with olive trees.
the popular committee asked for a group of internationals to assist them in planting olive trees on the village land which is close to an army out....
abbas' position isn't as weak as it may appear palestine chronicle: 25 aug 2010 -
rabbi dan mertzbach, 55, laid to rest at mount of olives cemetery in jerusalem; survived by wife and 5 children.
serry slammed for equating israeli and palestinian  'terror' jeruslalem post 26
olive oil production in 2010 increased by 400% more than in 2009 wafa syria protesters demand release of detainees la times 13 apr 2011 -
the park is the first built since israel's war on gaza in december and january of 2008-9.
background few villages  capture the tragedy of the nakba (the 1948 dispossession of the palestinian  people) quite like lifta.
7 of us rode with mahmoud on his tractor as it jumped up and down the street filled with un-repaired potholes.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 40 olive trees near nablus imemc - 23
solidarity actions with palestinian olive harvesters alternative information center - olive harvest season is a time of personal, political, and economic significance in palestine, as agricultural villages across the west bank work hard to harvest their valuable crops and protect their lands from settler attacks.
no one was reported injured in the fires that  authorities said broke out at a house and in an olive grove.
lives and livelihoods at stake: palestinians again confronted by violence and repression during the annual olive harvest 12/16/2009 - al-haq - al-haq is pleased to present its report on the 2009 olive harvest: lives and livelihoods at stake: palestinians again confronted by violence and repression during the annual olive harvest.
israel vs. free press: uri blau faces seven years in  prison for practicing investigative journalism tikun olam - uri  blau: shining a lens on israeli society haaretz’ uri blau, one of  israel’s finest investigative journalists, faces seven years in prison  for doing nothing more than practicing his craft in a country that upholds the  values of a national security state above those of press...
at the time he did not know whether the wall would go east of the house and let him belong to jerusalem with all the practical benefits, or if it would go west of the house, and forever shut him out of jerusalem.
we crossed from bethlehem to occupied east jerusalem with a wave of an israeli soldier’s hand (who did not bother to check papers of an israeli car.
since the first construction  workers and soldiers arrived to begin clearing land for the wall almost four  years ago, locals say they have received an increasing number of eviction  orders, arrests, threats and intimidation from idf soldiers.
house  foreign affairs committee chairwoman ileana ros-lehtinen (r. fl) is one of the  worst," writes us columnist stephen lendman.
soon after the.... related:palestinian dies after run over by settler near salfit settlers uproot thirty olive trees near nablus imemc - a group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted at least thirty olive trees on monday.
rabbi yitzhak shapira’s
tamir said that whenever his children leave house to go to school  or other place he is worried, because the settlers can attack them.
each of them passed into the hands of opposing sides  during the war of independence.
but -- unusually for a mere private soldier --
air raid shatters holiday for gaza family 11/22/2010 - jared malsin - deir al-balah, gaza strip (ma'an) --
for three days they visited the fields, starting very early in the morning and picking the fruits of their land.
al-agha also  described the palestinian olive oil as a strategic commodity of the national  economy due its high quality taste, color and odor.
the electronic intifada nablus palestinian olive farmers face violence from both the settlers and the israeli military during the harvest season.more i wish to tell you about gaza palestine chronicle:
located in the old city of  bethlehem, the union strives to meet the needs of the bethlehemites of all  ages, organizing luncheons for senior citizens, activities for youth, and  income-generation projects for women through food and craft production.
[uruknet.info] breaking: harsh  israeli response to protest in palestinian village uruknet july  31, 2011 - a group of about 30 international, palestinian and israeli  demonstrators demonstrated in front of israeli construction equipment sunday  morning, in an effort to prevent the uprooting of olive trees to make way for  the continued construction of the separate wall that is to surround this  village located just south of jerusalem.
there were no arrests made.
the israeli air force fired a missile  into a beit hanoun residential neighborhood in north gaza early sunday morning.
the palestinian agricultural relief committees announced on monday  an upcoming campaign to protect west bank farmers from attacks by israeli  settlers during the olive harvest season.
my gazan sisters are inspirational.
the capture  of jerusalem during the six-day war (june 5-10, 1967) between israel, egypt,  jordan, and syria was not fully anticipated, given the united nations presence  in the city and the accords that had been reached through the 1949 armistice  agreements following the 1948 arab-israeli war.
[ ramadan goes down under rubble
“the aim of plowing is to confiscate the land of abu al-qoron  close to jba’out and bytar alit... palestinian and israeli  security forces in beit jala and action:bethlehem/haifa etc palestine note 25 may 2010 - (occupation forces uprooting olive trees in  nahhalin this monday morning; call me or email me for details)
that... 250 olive trees planted by volunteers near osh grab 2/12/2010 - international solidarity movement - international middle east media  center, 12 february - following the beginning of construction of a new  watchtower at the site of the former military base, this week, residents of  beit sahour and international volunteers gathered at the surrounding farmlands,  on friday, to cultivate the land, planting 250 olive trees.
sunbula,  2005 traditional palestinian embroidered dress, from the palestinian embroidery web site -  http://palestinianembroider.tripod.com products: embroidered placemats, cushion covers and bags.
at one point in the day, the  sound of israeli f-16s could be heard overhead.
o utspoken hollywood director says new film  aims to put adolf hitler, who he has called an ‘easy scapegoat’ in  the past, in his due historical context.
akram na'san, a resident of the village of al-mughayyir,  north-east of ramallah, discovered on monday morning that approximately 260  olive seedlings which he planted recently were uprooted and destroyed.
hanan’s eight-year battle with yitzhar  settlers 1/7/2010 - nablus - ma'an -
colonel tirzeh  is not just anybody.
there will be hardly any olives for his family
suspended in time, lifta under threat uruknet march 25, 2011 -
more.. e-mail israeli army raids bil'in and burns  olive tree imemc - 26
wadi qana is a valley south west of nablus where numerous springs  supply water to the surrounding palestinian villages.
israeli forces previously confiscated one and half dunums of her land, awad said, to build a tunnel connecting jerusalem settlement blocs with the kfar etzion settlement in bethlehem.
it is the magic of bali at it's  highest.
collective abuse, gaza fishermen attacked likes vermin by israeli killer boats.
the olive... [uruknet.info] a harvest of tears: palestinian  agriculture continues to suffer as a result of ruthless israeli policies uruknet october 19, 2011 - it is olive harvest season once again  in the occupied palestinian territories (opts) and something unusual is taking  place, something unique to this region.
although they are not among... jnf  plants trees to uproot bedouin uruknet israel has exploited the  country's natural environment for its own political ends for decades.
the palestinian prime minister salaam fayyad's overture to hamas did not make israel or the us very happy, but he says he is confident his agenda will bring positive change.
while the palestinian olive harvest is a tradition that stretches back countless generations, the phenomenon of settler violence during the olive harvest is only as old as the illegal israeli settlements themselves.
ghassan  doughlas, who holds the settlements file for the northern west bank, said  settlers from yizhar settlement torched trees on land belonging to madama and  asira villages south of nablus.
preamble in the name of god, the compassionate, the merciful, palestine, the  land of the three monotheistic faiths, is where the palestinian arab people was  born, on which it grew, developed and excelled.
gaza olive harvest begins in the beit hanoun buffer zone while  strawberry picker in beit lahiya is shot by israeli snipers international solidarity movement 10/9/2010
but before these kilos can be poured on  pasta, heated to fry, or... intimidation continues in susiya as  peace activists are arrested palestine monitor:
instead of uprooting trees, they...
israeli forces accompanied the settlers in the "khilet hamad" area in the northern jordan valley.
around 95% of the harvest is used to make  olive oil, with the remainder for pickles, table olives, and....
ahmad  jaradat, alternative information center 1/18/2011 the alternative information center monitored and  recorded israeli settler attacks and violations during the final two months of  2010.
this highway was built on newly confiscated palestinian village lands.
we love olives, added other children, who gathered around.
police  officers and military officials often deny palestinian complaints against  settlers: as commander of the israeli military police, meir ohana, admitted  last month, only 6-9% of complaints by palestinian residents are taken into  consideration.
during those same years, the jordanians destroyed part of the jewish cemetery to build a gas station.
to us, olive trees and the shade in which our  grandparents rested or lovers used to secretly meet weave together sweet  pre-dispossession memories.
'your sisters’ blood wasn’t wasted’’ rachel cooke, the observer, the guardian 1/16/2011 two years ago, israeli shells fell on dr abuelaish's family home in gaza, killing three of his young daughters and their cousin.
its economic ties with jerusalem became strong as  nearly half of lifta's cultivated land was planted with cereal, wheat, barley,  olives and various fruits.
daghlas denounced what he termed the  continuous aggression, particularly in villages near settlements.
we will never forget the hurt of 3 years ago, the criminal onslaught that we lived through, the blood of over 1400 murdered men, women and hundreds of children running through the streets of gaza, between the rubble, soaking our beds and etched on our minds.
oct 2010 - israeli  occupation authority barred palestinian farmers from reaching their fields  while extremist jewish settlers opened fire at farmers and set fire to olives  groves.
meanwhile,  israeli soldiers detained a pal media journalist on saturday reporting on a  demonstration organized by farmers from the at-tuwani village to protest the  recent destruction of an olive grove near the israeli settlement outpost of  havot ma'on, the christian peacemaking team said in a statement.
"this morning, an idf soldier was lightly injured when an explosive device was detonated against a force patrolling the israeli side of the central gaza strip's security fence," a military spokesman told ma'an.
oct 2011 - j'lem municipality  says building under freeze order but being treated sensitively; police say  building violations are city's responsibility.
fire crews control orange grove fire 5/25/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - palestinian firefighters said they  were able to gain control over a number of blazes across the northern west bank
around 25  palestinians and a similar number of international observers marched from the  village at 12:20 pm today and attempted to reach olive groves on palestinian....
the expanding no go zone imposed by israeli bullets and bulldozers constantly erode the amount of land left for palestinians to farm in gaza.
by oliver loode estonia will mark the 20th anniversary of the restoration of its independence in august of this year.
we want very little a sip of fresh water, a small piece of bread, perhaps an olive again, if the trees have not been smashed, a door my key will fit, so i can go home, quiet, so there are no more drones, and when you come by, in your heavily laden uniforms, every now and then a smile, and from allah, a bit of sunshine, even some rain, just small things, not much a bit of fresh air, without the smell of gunfire, rockets or phosphorous, just a sky clear of jets and rockets, so that we may see a sun that wanders off late in the afternoon and a moon that whispers, we shall sleep now, praying, tomorrow will be a better day - (c: sam hamod, 2010) sam hamod is a poet...
the alleged attackers were seen heading in the direction of the nearby elon moreh settlement after setting fire to the trees on land owned by....
on saturday morning, salima ewes, 73, and her family found 40 olive trees had been cut down in their field in the northern west bank village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city.
they then warned us that they would intercept  us, that this could be dangerous for the crew and damaging for the boat.
attack  comes in response to recent rocket fire from gaza into israel; precise targets  identified; all air craft safely returned to bases.
international activists support olive harvest in surif palestine solidarity project 2 nov 2011 -
pink irises, red  puppies, and yellow flowers weave interesting patterns among the endless green  carpet underneath the fruiting almonds, fig, and loquet trees.
settlers begin construction of housing at east jerusalem yeshiva ha'aretz - new construction starts on 18 apartments around the beit orot  yeshiva on the mount of olives.
still, i must tell you that  the kites are different here in a way that is quite striking to the outsider, a  difference that sets them apart from the ones kids fly back home in america.
israel started the six-day war through a surprise air strike on egyptian air force bases.
the current plan  for al-walaja will see the town surrounded on all sides by the wall.
an israeli military court in the west bank  has extended the detention of two students seized a week ago in the northern  west bank, their family said.
journalist arrested at peaceful tree-planting action 1/23/2010 - international solidarity movement - christian peacemaker team - on 23 january, israeli soldiers declared palestinian land south of the israeli settlement outpost havot ma'on (hill 833) a closed military zone, then arrested a palestinian journalist from pal media.
in  most of the settler attacks in march and april 2011, the connection between  settlers and israeli soldiers is evident.
bush didn't write no damn book palestine  chronicle: 11 nov 2010 -
tamir knows that he and his family cannot harvest all the olives in one day, so they need the help of volunteers, however, he told me that the presence of volunteers does not solve everything, because the olives can be harvested in one day, but in the other hand there is more tenssion, because the presnece of the soldiers and settlers near his house, increases.
besieged gaza, occupied palestine,  international solidarity movement 12/27/2011 we, palestinians of gaza, 3 years on from the  22-day long massacre in israel’s operation ‘cast lead’, are  calling on international civil society to make 2012 the year when solidarity  with us in palestine captures the spark of the revolutions around the arab  world and never looks back.
if...more settlers attack olive pickers in nablus imemc - 15 oct 2010 - friday october 15, 2010 - 11:34, israeli settlers  attacked, on friday morning, palestinian olive pickers, and fired rounds of  live ammunition at them, near the village of 'azmout, in the northern west bank  city of nablus.
settlers torch hundreds of nablus olive trees 6/2/2010 - nablus "“ ma'an "“ residents of the illegal  yitzhar settlement set fire to more than 100 dunums of palestinian lands near  urif village, southwest of nablus on wednesday afternoon, palestinian officials  said.
since al jab’a only has about 1000  inhabitants and lacks a hospital, markets, and high school, the restriction of  movement means that everyone has to go two to three kilometers by foot in order  to do their basic shopping and to reach school, work and healthcare.
the demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of  palestinian land for approximately one hour before soldiers violently....
settlers launch new attack 7/27/2010 - nablus - ma'an - on  monday evening, settlers launched their second attack of the day on a northern  west bank village, setting fire to land and olive trees and throwing rocks.
for over 80 years, the same family in south tel aviv has been meticulously crafting rams’ horns and shipping them all over israel and worldwide.
the landscape reminded me of home, of california, with its thorny tumbleweeds and cactus.
then he spoke about the dragon that was approaching, the dead...more air strikes hit targets in the gaza strip 8/2/2011 - gaza city (ma'an) --
for now, however, american news reports continue to provide excruciating details about the atrocity.
the general manager of the palestinian organization of marketing centers, zuheir al-eseily, also took part in the opening ceremony.
closure obstacles can be staffed checkpoints, roadblocks, electric fences with barbed wire, and more.
the unidentified.... israeli  military 'superiors' interfere in burin's olive harvest 10/12/2011  - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west  bank -
"we intend to leave around july," a member of the  organization, kate leitrer said.
the demolished structures  included family homes, children's classrooms and shelters for the village's  livestock.
another week of pausing, breaths held, as israeli tanks the color of sand moved nearby along the buffer zone, another week of children frightened at the sound of roaring f-16s, another week below the watchful eye of the drone.
this transformation was a difficult one for many, but certainly not all, my parent’s and grandparent’s generation.
available land has been steadily  decreasing since 1949, when the israeli government began building a railroad  through the village.
much to their joy, the palestinians will discover that lieberman has relinquished his house in a colony on the west bank, which israel has occupied since the 1967 arab-israeli war.
many farmers face restrictions, imposed by the israeli defence forces, on when and where they can harvest due to the proliferation of israeli settlements and outposts.
the groves of hares are those classically beautiful terraced groves, rambling down the hillside, with lovely sandstone terrace and boundary walls, and ploughed and weeded dry earth.
when i contacted the israeli activists who regularly  participate in the nabi saleh demonstrations, i was warned that it was  dangerous and that there was no way to know in advance when we would get home.
the palestinian agricultural relief committees released a report on tuesday  which found that over 2,600 olive trees were destroyed by settlers in october.
the sheikh jarrah solidarity movement, a leftist activist outfit based in  jerusalem, posted the embedded video on twitter, claiming that it shows a sound  grenade thrown by settlers at palestinians this morning.... more.. e-mail israeli military and zionists ambush olive harvest in beit furik 10/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - international  solidarity movement, west bank - the palestinian family el jobor was  unsuccessful in their attempt to harvest olives today as they met resistance  from jewish settlers and israeli soldiers originating out of the itamar  settlement.
the delegation was received  by dr sulaiman khalil, general coordinator of the scientific centers at  an-najah, along with dr hassan abu qa’oud and dr munqeth shtayeh from the  faculty of agriculture, and dr nidal za’tar, director of the chemical and  biological analysis center.
olive yield down but farmers look to next year’s
i asked the children why they had come.
olive season absorbs unpaid employees, reducing unemployment in the 4th quarter of 2006 ma’an news agency 2/7/2007 bethlehem
fires broke  out near the communities of sakhnin and karmiel, dir el-assad and abu  sna’an, but did not pose any danger to residents.
these aims have been pursued through...more..
palestinians ready to put statehood on backburner in favour of peace talks the guardian 21 sep 2011 - obama causes anger with veto pledge and staunch backing of israel but abbas continues to hold out olive branch • read the day's developments as they happened •
ghassan daghlas, the head of a... palestinian olive harvest begins  in west bank, gaza jeruslalem post 10
the attendees discussed coordination of the project, which aims to develop the quality of palestinian olive oil in order to better market it for export to other countries.more.. e-mail artas lettuce festival kristen ess, palestine news network 4/10/2008 hundreds of palestinians spent thursday afternoon in bethlehem’s artas village, surrounded by the mountains and an italian-built monastery.
twelve weeks earlier, nadia, his wife of 21 years, had died  suddenly of leukaemia and ever since, every day had dawned black.
“there’s a major  lobby in the united states,” stone said, adding that “they are  hard...more ramallah: settlers burn olive trees under military guard 7/23/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - soldiers protected israeli  settlers as they set fire to olive trees in saffa village near the west bank  city ramallah on thursday, witnesses reported.
no one was reported injured in the fires that authorities said broke out at a house and in an olive grove.
rioters broke into the home of the mazar family, trying to set fire to the car of family members trying to escape the violence and then. . .
ambulances and firefighters rushed to burin village to control the flames apparently started by residents of the illegal yizhar settlement, palestinian authority settlement affairs officer ghassan.... yasur helicopter: a history of splendid service - and deadly collisions ha'aretz -
more.. e-mail jerusalem day, 2011 christopher j. lee, jerusalem quarterly file 10/29/2011 autumn, 2011 the story is one that has become engrained in the history of the city.
an israeli military spokeswoman said construction equipment did enter the area, but that it was there "extracting a stuck idf vehicle. " . . . .
settlers burn olive trees near nablus uruknet november 15, 2010 - a group of extremist jewish settlers torched, on sunday, at least 200 palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of salem village, near the northern west bank city of nablus, and also torched a number of nearby farms.
by lillian rosengarten  here in bali trees are 'living beings' for nature, religion and man is one.
the fire, in silwan's  wadi ar-rababa, is located south of jerusalem's old city, and behind the green  line.
residents believe that the attack was carried out by settlers from the outpost of havat ma'on.
israeli forces  detain three journalists across the west bank 1/23/2010 - nablus -  ma'an - israeli forces detained three journalists in separate incidents across  the west bank, as they complied news reports near settlements on saturday.
soldiers stand by as settlers  attack 'asira al-qibliya b'tselem 13 jul 2011 -
mondoweiss - intimidation of palestinians in the israeli-controlled h2 section of hebron continued today as the israeli military and settlers harassed palestinians and international observers as they attempted to pick olives on their land in tel rumeida.
3/15/2010 - international solidarity movement - 14th march -
around the unilaterally imposed israeli buffer zone a 300 metre wide belt of land along the israeli border, farm workers have been picked off by snipers and shelling as a matter of course, often over a kilometer beyond the designated area.
the mikhmas village council condemned the attacks and called...
settlers raze palestinian  olive trees daily star 29 sep 2011 dozens of palestinian olive  trees were destroyed in an attack near the city of hebron, local residents said  thursday, calling it an act of revenge carried out by israeli settlers.
since 2000, the israeli army destroyed 114,000 olive trees.
in a small jerusalem store, nathan serfaty carries the torch of a dying craft - watchmaking.
the old city market in hebron  has turned into a ghost town.
settlers set fire to palestinian crops, iof troops burn olive groves pic - extremist jewish settlers on thursday torched palestinian crops in agricultural land belonging to the villagers of awarta to the south east of the northern west bank city of nablus.
settlers torch olive orchard in hebron uruknet march 13,  2010 - a group of fundamentalist jewish settlers burnt on thursday at night an  olive orchard in safa village, north west of hebron, in the southern part of  the west bank.
while settlers set fire to olive groves pnn - qalqilia - pnn - six palestinian civilians were injured when israeli soldiers attacked a peaceful protest that demanded the opening of the north entrance of qaqila in the northern west bank.
the vandalism occurred in an area adjacent to outposts of the shilo settlement.
the settlers arrived at  the wadi qana spring, as dozens of farmers, who had not been notified of the  visit, were irrigating orange groves, salman reported.
the family's home sits  on the southern tip of the village towards the hill ascending to yitzhar  settlement, and bears the brunt of their violent neighbours' attacks.
a representative of the french foreign  ministry told reporters tuesday that the ongoing detention of zaki and 11 other  palestinians who participated in the non-violent protest was illegal, and their  release was demanded.
oct 2010 - nablus, october 9, (pal telegraph)
have you ever  experienced that scary feeling-except maybe in the movie theatres?
"the idf holds hamas responsible for maintaining the peace and quiet in the gaza strip.
" we will continue to work and build in all  palestinian territories occupied in 1967, paying no attention to the unjust  classifications and the so-called c zones.
the mayor.... israel  denies salfit farmers access to their lands 28 jun 2011 -
they strap olive saplings and water bottles to the back of a donkey....
but it is safe  to say we can add to these reliable astronomical and physical certainties the  fact that israeli settlers will attack palestinian civilians and their olive  groves during the annual fall olive harvest....
claiming nearly 30% of remaining village land, the wall annexes ni'lin farmland for use by the nearby illegal settlement modi'in ilit.
real people - whole generations  - of palestinians are on the verge of being locked into another decade of  protracted and violent military occupation.
around 40 students from different palestinian universities marched onto the land at.... israeli tanks patrol olive farmers in gaza 10/23/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, gaza - olive farmers and volunteers were picking olives on 23 october 2011 when they were circled by two apache helicopters and were faced by four tanks at certain points in the day.
fires destroyed over 200 olive trees and  damaged wheat fields in the villages of al-yamoun and al-arafa in jenin, irtah  in tulkarem, the villages of.... qalqilia: six civilians injured  while settlers set fire to olive groves pnn - qalqilia - pnn - six  palestinian civilians were injured when israeli soldiers attacked a peaceful  protest that demanded the opening of the north entrance of qaqila in the  northern west bank.
every friday morning the army seals off the area and prevents entry and exit for all.
then taking "route 6" north.
main changes in the labour market: the 4th quarter of 2006 experienced essential changes in the labour market, which occurred due to the strike in public sector and the closure of schools.
from toronto to  moscow, cabals of city-dwelling horticulturalists have sprung up in most  population centres with any form of urban anarchist presence.
i met a farmer who had an order for tomatoes from germany.
at the time he did not know whether the wall would  go east of the house and let him belong to jerusalem with all the practical  benefits, or if it would go west of the house, and forever shut him out of  jerusalem.
a very balanced itinerary?
daydreaming in darkness conquered my mind.
the big  sign which welcomes visitors at the entrance has one and so do the two small  plants that are put next to it.
the international al  quds film festival took place between 21 and 23 december ‘09 and film  makers from 11 arab countries showed 52 documentary and feature films, two of  which were made in cooperation with spanish and dutch filming associations.
palestinians resist  settler violence during olive harvest palestine chronicle: 7 nov  2011 -
oct 2010 - source: oxfam awarta man suffers broken  legs after settler pig attack uruknet october 16, 2010 - farmer  ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a  wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his  legs.
settlers attack palestinian farmers in nablus imemc - dozens of israeli settlers attacked, on saturday morning, palestinian farmers in the village of ‘azmout, near the west bank city of nablus, preventing them from harvesting their olive trees, the maan news agency reported. ...
these settlers were responsible for nearly a dozen attacks during last years harvest, when they burned and blocked access to fields and attacked farmers with sticks and stones.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] hummus  and falafel are already "israeli."
witnesses said that a group of israeli settlers vandalized more than 40 olive trees this morning.
therefore, i expect this worrying phenomenon to continue and even escalate." last week, unidentified jewish saboteurs, believed to be affiliated with an underground jewish terror group in the west bank, set the local mosque at the israeli palestinian village of tuba zangariya on fire.
mohammed al-atrash (abu  wajih), the elderly farmer who owned the trees, will receive no compensation  for his loss.
settlers announced their price tag plan after the israeli army dismantled mobile homes in some west bank outposts and settlements.
around 8am that morning, approximately five israeli military bulldozers and upwards of 10 israeli tanks, accompanied by more than 50 foot soldiers, invaded the farming region, according to locals.
[uruknet.info] planting olive trees and keeping hope alive in west bank uruknet february 17, 2012 - fifty supporters of justice arrived  at the occupied territories of palestine on 4th february.
we believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the us copyright law.
during the 1948 war, one of the goals of the jewish armed forces was securing the western exit of the city.
without a doubt, the wind in gaza is stronger than the west bank; maybe because it must work so much harder to keep dreams in the sky.
as the men of iraq  burin sat peacefully at the edge of their village, watching soldiers and  settlers on their terraces and in their olive groves on the opposite hillside,  another group of soldiers approached from the hill immediately above the  village.
day pnn - by  mazin qumsiyeh - the olive and citrus trees were blooming all over palestine on  prisoners’ day.
of them,  approximately 190 were newly planted, and the rest were planted last year...
the sweet voice of my five-year-old yasser this friday morning didn't feel so sweet.
address: 82 south winooski avenue, burlington, vt.
the civil administrations plans will be carried out over the next three to six years.
turath center the turath center is located in historic bethlehem, in the heart of the old town and just a two-minute walk from the church of the nativity at manger square....bethlehem...more..
this year has witnessed a surge in israeli military crackdowns, as  al-walaja joins...
" iof soldiers destroy 4  palestinian water wells pic 28
oct 2010 - a palestinian  old man was injured when zionist settlers attacked palestinian farmers while  harvesting olives south of nablus city on sunday, eyewitnesses reported.
the gravestones on the mount of olives are a fiction.
the minister further asserted that the arsonists necessitated prosecution and punishment in international courts, he said.
[uruknet.info] settlers burn cars, vandalize mosque in nablus area uruknet september 8, 2011 - - israeli settlers uprooted olive  trees, set fire to cars and vandalized a mosque in the nablus area on thursday,  officials said.
apr  2010 - some 300 olive trees belonging to palestinians were uprooted on the  night between monday and tuesday in groves near the village of mihmas, close to  the illegal outpost of migron.
the  existence of an estimated 500 israeli settlers is facilitated by up to 4000  israeli soldiers stations in hebron.
gaza man, 26, dies of heart disease after waiting weeks for an exit permit mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers/ land, property, resource theft & destruction/ethnic cleansing settlers launch attacks on palestinians olive groves in nablus, stealing fruit palestinian sources reported on wednesday that settlers attacked palestinian olive groves in boreen village, in the southern part of nablus....
9% in qalqiliya governorate while the lowest level  was in gaza and deir al-balah governorates at 16.
by sarah harlan  washington - activist ali dahmash , who describes himself as "originally  palestinian, jordanian by nationality," through his blog under my olive  tree , has taken on jordan's ills, using social media to raise awareness and... "beware of small states": journalist david hirst  interviewed electronic intifada: 9 jul 2010 - veteran middle east  correspondent david hirst, author of the seminal work on the palestinian plight  the gun and the olive branch , has a new release:
protesters will gather outside the prison at 12pm, monday 14 december, to protest the persecution and imprisonment of al faqeeh.
it  wasn’t so easy to get there; the israeli army had closed off the area on  every side, and we literally had to crawl through the olive groves, just  beneath one of the army’s roadblocks, before we managed to reach the  village.
salfit farmers report crop damage by wild  pigs 5/3/2010 - salfit - ma'an - a sounder of wild boars destroyed  several dunums of palestinian farm land in the salfit district on sunday, local  farmers said, prompting accusations of settler involvement.
the inquiry follows a long line of similar inspections conducted across the west bank where large quantities of expired goods have been confiscated by the ministry of economy.
andyoutube: live video of ethnic cleansing in the israeli??
at least 45 trees uprooted, "price-tag infiltration" sprayed on boulder; vandalism apparently in response to fatal car accident near kiryat arba.
one year ago, foreign policy magazine placed new york times columnist thomas friedman at number 33 on their list the top 100 global thinkers, noting that he “doesn't just report on events; he helps shape them.”
the quiet that hangs over neighboring olive groves, in the far south of the west bank, is broken here by the shouts of... palestinians eke out living on dump recycling afp, ma’an news agency 3/10/2011 yatta, hebron -- among the gentle slopes of cypress-covered hills near the west bank city of hebron is an anomaly, a stinking garbage dump that is workplace and home to dozens of men and boys.
various heads of state, including president obama, have condemned it.
palestinian popular struggle against home demolitions, olive tree destruction in bethlehem area alternative information center - tuesday, 27 april 2010, one of the fronts of the popular struggle in the west bank is now beit jala, bethlehem district.
al-araj  was released... fires eruptin an olive grove and 2 forests daily star 24 jul 2011
“my children and grandchildren all  lived together in our two-storey house.
12 people armed only with pick axes and hoes, flattened out the bulldozer tracks and deep holes left from uprooted trees, reset two swing sets, and brought in sand by the bucket for the new playground.
this group of volunteers went to help tamir and his  family because they practicaly live surrounded by israeli stettlers.
it was hit-or-miss for this autumn’s olive harvest, but most farmers, many of whom are struggling with rising cost and stagnant profits, have their sights set on next year.
so we traipse through the olive groves, only slightly out of view of the soldiers on the road, and a line by palestinian poet mahmoud darwish comes to mind: "if the olive trees knew the hands that planted them, their oil would become tears." bilin has become a battleground, the surrounding landscape a stage for a risky game of cat and mouse.
around 40 students from different palestinian universities marched onto the land...
he couldn't stand to see the home he build destroyed before his eyes," hanan said.
israeli forces uproot 100 olive trees and ‘arrest’ a farmer’s tractor to extend wall in occupied territories mondoweiss - link to www.jordanvalleysolidarity.org link to stopthewall.org link to english.wafa.ps link to english.wafa.ps link to www.maannews.net link to palestinesolidarityproject.org link to english.wafa.ps link to www.maannews.net link to www.maannews.net link to www.alternativenews.org link to www.haaretz.com link to www.ynetnews.com link to english.wafa.ps link to www.maannews.net link to www.maannews.net link...
may 2010 courtesy: oren ziv - activestills six people were arrested in bil'in on friday during a demonstration to commemorate the 62nd anniversary of al-nakba.
the israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday demolished eight palestinian homes as well as tents and uprooted dozens of olive saplings in different areas of the occupied negev region.
the old city of hebron was divided in two areas: h1 under palestinian control and h2 under israeli contro.
israeli forces on thursday detained a group of journalists and government employees who were helping to harvest olives in a nablus village, a palestinian authority ministry said.
violent settler attacks on previous saturdays leave the villagers and their land threatened.
palestinians 'to march on jerusalem' 8/23/2011 - jerusalem (ma'an) -- palestinians will march on jerusalem from four directions in a coordinated protest organized by the "olive-revolution" movement on the last friday of ramadan, activists said tuesday.
by mats svensson i have visited muhammad around sixty times.
israeli settlers denied allegations tuesday that they flooded a palestinian olive grove with sewage from an illegal settlement in the occupied west bank.
palestinian pharmaceutical company bier ziet sarted a national level campaign recently to plant olive trees all over the palestinian areas under the slogan of "lets make palestine green.
oct 2011 - courtesy: salem-news.com by mazin qumsiyeh /
they were all more or less prepared for ten days of an intense experience; exploring discrimination and separation, hatred and fear.
by eva bartlett *(blog  version longer than published version) “during hard times, we have  survived off olive oil,” says ahmed sourani from the palestinian  agricultural relief committee.
almost immediately, dust kicked up just ahead of us, a warning shot rang out.
settlers harvest palestinian olives 9/20/2010 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers began harvesting palestinian olives on monday in the northern west bank district of qalqiliya and nablus, a palestinian authority official said.
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has seen a  troubling rise in settler attacks.
israeli forces uprooted olive trees in the village of kafr qaddum, east of qalqiliya, on sunday.
"it’s in its original state," patrich said, "because the panel fell face down, protecting its green, blue and gold facade from debris and damage."
the obama  administration fears tough u.s. sanctions against companies doing business in  iran would anger foreign allies.
green almonds  are eaten with a pinch of salt and are addictive.
settlers from the nearby yitzhar settlement ascended upon the village at 2am  and sprayed graffiti, including a star of david and racist slogans across the  the bilal ben rab mosque in the qoza area of the village, said ghassan  doughlas, palestinian authority official in charge of the settlement portfolio  in the northern west bank.
i knew then, instantly, that my entire outlook on the palestinian issue has changed: it is no longer simply a 'situation' faced by the palestinian people, on my laptop screen, safely distant, thousands of miles away.
farmers again  prevented from entering their land 10/22/2010 - international  solidarity movement - salim 20.
the settlers were armedand
locals said a five-year-old planting trees suffered from shock when a tear gas canister detonated beside him.
at-ateera told ma’an.
on 5 may 2002, dozens of armed settlers from the yitzhar settlement attacked the safwan family, setting fire to their home, sending dogs into the home and damaging most of the furniture.
the most common attacks include violent trespassing on palestinian properties during the night, stone throwing at civilians and their homes, physical assaults on farmers, children and women, destruction of all types of properties, burning civilian structures, crops and trees, shooting livestock, poisoning wells, and theft of crops and cutting fruit trees.
perched on a hillock opposite the biblical mount of olives, the cliff offered (still offers) imposing views eastward through the judean desert down to the dead sea and up the mountains of moab across the jordan river; southwards to the church spires of bethlehem; and westwards to the walled old city and the golden dome of the rock.
* an olive nursery set up by in gaza to restore decimated  cultivation.
oct 2010 - zionist settlers  ran over a palestinian youth and burnt palestinian olive fields in bethlehem  villages on tuesday, local sources reported.
"two thirds of palestinian businesses are small and medium sized," bethlehem chamber of. . .
the  demonstration was met with violent resistance by israeli occupation forces,  including the use of tear gas, rubber-coated steel bullets and.
although  the military escort arrived on time, only in a few cases did the soldiers walk  with the children, as mandated.
as this year's olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive trees, a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to die in silence is patrolling the west bank, protecting harvesters from increased settler violence.
in a statement issued by the israeli military, the buildings were had demolished due to the fact they were "illegally constructed structures" built on a military training ground, "endangering the lives of those present".
“when my wife was  pregnant and was about to give birth, they didn’t let us cross the  checkpoint.
please enable javascript in your browser and reload this page.
for the love of israel ramzy baroud, al-ahram weekly 9/8/2011 documenting a misguided congresswoman's war on  the un.
rawabi developer to replace trees donated by jnf palestine note 9 feb 2011 - ma'an - bashar al-masri, developer of  a new west bank city rawabi, said tuesday that trees donated to the project by  the jewish national fund would be replaced by olive trees.
palestinians traditionally marry young, between 18 and 25, but more and more now pass their mid-twenties single.
in  the village of jaloud, south of nablus, around thirty villagers, two  internationals, and six israeli peace activists accompanied farmers to their  land to help plant one hundred olive trees.
the animals can  weigh up to 200 pounds and are extremely aggressive.
even if this time of year is particularly violent in the west bank due to the olive harvesting season, other notable changes can be observed this year.
bil’in has become a battleground, the surrounding landscape a stage for a  risky game of cat and mouse.
a small french pleasure craft with eight protesters on board left greek waters overnight and set off for gaza in an attempt to break an israeli naval blockade, organizers said tuesday.
the report includes all... israel drops missile on north gaza neighborhood, no one cares 11/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - radhika sainath,  international solidarity movement, gaza -
liza  oliver - dutch band, de fanfare van de eerste lief des nacht (the first night  of love brass band) performed in the streets of beit sehour saturday night,... iof uproots, robs 100 olive trees pic -
beitillu was historically a farming  village but between the first and second intifada most residents worked in  construction within israel.
head of the dir estia city council, nathmi salman, told the palestine news and information center, wafa, that the olive trees belong to resident nasser mansour, and...
a few days ago, my  father emailed me a photo of my mom and him standing proudly next to my newest  sibling; a young olive tree they've planted in their garden in queensland  australia.
jerusalem day commemorates this event for  israelis.
some other people decided over his future.
in a statement, nablus deputy governor anan al-atira,  who had been at the tree planting, called the violence "brutal and  baseless.
he immediately rushed to the land along with other  residents.
pnn - citing lack of license and proximity to a military crossing, israeli  forces demolished an agricultural storehouse, a gas station, and several other  industrial buildings in the palestinian village... demonstrations  in ni'lin: routine or resistance?
[uruknet.info] the lonely olive tree of bil'in uruknet october 14, 2011 -
the soldiers refused to give a reason for suspending the harvest.
however, demonstrators did manage to reach the wall (which in this area is a  barbed wire fence) and removed tens of metres of it.
calls to israel's civil administration, a  branch of the country's defense ministry that handles civilian affairs in the  occupied palestinian territories, were not immediately returned.
last week i posted on the kick off of a new website from  israel/palestine called the daily nuisance .
settlers attack homes, uproot olive trees in bethlehem 1 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-
for the israeli apartheid regime this translates as the  green light to unleash the 4th most powerful military on us to ‘do its  worst’ against our civilian population, of which over half in gaza are  children and over 2 thirds are un registered refugees.
it is impossible to know how it survived the construction of the wall and how it continues to resist to the lack of a few cares that the specie demands - a lack caused by the israeli barbed wire fence that prevents the access of the residents to the point....
also around bethlehem last week, activists planted olive trees near the wall in a symbolic display of steadfastness and a refusal to be uprooted from their land.
correspondent for  al-quds tv mus'ab al-khatib, 25, and ahmad al-kilani, 23, who works for pal  media, were arrested whilst preparing a news report about a university near the  settlement that was recognized recently by israeli authorities.
iof troops block planting olive trees, shoot at palestinian driver pic 12 jan 2010 - israeli occupation forces (iof) on tuesday blocked palestinian farmers and foreign solidarity activists from planting olive trees in safa area to the north of beit ummar village, al-khalil district.
from permission to import, export, travel, move and order goods, excessive inspections, increased tariffs for passage and documentation for official to even a hard time getting paid for products because the money was coming to palestinians.
at 8 am this morning (5 september) bulldozers arrived at the olive tree fields in the bethlehem-area village of al-walaje.
israeli settlers set fire to an olive grove  belonging to a palestinian family near hebron on friday, an international  monitoring group reported.
some of the olive trees... [uruknet.info]  settlers uproot 200 olive trees near nablus uruknet october 6,  2011 - a group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted on thursday morning, at  least 200 olive trees that belong to residents of qasra village, south of the  northern west bank city of nablus.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] fresh olives and the sound of bombs uruknet  august 19, 2011 -
hamad abdul hamid sleiby told ma'an that settlers attacked his land in beit ummar for the fifth time on tuesday.
israel ‘outraged’ as un calls for end to  settler attacksun envoy slams attacks on mosques, olive trees uruknet october 26, 2010 - un special coordinator for the middle east peace  process robert serry today condemned a flurry of high profile settler attacks  across the west bank, urging the israeli government to "combat violence  and terror" by the settler groups.
fair trade olive oil will hit the shops in 2009  as tourist numbers in bethlehem reach their highest levels for a decade.
amidst long hours waiting to pass to jerusalem shahd abusalma, international solidarity movement 5/25/2011 last night, i went to bed at 11 pm, much earlier than im used to.
palestinian officials said.
by william james martin i grew up in nc and was around for the transformation to an integrated society where in the laws of the state and nation became color-blind; and blacks were afforded equal protection under the law.
jabal jawher area in al-khalil city.
settlers torch hundreds of nablus olive trees 6/2/2010 - nablus " ma'an " residents of the illegal yitzhar settlement set fire to more than 100 dunums of palestinian lands near urif village, southwest of nablus on wednesday afternoon,
the objective of this site and those who created it has been to promote palestinian culture, especially the art of palestinian embroidery.
for palestinian farmers, settler violence against them or  their property is a practically a daily occurrence.
palestinians say  settlers torched olive trees 11/14/2010 - nablus (afp) --  residents of a nablus village said that israeli settlers burned about 200 of  their olive trees on sunday and also torched surrounding grazing land.
oct 2010 - wednesday october  13, 2010 - 11:14, palestinian sources reported on wednesday that settlers  attacked palestinian olive groves in boreen village, in the southern part of  nablus.
settlers 'chop down 30 olive trees' in nablus 11/8/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers chopped down more than 30 trees in madama village south of nablus on monday, a local official said.
the palestinian agricultural relief committees announced on monday an upcoming campaign to protect west bank farmers from attacks by israeli settlers during the olive harvest season.
eventually,  as a camera broadcast the action online, eight people were pulled from the bus  and arrested.
one day you return from your olive grove carrying a sack filled with olives that your wife will press.
the village's mayor said that the three farmers, all in their teens, were fertilizing olive trees in one of the fields north of the village when the settlers mounting horses attacked them....
attacking burin both literally and administratively, the settlers...more pa to support olive oil farmers 9/25/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
hundreds gather to mourn 4 victims of  kiryat arba attack jeruslalem post 1 sep 2010 - yitzhak ames, 47,  and his wife tali ames, 45, will be buried at the mount of olives cemetery in  jerusalem, kochava even-haim, 37, in ashdod, and avishai schindler, 24, in  petah tikva.
24 oct 2011 - 'to those who were martyred for the land of sad oranges.'
by robin yassin-kassab footnotes in gaza: a graphic novel.
city market city market carries palestinian olive oil.
we also follow the racist ethnic cleansing in east  jerusalem.
economic statistics in the palestinian territories,  sampled during the fourth quarter of 2006 ma’an news agency  2/7/2007 bethlehem - the palestinian central bureau of statistics, has  released the results of its labour force survey, conducted from october to  december 2006.
it is olive picking season in  the palestinian territories, an important harvest as the fruit represents an  integral part of the agricultural livelihood of many.
palestinian peace  activists from europe, south africa and canada, as well as several foreign  nationals, participated in the olive harvest with residents of the al-bathan  village in the nablus district on tuesday.
from it's release in 1988 in algiers until... declaration of independence palestine monitor: 14 mar 2011 - renouncing violence and terrorism, recognizing israel, accepting united nations resolutions 242 and 338 and negotiations leading to a two-state solution, mahmoud darwish's crafted declaration of independence is a foundational document for the palestinian struggle for freedom and independence.
it is the norm  encouraged by the settler leadership, which, in turn is supported by the  government.
suspected right-wing extremists uproot 20 olive trees belonging to jerusalem arab family ha'aretz - unknown vandals post sign saying 'price tag' at family's lot in beit safafa; attack follows spike in violence by right-wing extremists against arabs and idf soldiers price tag: 20 olive trees cut down in j'lem ynet news, 27 oct 2011 - some 20 olive trees that belong to a resident of jerusalem's arab neighborhood beit safafa were cut down thursday.
israeli bulldozers uproot olive trees in jerusalem wafa palestinian, israeli firefighters control fire near bethlehem 7/20/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) - more than 70,000 square meters of olive fields belonging to cremisan monastery in beit jala burned wednesday before palestinian and israeli firefighters managed to put out the blaze.
it is hard for me, and...
settlers burn ancient olive trees in tel rumeida christian peacemaker teams - palestine - at 4:30 p.m. on 27 may 2011, cpt received a call that settlers set fire to olive orchards on the abu haikel property in tel rumeida.
they were drawn into the fight permanently when in 2004 their land was annexed by israel following the construction of the apartheid wall.
bulldozer treads dug through bean and onion crops, in zigs and zags, seemingly  without direction.
reporting from aaron  dearborn.... the battle for al-walaja palestine
the farmland of... sheikhs and rabbis in  pursuit of peace – on mount of olives the national 29 jan  2010 - yerushalom, a group founded by jewish settlers, says it is trying to  build bridges with palestinians – and help them realise their dream.
now, israeli settlers in the occupied west bank are... video:  settlers claim olive oil as ‘israeli’ mondoweiss - ali  abunimah posted on his blog this commercial for settler-made olive oil from an  israeli regional council-- hijacking "the most important symbol and source  of economic sustenance for rural palestinians."  abunimah writes:  zionism’s cultural appropriation of indigenous palestinian folklore and  cuisine – such as hummus, falafel... bamboo furniture-making  tradition, brought from jaffa, survives in gaza electronic  intifada: 17 jan 2012 - rami almeghari the electronic intifada gaza city
'your sisters’  blood wasn’t wasted’’ rachel cooke, the  observer, the guardian 1/16/2011 two  years ago, israeli shells fell on dr abuelaish's family home in gaza, killing  three of his young daughters and their cousin.
it has more patience than is bearable.
so we traipse through the olive groves, only slightly  out of view of the soldiers on the road, and a line by palestinian poet mahmoud  darwish comes to mind: "if the olive trees knew the hands that planted  them, their oil would become tears."
but we are not leaving.
al-agha’s statements came during a speech  he delivered over the phone in a meeting of the palestinian council of olives  and oil, held in the west bank city of ramallah on wednesday.
the festival will take place in the old city and handicrafts from local  villages will be displayed.
trouble is a weekly occurrence here, signified by tear gas, rubber bullets, and arrests.
pa customs agents continue to enforce settlement goods ban 2/18/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - approximately one and a half tonnes of cardboard two tons of processed pastry dough produced in settlements built on palestinian lands in the west bank were seized by palestinian police said customs officers on thursday.
bulldozer treads dug through bean and onion crops, in zigs and zags, seemingly without direction.
the prison is notorious for its ill-treatment of prisoners, in particular palestinian political prisoners.
by francis oeser (an answer to w. j. martin )
jewish settlers destroy 200 olive trees in nablus uruknet  october 26, 2010 - citizens in deir al-hatab village, nablus district, were  stunned at the sight of 200 of their olive trees damaged in the fields after  jewish settlers poured sewage water from the nearby allon moreh settlement into  their land.
the worst of these israeli terror attacks are committed during  harvest seasons, especially during olive season.
he had become almost a  fixture: the star witness, the expert and the moving spirit in scores of  hearings dealing with the separation and annexation wall.
israelis from a settlement outpost in the central west bank  set fire to dozens of dunams of olives tree forest belonging to farmers in ras  karkar village on friday evening, locals told ma'an.
he urged human rights organizations to immediately intervene on behalf of affected farmers.
out of 13 year old boy uruknet june 11, 2010 -
awlaqi daily star 9 oct 2011 president barack
related:operation dove murdering babies is 'permissible' when  they’re palestinian alison weir, counterpunch,  intifada-palestine 3/18/2011 us media  have been widely and repeatedly reporting on the awful march 11 murder of three  small israeli children and their parents.
joseph, born and raised in the arid hills, fought back  and bloodied not a few settlers with his labor-hardened fists.
but -- unusually  for a mere private soldier -- i sought and secured permission to use a  fortnight’s leave to travel round syria, iraq, jordan and lebanon.
the settlers uprooted 40 olive trees  in the al-batashiyah area of qaryut, the village's mayor abdel nasser  al-qaryuti told ma'an.
head of the dir estia city council, nathmi salman, told the palestine news and  information center, wafa, that the olive trees belong to resident nasser  mansour, and... what settlements look like mondoweiss  - 7 apr 2010 - anyone who wants to understand israeli settlements should  understand how they look to palestinians.
something inside us drive us away not from death but from pondering at death.
the israeli occupation forces (iof) uprooted 100 olive trees from beit egza village, northwest of occupied jerusalem, and took them in trucks to an unknown destination.
-- see also:ism: khuzaa more.. e-mail palestinian trees destroyed in ongoing settler vandalism, harassment alternative information center - in the early morning of 12 may 2011, palestinian farmers discovered that during the night unknown perpetrators had vandalized ten olive trees in the humra valley, near at -tuwani in the south hebron hills.
during the 1940s and leading up to  the end of the british mandate in palestine in 1948, lifta expanded markedly  eastward and northward, linking with the buildings of the rumayma neighbourhood  just west of jerusalem.
minister isma'il d'eiq told ma'an on saturday that rather than fix prices, the ministry.... abbas: our wounded hands still capable of holding olive branch ha'aretz - palestinian president accuses israel of long list of grievances during address before united nations general assembly. abbas: our wounded hands still capable of holding olive branch ha'aretz 25 sep 2010 - palestinian president accuses israel of long list of grievances during address before united nations general assembly.
u.s. filmmakers craft documentary on genocide survivors la times 23 jul 2010 - 'the last survivor' chronicles how four people —  survivors of the holocaust, rwanda, darfur or congo — rebound from  atrocities and find new meaning in their lives.
al-walaja villagers rally to save oldest living olive tree from destruction by israeli forces imemc - monday august 15, 2011 - 11:33, on saturday august 13, 2011, a show of nonviolent popular resistance occurred in al-walaja village, west of bethlehem.
the attackers threw stones  towards the village and broke some twenty olive trees.
reuters // reuters by tom perry huwara, west bank, july 14 (reuters) -
he said a soldier hit him on his chest and tried to take the camera by force.
what would it say if it could?
that  was the goal of two former university of pennsylvania classmates who set out to  make a documentary marrying their jewish heritage with their modern-day social  activism.
israeli forces prevent volunteering journalists from picking olives wafa harvesting olives as a statement of resistance 10/25/2011 - international solidarity movement - 24 october 2011, the electronic intifada, ben lorber - palestinian villages across the west bank are undertaking their annual olive harvest this october, amid fears of harassment and violence from israeli settlers and soldiers.
rawabi developer to replace trees donated by jnf palestine note 9 feb 2011 - ma'an - bashar al-masri, developer of a new west bank city rawabi, said tuesday that trees donated to the project by the jewish national fund would be replaced by olive trees.
for many of those working  here, these shacks act as their home during the week, a place they can sleep at  night rather than going back to the village of yatta.
gulf could provide lifeline for palestinian olive farmers, say oxfam and european union relief web 6 dec 2010 - source: european union, oxfam settlers torch olive orchard near nablus uruknet december 3, 2010 - israeli settlers torched on thursday evening palestinian olive orchards near the homesh evacuated settlement, west of the northern west bank city of nablus.
the goods were confiscated from a warehouse in the eastern neighborhood  of nablus.
" condemnation of the raid was immediate and  overwhelming, with the shameful exception of the us government, whose un  representative merely expressed "regrets" at the loss of life.
khalil nasir, coordinator of the local initiative group sees farmers as the first line of resistance: were here today to offer some support for the farmers who have continued the resistance to the occupation everyday of their lives, not letting go of these lands so near to the israeli wall...."
but the village is at a crossroads.
olive harvest reaps  animosity in west bank, olive harvest reaps animosity in west bank aljazeera 11 oct 2011 - netanyahu has bowed to political pressure over illegal  jewish settlements on private palestinian land, reports say.
the farmers of hares do not have to contend with the annexation fence, so  they can access and tend their land more often than the farmers of mas-ha, who  before this week hadn't been allowed to get to their land for nine months.
“peace itself is the way to peace,” he said,  “and there is no peace without freedom.
the animals are  believed to have been released from the nearby itamar settlement.
mohammad awad, spokesperson of the popular...
israeli settlers uprooted over 500 olive and fig trees in deir istiya village in salfit on monday morning, witnesses said.
last friday (4th june) in the west bank village of bil'in, israeli occupation forces kidnapped thirteen years old fadi al-khatib in full view of his distraught parents whilst working with his father on the families olive grove adjacent to the apartheid wall prior to being carted off to a detention centre, the lightly clad youth...
wadi qana farmland being polluted by  settlement sewage uruknet august 1, 2010 -
nabi saleh an eleven-year-old child was arrested at a protest in nabi saleh on friday.
among  the gentle slopes of cypress-covered hills near the west bank city of hebron is  an anomaly, a stinking garbage dump that is workplace and home to dozens of men  and boys.
protesters will gather outside the  prison at 12pm, monday 14 december, to protest the persecution and imprisonment  of al faqeeh.
the director of the preventive security’s operations, yasser  al-bulbul, told ma’an, “the economic department of the preventive  security service received information about a truckload of pickled olives  coming from egypt.
[uruknet.info] dozens of settlers attack home in burin, cut olive trees uruknet february 28, 2012 - palestinian sources reported that dozens of armed israeli settlers attacked, on monday evening, a home in burin village, near the northern west bank city of nablus, and chopped several olive trees.
palestinian official in charge of  settlement watch in the north ghassan daghlas said villagers reported to him  seeing several men wearing skullcaps who they identified.... video:
the prosecutor, dressed in olive-colored military pants and a khaki shirt, then stated that “each of the accused strangled him [arrigoni] by plastic handcuffs,” and therefore all four were complicit in arrigoni’s kidnapping and killing.
more.. e-mail farmers, internationals plant olive trees near bethlehem 2/7/2012 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
why oliver stone believes hitler was an 'easy scapegoat' ha'aretz 11 jan 2010 - director's new documentary seeking to put historical villains 'into context' has viewing world up in arms., activists: army prevents tree-planting near hebron 1/11/2010 - hebron - ma'an - israeli forces reportedly prohibited palestinian farmers from planting 1,500 olive trees in the abu ar-rish area of the beit ummar village near hebron on monday.
in essence, we are expected to  be utterly devoid of critical thought in order to believe such a wild story.
israeli forces assaulted a man in jenin on tuesday morning,  witnesses told ma'an.
in west bank, settler  violence seen on the rise relief web 14 jul 2011 - source: reuters  - alertnet country: occupied palestinian territory 14 jul 2011 13:23 source:
the guardian 24 oct 2010 - most troubled harvest yet has seen attacks by jewish settlers on palestinian farmers and trees, say human rights groups eighty-year-old rasmia awase had left the best olive trees until last.
jamal sbatin, the president of the council of the village of husan reported that settlers torched... opt: oxfam urges lifting of barriers to olive production uruknet october 19, 2010 -
residents of nira outpost  burned down over 120 olive trees in the ramallah-district village, on land....
oct 2010 - israeli occupation  forces destroyed four palestinian water wells in deir abu da'if village, east  of jenin city, on wednesday and served a demolition notice to the owner of an  olive pressing factory.
around 10am yesterday, a wild boar entered the field.
bil'in / demonstration in bi'lin - 7
the israel land administration, now the  legal owner of the land, is marketing plots to developers to construct an  upscale neighbourhood based on the buildings that already exist.
awad, from awarta, nablus, had been harvesting his... the road to olive farming - challenges to developing the economy of olive oil in the west bank relief web 18
dear  friends -- greetings --- the comrades of the “sindicato de artes e  ofícios vários de araxá” (syndicate of various arts  and crafts of araxá), minas gerais, brazil, affiliated to the  “confederação operária brasileira” (brazilian  workers’ confederation), brazilian section of the international workers  association, are under...
i suddenly experienced deja vu:  an image of myself walking in the rubbles of a destroyed village somewhere on  the outskirts of the lebanese city of sidon emerged.
oct 2010 - following un envoy's  comments in which he compared alleged settler vandalism against olive trees to  terrorism, israel reacts: "does serry pretend israeli suicide bombers  attack palestinian buses?" un rep.:
the palestinian authority's chief of  jerusalem affairs condemned thursday israel's plans to renovate and expand a  hotel confiscated from its jordanian owners when israel occupied the west bank  in 1967.
pa settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas said the fire continued to rage as firefighters were unable to reach the area.
a fire that destroyed olive trees on land east of azzun  village near qalqiliya on friday night has been put out by civil defense  forces.
related:operation dove murdering babies is 'permissible' when theyre palestinian alison weir, counterpunch, intifada-palestine 3/18/2011 us media have been widely and repeatedly reporting on the awful march 11 murder of three small israeli children and their parents.
the settlers claim that the  palestinians “provoked” them by throwing stones, a claim denied by  the palestinians and activists.
"the settlers want to scare us and be despair,  they want us to leave this area, that is why they do all this.
a potent symbol of peace  and harmony, the olive has become a source of confrontation and violence in the  decades-old conflict that pits israel against palestinians.
the lonely olive tree of bil'in 10/14/2011 - international solidarity movement - international  solidarity movement, west bank - near the concrete wall which  separates bil'in from modiin illit colony, occupied  by ultra-orthodox jews, there is an olive tree.
commemorating naksa: report on  weekend anti-occupation protests dolev rahat, alternative  information center 6/6/2011 when  demonstrators understood that the fire was aimed directly at their bodies, they  began to run.
but in the areas of west jerusalem, we could still see many signs of the three dozen palestinian villages depopulated since 1948.
e-mail expired dates and pickled olives seized in  nablus ma’an news agency 9/2/2008 nablus –  ma’an –
israeli settlers set fire to palestinian crops on farmland in the husan village in the southern west bank district of bethlehem, burning vast areas of olive groves before firefighters were able to control the blaze, locals said.
by lillian rosengarten gaza  life exists in a cage, an open air prison that has been kept mostly isolated  from the world.
international  activists have been prevented by the military from attending olive harvests  during the past two days in some areas and settlers harassed.... [uruknet.info] burin: zionist soldiers and colonists collaborate against  harvesting uruknet october 17, 2011 -
a caustic exercise in realistic  imagination offered by james petras.
jerusalem day commemorates this event for israelis.
israeli activists said 1,500 police arrived in al-arakib village at dawn.
in the 1960s, israel destroyed part of the mamilla cemetery and built a parking lot on it.
we support palestinian  state by next year jeruslalem post 26
on may 8th in addition to the activists there were eight farmers in the fields, mostly women, but also a child of 13 years and a girl of seven, all brothers and sisters of the annajjar family which resides in khuzaa.
air raid  shatters holiday for gaza family 11/22/2010 - jared malsin - deir  al-balah, gaza strip (ma'an) --
firefighters contained a large fire which  ripped through an area of olive trees in the village of beit lid in the  northern west bank on monday evening.
three palestinian farmers collapsed and required medical attention wednesday when they saw israeli bulldozers razing their olive fields in the northern west bank, medics said.
oct 2010 - extremist jewish settlers on sunday attacked palestinian citizens while harvesting their olive crops west of salfit and tried to rob their harvest, local sources reported.
the occasion was the annual "artas lettuce festival.
2010 -  director: us holocaust focus is product of ‘jewish media  domination.’
fatah secretary general radi khadour said at the march that the separation wall was isolating the village and turning it into a prison....
yet the  first thing i saw in al-nabi salih was a huge sign in arabic and english:  “we believe in non-violence.
a group of settlers destroyed eight olive trees and  damaged two lemon trees belonging to farmer abdel razzaq khaled mansour in the  wadi qana area of deir istaya, locals told ma'an... witnesses:  settlers attack olive trees in salfit 8/27/2011 - salfit (ma'an)  -- settlers on saturday cut down palestinian-owned olive trees in salfit in the  northern west bank, witnesses said.
shortly after the group started planting, israeli soldiers descended on the area from near the karmi zur settlement, 19% of which is built on palestinian owned land, according to peace now, and residents say much of the rest of the land belonged to the village of beit ummar.
the evidence suggests that the... meeting senseless aggression face-to-face gershon baskin, jerusalem post 5/23/2011 a recent trip to the weekly demonstration in nabi saleh shed a new light on the idf and its operations.
for the first time in many days, his  spirits lifted.
president obama began a new effort wednesday  to coax israelis and palestinians toward peace, telling middle east leaders on  the eve of renewed negotiations that with sustained american help, a  comprehensive deal can be sealed within a year.
the minister added that the "yasuf village suffers from constant attacks by settlers. "
[uruknet.info]  what will you do when palestine is free?
yet approximately 22 incidents of this kind were reported this year  for the same period.
the film ends with palestinian and  israeli activists heading to the neighboring village of ni’ilin where the  struggle to save palestinian land continues today.
sheikh jarrah garden reclaimed in land day celebration 3/31/2010 -  international solidarity movement -
the soldiers, heavily  deployed in the area, declared the village a "closed military zone",  and are preventing... settlers set fire to olive fields in nablus  area village wafa olive revolution in pictures 9/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - 29 august 2011,  international solidarity movement, west bank - on the final friday of ramadan,  palestinians and supporters alike peacefully marched towards jerusalem from  four directions in a symbolic attempt to enter jerusalem which has been  illegally annexed by israel, preventing fasting muslims from worshiping during  the final holy days of ramadan.
for the  palestinian community living in this part of h2, israeli-controlled hebron,  military occupation is an inescapable intrusion into everyday reality.
following the start of the second intifada in  september 2000, the area of the buffer zone was increased to 150 meters wide.
israeli settlers attacked palestinian farmers while they were picking olives on friday, onlookers said.
a neighbour came running to tell canaan who was ploughing the land and tending the olive and almond trees.
the land private land reverted to its  original owners, including the sites worked on today.
syrians take to the streets as regime lashes out at us the  national 7 jul 2011 -
head of the dir estia  city council, nathmi salman, told the palestine news and information center,  wafa, that the olive trees belong to resident nasser mansour, and...
the attack comes at the beginning of this year's olive harvest.
fires in the... pa report: israeli settler violence on the rise 7/7/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- israeli settler violence against palestinians increased "dramatically" in june, according to a palestinian authority report released wednesday.
"the family lives in the  village of burin, south of nablus, a kilometer north of the yitzhar settlement.
but  to the palestinians who live near this wide swath of land alongside the border  between the gaza strip and israel, it is fertile land where their children  played
donating olive trees this holiday season 12/19/2011 - international solidarity movement - 19 december 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - as we creep up to christmas and are seeing more and more trees appear in houses and high street windows, while we debate when to put up our own, if at all this year, i ask you all to give consideration to a much more special tree....
a subsequent decision, brown vs the board of education, 1954, was essentially unimplemented until the mid to late 1960’s with the onset of the administration of lyndon johnson.
the festival will take place in the old city and handicrafts from local villages will be displayed.
the  placement of the barrier wall annexed another 50% of the remaining ni'lin  property to the jewish settlers, with over 6,000 of the oldest...more the unexpected sound of christmas: palestinians and the bagpipe pnn - bethlehem – pnn - to an outsider, palestinian culture can be  recalled with a few recognizable motifs: the keffiyeh, the olive tree, a plate  of hummus, or a darwish poem.
oct 2010 - tuesday october 19, 2010 -  15:03, on tuesday afternoon, beitar illit settlers torched a number of olive  trees that belong to residents of the village of husan.
settler vandals continue to do damage palestine note 17  mar 2011 - ma'an - at least 100 olive trees were ripped out and four water  tankers ruined thursday afternoon, by what witnesses said was a mob of at least  a dozen settlers.
in the beginning of the afternoon, villagers and international  activists gathered at the mayor'....
(we are different) planted around 100 olive trees in a'bud village north west  of ramallah to commemorate land day.
this flotilla is a clear signal to israel that the game  is over.
nearby is a contingent of soldiers holding guns.
it pays for complete medical coverage and for hefty monthly social security payment for every israeli senior citizen.
khaled mahmood suleiman qudaih called us a few days before, asking us if we would accompany his family to his fathers fields so that they could sow wheat.
"deep in the roots of these olive trees, there is something that reminds us that our people lived here from the beginning and will continue to the end," he told the gathered crowds of protestors.
settlers uproot 15 olive trees near ramallah imemc 25 jan 2010 - tuesday january 26, 2010 - 00:49, a group of fundamentalist  settlers uprooted on sunday evening fifteen olive trees that belong to a  resident of dir nitham village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
ghassan douglas, settlement issue chief in the northern of the west bank, told... suspected 'price tag': 100 olive trees torn down near nablus ynet news, 25 sep 2011 - police launch investigation into palestinian villagers' claims suggesting.... israeli settlers attack palestinians, burn 60 olive trees 23 sep 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) -
i  grew up with an olive tree in our back yard and itrepresents the peaceful life  we had always lived on these lands.
no one saw, no one heard: 300 palestinian olive trees uprooted ha'aretz 14 apr 2010 - some 300 olive trees belonging to palestinians were uprooted on the night between monday and tuesday in groves near the village of mihmas, close to the illegal outpost of migron.
the evening ended with a panel of the speakers taking questions from the audience of more than 200 people.
a few years ago when i was  installing the slideshow you see in my banner above, i discovered a beautiful  mural on a website called tikkun tree .
the guards approached a group of farmers and threatened them  with bodily harm, assaulting one man mayor nathmi salman said.
the olive branch fights back ips "during hard times,  we have survived off olive oil," says ahmed sourani from the palestinian  agricultural relief committee.
the whole of the bethlehem district has been surrounded by the separation wall and... al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers palestine monitor - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
on wednesday, dozens of local children joined in the picking.
the attackers threw stones towards the village and broke some twenty olive trees.
ruth dayan doesn't rest for a moment.
light in  bali, like no other in the world reveals the forces of nature.
supported by caretaker prime minister salam fayyad, the democracy and workers  rights center (dwrc) and the handicrafts union of bethlehem, the opening  ceremony - with minister of tourism khoulud da'iebes in attendance - celebrated  the achievements of the women in putting together the event, and working to  strengthen the handicrafts union.
un envoy demands israel act against settler attacks ynet news - a senior un official condemned attacks by jewish "settler extremists" on palestinians' olive trees in the west bank and called on israel to "combat violence and terror by .......
-- see also:ism: more about al jab'a more..
the  seven arches hotel belongs to the jordanian royal family but it was taken over  by israel when jordan withdrew from the west bank in the 1967....
nameer at-tirawi, 28, said more than 50 settlers descended upon the  village and began throwing stones at.... palestinian diaspora join  in olive harvest 10/13/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
nameer at-tirawi, 28, said more than 50 settlers descended upon the village and began throwing stones at residents,...
but joe sacco's "footnotes in gaza" is just that, an unusually effective treatment of palestinian history which may appeal to people who would never read a ‘normal book’ on the subject.
this is not what you expect: an  accomplished and self-reflective work of history enclosed within a layer of war  reportage – in comic book form.
theirs was one of three homes demolished by israeli military bulldozers that day in al-mossadar, eastern gaza.
one of the farmers said the settlers came by car to the area and as.... settlers attack family picking olives 10/22/2010 - hebron (ma'an) -- dozens of settlers attacked a family who were picking olives in yatta, in the west bank district of hebron, witnesses said.
overhead the sky is clear and the sun beats down, heating up the detritus of modern life -- vegetable scraps, washing liquid bottles, old clothes, cans with dregs of soda in them.
that is, until israel declared it off limits.
the olive harvest is the definitive  mediterranean tradition.
this year the crop is good.
[secretary of state james] baker about, such as the start treaty, the  contras, angola, the cfe (conventional forces in europe) arms control  negotiations and nato...
according to the report, 55  attacks took place across 37....
accepting united nations resolutions 242 and 338 and negotiations leading to a two-state solution, mahmoud darwish's crafted declaration of independence is a foundational document for the palestinian struggle for freedom and independence.
we are in the middle of the olive harvest season and  with it comes episodes of violence as... civil resistance to bring  down the walls ayed morrar, huffington post, international  solidarity movement 11/1/2010 budrus, a  documentary film now debuting across the us, tells the story of a successful  protest campaign by unarmed palestinian civilians against israel’s  military occupation in my small west bank village.
more.. e-mail gaza olive trade recovers slowly from siege,  attacks electronic intifada: 31
village says settlement runoff destroyed olive grove 10/26/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
beitillu was historically a farming village but between the first and second intifada most residents worked in construction within israel.
the most intense israeli airstrikes in months  disrupted what had been a quiet holiday for one gaza family.
instead he decided his girls' deaths must  not be in vain – and slowly he has turned his family tragedy into a force  for peace
jewish  settlers attack qasra village and damage hundreds of olive trees pic - 30/08/2011 - 02:15 pm (en) south of hebron hills social
iran says it is planning to clone and mass produce the bat-winged craft  for use against its enemies.
it was six in the morning on my first day off in a while and i was hoping to stay well-planted in dreamland until 9am.
soldiers invaded the village's olive groves, where they continued opening fire, but there were no injuries, a statement from the international solidarity movement said.
many live in extreme poverty.
the shooting, however, did not stop...
it’s time to go pick olives!
jewish flotilla to break gaza siege uruknet june 6, 2010 -
the two  cemeteries can be seen as mirror images of each other.
pnn - bethlehem - pnn - the israeli military attacked a group of palestinian,  israeli and international activists, participating in a peaceful demonstration  against the enlargement of the wall in al-walajah, north west of...
qaddum village residents said  they woke up to settlers from the hifat gilad outpost of the illegal qedumin  settlement bloc tearing up some 30 olive trees on private lands.
reporting and photography from nicky elliott.
false prophets, destroyer of 800,000 olive and citrus plants, subjugation.
it’s no  small wonder, however, that a similar case exists not far from mamilla.
he urged international human  rights organizations to intervene in settlers' continuous.... jewish settlers uproot dozens of olive trees in w. bank village pic - jewish settlers savagely attacked madama village, south of nablus city,  on monday and uprooted more than 25 olive trees from palestinian agricultural  lands there, palestinian villagers reported.
according to a report written by the israeli organization peace now, 1,126 construction sites have been opened in the west bank since the end of the settlement freeze.
the exhibition has been organized by the palestinian center for economic and social development, in cooperation with other institutions, such as care international, the australian agency for development and the swedish cooperative center.
there are  at least...more palestinians eke out living on dump recycling uruknet march 10, 2011 --
israeli settlers occupying the homes above the  market, use the walkways below as their personal trash can and the constant  harassment from israeli soldiers has forced shopkeepers to move.
and it also means they  are on hand to sort out any rubbish that comes in after dark.
pa: settlers damage land in northern west bank 10/9/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
three barrels of tear gas canisters had been left during the  soldiers haphazard exit from the village.
the military's solution to these attacks has not been to protect the  palestinians, but rather to deny them access to their land.
jul 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli occupation bulldozers started thursday uprooting several olive trees and razing farmlands in the southwest of beit eska village in jerusalem.
the wall cuts us off from our land and our  olive groves, robbing our family of its livelihood.
settlers attack burin olive farmers 10/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - by evie - today farmers in burin, a village located south of nablus, were forced to abandon their olive harvesting when about one hundred settlers came down to their fields.
he... as settlers disrupt olive harvest, israeli  officer declares: ‘i am the law, i am god.’
this “price tag” strategy is carried out  through land confiscations, physical attacks using stones, guns and knives, the  uprooting of olive trees and attacks on homes.
in photos: west bank olive harvest 10/26/2011  - reuters / darren whiteside - palestinian farmers sort and process harvested  olives at a grove near farha village, north of the west bank city of ramallah  in the occupied west bank, on oct. 25, 2011....
h1 refers to 80% of the city, which is officially under control of....
in the southern... settlers "maniacs" vandalize nablus area fields, attack residents 4 mar 2011 - palestine, (pal teleraph) - israeli settlers vandalized late thursday and early friday several villages in the nablus area, uprooting olive tree and throwing rocks at palestinian cars, according to local residents and officials.
de facto government opens bissan village, latest gaza park 1/7/2010 - gaza - ma'an - a small zoo, swimming pool, park and picnic area make up the new bissan entertainment village in northern gaza, opened for families on wednesday by the de facto government.
to harvest olives takes  time, as each one of the olives must be cut from the tree with the hands one by  one, so that is why this year tamir was helped by a group of volunteers.
in the west bank, palestinian  freedom riders, inspired by the us freedom riders of the 1960s, were getting  ready to board segregated buses to occupied east jerusalem.
in may 2009, the israeli military... 250 olive trees planted by  volunteers near osh grab imemc 12 feb 2010 - friday february 12,  2010 - 17:10, following the beginning of construction of a new watchtower at  the site of the former military base, this week, residents of beit sahour and  international volunteers gathered at the surrounding farmlands, on friday, to  cultivate the land, planting 250 olive trees.
see also:the costs to american  taxpayers of the israeli-palestinian conflict: $3 trillion more.. e-mail honeymoon in gaza 10/16/2011 - international solidarity  movement - international solidarity movement, gaza - i had just finished off a  plate of homemade bread knaffe yesterday with a family in the south of gaza,  when we got the call: farmers in beit hanoun, a village in the north of the  gaza strip, requested that ism volunteers accompany them to pick olives near  the buffer zone....
joining 10 other internationals, a dozen journalists and over 300 palestinians.
olive trees more deep-rooted than settlements 3/7/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - "the newest olive tree in our  country is more deep-rooted than the fragile walls and settlements," said  caretaker prime minister salam fayyad saturday, as he met with members of the  popular committee against the wall in beit jala, bethlehem.
sowing wheat in israel’s kill zone radhika sainath, notes from behind the blockade 11/22/2011 one need not be an agronomist to know that its been a long time since the farmers of khuza"a, gaza have tended to their land near the border.
settler attacks damage the olive harvest in the west bank pic - israeli settlers’ destruction of palestinian olive trees will reduce this year’s harvest by an estimated usd $500,000 as 7,500 olive trees were destroyed in acts of settler violence..
israeli forces declared a valley south of nablus a closed military  zone on monday, while olive trees were uprooted from the area.
the kids here in the west bank love  their kites too, just as much as any other child in the world.
citizens shocked this morning when they saw their trees jewish settlers uproot olive trees in nablus, iof soldiers terrorize al-khalil pic 20
settlers destroy olive trees imemc - monday february 21, 2011 - 14:13, the ma'an news agency reported, on monday, that a group of settlers uprooted olive trees and damaged palestinian farmland near nablus.
youtube: live video of  ethnic cleansing in the israeli??
settlers clashed with palestinian farmers in a nablus village on monday, a palestinian authority official said.
the national committee for resisting settlement and apartheid wall in beit ommar and palestine solidarity project dear all, the national committee of beit ommar and palestine solidarity project (psp ) declare the start of: “save the land – donate an olive tree seedling” campaign in light of... [uruknet.info] refusing to die in silence: palestinians resist settler violence during the olive harvest uruknet october 29, 2011 -
protesters then  marched towards the lands south of the village where stands halamish  settlement, built on the stolen lands of an-nabi salih, and where israeli  occupation forces awaited their arrival.
and other news from today in palestine: land and property theft and destruction / ethnic cleansing settlers burn 10 dunums of farmlands south of nablus nablus, (pic)-- israeli settlers from the itamar settlement in south nablus burned on friday at least ten dunums of land cultivated with olive...
no soldiers appeared to stop them, no one declared the area a military zone and so the protesters which included a senior member of the fatah movement continued their march.... --
women identified themselves by their village of origin rather than the religion, by wearing an embroidered dress with the distinct patterns and colors of each village.more.. more about products from our archives.. video - heated argument draws tv attention 2/29/2012 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
the number of indirect beneficiaries exceeds 2,900 farmers from more than 30 west bank villages.
26 nov 2010 - jerusalem - driving east from jerusalem on the winding jordanian-built road that once led down from the mount of olives to the dead sea, one passes through a series of arab suburbs and soon comes to... srulik, meet handala gil zohar, common ground news service 11/25/2010
more.. e-mail outpost settlers uproot 30 olive trees east of qalqiliya 4/30/2010 - qalqiliya - ma'an -kafr
palestinians ready to put statehood on  backburner in favour of peace talks the guardian 21 sep 2011 -  obama causes anger with veto pledge and staunch backing of israel but abbas  continues to hold out olive branch • read the day's developments as they  happened •
how do we both construct peace and engage in non-cooperation  with policies that systematically violate human rights on a daily basis?
‘olive revolution’ plans to march on jerusalem from four directions this friday mondoweiss - the following press release was sent out by a group called the olive revolution , which describes itself as an "unarmed, popular, patriotic, and human revolution against israeli occupation."
the family, accompanied by four international  activists, went to the land and was initially pleased to find army jeeps  nearby....
pnn - bethlehem - pnn - the israeli military attacked a group of palestinian, israeli and international activists, participating in a peaceful demonstration against the enlargement of the wall in al-walajah, north west of...
protect olive harvest from settlers 10/3/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
by francis oeser (an answer to  w. j. martin )
shortly before your death, you were asked  by a journalist what you thought was your greatest achievement, and flashing  your trademark face-splitting grin, you replied: "we have made the  palestinian cause the biggest issue in the world … 107 years after the  basel conference, 90 years after the sykes picot agreement, all conspiracies  have failed to wipe us out.
[uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers set fire to olive trees in burin uruknet july 28, 2011 - -- israeli settlers on friday torched olive trees in burin village, south of nablus, and fired live ammunition at firefighters' trucks trying to reach the blaze, palestinian authority officials said.
mohamed ashure shimbari lives on the edge of the no-go zone.
to a large extent, the anniversary will be a rather esto-centric, self-congratulatory affair.
palestinian olive farmers have been hit by a third consecutive bad or  poor harvest.
the.... related: source the olive and the f-16: autumn in gaza radhika s, notes from behind the blockade 10/28/2011 today completes another week of olive picking in gaza.
the villagers were accompanied  by over 20 israeli and international solidarity activists.
settlers set saffa ablaze, 3 palestinian youth arrested 11/17/2010  - international solidarity movement - palestine solidarity project -
on a makeshift stage is the governor of bethlehem, salah tamari, and several other dignitaries.
israeli groups call on security forces to protect palestinians 10/11/2010 - tel aviv (ma'an) --
in recent weeks, residents have reported  the assault of 75-year-old khadr ahmad mansour by settlers in the area, as well  as the destruction of olive trees, agricultural fences and structures.
this ongoing situation has occurred within the h2 zone in the city of hebron, which is notorious for its intense and illegal israeli military presence due to a small number of israeli citizens who have illegally invaded and occupied a historically significant part of the city.
standing up to the  bulldozers in palestine palestine note 29 may 2010 - earlier this  month, as israeli bulldozers sought to raze olive groves in the forgotten  palestinian village of al-walaja, many thoughts raced through my mind.
khatib said the incidents followed....
the hilltop village of an nabi salih has a population of approximately 500 residents and is located 30 kilometers northeast of ramallah along highway 465.
mohammed al-atrash (abu wajih), the elderly farmer who owned the trees, will receive no compensation for his loss.
7/9/2010 veteran middle east correspondent david hirst, author of the seminal work on the palestinian plight the gun and the olive branch, has a new release: beware of small states, an equally important book on lebanon’s complex tragedy.
dozens of settlers accompanied by  guard dogs blocked farmers from accessing olive tree groves near their nablus  village on saturday morning, a palestinian authority official said.
responding to the soldiers, family members of the siblings came to the farm and, according to b'tselem: "among them were nasser a-nawaj'ah, a b'tselem field researcher, and ahmad a-nawaj'ah, who volunteers in b'tselem's camera distribution project.
"it has reached a crescendo.
there... six people detained as israeli army chases non-violent protestors into homes at walaja imemc - wednesday august 10, 2011 - 12:26, the israeli army responded to a non-violent protest at al-walaja on wednesday with gas and sound bombs.
french heart team completes week of surgeries in jerusalem 3/7/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a french surgery team left jerusalem at the end of february having completed a number of pediatric cardiac surgeries in occupied east jerusalem, supported by the palestine children's relief fund.
the  daily show with jon stewart mon - thurs 11p / 10c
on 3 july '11, at midday, settlers attacked the village of 'asira al-qibliya, claiming villagers had started a fire near the yitzhar settlement.
reporting from aaron dearborn.
they look so tidy in a very organic and ancient way.
israelis, themselves, are as victims as  the palestinians although to a very lesser extents.
separated from the urban sprawl by a 10ft-high fence, it was "a utopia, a little piece of shangri-la".
about a hundred people, mostly men, gather under the noon shadow of olive trees and spread out...
an  nabi salih: resistance to settlement expansion met with military violence 1/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - 15 january -  israeli forces must have anticipated the large response to the an nabi salih  popular struggle's call out for international solidarity in their 4th  consecutive friday demonstration on january 15th.
following the previous demolition, in early march, local palestinian residents and international supporters rebuilt the playground and planted new olive trees in the garden.
it pays for free education of every israeli child from elementary school until university graduation.
abuelaish cherished their laughter, the way  they mimicked and teased one another.
the sheikh jarrah solidarity movement, a leftist activist outfit based in jerusalem, posted the embedded video on twitter, claiming that it shows a sound grenade thrown by settlers at palestinians this morning.... more.. e-mail israeli military and zionists ambush olive harvest in beit furik 10/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west bank - the palestinian family el jobor was unsuccessful in their attempt to harvest olives today as they met resistance from jewish settlers and israeli soldiers originating out of the itamar settlement.
in west bank, settler violence seen on the rise relief web 14 jul 2011 - source: reuters - alertnet country: occupied palestinian territory 14 jul 2011 13:23 source:
the alternative information center explores the reasons behind the decrease [uruknet.info] israel can never steal our heritage uruknet december 6, 2011 -
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 11:15, on saturday morning, in the village of burin, south of nablus, a group of right-wing israeli settlers assualted palestinian farmers during the olive harvest.
related:jordan valley solidarity and article and video witnesses:  israeli fire torches nabi saleh olive trees 6/24/2011 - ramallah  (ma'an) --
the israelis call it the “buffer zone.”
al-nabi salih is a troubled place.
she walks over felled trees, past the bulldozed  cistern, and to the ruins...
yitzhar settlers violently crash burin wedding,  military watches 9/6/2011 - international solidarity movement -  nternational solidarity movement, west bank - while villagers were celebrating  a wedding in the small village of burin, israeli arsonists from the  illegal settlement of yitzhar seized the opportunity to set ablaze olive  groves, destroying over 200 olive trees.
palestinians  are forbidden from passing through some streets by car or by foot; the main  street linking north and south hebron has been closed to palestinians; turning  a 5 minute journey into a 45 min trek through alternative roads.
the entire book was probably farmed out to some  neo-con boiler room operation.
three people were arrested in the hebron and two in nablus, palestinian sources said.
soldiers assault man in jenin 2/7/2012 - jenin (ma'an) --
not wanting to time the encounter with the  israeli navy in the dark we slowed down and when the morning had warmed up i  suggested that a good way to de-stress would be to stop the boat and for us all  take a swim in the sparkling deep blue water.
what justifies the brutal rampage of terror and murder?
the israeli army demolished a house and cowshed, bulldozed an olive orchard, and confiscated two caravans in the village of beit ola, northwest of the west bank city of hebron, palestine news & info agency (wafa) reported on tuesday.
several beit ommar residents and a fire truck with high-pressure  hoses spent over... settlers torch palestinian orchards near nablus imemc - friday june 17, 2011 - 09:25, on thursday evening, dozens  of extremist israeli settlers torched palestinian olive orchards near the  illegal itamar settlement, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
inside this fragment of a fragment of land, the economy is picking up, as shipments of soap, olive oil, vegetables, soft drinks and even local beer move smoothly to their west bank destinations.
mohammad amer said residents of the illegal gevat gilad outpost prevented fire engines from reaching far'ata village.
gulf could provide lifeline for palestinian olive  farmers, say oxfam and european union relief web 6 dec
trouble is a weekly occurrence here, signified by tear gas, rubber...
now in rafah where entire  neighborhoods are reduced to rubble where israeli tanks and bulldozers made in  usa add an extra 2000 families left homeless.
the popular committee popular committee against the wall and settlements issued... jewish settlers burn olive trees west of ramallah pic - jewish settlers torched tens of palestinian olive trees in bilin village land behind the separation wall west of ramallah city, the popular anti wall committee said in a statement on thursday.
on saturday morning, salima ewes, 73, and her  family found 40 olive trees had been cut down in their field in the northern  west bank village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city.
mediterranean waters are infested with raw sewage, while a 3 mile limit, closely watched by the israeli navy collectively destroys a once flourishing fishing industry, the waters now stagnant from sewage and...more in pictures: olive harvest draws internationals to west bank pnn - by lo yuk faievery october, palestinian families take to their groves to harvest olives from the approximately 10 million olive trees throughout the west bank.
i came to work in the early morning.
bloomberg has noticed that the area shows an annual growth rate  of 7%.
to the fragile west bank economy - 22 percent of total agricultural  production....
as israel steps up its expansionist  policies both inside and outside the green line, the bedouin community has come  under particularly intense pressure.
however, they continued to limit palestinian farmers' access to land lying near settlements or on the other side of the sep expired olive oil and produce confiscated in hebron 11/26/2009 - hebron - ma'an - palestinian officials confiscated 50 containers of expired olive oil and a significant quantity of expired produce in downtown hebron, according to the committee of local market officials on thursday.
[end] archives | art | articles | background | books | boycott | cartoons |chemical war | children | contact | donate | elections | e-mail us | events | film | home | letters | links | maps | mission | music | videos | news | performance | photos | poetry | polls | prisoners | products | search | take action | the us role | the wall | together to receive a once-daily e-mail digest of our news and articles content, write to occupationnews-subscribe@yahoogroups.com or visit http://groups.yahoo.com/group/occupationnews/join see example:
jewish settlers uproot 300 olive trees in wb pic 15 apr 2010 -  jewish settlers rooted out 300 olive trees in the palestinian west bank village  of muhmus in one night, a hebrew daily reported on thursday.
israeli  settlers set fire to palestinian crops on farmland in the husan village in the  southern west bank district of bethlehem, burning vast areas of olive groves  before firefighters were able to control the blaze, locals said.
according to the latest un report on freedom of movement in the west bank, there are 90 different closure obstacles in the h2-area, that all interfere with freedom of movement for the palestinians living in or having errands in h2.
mufeed abdul-halim ash-sheikh, 62, his wife fahmiyya, 60, and his son mahmoud, 26, were evacuated to the darwish nazzal hospital after they collapsed at the scene....
[uruknet.info] video: israeli police join settler pogrom at anatot, 23 israeli, palestinian activists injured uruknet september 30, 2011 -
the outgoing director of unrwa operations barbara shenstone on monday planted olive tree saplings on land slated for confiscation in the northern west bank.
consul general hussain abdul khaliq, members of the palestinian community and others reportedly attended the event.
this is the fifth time since 1997 that settlers have destroyed the olive trees in this grove.
passing through checkpoint 56, one of eleven permantly staffed checkpoints betweeen h1 and h2, the consequences of this policy can be heard, seen, and smelled.
israeli  bulldozers uproot olive trees in jerusalem wafa palestinian, israeli firefighters control fire near bethlehem 7/20/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) - more than 70,000 square meters of olive fields  belonging to cremisan monastery in beit jala burned wednesday before  palestinian and israeli firefighters managed to put out the blaze.
israel is now all but officially isolated.
we are sorry that we are in  the way of the natural growth of your beautiful settlements and luxurious  houses, stopping your children from playing and running in the gardens of  kiryat arba, ma’ale adumim, beit eil, efrta, aztion and others
israel destroys hundreds of west bank olive trees to lay settlement water line mondoweiss - a resident of jab'a stands next to destroyed olive trees.
it was hard to  imagine how anything ever grew on this brown, barren soil, much less the  hundreds of olive, orange and grapefruit trees the qudaih family reminisced  about.
as this year’s  olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out  to their olive trees, a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to  die... pchr weekly report: 13 abducted in 58 separate incursions  this week; settlers attack olive harvest imemc -
iof soldiers destroy tens of palestinian olive trees pic - israeli occupation forces (iof) bulldozed tens of  palestinian olive trees in deir estiya village west of salfit city on tuesday.
[uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers burn hundreds of olive trees uruknet august 25, 2011 - dozens of israeli settlers set fire on thursday to more than 100 olive trees in mikhmas village southeast of ramallah.
"but then i  began to wonder how i could craft such a story while avoiding the  self-absorption into...
in large sections of shuhada street, the israeli army also enforces a ban on pedestrian traffic.
oxfam, the union of agricultural work committees and the palestinian agricultural relief committees estimated that olives collected this year would produce half the oil of the 2010....
people are still harvesting near the apartheid wall/colonial settlements and if  you are in palestine and interested, you may still get a... intimidation continues in susiya as peace activists are arrested palestine monitor - two activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta'ayush  were arrested while assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
lives and livelihoods at stake: palestinians again  confronted by violence and repression during the annual olive harvest 12/16/2009 - al-haq - al-haq is pleased to present its report on the 2009  olive harvest: ‘lives and livelihoods at stake: palestinians again  confronted by violence and repression during the annual olive harvest.
the 3,000-year-old  cemetery suffers from rampant desecration of graves and violence against  visitors.
but there are also unexpected nativity scenes complete with joseph,  mary, crib, wise men and large israeli concrete wall with military watchtower.
these terror waves are committed by israeli extremist settlers  (colonizers) as well as the israeli army.
more.. e-mail jerusalem official condemns plans for jordan hotel 12/16/2010 - jerusalem (ma'an) --
the olive tree of al-walaja -  video the guardian 15 sep 2011 - farmer salah abu ali tells how  his village has lost land and people since the foundation of the state of  israel in 1948 david levene mona mahmood
the website algeria isp reports (citing unnamed "arab" sources) dec. 11 that the us and france have jointly established a secret drone base in the libyan desert, near the area of katroune.
tree  planters say soldiers used riot dispersal methods on volunteers 2/10/2010 - hebron - ma'an - international and palestinian tree planters were  dispersed with tear gas and sound bombs as they attempted to work land  belonging to local farmers on wednesday, the palestinian solidarity project  said.
two occupations and a faux museum sits on desecrated tombs.
the zone was illegallyannexed to israel following the 1967 war, and now  faces.... settlers torch olive orchard in silwan uruknet may 13, 2010 - a group of fundamentalist israeli settlers torched,  wednesday night, an 11-dunam olive orchard in al-rababa valley, in silwan,  south of the old city of jerusalem.
another week of pausing, breaths held, as israeli tanks the color of sand  moved nearby along the buffer zone, another week of children frightened at the  sound of roaring f-16s, another week below the watchful eye of the drone.
fayyad was joined in deir al ghusun by tulkarem governor talal dweikat, pa agriculture minister ismail daiq, and farmers and residents of al karak, a village close to the separation....
israeli bulldozers destroy  agricultural land near settlement 1/13/2010 - hebron - ma'an -  israeli troops bulldozed four dunums of agricultural lands in safa village  north of hebron tuesday night, following an effort by palestinian farmers to  plant olive trees in the valley near beit ummar.
i watch them sometimes, holding the string, eyes trained aloft, an open-mouthed smile plastered on their sun-darkened faces.
other  officials from the bethlehem area.
the oslo agreement gave  israel the chance to normalize and justify military emergency conditions and  zones, already in place since 1994.
i was stunned that two dozen people could pose such a threat to israel that the army would resort to using live rounds of ammunition against us.
but before these kilos can be poured on pasta, heated to fry, or soaked in bread, the olives must go to a press.
settlers cut  down 45 olive trees in nablus 23 feb 2010 - west bank, february  23, 2010 (pal telegraph)-
on a hilltop between the nablus-district villages of beita  and... at-tuwani:
settlers uproot 250 olive seedlings 4/20/2010 - nablus - ma'an - a number of israeli settlers uprooted 250 olive tree seedlings on tuesday at dawn, after palestinian farmers spent several days planting the crop in the qaryut village south of nablus, an official said.
and it isn’t just mosques that are targets.
around 25 palestinians and a similar number of international observers marched from the village at 12:20 pm today and attempted to reach olive groves on palestinian....
so far, the department is....
boycott is a time honored method which was the catalyst that ended legal segregation in the united states.
each of them passed into the hands of opposing sides during the war of independence.
the study and challenge centre is located on palestinian land that is surrounded by four israeli settlements the closest of which is only metres from the rear of the building.
issa amr said dozens of students joined farmers to assist in the olive harvest but were stopped by israeli forces who.... israel settlers start fires amid west bank harvest uruknet october 16, 2010 — thick black smoke billows from the olive grove under the gaze of israeli soldiers as palestinian farmers use branches to try to beat out the fires lit by jewish settlers.
much to their joy, the palestinians will  discover that lieberman has relinquished his house in a colony on the west  bank, which israel has occupied since the 1967 arab-israeli war.
a number of villagers from nearby deir istiya, including  village mayor nazmi....
forty-five percent of palestinian agricultural land (228,560 acres/914,235 dunums) is planted with olive trees.
the houses of the palestinian village of burin lie in this valley, which lies between two hills: on one stands yitzhar; on the other, har bracha, outside nablus. ...
according to israeli media, more than 300 olive trees were uprooted  and the racist graffiti was sprayed across the village.
protesters then marched towards the lands south of the village where stands halamish settlement, built on the stolen lands of an-nabi salih, and where israeli occupation forces awaited their arrival.
but the petraeus  team soon leapt to the rescue, reflecting the  four-star-general-turned-intelligence-chief’s deep-seated animus toward  iran.
as  the iof soldiers made their hasty retreat, the demonstrators happened upon the  remnants of israel's vain attempt to suppress the nonviolent popular  resistance.
the rest are totally ignored, and hundreds of cases of abuse and attacks are closed.
most readers of mainstream media in  the united states think of the first intifada (1987-92) as the stone-throwing  uprising and the second intifada (2000-2004) as the attack of the suicide  bombers....
the spokesman said the land in question was "state land," and said all....
awad's uncle salim  witnessed the attack.
the spokesman added  that four journalists and three american activists were detained, as israeli  forces used stun grenades and closed off the area leading to the agricultural  land in question.
we rebuild as soon as the troops who demolish leave the area.
an nabi salih: resistance to settlement expansion met with military violence 1/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - 15 january - israeli forces must have anticipated the large response to the an nabi salih popular struggle's call out for international solidarity in their 4th consecutive friday demonstration on january 15th.
the soldiers frequently  arrived in tamir's house to raid at, usually they arrived late night during  wokrking days.
bil'in has organized weekly and sometimes daily actions against the wall for the past five years, gaining international attention for the struggle and becoming a symbol for nonviolent, creative, popular struggle around the west bank of palestine.
the  organizations, all based in israel, included the association of civil rights in  israel (acri), b'tselem, rabbis for human rights....
the unseasonably hot weather led to a fire erupting on 50 dunums  of planted olive trees....
israel approves jerusalem settlement expansion 1/6/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an -
the village has now turned back to farming as the  primary source of income and grows olives, pumpkins, tomatoes.... burin: zionist soldiers and colonists collaborate against harvesting 10/17/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity  movement, west bank - the israeli military conducted arrests, mistreated  detainees and continued to prevent villagers from picking olives in certain  areas of burin, near nablus, yesterday on october 16 2011.
good thing, joseph thought, we have a few sheep and olive trees and mary keeps some chickens.
jewish settlers cut off 45 olive trees pic 24 feb 2010 - jewish armed settlers cut off 45 olive trees in  the village of burin, south of nablus city, on tuesday, local sources reported.
“we were not convinced that  it was vital for security reasons to maintain the existing route that passes  through a topographically low area of bil’in land and that there was no  fitting security substitute to the construction of the barrier in order to  protect the residents of modi’in illit,” justice supreme court  president dorit beinisch wrote in her decision.
settlers attack palestinian farmers in nablus imemc - dozens of israeli settlers attacked, on saturday morning,  palestinian farmers in the village of ‘azmout, near the west bank city of  nablus, preventing them from harvesting their olive trees, the maan news agency  reported. ...
b'tselem worker beaten by israeli soldier palestine monitor: 5 jan  2011 - two palestinian family members were beaten and arrested by an israeli  soldier in their own olive grove last november, following an unlawful  detainment of their two teenage relatives.
open border,  1000-year-old olive trees, new israeli stun guns mondoweiss - and  other news from today in palestine: gaza travelers sought as gaza terminal  empties quickly reuters 28 may -- "is there anyone who wants to  travel?" asked a black-uniformed hamas policeman at a cafe near the border  terminal gate.
harvesting olive that day was not easy, all the work was done while the volunteers were completely surronded by israeli soldiers, policemen and settlers, who constantly provked the palestinian and foreign volunteers.
4 arrested for desecration of 20 tombs on mt. of olives jerusalem post 8 jul 2011 - three arab boys from a-tur in e. j'lem allegedly damaged tombstones in the cemetery's american section.
israeli settlers assault palestinian farmers in nablus imemc - 10
salam affana and saed affana were detained while  picking olives on their land in nablus while thaer ahmad khalil....
in thursdays column, ignatius notes that, initially, white house and justice department officials found the story implausible.
in a statement, nablus deputy governor anan al-atira, who had been at the tree planting, called the violence "brutal and baseless.
this money is used to cover the expenses of hoarding to israel, housing, re-socializing, and absorbing every zionist jewish immigrant.
olive trees, like the one above, can be hundreds of years old  and are a... weekly protest - video round up palestine  monitor: 10 may 2010 - up and down the west bank non-violent protests took  place during the last weekend.
jeruslalem post 15 jun  2011 - is the olive tree initiative, an interfaith program that brings american  students here to learn about the israeli-arab conflict, offering its  participants the appropriate mosaic of views?
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 30  olive trees near nablus imemc - a group of extremist israeli  settlers uprooted, monday, at least 30 olive trees that belong to the  palestinian villagers of madama village, south of the northern west bank city  of nablus, the maan news agency reported. ...
now that the... settlers uproot olive trees in northern west bank imemc - tuesday february 23, 2010 - 17:18, a group of israeli settlers uprooted, on tuesday at dawn, olive trees that belongs to palestinian farmers from the village of burin, near the northern west bank city of nablus.
called geder ha-hafrada (separation fence) in hebrew and jidar al-fasl  al-‘unsuri (apartheid wall) in arabic, the insurmountable (if still  incomplete) barrier has no doubt contributed to a reduction in terror and car  theft.
following an investigation, the ministry and forces seized the goods in  two warehouses in ezzariya, east jerusalem, and hebron.
a palestinian man was moderately injured on  wednesday as a group of israeli settlers attacked farmers in the jit village  near nablus, witnesses said.
palestinian authority settlements official ghassan doughlas said settlers set fire to 150 dunums of fields belonging to palestinian villagers south of the northern west bank city,
few imagine that between these ancient walls they can also enjoy the beauty of nature.
however, they did not allow  the israeli occupation force to prevent them from going to their land.
the story of a shoemaker living  in hebron's h2 tamir: "... they want to scare and despire us, they want us  to leave the are, that is why they do this.
umm ayman sufan said more than 40  residents of yitzhar settlement pelted her house with stones and bottles,  before cutting down olive trees surrounding the home....
why oliver stone believes hitler was  an 'easy scapegoat' ha'aretz 11 jan 2010 - director's new  documentary seeking to put historical villains 'into context' has viewing world  up in arms., activists: army prevents tree-planting near hebron 1/11/2010 - hebron - ma'an - israeli forces reportedly prohibited  palestinian farmers from planting 1,500 olive trees in the abu ar-rish area of  the beit ummar village near hebron on monday.
“we rebuild as soon as the troops who demolish leave the area.
autumn in gaza 10/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by radhika s. - 27 october 2011 - notes from behind the blockade - today completes another week of olive picking in gaza.
for three days the israeli occupation forces fired from their automated turret while the farmers continued to harvest their grain.
the israeli occupation authority (ioa) razed a palestinian home in tur village in the mountain of olives in occupied jerusalem on wednesday and destroyed 20 olive trees, local sources said.
an israeli border police spokesman said he was unavailable for comment.
"we will pray for rain and wait," he said.
the bulldozers also destroyed 18 almond trees, 27 pine trees, and 8  fruit trees.
settlers uproot 270 olive trees near nablus palestine note 21 feb 2011 - ma'an - a mob of extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and uprooted olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian officials said.
then he spoke about the dragon that was approaching, the dead...more air strikes hit targets in the gaza strip 8/2/2011 - gaza  city (ma'an) --
where are the palestinian poets who'll tell us all dreams,  dreams of quiet olive groves, villagers' meetings, the rich quiet of rain on  straw grass and dust?
despite the diversity among the people, a  common ground was established even before take-off: a desire to... oliver stone's son converts to islam in iran jerusalem post 15 feb  2012 - sean stone, a film director like his acclaimed father, says "the  conversion to islam is not abandoning christianity or judaism.
one of the settlers  was appointed "security guard" to ensure no journalists were able to  record the incident, haaretz wrote.
however, despite the enduring hardship in tel rumeida,  resistance to the israeli occupation remains strong.
oxfam, the  union of agricultural work committees and the palestinian agricultural relief  committees estimated that olives collected this year would produce half the oil  of the 2010 harvest, a statement...
the battle for al-walaja palestine monitor - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and  bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
the agricultural committees called on palestinian authority officials to  intervene to stop violations.... jewish settlers set on fire  hundreds of palestinian olive trees pic - jewish settlers torched  hundreds of palestinian olive trees south of nablus on sunday night, local  sources said.
according to the notices received by villagers, the area....
as this year's olive harvest  sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive  trees, a new... tariq ali and oliver stone to discuss ‘on  history’ in nyc mondoweiss -   tariq ali and oliver  stone will be in new york next week to  to discuss their new book on  history: tariq ali and oliver stone in conversation .
but they will have to wait and see whether their own homes, in haifa or nazareth for example, will still be standing, along with their traditional lemon, olive and fig trees and grape vines, which their parents have longed to see since the beginning of their tortuous exile in neighbouring arab countries and elsewhere.
robin yassin-kassab: you did your national service in cyprus and egypt just before the 1956 suez war.
still, i must tell you that the kites are different here in a way that is quite striking to the outsider, a difference that sets them apart from the ones kids fly back home in america.
pa settlement  affairs official ghassan doughlas said villagers in huwwara were prevented from  accessing their land near the notorious yitzhar settlement south of nablus,  despite having approved coordination between israeli authorities, the official  news....
among the fires controlled include a blaze in a jenin orange grove, which consumed 15 trees, and spread to a nearby olive tree crop near the jalzon refugee camp....
this highway was built on newly confiscated  palestinian village lands.
the film ends with palestinian and israeli activists heading to the neighboring village of niilin where the struggle to save palestinian land continues today.
settlement affairs official  ghassan doughlas said dozens of residents of the illegal esh kodesh outpost  raided qusra and destroyed trees belonging to locals rabi abu bakr, samir hasan  and jabali abu....
but to the palestinians who live near this wide swath of land alongside the border between the gaza strip and israel, it is fertile land where their children played
settlers uproot 15 olive trees near dir estia uruknet april 8, 2010 - a group of extremist jewish settlers uprooted on thursday 15 olive trees in wadi qana area, north east of dir estia, near the central west bank district of salfit.
a group of israeli settlers broke  into an all girls' school in the nablus district village of as-sawiya on  wednesday, setting fire to...
settlers chopped down more than 500 olive trees owned by  palestinians in the west bank district of nablus on friday, palestinian  authority officials said.
all kinds of israeli air crafts were over seeing and  protecting the ground iof while the invasion, then they missiled a playground  in khan younis targeting a bunch of children playing football.
locals reported that residents of the illegal ariel settlement attacked villagers as they harvested their olives.
[uruknet.info] israeli  bulldozers uproot olive trees in al-walaja near bethlehem uruknet  july 26, 2011 - israeli troops detained, kidnapped two palestinians from the  village of al-walaja near bethlehem tuesday morning.
more settlement security officer torches palestinian olive trees uruknet october 1, 2010 - a security guard working at the itamar jewish settlement, near the northern west bank city of nablus, torched a number of olive trees that belong to resident of awarta village, east of the city, no'man awwad, a 40-year-old local villager, told the maan news agency that he saw the security officer parking his jeep near...
the  weekly demonstration against the separation wall in the ramallah-area village  of bil’in commemorated the 44th anniversary of the naksa, the beginning of  israel’s 1967 occupation of the west bank, east jerusalem, gaza strip and  the syrian golan.
the operation threatens 35 family homes,  municipality officials said.
as light turns from red to orange to deepest blue, as mountain fades  into darkness, i think of my palestine imprisoned in the paranoid face of  israel starved of life and dragon flies.
israeli forces uprooted dozens of olive trees on tuesday in deir istiya in the northern west bank, local officials told ma'an.
settlers burn cars,  vandalize mosque in nablus area 9/8/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
during that visit i saw with my own eyes the fact that israel does not want  peace with palestine.
[ gaza: life in the "buffer  zone" uruknet february 13, 2010 -
in september alone, 2,500 olive trees were destroyed, out of 7,500 destroyed so far this year (and a conservative estimate of 800,000 destroyed since israel’s annexation of the west bank in 1967).
this is a pesticide free zone, with organic farming practices being the norm.more.. e-mail unique glass mosaic unveiled after restoration in caesarea nadav shragai, and the associated press, ha’aretz 1/28/2008 israel antiquities authority (iaa) has restored a unique 1,400-year-old glass mosaic, which was discovered in 2005 during excavation of the ancient bird palace in caesarea, haaretz has learned.
teargas canisters set the trees alight, the witnesses....
the  soldiers refused to acknowledge that the area was private palestinian farmland,  instead proclaiming it a ‘closed military zone', a common but illegal  method of crowd...more ramallah's olive press palestine monitor: 3 nov 2010 -
israeli settlers from yitzhar, south of the northern west bank city of nablus, uprooted and destroyed 60 olive trees in madama village, south of nablus, according to local sources.
the palestinian agricultural relief committees released a report on tuesday which found that over 2,600 olive trees were destroyed by settlers in october.
in photos: settlers disrupt burin olive harvest uruknet october 13, 2010 - israeli residents living on the illegal west bank settlement of yitzhar in the northern west bank district of nablus have been disrupting the olive harvest in the nearby burin village since the season began in early october.
we learned new  picking and storage methods and much more through the project," says um  yazan, a palestinian woman who benefited from the training.
no food, no water, no money, flattened  neighborhoods from the reign of terror.
in just two weeks last october, qedumim settlers perpetrated three attacks in immatin.
the protesters raised palestinian flags and banners demanding that farmers be allowed to access their lands to pick olives.
as israel steps up its expansionist policies both inside and outside the green line, the bedouin community has come under particularly intense pressure.
burin, located in the northern west bank, comes under frequent attack from the settlements of yitzhar and bracha enveloping the village.
of looking inward on a barren moonlit landscape while  wandering the winding paths stepping on rubble on ancient villages which are no  longer but villages whose souls still weep for the familiar voices they may  sometimes hear in the distance when the wind is right - william james martin  contributed...more occupied palestine from a to z: canaan of  palestine uruknet march 27, 2011 -
dr. mohammed al-agha, the  agriculture minister in gaza, asserted that the decision was meant to protect  the local product of olives and olive oil in order to enhance the steadfastness  of the palestinian farmer on his land.
the old city of nablus provides overwhelming sensory testimony to the eclectic civilisations which have filled her twisted paths for generations, and a stimulating afternoon for the modern explorer.
as part of emek izrael’s annual food festival, yokneam moshava residents open their houses to the public to view and buy arts and crafts.
organizers said border police dislocated the shoulder of an israeli man "during the violent arrest," and say the man is being denied access to medical treatment as he is kept in a police station.
"every year as the olive harvest season comes around so do various groups of provocateurs," settler leader david ha'ivri.... video:
residents of the illegal shvut rachel settlement  raided qusra village and chopped down the trees, said ghassan doughlas, pa  official for settlement affairs in the northern west....
from the pyrennes to the atlases, tunis  to athens, jerusalem to damascus, farmers and families are climbing trees and  filling sacks in their grey-green groves.
ros-lehtinen's résumé is a distressing read.
dissident voice: 28 may 2011 -
israel sets up trial program to expedite pa export process jeruslalem post 9 mar 2010 - palestinians in the west bank mostly export agricultural goods such as olives, tomatoes and peppers, valued currently at around $50,000 a year.
israeli occupation forces raided al-zbabda, mithlon,  sanour and other neighborhoods in south of jenin, while travelled in the city  streets, local sources said.
egyptians say military discourages an open economy palestine note 18 feb 2011 - new york times - the egyptian military defends the  country, but it also runs day care centers and beach resorts.
this is a no  go zone for palestinians.
the survey sample of this round is based on the 1997 census  (updated 2003).
bureaucratic hump sees kojak the camel  ‘jailed’ jeruslalem post 31 mar 2011 - "i  haven’t worked for 2 weeks," says owner of mt. of olives  photographic icon; city municipality says animal lacks vaccinations, license.
the qudiahs and many other farmers were afraid that the israeli army would shoot them if the attempted to reach their land near the buffer zone.
a total of five tents, two wells and a number of  olive trees were demolished.
israel to adjust wall’s route in bil’in 2/6/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - attorney of bil'in local council, michael sfard, said on saturday that israeli authorities informed him of the new route of the separation wall, adjusted according to a decision by the israeli supreme court of justice in 2007.
zaytoun was established in early 2004 by four activists as a...more.. zaytoun uk zaytoun is a uk based non-profit project to buy pesticide free fair trade extra virgin olive oil as an act of solidarity with palestinian farmers.
“they enabled many thousands of very poor palestinian families to survive,” recalls sourani.
the harvest had been  interrupted by israeli soldiers who claimed the land was disputed, although  israeli government-issued aerial maps showed it to be palestinian.
the guardian 20 mar 2010 -
a man bends down to pull up some plants,  extends his arm and points his finger at a dune a few tens of meters away,  “you see that land?
oct 2010 - israeli settlers  under military escort attacked a number of university students as they were en  route to help farmers in harvesting olive trees in tel armida and jabal
the cranes at work on a jerusalem skyline are worth a paragraph or two of background.
footnotes are inessential at  best; at worst they trip up the greater narrative.
he  couldn't stand to see the home he build destroyed before his eyes," hanan  said.
according to a new report released by operation
the maps have been  publically available since a peace now campaign pressured the government into  disclosing data on ownership of the land in the occupied territories.
seán clinton analyzes for the electronic intifada.
3 nov 2010 - two activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta'ayush were arrested while assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
the most intense israeli airstrikes in months disrupted what had been a quiet holiday for one gaza family.
they will be welcomed at the border by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu, israeli foreign minister avigdor lieberman and thousands of cheering israelis.
the new neighborhood is called beit orot, and will house 24 new residential units.
israeli rights  orgs demand action over settler vandalism 10/30/2010 - jerusalem  (ma'an) --
march against the wall in jenin 3/18/2011 - jenin (ma'an) - the popular committee against the wall and fatah organized on thursday a march in anin village to plant 200 olive trees.
the old tractor sputtered up the hill, its engine seemingly about to expire, but its big wheels bumping across the rocky terrain.
in what turned out to be a beautiful days climbing, picking and bagging of black and green olives, mohammed joined other members of the beit hanoun local initiative group accompanied by 4 international solidarity movement activists to help farmer abzel al baseony begin the olive harvest 300 metres from the erez border wall with israel.
in his use of words, president obama has just picked up where the  failures of past administrations left off.
saeed amireh writes from nilin, occupied west bank.
jerusalem – the one that cuts the city off from the west bank in order to  turn it into the united capital of israel for all eternity.
obama says time ripe for mideast peace accord la times 1 sep 2010 - meeting separately with the israeli and palestinian leaders, on the eve of israeli-palestinian talks, he calls on them to seize the moment to craft a two-state plan.
it was replete with carefully designed pauses, indonesian words and phrases, and some self deprecating humor,
on gaza's streets – and even among its own ranks – the  sentiment is rising that it is time for hamas to reconcile with its secular  rivals in the west bank.
they are actually a theater set of a cemetery because no one really knows where the people are buried; fragments of their headstones lay in piles left by the jordanian bulldozers..... --
standing up to the bulldozers in palestine palestine note 29 may 2010 - earlier this month, as israeli bulldozers sought to raze olive groves in the forgotten palestinian village of al-walaja, many thoughts raced through my mind.
whilst returning from collecting his olives, abdullah was last seen riding his donkey back towards his village of deir istia – 7km northwest of salfit.
hebron and the southern west bank region on march 2, settlers from settlements in the eastern bethlehem area uprooted 25 olive trees belonging to residents of the al-frides village....
in this fertile crescent the first human agriculture developed.
the olive young leaves and flower sprouts  are denser than ever before.
the survey sample of this round is based on the 1997 census (updated 2003).
when you can’t eat, drink, move freely, watch tv,  have access to internet, have a decent job and home and send your kids to  schools then death could be a liberating thought.
the pa agriculture ministry has  strongly condemned sunday a new religious edict issued by a rabbi allowing  israeli settlers to steal palestinian olive crops and to poison palestinian  water.
the olive young leaves and flower sprouts are denser than ever before.
but in lebanon the residents had  all fled long before my platoon came, and we simply walked in the debris.... --
olive groves are spread all  over the country and every palestinian house has a couple of olive trees in  its...more how many israeli soldiers does it take to keep an  elderly palestinian woman from harvesting her olives?
israeli settlers set fire to palestinian-owned olive  groves near the evacuated settlement of homesh, near the west bank city of... to gaza with humble apologies – a poem palestine  chronicle: 3 dec 2010 -
west is east, when israel decides 11/19/2009 - antiwar.com - the family received no compensation for the takeover. - jerusalem along a wall not about to come down a hotel no longer a hotel, but an outpost.
tamir knows that he  and his family cannot harvest all the olives in one day, so they need the help  of volunteers, however, he told me that the presence of volunteers does not  solve everything, because the olives can be harvested in one day, but in the  other hand there is more tenssion, because the presnece of the soldiers and  settlers near his house, increases.
this  year, let alone any for sale.
of them, approximately 190 were newly planted, and the rest were planted last year...
firefighters controlled blazes in several villages throughout the week which had burned around 300 olive trees, a civil defense report said.
it was strangely uplifting to  spend two nights and three days in the galilee, north palestine.
facing the busy nablus - ramallah road 60 route, and the israeli settlements of shilo and eli behind them they set to work planting the new trees in the land oft neglected by farmers from fear of settler or army reprisal.
israeli settlers uproot olive trees in northern  west bank imemc - tuesday april 20, 2010 - 19:31, israeli settlers  uprooted on tuesday dozens of olive trees owned by palestinian farmers form the  village of qarwit near nablus city, northern west bank.
the existence of an estimated 500 israeli settlers is facilitated by up to 4000 israeli soldiers stations in hebron.
instead, settlers swarmed the group, smashed the... (en)
three barrels of tear gas canisters had been left during the soldiers haphazard exit from the village.
"i live here to confirm  my existance and prove that we are going to solve our presence in this  land," tamir said.
a delegation  included official from the gaza social responsibility fund, mohammad saleem,  rafiq falouji from the company that supplies the fabric, head of the solidarity  mission, maha abu ramadan, and director general of cultural contributions in  the communications group, anwar mahila.
the donation comes in support of the cultural sector and for job creation in the sector of heritage and women’s development.more.. ramallah municipality plants one thousand olive trees international middle east media center 1/15/2007 ramallah municipality and the palestinian pharmaceutical company bier ziet organized a campaign on monday to plant one thousand olive trees in the city of ramallah in the central west bank.
around half live in villages that are not recognised by the state, and have no access to municipal services like water and electricity.
inside  israel, the state seeks to judaize the negev (naqab) desert.
in september and october 2009, only a few aggressions against palestinian farmers related to harvest, land and farming equipment were reported.
"this is the first time i've returned here since my friends were  killed," ahmad hammad says....
have kidnappings and bannings discouraged you?
other settlers beat up the night before entire families in the  jordan valley.
olive harvest fact sheet - october 2011 relief web 19 oct 2011 -
oct 2010 - saturday october 02, 2010 - 05:51, a  security guard working at the itamar jewish settlement, near the northern west  bank city of nablus, torched a number of olive trees that belong to resident of  awarta village, east of the city,
the israeli rights  group yesh din on monday called on israeli authorities to protect palestinians  during the olive harvest season.
rabbi yitzhak shapiras torat hamelekh was not an aberration.
soldiers present used violent  force to remove palestinian, israeli and international activists who attempted  to prevent the destruction....
my parent's generation were generally decent  honorable people who wished no one harm, neither black nor white, they believed  in the humane treatment of everyone, but many also believed in the doctrine of  separate but equal.
these terror waves are committed by israeli extremist settlers (colonizers) as well as the israeli army.
in the case of rula halawani (1964),  an internationally renowned palestinian photographer who was born, raised, and  continues to live in the mount of olives neighbourhood of east jerusalem, the  camera is not only an extension of her eye,...
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has.... related:source refusing to die in silence: palestinians resist settler violence during the olive harvest
oct 2010 - report chastises the palestinian authority, israel and the int'l community for failing to help ancient form of west bank agriculture.
we all watch the israeli separation wall cutting through palestinian familys houses and olive orchards.
the union of  agricultural work committees in the village of aqraba in nablus said monday  that residents of the illegal itamar settlementburned 300 olive trees.
the settlers also steal their olives, but tamir explains me that the  attack of the settlers does not only ocurre during the olive harvesting season,  but it occure at any time at any moment at any places.
"it’s a unique find, a piece of art," joseph patrich, professor of archaeology at the hebrew university in jerusalem.
uruknet  december 11, 2011 -
the citizens said on tuesday that the settlers usually discharge  polluted water from factories of canned meat and...
the.... in  photos: settlers riot in burin 7/28/2010 - maanimages / rami  swidan - israeli settlers hurl stones toward palestinians, not seen, during  clashes near the west bank city of nablus on 26 july 2010.
the smaller ones, delighted to discover this new place, ran among the olive, fig and apricot trees, before finally settling down to eat their falafel sandwiches beneath a bower of vines.
zionist settlers burn  olive fields, run over a youth pic 19
”1 all of this is, in some ways, rather new in palestine,  although in his latest book the philosopher sari nusseibeh, the president of  al-quds university in jerusalem, traces an earlier stage of organized  palestinian civil disobedience in the popular struggle of the first intifada in  1988 and 1989, in which he had a significant part....
as hard as we try to imagine the magnificence of our ancestors' orange groves, or the enchantment of the scent of jasmine flowers as it lingers at night, we know that we are severed from that world.
a civil defense report said a fire broke out in the living room of a residential home in the wadi shahin area in qalqiliya.
ghassan douglas, in charge of the... official:
what are termed "pig attacks" by  farmers are often blamed on settlers, with rumors of malicious intentions based  on repeated settler attacks on the area, with olive groves ruined and sewage  pumped continuously into a local spring.
since 2009, nabi saleh has been demonstrating every friday.
in addition, during the action some shepherds of the village decided to graze their flocks in the area.
women’s  handcraft union shows off tradition 3/18/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an  - women hovered expectantly over tables of handcrafted silver pendants next to  booths of rich embroidered shawls and olivewood carvings, waiting for the tens  of thousands of tourists that visit bethlehem in the spring to wander in.
this is the disconnected, disaffected  news i have seen in britain.
for decades the surrounding hills of burin are filled with their olive groves and farmlands.
zionist settlers damage olive trees using chemicals pic 9
oct 2010 - saturday october 09, 2010 - 11:15, on saturday morning,  in the village of burin, south of nablus, a group of right-wing israeli  settlers assualted palestinian farmers during the olive harvest.
will we reestablish the cemetery on a site that served as a parking lot for 40 years?
it made the work of picking the olives much  more arduous and dangerous.
olive groves, villagers, solidarity actions: all are “fair game” to the wild west bank settlers.
we are sorry for the patience of our detainees and  female prisoners who even after 33-year sentences still remain steadfast and  dare to defend their hope for freedom without despair.
for the palestinian community living in this part of h2, israeli-controlled hebron, military occupation is an inescapable intrusion into everyday reality.
main changes  in the labour market: the 4th quarter of 2006 experienced essential changes in  the labour market, which occurred due to the strike in public sector and the  closure of schools.
i visited hebron, jericho, ramallah and bethlehem after the oslo chamber of commerce was approached by a palestinian company that hopes to do business with norway.
the use of unarmed craft to protect american  buildings and personnel may foreshadow an expansion of such operations to the  united states government’s diplomatic arm.
oct 2010 - zionist settlers ran over a palestinian youth and burnt palestinian olive fields in bethlehem villages on tuesday, local sources reported.
abu rahmah is a school teacher and coordinator of the bil'in popular committee against the wall and settlements, which has carried out a five year campaign of non-violent protest and legal challenge against the wall that separates israel from the west bank.
a spokesman for israel's civil administration told ma'an on thursday that nearly 100 olive trees bulldozed near beit dajan the day before were planted on land that did not belong to jamal abu kanaan.
related:israel uproots palestinian olive trees near nablus settlers uproot olive trees near nablus 17 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-dozens of olive trees were uprooted and confiscated by jewish settlers in the area of beit dajan in the east of nablus city to facilitate israeli movements around settlements.
we all know what the jewish state stands for.
we informed them that we could not guarantee their safety, that the israeli army had killed foreign civilians too.
while the people in the  household were at the cemetery to attend the funeral, settlers from the  adjacent berakha settlement took the opportunity to visit the household'....
we stood in the back, swaying wildly, holding on for dear  life.
the german-jewish organization  jewish voice for peace in the middle east is preparing a jewish flotilla to the  gaza strip.
it subsidizes homes for every israeli citizen.
a number of demonstrators dressed in black and carried a coffin  with a man inside.
pa official: 45 olive trees chopped down near nablus 2/23/2010 - nablus - ma'an - israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive trees in the occupied west bank on tuesday, a palestinian authority official said.
it promises a great season not only of bountiful agricultural harvest but of bountiful harvest on the activism front.
protesters declared the event a victory, after reportedly stalling construction for three hours in al-walaja.
but the village is at a  crossroads.
more.. e-mail settlers torch hundreds of nablus olive  trees uruknet june 2, 2010 - residents of the illegal yitzhar  settlement set fire to more than 100 dunums of palestinian lands near urif  village, southwest of nablus on wednesday afternoon, palestinian officials  said.
if the settlements continue to expand at their current rate, they will soon merge, further isolating battir.
the electronic intifada
the march  began from the city center on the road toward the cremisan monestary, where  israeli bulldozers began overturning land to make way for the separation wall.
i grew up with an olive tree in our back yard and itrepresents the peaceful life we had always lived on these lands.
here in gaza, we head to beit hanoun for their weekly nonviolent protest in the buffer zone.
report: israel to expand hotel  owned by jordan palestine note 15 dec 2010 - maan - israel is  planning a major expansion to a jordanian-owned hotel atop the mount of olives  in jerusalem, an israeli newspaper reported wednesday.
looking east across unfenced hills rolling clear down to the dead sea one may have the feeling of peering over the brink of another world, and if you read power only in what it constructs, in concrete and steel, you might briefly have the impression that the hold of the occupation somehow attenuates here.
while the palestinian olive harvest is a tradition that stretches  back countless generations, the phenomenon of settler violence during the olive  harvest is only as old as the illegal israeli settlements themselves.
for a city whose complex history embodies so many religious, national, and ethnic narratives, jerusalem day marks a more exclusive and contested story of this city....
the palestinian agricultural relief committees released a report on  tuesday which found that over 2,600 olive trees were destroyed by settlers in  october.
witnesses added that the israeli settlers... palestinians: settlers cut down olive trees ynet news - owner of  grove in luban a-sharkiya 'shocked' to see uprooted trees; palestinians.... settlers attack palestinian farmers in deir ibzi 10/22/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
oxfam: palestinian olive oil profits affected by settler  violence pic 15
fresh olives and the sound of bombs umaymah  hewitt, middle east monitor (memo) 8/19/2011 gaza is under fresh attack from israel following  an incident near eilat in which seven israelis were killed and 40 injured.
west bank, palestine
on the... easing of gaza blockade fails to reverse housing crisis 12/21/2010 - jabalia, gaza strip (irin) -- farid batch and his brother wasfi live about 500 meters from their old houses in jabaliya, north gaza.
the sweet voice of my  five-year-old yasser this friday morning didn't feel so sweet.
this past weekends demonstrations (3-4 june) against the israeli occupation, settlements and apartheid walls were conducted in the west bank villages of bilin, naalin, nabi saleh, al masara and beit ummar.
israeli settlers set fire to more than 2,500 olive trees in burin pic 20 oct
the settlers attacked the home of um sufan, located close to yitzhar settlement, and hurled stones and empty bottles at it;... dozens of settlers attack home in burin, cut olive trees imemc - palestinian sources reported that dozens of armed israeli settlers attacked, on monday evening, a home in burin village, near the northern west bank city of nablus, and chopped several olive trees.
my parent’s generation were generally decent honorable people who wished no one harm, neither black nor white, they believed in the humane treatment of everyone, but many also believed in the doctrine of separate but equal.
israel does not bear sole  responsibility for an unjust blockade that also undermines its own long-term  security; indeed, the policy was jointly crafted and executed with the united  states and has enjoyed the collusion of the european union, egypt and even the  fatah wing of the palestinian authority.
for palestinians, olives are an important agricultural product, and olive trees symbolize attachment to their.... zionist settlers attack farmers during olive harvesting uruknet october 9, 2010 - zionist settlers
join us at the launch to gaza uruknet may 11, 2010 - when:  wednesday, may 12 - where: dundalk docks, 40 quay street, dundalk, ireland -  10:00-11:00 come to the ship and be introduced to the mv rachel corrie and the  organizers, donors and high profile passengers.
abdul  nasser al-qaryuti, head of the village council, called on human rights  organizations to intervene and halt settler assaults on palestinian lands.
fugitive leader moammar kadafi remains a danger and libya faces "stubborn resistance" from former regime loyalists,...
i, however, offer a proposal to use it for something even more meaningful – as an opportunity to show ourselves and the world that estonia is as committed to the idea of freedom as it was in 1991 – by recognizing the independence of palestine.
every hill, every stone.
last month, the army established a...
the operation took place under the... israeli forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily unrest in silwan 11/8/2010 - international solidarity movement - wadi hilweh information center - today, workers from the jerusalem municipality and israeli forces removed the memorial of samer sarhan, this morning.
as noted, the land belongs to the nawaj'ah family.
the...more israeli soldiers kill second  member of palestinian family palestine monitor: 4 jan 2011 -  jawahur abu rahmah died on the first day of 2011 after suffering intense  teargas inhalation at the end of year anti-wall protest in bil'in.
the  park is the first built since israel's war on gaza in december and january of  2008-9.
this insistence on ones humanity has been the key strength which has allowed the palestinian people to preserve their struggle and resistance before the wicked arm of occupation and oppression for nearly 63 years.
on tuesday israel's jerusalem planning and building committee approved the construction of four new settler buildings on the mount of olives, in the heart of east jerusalem.
awarta man suffers broken legs after  settler pig attack palestine monitor - farmer ismael awad, 57, is  recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked  him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
while village attended funeral, zionists stole 10/21/2011  - international solidarity movement - 18 october 2011, international solidarity  movement, west bank -
settlement affairs official ghassan  doughlas said settlers attacked fields between qusra and duma villages south of  nablus.
as  every friday for the past three years, they were intercepted by israeli  soldiers who had put up a fence of barb wire at the entrance to the village,  effectively cutting off the villager's access to their lands.
during the raids, officers also found 28 gallons of oils marketed as olive oil but not meeting minimum health or quality standards, officers said.
amidst long hours waiting to pass to jerusalem shahd abusalma, international solidarity movement 5/25/2011 last night, i went to bed at 11 pm, much  earlier than i’m used to.
the valley and its springs have been suffering...
the director of the marketing department in the palestinian  center, fadi mousa, said that the exhibition aims to support rural production  "and to strengthen the palestinian attachment to the blessed olive  tree."
palestinian agricultural relief committees (parc)
moreover, rabbi shapiras yeshiva in the settlement of yitzhar has received substantial government funding.
but the wheat  needs several hours to be collected, and snipers have fun terrorizing the  farmers during those hours.
video - a perfect day ruined 10/8/2010 - international  solidarity movement - by stella - it was a beautiful morning but as usual too  hot.
the battle for al-walaja palestine  monitor - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and bethlehem, lies  the village of al-walaja.
[uruknet.info] witnesses:
salfit farmers report crop damage by wild pigs 5/3/2010 - salfit - ma'an - a sounder of wild boars destroyed several dunums of palestinian farm land in the salfit district on sunday, local farmers said, prompting accusations of settler involvement.
israeli forces detained two palestinian teenagers picking olives near hebron on friday as weekly anti-wall protests across the west bank marked the start of the olive harvesting season.
the old city of nablus provides overwhelming sensory  testimony to the eclectic civilisations which have filled her twisted paths for  generations, and a stimulating afternoon for the modern explorer.
one look at this years olive harvest, taking place throughout the west bank over the next two weeks, proves the statement to be correct.
every friday morning  the army seals off the area and prevents entry and exit for all.
footnotes in gaza book review palestine chronicle: 23 feb 2010 -
a ministry of health employee told ma’an’s reporter  that 16 tons of dates and 30 tons of pickled olives were seized.more.. e-mail oxfam, palestinian farmers discuss project to improve olive oil quality  with an-najah university ma’an news agency 5/30/2008 nablus - salfit - ma’an - a delegation from oxfam and the union of  palestinian farmers’ societies visited an-najah national university on  friday to discuss a project to improve the quality of palestinian olive oil for  the local and export markets.
maan also reported that the settlers... ‘i better not call betty’ — my long path to unreasonable optimism about the conflict mondoweiss - kevin r vixie editor: some weeks back we asked mathematician kevin r. vixie to write up the story of his disaffection from zionism.
then we saw a number of smaller craft lined up and realized that the encounter was approaching.
i grew deeply  interested in the politics of the region; i also like to think that -- having  come to the area entirely devoid of preconceptions, or anything more than the  most rudimentary knowledge, tabula rasa as it were -- the opinions and  interpretations i developed about the arab-israeli conflict were always as near  as possible spontaneously personal and first-hand ones....
we arrived around 11 a.m. and gathered in front of a bombed-out house down a dusty road leading to the border.
related:pa official: settlers harvest palestinian  olives pa official:
more.. e-mail budrus marks land day with olive tree planting and nonviolent resistance 4/1/2010 - international solidarity movement - 31 march -
settlers set fire to olive trees west of ramallah
iof troops bulldoze land  in gaza, detain jerusalemites for planting olives pic 12 jan 2010  - israeli occupation forces (iof) advanced east of shujaia suburb in gaza city  afternoon tuesday and bulldozed palestinian plantations, local sources said.
the german-jewish organization jewish voice for peace in the middle east is preparing a jewish flotilla to the gaza strip.
while the palestinian olive harvest is a tradition that stretches back countless generations, the phenomenon of settler violence during the olive harvest is.... testimony of an israeli activist who was robbed and beaten by settlers while attempting to assist the olive harvest mondoweiss - this is a testimony of a', a 61 year old peace activist, who was beaten badly with clubs on his head and entire body by jewish settlers during an olive harvest in the palestinian village of jalud; his ribs and several fingers were broken, and his... [uruknet.info] harvesting olives as a statement of resistance uruknet palestinian villages across the west bank are undertaking their annual olive harvest this october, amid fears of harassment and violence from israeli settlers and soldiers.
the trees were uprooted and confiscated, deputy to the nablus  governor anan at-ateera told ma'an.
i met tamir and his family the day when a group of young palestinia and forigner volnteers met in his lands to harves olives.
awwad, a 40-year-old local villager, told the maan news agency that he saw the security officer parking his jeep near... israeli forces toss gas bomb on protester near hebron, causing ’severe burns to the entire body of mohammed jamal abu hashim, 14′ mondoweiss -
settlers chop down 500 trees in nablus 3/4/2011 -  nablus (ma'an) --
by georgina reeves on sunday night, the mosque in the small village of tuba suffered an arson attack.
around the same time, a tractor overturned in an olive grove in jadeidi-makr, killing the driver. ...
liar, liar palestine chronicle: 18 nov  2010 -
the olive industry under siege in palestine david's  reports, bostontopalestine, october 8 - 20, 2004 olive groves in disrepair
abuelaish had been offered a job in toronto, canada, and he wanted to know how the children, who had never known anywhere other than gaza, would feel about this.
the use of emigration as an escape valve led 500,000 to migrate to the united states and...more palestinian youth attacked while planting olive trees 4/2/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
official: settlers uproot 200 olive trees south of nablus 8/16/2010 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli residents living on an  illegal west bank outpost uprooted over 200 olive trees near the qusra village  in the nablus district monday, a palestinian authority official said.
i responded by stating that that did not accord with international law, that we were unarmed, had no materials which could be put to military use, that we carried a consignment of aid for gaza and that we expected safe passage.
palestinian film forum breaking the cultural siege on gaza 1/17/2010 - international solidarity movement - bianca zammit & rada daniell, ism gaza -
local official in charge of the settlements file in the northern west bank ghasan daghlas said the fire was set in the jabal marwes area, the hill...
inside the weekly anti-wall protests pnn - ni’lin - pnn/exclusive - in another world, these  would be the beginnings of a picnic.
ni'lin - demonstrators disrupted new construction in the israeli colony of nili.
since  2009, nabi saleh has been demonstrating every friday.
in the shade of the olive trees pnn - anera – pnn -  abed abdelm’uti abu sneinih couldn’t believe his eyes when he saw  the truck pull up to the school in mid-july with more than a dozen 30-year-old  olive trees....
they forced us to go back and my wife had to give birth at home, naser, a senior of the village, said.
some  200 local protestors attended the rally, with residents attempting to plant 30  olive tree seedlings on land overturned by israeli bulldozers.
the us continues to reward israel with 6 billion dollars of tax-payers money while the eu increases its trade and diplomatic relations.
qumsiyeh,  author of popular resistance in palestine: a history of hope and empowerment,  says other examples of nonviolent resistance include protests of the separation  barrier (which many palestinians call an “apartheid wall”) that has  effectively turned 10 percent of palestinian land into israeli land since its  construction began in 2002; school girls holding class in the street when they  can’t get to their schools because of israeli interference; and farmers  braving israeli intimidation to harvest olives.
negev desert have been made homeless after police raided their village and  razed their homes.
he also stated that the trees would not be able to bear olives for at least three years.
the report documented 139 attacks on palestinians in the west bank by the israeli army and settlers during the month, including the demolition of 95 buildings and over 3600 olive trees and vines.
official: settlers block nablus villagers from land 10/29/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
this is the only palestinian city where the stettlers are  actualy inside the city and not in the near by settlements.
by george polley you live in a home your family has lived in for  generations.
settlers riot in burin,  shooting and setting fire to olive trees uruknet july 27, 2010 -
it shadowed us for some considerable time, keeping on  our port side about five miles off.
desmond tutu calling for immediate release of bil’in activist abdallah abu rahmah 12/25/2009 - international solidarity movement - 24 december - elders' chair, archbishop desmond tutu, has expressed his deep concern about the arrest and indictment of abdallah abu rahmah of bil'in and has called for his unconditional release.
and the olive trees planted a thousand new suns ago by those who  are no longer but whose sweat lingers in the soil are there no israeli poets?
west bank olive trees uprooted by settlers middle east monitor 26 sep 2011 - dozens of israeli settlers have uprooted 400 palestinian-owned olive trees in the occupied west bank village of qusra near nablus.
4 may 2010 - zionist settlers from the notorious yitzhar settlement on tuesday set on fire tens of palestinian dunums cultivated with fruitful olive trees in hawara village, south of nablus, eyewitnesses reported.
masri said there was some... rawabi developer to replace trees donated by jnf 2/8/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- bashar al-masri, developer of a new west bank city rawabi, said tuesday that trees donated to the project by the jewish national fund would be replaced by olive trees.
the gaza government's ministry of agriculture said monday that israeli forces were disrupting the entry of olives from the west bank into gaza.
it was his intention, that sunny winter morning, to shine a little light on them, to give his brood some respite, however brief, from their grief.
farmer:  settlers uproot trees in beit ummar 8/24/2011 - hebron (ma'an) --  settlers from the illegal bat ayin settlement, northwest of hebron, have  uprooted olive, plum and grape trees belonging to a local farmer in beit ummar.
see also:help the campaign to save lifta more.. e-mail declaration of independence palestine monitor - renouncing violence and terrorism, recognizing israel,
the tainted olive oil, sold at 110 shekels per bottle,  was a mixture of low-grade olive and cooking oils and likely originated from  israel, the ministry's undersecretary azzam tubeleh said.
the different abu  taima brothers and cousins speak of their land, all in or near the  israeli-imposed “buffer zone” (officially 300m in which  palestinians cannot enter without fear of being shot, killed; but in reality a  land-annexation which extends even up to nearly 2 km, driving farmers off their  land and rendering land un-used…a waste of space in a strip that has no  space to waste).
the un security council demanded an end to the gaza blockade, although washington successfully watered down the official statement and forestalled calls for an independent investigation.
on june 2, maher said he woke up to find more than 250 of his olive trees destroyed by settlers.
according to israeli law, soldiers have limited jurisdiction over internationals as internationals are governed by civil law (unlike the palestinians who suffer under unjust military rule) and therefore only the israeli police have the legal authority to demand an international or israeli citizen to provide their passport for inspection.
palestinians, israelis and international  activists gathered on four gates which lead to jerusalem: qalandia, biddu,  shufat, and at rachel's tomb in bethlehem.
the two soldiers saw nasser filming the events, went over to him and pushed him, telling him that he was forbidden to be there.
it is a craft that has been passed down from one generation to the next.
at the protest, international...
haaretz reports that  israel will attempt to block the humanitarian freedom flotilla heading toward  gaza.
also on the mission again was patrick siclis, a perfusionist who has been on past missions to palestine.
in al-walaja, as in many palestinian villages, the construction of the wall has resulted in the destruction of palestinian olive groves and orchards.
where are the palestinian poets?
[uruknet.info] what did the trees do?
the  civil administration’s plans will be carried out over the next three to  six years.
yousif shakawi, a local resident in his 50s was arrested along with one israeli activist.
protesting israel's wall and settlements, which have claimed over 40 percent of the village's lands, demonstrators marched toward the barrier armed with flags.
international and israeli activists gathered under grey skies outside the prison yesterday, beating drums and chanting pro-palestinian slogans.
following the rain, local farmers in the qalqiliya governorate were optimistic about the current olive harvest, hoping that the price of olive oil would rise in response.
nawaf thawabteh said he had barely started picking his oil-rich fruit in early october on a rocky hilltop near the elon moreh settlement when three masked men brandishing clubs charged through his orchard and grabbed his half-filled sacks.
raja shehadeh was scheduled to have a book...
israel does not bear sole responsibility for an unjust blockade that also undermines its own long-term security; indeed, the policy was jointly crafted and executed with the united states and has enjoyed the collusion of the european union, egypt and even the fatah wing of the palestinian authority.
haitham, the injured man, was transferred to  hospital in ramallah.
as a result of the oslo agreements negotiated in the 1990s - the people of al khalil became familiar with two new terms – h1 and h2.
mr. president palestine chronicle: 27 dec 2011 -
more.. e-mail bitter olive harvest adds to animosity 11/2/2011 - awarta (reuters) --
zionist settlers burn olive trees in hawara uruknet may 4, 2010-- zionist settlers from the notorious yitzhar settlement on tuesday set on fire tens of palestinian dunums cultivated with fruitful olive trees in hawara village, south of nablus, eyewitnesses reported.
settlers clash with palestinian farmers 10/9/2011 - nablus  (afp) -- jewish settlers clashed with palestinian farmers on sunday, as they  tried to pick olives from land owned by relatives of two men convicted of  killing a settler family.
the oslo agreement gave israel the chance to normalize and justify military emergency conditions and zones, already in place since 1994.
popular resistance expands in an nabi salih 2/5/2010 - international solidarity movement - 10 people were injured by rubber-coated steel bullets and tear gas cannisters in today's demonstration in an-nabi salih village, in the north ramallah region, against the expansion of the illegal halamish settlement on to village lands.
then she said that she is too a refugee.
as noted, the land belongs  to the nawaj'ah family.
[uruknet.info] setters uproot 400 olive trees south of nablus.
israeli air crafts fired at a target in beit lahiya in the northern gaza strip causing material damage but no human casualties, medical sources told ma'an's correspondent....
[uruknet 60831  07-dec-2009 15:46 ect] rabbi allows stealing palestinian crops and water uruknet december 7, 2009 --
the abu rahmahs have suffered much under the occupation.
palestinian official ghassan douglas told ma'an that two cars were set alight in the village of qabalan, south of nablus.
they said that 15 settlers from yizhar settlement attacked one of the village's fields and threw stones at the farmers and threatened to expel them and steal their crops.
he reckoned this year's crop would be less than a quarter of last year's "and last year it was not good at all. "
ahmed, an olive farmer form the qalqiliya region, about 30 minutes drive from tel aviv, said the meager crop was not worth harvesting.
palestinian legislative council members mustafa barghouthi and fayez as-saqa  joined the protest, as well as members of the beit jala. . .
this most recent attack on palestinian agriculture follows a month of  israeli settler violence and harassment aimed at preventing palestinian farmers  from plowing their fields and thus earning their livelihoods.
but, there is  a light of life in the old city market.
the israeli government fails  to gather that the tide has changed.
as this year's olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive trees, a new... tariq ali and oliver stone to discuss ‘on history’ in nyc mondoweiss - tariq ali and oliver stone will be in new york next week to to discuss their new book on history:
the five tents giving shelter to  some 50 bedouin residents of amniyr, a tiny community north of susiya in the  south hebron hills, were torn down on monday, their olive trees uprooted and  water sources covered over.
work day to rebuilt bulldozed playground in beit jalla, bethlehem successful 3/11/2010 - international solidarity movement - palestinians, israelis and internationals met in beit jallah today to rebuild a playground that bulldozers destroyed last week while clearing the path to complete the wall near bethlehem.
first us-born hassidic master brought many closer to judaism, laid to rest at j'lem's mount of olives.
the palestinian  authority's ministry of agriculture will not fix olive oil prices ahead of the  2010 harvest season, the minister said, announcing a new mechanism of support  for farmers.
the ministry is  currently testing the produce to verify the olive oil's source and will release  its findings once the investigation is complete, tubeleh added, further. . .
left with no land to farm, and consequently no source of income, kafr ad-diks farmers have been forced to either rent out small plots from farmers who still have access to their lands in neighboring villages, or work their own land, now owned by the illegal israeli settlements, for a paltry wage of around $13 a day.
[uruknet.info] video: israeli police join  settler pogrom at anatot, 23 israeli, palestinian activists
settlers uproot 15 olive trees near ramallah imemc 25 jan 2010 - tuesday january 26, 2010 - 00:49, a group of fundamentalist settlers uprooted on sunday evening fifteen olive trees that belong to a resident of dir nitham village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
* an olive nursery set up by in gaza to restore decimated cultivation.
with a population of approximately 3,500 that is wholly dependent on the yields of their olive trees, burin's lands are hemmed in by two settlements on the north...
israeli settlers on sunday stormed a palestinian village near nablus and uprooted 80 olive trees, a palestinian authority official said.
in addition to  palestinians, the protest included members of international solidarity groups  as well as a number of israeli peace activists.
olive harvest 2009: army better  prepared aljazeera 25 nov 2009 - this year, security forces were  better prepared to protect farmers from settler violence during the olive  harvest in the west bank.
-- the project  is based in the gaza strip to “protect cultural heritage” and is  providing sewing machines, embroidery materials and other essentials for the  traditional embroidery sewn by generations of palestinian women.
see also:help the campaign  to save lifta more.. e-mail declaration of independence palestine monitor - renouncing violence and terrorism, recognizing israel,
i enjoyed the experience.
as one stands in the village to take in the view, one sees the wall that cuts through the landscape like a jagged scar and the expanding settlements lie beyond.
i am  55 years old, and have been demonstrating since the age of 12.
wasteland in al walajeh: israeli military destruction of farmland 9/7/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement, west bank -
on 3 july '11, at  midday, settlers attacked the village of 'asira al-qibliya, claiming villagers  had started a fire near the yitzhar settlement.
the attack was widely condemned by the  arab community throughout israel and the occupied territories.
its not fair at all that i need an excuse to go there!
what can i say about such a  well written book that has not already been said: well crafted, thought  provoking, illuminating, enlightening, informative….most importantly  fast times in palestine highlights the essential humanity of palestinians and  their struggle with the constant oppression of israeli society that surrounds  all facets of their lives.
"guerilla gardening" has its roots among the levellers and the diggers of mid-17th century england, but today has branches spanning the globe.
jody mcintyre spoke to im
the obama administration has sent a formal  diplomatic request asking iran to return the radar-evading drone aircraft... gaziantep journal: turkey’s sanctions on syria hurt business for  border city new york times 13 dec 2011 -
once the adjusted route is implemented, residents of bilin are expected to restore almost half of their 2,300 donums confiscated during the construction of the walls original route.
there was no work, not even for a skilled carpenter.
the wrinkles of her face looked like she was bearing so many burdens that i thought she was older than only 66 years old.
yet many of the tombstones have been smashed, litter is strewn... south hebron hills: palestinian man stabbed by settler near at-tuwani two days after settler riot disrupts replanting of damaged olive trees christian peacemaker teams - palestine - provocations and attacks by israeli settlers obstruct palestinian nonviolent action in the south hebron hills: two palestinians are arrested 3/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - 19 march, operation dove - at-tuwani -saturday morning, around 9:00 am, during a nonviolent action, the inhabitants of at-tuwani, accompanied by several international, planted some olive trees in palestinian-owned humra valley.
/ photo:  palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:  palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:  palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:  palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:  palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:  palestine monitor photo:...
after all, if  we start putting back cemeteries that have disappeared, the country will  quickly fill up with gravestones and there will be no space for the living.
onlookers said residents of the revava settlement  chopped down trees using a chainsaw in qarawat bani hassan village near deir  istiya.
at mamilla, excavations have been undertaken to remove skeletons to make room for the museum of tolerance.
i think i was the only one who had any breakfast home made muesli (wonderful almond nuts).
pa: settlers clash with olive harvesters near nablus 10/10/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
however, since 2000 burin's olive groves and land have been preyed upon by the surrounding settlers, who have declared their desire to annex the entire area into their own territory.
metropolitan books, 2009.
oct 2010 - nablus, october 23, (pal telegraph)
business  isn’t booming.
in photos: fayyad replants uprooted olive trees 2/28/2010 - maanimages / rami swidan - salam fayyad, caretaker prime minister of the ramallah-based palestinian government, plants an olive tree in the northern west bank village of burin on 25 february 2010, two days after 45 trees were destroyed by israeli settlers from the nearby yitzhar settlement.
the whole of the bethlehem district has been surrounded by the separation wall and ever-expanding settlements for years.
the seven arches hotel, atop the mount of olives in east jerusalem, belongs to the jordanian royal....
jerusalem - driving east from jerusalem on the winding jordanian-built road that once led down from the mount of olives to the dead sea, one passes through a series of arab suburbs and soon comes to a dead end in front of the grotesque west bank barrier.
israel's vast separation barrier is at its most... bethlehem's modern nativity scene crib, wise men and separation wall pnn 24 dec 2009 - israel's security barrier, complete with looming watchtowers, has found its way into the nativity scenes on sale to tourists.
the olive tree campaign uruknet december 31, 2010 - the olive tree campaign (otc) seeks to replant olive trees in areas trees have been uprooted and destroyed or in areas where the fields are threatened to be confiscated by the israeli military occupation and settlers.
[uruknet 60780 05-dec-2009 02:07 ect] report: 14000 palestinian olive trees subjected to israeli aggression in 2009 uruknet december 4, 2009 - a palestinian research centre, specialised in monitoring israeli violations, revealed that the israeli occupation authorities destroyed 14000 olive trees in the palestinian territories during 2009.
oct 2010 - zionist settlers destroyed tens of fruitful olive trees in al-mughir town, northeast of ramallah, on friday after spraying them with a chemical material.
this violence ranges from the blows delivered from masked,  rod-wielding youth accompanied by an armed guard in jalud last week, to the  violent mob outside of anatot last month, to scores of instances of tree  burning or uprooting.
middle  east conflict played out in the olive groves pnn 3 dec 2009 -  akram imran says the jewish settlers came at night.
in the second session, al jazeera executive producer and author clayton swisher was joined by former bbc middle east correspondent tim llewellyn.
mihmas residents blamed settlers for the attack and said this was  the third time the settlers had uprooted trees in the area. ...
it is, in fact, "israeli lawlessness" and her opposition to a palestinian statehood that has made her a darling to israel and its lobby.
an israeli military court in the west bank has extended the detention of two students seized a week ago in the northern west bank, their family said.
more a state for jews palestine chronicle: 2 jun 2011 -
given the amount of reportage, it is surprising how much significant information is omitted.
the order was issued three days ago to the village, declaring that the village must halt construction of the mosque, on consequence of demolition.
written and  photographed by brynn ruba.
"the benefactor of a controversial jewish development in eastern jerusalem is a major donor to us representative ileana ros-lehtinen," reported the jewish telegraph agency on 11 january, shortly after the congresswoman claimed her new post.
out of 13  year old boy uruknet june 11, 2010 -
the  un security council demanded an end to the gaza blockade, although washington  successfully watered down the official statement and forestalled calls for an  independent investigation.
wasteland in al walajeh: israeli military destruction of farmland 9/7/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity  movement, west bank - on tuesday september  6th local palestinians  from the village of al walajeh gathered with international activists to protest  the building of the illegal separation barrier as well as the destruction of  ancient olive trees.
palestine monitor: 28 dec 2010 - walking through the olive groves separating the village of ni'lin from the west bank barrier, a group of palestinians heading the opposite direction shake their heads at us in warning.
an estimated 10 million olive trees dot the israeli-occupied west bank, thriving in the arid climate and covering 45 percent of all agricultural land in the region.
while negotiations, lobbying and dialogue occur, those who have been directly impacted by occupation, the palestinians, have called upon the world to engage in meaningful nonviolent action to apply pressure upon israel so that israel cannot conduct the business of occupation as usual.
-- links:this week in palestine  (pdf)
[end] palestinian social fund supporting gaza strip women  and traditional embroidery palestine news network 1/25/2007 the social responsibility fund and the palestinian communications group are  making gestures in solidarity with women and traditional crafts.
al-ma’sara demonstrates against the apartheid wall 11/17/2009 - international solidarity movement - the al-ma'sara popular committee against the wall and settlements, 13 november -
fires destroy 200 olive trees in west bank cities 7/2/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- civil defense crews from several districts in the west bank were able to control and suppress fires that broke out in the west bank thursday morning.
but yasser was too excited about his... israeli settlers torch olive trees near bethlehem uruknet october 19, 2010 -
maher mohammed seb'a says he will stay on his land despite 30 years of  harassment, intimidation and bribery by israeli forces seeking to displace him.
in nablus, yash adam  settlers attacked a palestinian-owned farm noon sunday, chopping down hundreds  of olive trees.
by robin yassin-kassab footnotes in gaza: a graphic  novel.
it has been exactly seven years since you departed, leaving bereft and orphaned a nation of stateless palestinians whose cause you personified and promoted as no one else could.
at approximately 10am on tuesday several residents from the village, joined by ism and other activists, walked down to the site of the olive grove, which is now a wasteland.
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] hummus and falafel are already "israeli."
sindyanna established in 1996, sindyanna of galilee is a registered non-profit organization.
the ensuing fire consumed dozens of dunams of land and 400 olive trees according to media.
- a number of jewish settlers on thursday uprooted more than 50 olive trees near the village of burin to the south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
as thousands  of olive trees have been bulldozed, uprooted and....
the tainted olive oil, sold at 110 shekels per bottle, was a mixture of low-grade olive and cooking oils and likely originated from israel, the ministry's undersecretary azzam tubeleh said.
oct 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli settlers set fire yesterday to several olive trees belonging to palestinian families in the north of ramallah city.
the event was organized by the (resigned)  ministry of agriculture in gaza, the participants held olive branches,...
the black kites of palestine lynn jones, maan news agency 7/8/2010 most kids love kites.
the march began from the city center on the road toward the cremisan monestary, where israeli bulldozers began overturning land to make way for the separation wall.
if so, you would be advised  to recall those encampments now long vanished from view, bereft of a single  place sign, or exit road.
the book is the result of conversations the two had while working on two documentaries, south of the... [uruknet.info] gaza: the olive fights the occupation uruknet january 8, 2012 -
janet micha’el, the mayor of the city said that this action is being taken in order to maintain the healthy and balanced environment of the city, and she added that the action is a part of campaign to make the city green.
neighbours were prevented from reaching the families, and teachers....
olive co-operative all olive co-operative products are bought directly from palestinian producers in order to benefit them to the greatest possible extent, or are obtained via not-for-profit or charitable organisations in britain...more..
the night that the army arrested wa'el al faqeeh, they also arrested 8 other grassroot activists from nablus and surrounding areas.
settlers announced their “price  tag” plan after the israeli army dismantled mobile homes in some west bank  outposts and settlements.
ruth dayan  doesn't rest for a moment.
the number of indirect beneficiaries exceeds 2,900 farmers  from more than 30 west bank villages.
john oliver proposes a "time share" solution to settlement crisis palestine note 30 sep 2010 -
israeli settlers torched acres of land near nablus on sunday, a palestinian official said.
israeli and palestinian officials report economic growth for the occupied  territories of 4-5% and a drop in the unemployment rate of at least three  percentage points.
3 children were critically injured,... binyamin netanyahu holds out olive branch to palestinians ahead of us trip
family says students detained while picking olives 11/12/2011 - salfit (ma'an) -- israeli forces detained two men on saturday while they were picking olives near the separation wall north of salfit in the northern west bank, family members said.
bil'in has been at the forefront of the non-violent resistance movement  against the israeli occupation.
forces also controlled a fire that broke out in the atil village in the tulkarem district, civil defense reported....
a father  from jabalia refugee camp in north gaza killed his son by setting fire to him  because the boy refused to help the family pick olives, police said.
the day's  actions were seen by many present as a sign of defiance against the illegal  presence of israeli settlers in the front part of the house, and against the  imminent court proceedings which may be used to force them from the back half.
arson is suspected because of an ongoing dispute between the kibbutz and shepherds from the area over usage of the nearby fields.more.. iran to buy 5,000 tons of palestinian olive oil, palestinian agriculture minister reveals ma’an news agency 2/22/2007 ramallah -
the landscape reminded me of home, of california, with its  thorny tumbleweeds and cactus.
several journalists reportedly interfered and separated the two.
on 11 november, settlers from the beitar illit settlement, west of the bethlehem district, opened the pipes of the settlements sewage onto the land of the hosan village to the east of the settlement.
israel slams oliver stone’s interview jeruslalem post 26 jul 2010 - director: us holocaust focus is product of ‘jewish media domination.’
when it is illegal to use your front door: freedom of movement in al khalil andreas, international solidarity movement 2/23/2012 al-khalil (hebron) is a divided city.
according to the notices  received by villagers, the area....
on june 17, israeli soldiers  interrupted a funeral by throwing tear gas canisters all over the surrounding  region.
only one entry and exit point, under complete military control, will remain.
around 30 young men and women from a group "ihna gheir"
israeli settler attacks on palestinian agricultural land are "condoned and supported by the israeli government," palestinian authority spokesman ghassan khatib said sunday.
twenty palestinians have since been killed during unarmed  demonstrations against the construction of the separation barrier.
journalism project helps verse visually  impaired in craft daily star 5 dec 2011 in a room of furn  al-shubbak’s press club monday, students practice their radio voice with  antoine mrad, the general manager of radio liban libre, while some read sample  lines out loud from their books.
after three years at oxford, i could not think of a career to embark on.
a new stage for west bank popular resistance dylan collins, palestine monitor 1/28/2012 in a hazy room, clouded with cigarette smoke and steam from hot syrup-sweat tea, residents of kafr ad-dik and its neighboring villages, along with palestinian, israeli, and international activists, excitedly gathered together waiting for the midday prayer to finish.
yes, i was one of the last generation of british 18-year-olds obliged to  do two years of military service.
we get out of the sunshine-yellow minibus to a view of scorched land, burnt when tear-gas canisters ignited the dry grass below the olive trees.
since al jaba only has about 1000 inhabitants and lacks a hospital, markets, and high school, the restriction of movement means that everyone has to go two to three kilometers by foot in order to do their basic shopping and to reach school, work and healthcare.
earlier this week,... settlers attack  palestinian farmers, school in northern west bank alternative  information center - on wednesday 20 october, israeli settlers attacked a group  of farmers from the boreen village, in the southern nablus district, who were  working in their fields, harvesting the olive crop.
in gaza: 4 sep 2010 - * cooking over olive branches bulldozed by the israeli military in one of continuous invasions along gaza’s borders johr al-dik, eastern gaza strip, sep 4, 2010 (ips) – with power cuts up to 16 hours to full days, a soaring heat wave and unbearable humidity, the israeli-led siege on gaza is but one of many factors leaving ramadan miserable for the majority of palestinians in gaza.
some of them  are at least 70 years old.
sacco depicts fear, humiliation and anger very well indeed, and often achieves far more with one picture than he could in an entire newspaper column.
the settlers have launched a number of attacks in recent weeks, burning mosques and chopping down olive trees...
fields in the area had previously been declared a closed military zone, locals said, keeping farmers from planting or harvesting their crops.
the israeli army exercised excessive use of force to silence palestinian protest.
the millions of  visitors to jerusalem's old city every year are usually seeking the sacred - a  prayer at the western wall, the temple mount or the church of the holy  sepulchre - or more earthly pursuits, like a good price on a rug or an olive  wood camel.
the obama administration, which labored for  months to impose tough new united nations sanctions against iran, now is  pushing in the opposite direction against congress as it crafts u.s. sanctions  that the white house fears may go too far.
the vandalism occurred south  of the village, in an area adjacent to the location of several outposts of the  shilo settlement.
a sign  printed with the slogan "price tag" was left on ... ....
the outgoing  director of unrwa operations barbara shenstone on monday planted olive tree  saplings on land slated for confiscation in the northern west bank.
six olive trees destroyed in the night christian peacemaker teams - palestine - israel says trees planted on 'state land' 3/17/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
israel’s barrier snakes out of the western horizon here, fence and tarmac
awad said soldiers attacked the group and fired  teargas as well as sound bombs at them until they retreated from the area.
justice supreme court president dorit beinisch wrote in her decision.
twenty palestinians have since been killed during unarmed demonstrations against the construction of the separation barrier.
it is at the centre of a wrangle over whether it should be preserved in its current state as a reminder of the palestinian dispossession or redeveloped into luxury housing.
lets assume we drop the project.
earth day was celebrated jointly by the  palestinian consulate general in dubai and the social and cultural committee of  the northern emirates.
mayor: israel uproots olive  trees in northern west bank 6/28/2011 - salfit (ma'an) --
the farmers of hares who have land near the settlement of revava still cannot get to it as often as they would like.
public security minister says station will increase security against vandalism, stone throwing.
until 18 february  2010, they had nearly 600 olive, fruit, date and nut trees, an agricultural  cistern, a water well, various vegetables and a house.
according to eyewitnesses, a number of israeli settlers from "givat bride" settlement located nea the village, assaulted a number of palestinian farmers while they were in their olive fields, destroying a number...
village wafa israel uproots dozens of olive trees in jordan valley pic - israeli bulldozers have begun to uproot olive groves in beit iksa village in jerusalem province.
israel defied it and continued building, now 61% finished, another 8% under construction, and the remaining 31% planned but not begun.
grey, austere watchtowers gaze over  streets in which israeli soldiers and military vehicles are stationed at  regular intervals, frequently stopping palestinians as they walk through their  own neighbourhood to demand they prove their identity.
khirbet  tana centered around two natural springs, lying 7km east of beit furik in the  nablus area of the west bank.
tuba village  residents believe that the attack was the result of incitement from the rabbis  in safed.
e-mail palestinian olive farmers  welcome decision of not importing foreign olive oil palestinian  information center 9/6/2008 ramallah, (pic)-- news on the decision of the  agriculture ministry in the legitimate pa caretaker government of premier  ismail haneyya of halting the importation of foreign olive oil have relieved  palestinian olive farmers in the gaza strip.
a ‘historic opportunity at hand’ tonight as uc san diego votes on divestment mondoweiss - anfal awwad, benjamin balthaser, oliver burchill, amal dalmar and aaron dimsdale write in the ucsd newspaper the guardian about the ucsd divestment resolution that will be voted on tonight: we have a historic opportunity to stop our university from contributing to the violation of human rights....
when we take the whole of palestine  (west bank and gaza included), we see that palestinians who remained (some 50%  of the population is restricted to less than 10% of historic palestine.
israel has only one method to disperse  non-violent demonstrators and that is through violent repression.
fires destroyed over 200 olive trees and damaged wheat fields in the villages of al-yamoun and al-arafa in jenin, irtah in tulkarem, the villages of.... qalqilia: six civilians injured
israel started the six-day war  through a surprise air strike on egyptian air force bases.
as usual, swift "full force retaliation" took place, leaving six palestinians dead in the first wave early on friday morning, 19 august.
asked how jews should treat their neighbors he said: “the only way to fight a moral war is the jewish way.
hamas holds out olive branch to fatah the national 5 jan 2010 -
few readers of mainstream media are aware of palestinians' longstanding creative efforts to use non-violent direct action in their struggle for self-determination.
oct 2011 - this morning (6 oct. '11), palestinian farmers from the village of qusra, south of nablus, discovered that about 200 of their olive and fig trees were destroyed.
israeli and palestinian officials report economic growth for the occupied territories of 4-5% and a drop in the unemployment rate of at least three percentage points.
military vehicles and bulldozers were  present in the site where they plew 15 donums and uprooted number of olive  trees.
the  world today is caught between two conflicting ideologies: the growing trend of  some democratic countries to join in unions with open borders, joint legal  systems, and a common currency, of which the european union - notwithstanding  its problems - is a great success.
pa: settler violence  'not random' 10/3/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- israeli settler  attacks on palestinian agricultural land are "condoned and supported by  the israeli government," palestinian authority spokesman ghassan khatib  said sunday.
"while the farmers were planting olive trees, israeli forces attacked them  and clashes erupted between both sides," said media spokesman for the  palestine solidarity project mohammad awad.
"they enter in the house and mess everything, they brake things and they do not let my children slepp when they have school at the following day, they also stand in the fernature.
i realized then that one might disagree with you but no one can refute you.
the forum recently  organised the first film festival in gaza in many years.
police officers and military officials often deny palestinian complaints against settlers: as commander of the israeli military police, meir ohana, admitted last month, only 6-9% of complaints by palestinian residents are taken into consideration.
yitzhar settlers violently crash burin wedding, military watches 9/6/2011 - international solidarity movement - nternational solidarity movement, west bank - while villagers were celebrating a wedding in the small village of burin, israeli arsonists from the illegal settlement of yitzhar seized the opportunity to set ablaze olive groves, destroying over 200 olive trees.
but in some places and with some people death sometimes can be seen as their shadow on the ground.
that was the goal of two former university of pennsylvania classmates who set out to make a documentary marrying their jewish heritage with their modern-day social activism.
mr. president palestine chronicle:  27 dec 2011 -
you paid a high price militarily, economically and psychologically to control and destroy it
israeli soldiers responded with baton charges, tear-gas, rubber-coated bullets and live ammunition.
the centre is a hub of nonviolent resistance and its existence  is a testament to the spirit that exists in a beleaguered community under  occupation.
israel destroys hundreds of west bank  olive trees to lay settlement water line mondoweiss - a resident  of jab'a stands next to destroyed olive trees.
after congregating in nearby olive groves for  midday prayers, demonstrators marched towards the illegal annexation wall with  flags and chants led by village youth.
in essence, we are expected to be utterly devoid of critical thought in order to believe such a wild story.
previously, only two of the defendants had been charged  with murder; the other two were charged with aiding and abetting in mr.  arrigoni’s kidnapping and killing, and...more oxfam: settlers  cost farmers over $500,000 this harvest 10/20/2011 - bethlehem  (ma'an) --
the global diamond  industry and aligned governments, including the eu, have hoodwinked consumers  into believing the diamond trade has been cleansed of diamonds that fund human  rights abuses, but the facts are startlingly different.
civil defense personnel trapped by fire in olive grove daily star 25 jul 2011 lebanese army helicopter attempting to extinguish flames in zahrani district which earlier trapped several civil defense members, prompting a rescue attempt by local villagers.
a group of israeli settlers broke into the village lands of iraq burin, south of nablus in the northern west bank today morning.
several demonstrators were dragged on the ground as they refused to leave, but no serious injuries were reported.
-- see also:notes from behind the blockade  more.. e-mail israeli court 'extends students detention' 11/20/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
thus the palestinian arab  people ensured for itself an everlasting union between itself, its land, and  its history.
they strap olive  saplings and water bottles to the back of a donkey....
residents say settlers behind torched grove 11/16/2010 - hebron (ma'an) -- fires ravaged agricultural lands in the southern west bank near hebron on monday afternoon, destroying 15 dunums of fruit groves and greenhouses.
the land belongs to villagers isaac  al-qadi and muhammad....
on june 7, 1967, israeli paratroopers  invaded the old city of jerusalem, fighting their way from the mount of olives  to enter through the lions’ gate, eventually reaching the western  wall—the most sacred religious site for jews around the world.
the abu rahmahs have  suffered much under the occupation.
however, tamir and his family not only have to face the soldiers, but also the  settlers, he said that when his wife makes laundry, the settlers would come and  make it dirty again.
by jim miles (fast times in palestine.
by sam hamod (for our brothers and sisters in palestine, pakistan, iraq, afghanistan and somalia)
"but then i began to wonder how i could craft such a story while avoiding the self-absorption into...
for over 80 years, the same family in south
aref daraghmeh, head of al-maleh village council, said the lands  are for palestinian citizens who live near ein al-baida village.... jewish telegraph agency mentions putting an olive on the seder plate jewish voice for peace - settlers uproot olive trees in  al-khalil pic - jewish settlers on monday attacked the palestinian  village of beit ummar in al-khalil and destroyed 45 fruitful olive trees under  protection of the iof, local sources reported.
shortly there came a call on ch 16 over the vhf from the frigate asking us our intentions and the flag of the boat.
the conspicuous and unusual  absence of both settlers and police contributed greatly to the positive mood of  the day, although the ongoing threat of further evictions looms over the whole  neighborhood.
journalists and cameramen were prohibited from accessing the area, as israeli forces enforced a closed military zone. . . . .
awad, from awarta,  nablus, had been harvesting his... opt: oxfam urges lifting of  barriers to olive production relief web 16
the olive harvest in the west bank and gaza - oct 2006 reliefweb/united nations 11/3/2006 31 oct 2006 -- olives, a centuries-old mainstay of the palestinian economy, are in peak season for harvest from the middle of october to the beginning of november.
ynet news - torching fields, vehicles and houses, uprooting olive trees, vandalizing kindergartens – these are part of a long list of almost routine violent acts of settlers against ....... settlers attack a palestinian town in northern west bank and destroy property and trees imemc - thursday april 29, 2010 - 18:38, a group of israeli settlers attacked on thursday the town of huwara, in northern west bank, and destroyed olive trees and property.
a group of settlers destroyed eight olive trees and damaged two lemon trees belonging to farmer abdel razzaq khaled mansour in the wadi qana area of deir istaya, locals told ma'an... witnesses: settlers attack olive trees in salfit 8/27/2011 - salfit (ma'an) -- settlers on saturday cut down palestinian-owned olive trees in salfit in the northern west bank, witnesses said.
that land is mine and i cannot go there international solidarity movement 5/14/2011
according to eyewitness  reports, idf soldiers violently beat, up to 6 palestinian...
others spoke of the persistence of the palestinian farmer and the beauty of showcasing local goods.
it was simply a codification of the  “religiously” framed devaluation of all non-jewish life that is  rampant throughout the settlements.
wadi qana is surrounded  by five israeli settlements and four outposts, strategically located around the  spring at the base of the qana valley.
the village council of wadi ar-rasha in the west bank, with the help of the human rights group yesh din, petitioned the israeli high court of justice last week, asking the court to issue an injunction allowing residents to reach their groves and harvest olives.
may their memories be a blessing.
19 year old mohammed kafarna grabbed his  neck, turned, and ran back in the direction we had come.
this year has witnessed a surge in israeli military crackdowns, as  al-walaja joins bili'n, ni'lin and beit jala, as the scene of heated weekly  anti-wall demonstrations and popular resistance.
zionist settlers damage olive trees using  chemicals uruknet october 9, 2010 --
typical for israel, it tries to win a lost  battle.
the settlers have launched a number of  attacks in recent weeks, burning mosques and chopping down olive trees...
now i hear it all again from a big rabbi contender for the jewish heroes competition.
the  public relations and information office said it was waiting for the go-ahead  from the internal market organizing committee for the destruction of the goods.
settlers from the  dolab outpost made the farmers leave as they threw stones before stealing their  olives, according to deir ibzi locals.
sheikh jarrah garden reclaimed in land day celebration 3/31/2010 - international solidarity movement -
sorry for  the inconvenience issa qaraqe, ma’an news  agency 10/24/2010 oh israelis ….
oct 2010 - source: integrated regional information networks activist: forces ban students, farmers from olive harvest 10/16/2010 - hebron (ma'an) -- a human rights activist said israeli forces banned farmers and students from access to a field for the olive harvest on saturday in the illegal hebron settlement of tel rumeida.
more.. e-mail israeli settlers tear up olive grove, uprooting 40 trees near nablus imemc - saturday march 13, 2010 - 10:21, local municipal officials in the palestinian authority reported friday morning that overnight, a group of israeli settlers had ambushed a palestinian olive grove in the town of qaryut, uprooting and completely destroying 40 trees.
saeed amireh writes from  nilin, occupied west bank.
jewish extremists take over al-aqsa gates 2 apr 2010 - jerusalem,  april 2 nd , (pal telegraph)
israeli settler violence report: march and april 2011 ahmad jaradat, alternative information center 6/12/2011 israeli settler violence against palestinians in the north and south west bank increased in march and april 2011.
it is true that, as the palestinian poet stated, if the olive tree knew the suffering of its owner, its oil would turn into tears.
also, israeli forces raided qbatia village and  erected number of ambuscades in the olive fields, but no detentions were  reported....
this small community of 2,300 people located....
it is used to create industries and jobs in israel.
in what turned out to be a beautiful  day’s climbing, picking and bagging of black and green olives, mohammed  joined other members of the beit hanoun ‘local initiative’ group  accompanied by 4 international solidarity movement activists to help farmer  abzel al baseony begin the olive harvest 300 metres from the erez border wall  with israel.
apr 2010 - tens of jewish settlers stormed palestinian cultivated land lots in qaryut village, south of nablus city, last night and uprooted olive trees and caused vast damage.
israeli forces uproot 100 olive trees and  ‘arrest’ a farmer’s tractor to extend wall in occupied  territories mondoweiss - link to www.jordanvalleysolidarity.org  link to stopthewall.org link to english.wafa.ps link to english.wafa.ps link to  www.maannews.net link to palestinesolidarityproject.org link to english.wafa.ps  link to www.maannews.net link to www.maannews.net link to  www.alternativenews.org link to www.haaretz.com link to www.ynetnews.com link  to english.wafa.ps link to www.maannews.net link to www.maannews.net link...
oct 2010 - thursday october 14, 2010 - 15:44, israeli army  detained, on thursday afternoon, a number of journalists who participated as  volunteers in harvesting olives.
moskovitz  caused a diplomatic storm last year when he obtained a permit to bulldoze east  jerusalem's historic shepherd hotel in order to build a settlement.
akram jamil uweis said his family headed to their field to harvest olives, and found their trees destroyed.
un envoy demands israel act against settler attacks ha'aretz 26 oct 2010 - un mieast peace coordinator 'appalled at acts of destruction of olive trees and farmlands, desecration of mosques and violence against civilians'.
the imaginary green line had long disappeared since israeli colonies go deep into the occupied west bank.
the village straddles b and c areas, falling under  administrative and military israeli control.
in photos:  fayyad replants uprooted olive trees 2/28/2010 - maanimages / rami  swidan - salam fayyad, caretaker prime minister of the ramallah-based  palestinian government, plants an olive tree in the northern west bank village  of burin on 25 february 2010, two days after 45 trees were destroyed by israeli  settlers from the nearby yitzhar settlement.
an hour into the planting, an israeli soldier appeared on the other side of the wall and gave a warning shot.
a number of  settlers destroyed trees in the south of the village at midnight, days before  the olive harvest is due to begin, the fatah official monitoring settlement  activity in the northern west....
the spokesman added that four journalists and three american activists were detained, as israeli forces used stun grenades and closed off the area leading to the agricultural land in question.
insisting on humanity ramzy baroud, ma’an news agency 12/18/2010 when a copy of william a. cook’s latest  book, the plight of the palestinians arrived in my mailbox, i initially felt a  little worried.
resistance is fertile: palestine's eco-war james brownsell, al jazeera 11/1/2011 after uprooting thousands of olive trees, israel's latest plantation may pose a fire risk to its own citizens.
it promises a great season not only of bountiful  agricultural harvest but of bountiful harvest on the activism front.
settlers uproot 270 olive trees near nablus 2/20/2011 -  nablus (ma'an) --
the bethlehem arab women's union (bawu) has a long history of community  service, dating back to 1947 when it was founded as a first aid center to care  for refugees from the first arab-israeli war.
the tree-planting, on the edges of burin village, was set to see 250 olive saplings dug into the soil under a new "green palestine" project in cooperation with the... settlers attack palestinians in retaliation for outpost demolition 1/27/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an/agencies - several dozen israeli settler youths attacked the village of beit ilu on tuesday, north of ramallah, in response to israeli forces razing the gush talmonim outpost, israeli media reported.
it  sounds like the beginning of a bad joke but it is an unfortunate reality of  life in the west bank.
omar, the farmer we worked with today, said that he had only been on his land twice this year, once to plough and repair
they enter in my house and make us go to one room.
in some streets palestinians are allowed to walk but not drive, forcing them to manually lug heavy supplies such as gas canisters and food.
settlers uproot 30 olive trees near qalqilia imemc - 1 may 2010 - israeli settlers uprooted on friday at least 30 olive trees that belong to residents of kefir qaddoum town, near the northern west bank city of qalqilia.
on tuesday, a  family in kufr qalil cancelled all  olive harvest because of the death of a family member.
the leaders of beit orot, an illegal israeli  settlement on the hill north of the old city of jerusalem, are aggressively  expansionist.
israeli soldiers arrest a ta'ayush activist for  entering a declared “closed military zone,” after appealing for his  help translating for a detained palestinian woman.
but west bank kids have their own  bitter reminders of occupation: raids and curfews, tear gas grenades that come  crashing through bedroom windows, and soldiers—sometimes not much older  than kids, themselves—who stop them from reaching their schools,  hospitals, family members and friends....
it is impossible to know how it survived the  construction of the wall and how it continues to resist to the lack of a few  cares that the specie demands - a lack caused...
movement around h2 is severely restricted.
"also on display are tradition crafts.
destroy the holy sites, kill men, women children and cattle.”
violence marks 'naksa' in  golan heights more.. e-mail international human rights volunteers  needed in palestine 6/4/2011 - international solidarity movement -  international women's peace service - the internationalwomen's peace service  (iwps) is a small team of international female human-rights activists in  palestine.
at 9:30am residents of bil'in village, palestinian political representatives,  and international activists gathered in bil'in to plant olive trees and almond  seeds for 20 farmers who own land besides israel's apartheid wall.
in photos: the survival of olives 10/19/2011 - international solidarity movement - 16 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - the olive harvest started in thewest bankin early october and will continue in some villages until mid-november.
forces also  controlled a fire that broke out in the atil village in the tulkarem district,  civil defense reported....
– josé carlos luque brazán, professor and researcher  of political science and urban planning at the autonomous university, mexico  city 1 puerto rico has historically been a laboratory for social, economic,  political and scientific experiments.
by george s. hishmeh – washington,  d.c. palestinians will begin heading home a year from now to reclaim property  in their homeland, which they have not seen for 62 years since the state of  israel was established there.
visitors to the old city of  nablus are greeted by an exotic patchwork of colours and aromas.
these are the guerilla gardeners of the occupied west bank.
today, workers from the jerusalem municipality and israeli  forces removed the memorial of samer sarhan, this morning.
about 70 more deaths are reported in syria.
remembering the american university of beirut, i wrote and  asked them if there were any kind of introductory course about the middle east  that i could follow there.
beginning early on tuesday morning,  farm workers, palestinian and international activists marched with flags,  buckets, step ladders and hessian bags ready for a morning’s work picking  olives, accompanied by the cameras of arabic and international media.
speaking at the event,socio-cultural committee chairman basim eissa hailed. . .
for us to exist on this land is to resist, says qumsiyeh, who teaches at bethlehem and birzeit universities.
the trees are located in palestinian orchards isolated behind the annexation wall.
yael gurin-rosen, head of the iaa’s glass department, said that  the mosaic panel is the first of its kind to be excavated in israel, and due to  the quality of its preservation, given its age, and its gleaming, gilded  craftsmanship indicating christian origins, it is most likely the only one in  the world.
an israeli military spokeswoman said riot-dispersal means were used to disperse a violent riot.
now they're coming for palestine's  olive oil too uruknet january 17, 2012 - zionism's cultural  appropriation of indigenous palestinian folklore and cuisine - such as hummus,  falafel and maftoul - as "israeli" has long irked palestinians,  especially when these same cultural products are used in international  propaganda and marketing efforts which deny palestinians' rights and history.
oct 2010 - a new oxfam report highlights that  obstacles ranging from a lack of investment in farming practices to settler  violence are stifling the true potential of the olive oil sector in the west  bank.
the nakba was still recent, and the two palestinians, separated by two generations appear tired and haggard as they are caught in this hopeless scene.
olive trees uprooted; villagers say setters behind vandalism 1/7/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- more than 100 small olive trees were uprooted from outside of qasra village in the northern west bank, with villagers saying settlers were behind the vandalism.
this is the only the most recent chapter in a long struggle for the small agricultural community to keep their lands.
groups such as oxfam, the palestinian agricultural relief committee, and other social organisations have provided some of the poorest women with small gardens, sheep, rabbits or chickens to tend for food and for income.
a few months ago she flew to malta to meet the daughter of yasser arafat, the granddaughter of her soulmate, raymonda tawil. ...
meanwhile, israeli soldiers detained a pal media journalist on saturday reporting on a demonstration organized by farmers from the at-tuwani village to protest the recent destruction of an olive grove near the israeli settlement outpost of havot ma'on, the christian peacemaking team said in a statement.
the olive harvest is  the definitive mediterranean tradition.
more do you  see that land?
new israeli military tactic:  headbutting in al-
the israeli military left it to settlers to monitor palestinian farmers during the olive harvest mondoweiss - avigdor lieberman's home settlement of nokdim.
in photos:  settlers cut down 40 olive trees 10/23/2010 - maanimages - on  saturday morning, salima ewes, 73, and her family found 40 olive trees had been  cut down in their field in the northern west bank village of al-lubban  ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city.
related:international womens’ peace  service a state for jews dissident voice: 4 jun 2011 -
[uruknet.info] settlers uproot olive trees,  grapevines, plum trees near hebron uruknet wednesday august 24,  2011 - dozens of extremist israeli settlers of the beit ayin illegal colony,  north of beit umamar, north of the southern west bank city of hebron, attacked  on tuesday palestinian orchards and farmlands and uprooted dozens of olive  trees, plum trees, and grapevines in wad abu al reesh area.
video - a perfect day ruined 10/8/2010
more pa ministry holds  rally in jerusalem 10/24/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
my arrival in nabi saleh tells me a lot about the village nestled deep in the west bank, north of ramallah.
chunks of shrapnel and....
one jeep came down to the playground, but people  continued their work as soldiers took pictures and asked for the palestinian  participants identification cards.
saleh khalifa, head of the village council, said that soldiers  entered the village monday morning and cut down olive trees to make way for a  section....
before leaving, they sprayed messages on the walls outside: “price tag” and “revenge”, in hebrew.
4 may 2010 - zionist settlers from the  notorious yitzhar settlement on tuesday set on fire tens of palestinian dunums  cultivated with fruitful olive trees in hawara village, south of nablus,  eyewitnesses reported.
despite the crippling israeli occupation of  her village, she continues to work her land, along with her husband, on a daily  basis.
but joe sacco's "footnotes in  gaza" is just that, an unusually effective treatment of palestinian  history which may appeal to people who would never read a ‘normal  book’ on the subject.
its citrus trees have been uprooted.
[uruknet.info] the lonely olive tree of  bil'in uruknet october 14, 2011 -
intifada palestine latest roundup of stories from palestine (bethleham) western media try to make palestinian political prisoners mere numbers while personalizing one israeli soldier.
the  attack was coordinated by text message, the israeli daily haaretz said, and the  settlers began chanting "the police destroy nothing that belongs to arabs.
related:settlers uproot 100 grape trees east of hebron shofar, so good jeruslalem post 7 sep 2010 -
six activists arrested.
an israeli military spokesman told ma'an that the civil administration, a branch of the country's defense ministry in the occupied territories, received a complaint about the incident.
in a village of which 99% of the inhabitants are olive farmers, the ioas annexation of the majority kafr ad-diks groves has been devastating.
the  national 7 sep 2011 -
gaza olive harvest begins in the beit hanoun buffer zone while strawberry picker in beit lahiya is shot by israeli snipers international solidarity movement 10/9/2010
"they [the jews] did not destroy lifta in time of  war, so they should not destroy it when israel is talking about peace,"  says mr odeh, a palestinian in his early 70s who spent his early childhood  there.
oliver stone - film director and  screenwriter america-hijacked.com
the seven arches hotel belongs to the jordanian royal family but it was taken over by israel when jordan withdrew from the west bank in the 1967....
the israelis call it the  "buffer zone."
price tag: who's to blame for settler  violence?
marwan sha'ban of the local  popular committee against settlements in bethlehem said "we came here with  our solidarity friends to say: stop attacking the land, uprooting trees, and  forcing people out of their houses.
by william james martin i grew up in nc  and was around for the transformation to an integrated society where in the  laws of the state and nation became color-blind; and blacks were afforded equal  protection under the law.
[ palestinian statehood:
all four defendants appeared unshackled behind a caged-off portion of  the courtroom and remained standing throughout the trial.
settlers set fire to olive groves near  nablus pic - extremist jewish settlers on friday afternoon set  fire to olive groves in mount sulaiman near the village of bourin to the south  of the northern west bank village of nablus.
mohammad amer said residents of the illegal gevat  gilad outpost prevented fire engines from reaching far'ata village.
palestinians, jews race to  plant olive trees in west bank ha'aretz - this year, the stakes  have been raised: palestinians have planted double the number of trees as in  past seasons, and jewish settlers have responded by boosting their own olive  production.
crafting the voice of nablus palestine monitor - buried in the worn stones of nablus' old city - through its maze of alleys and market stalls, past the big hammam, the surviving soap factories and underneath countless posters of victims and martyrs of the occupation - is a special workshop, one of a kind...
scores of bedouin men were  standing on a yellow hill, sharing their experiences from the early morning  hours, while all around them uprooted olive trees lay on the ground.
youtube: live video of ethnic cleansing in the israeli??
a net has been placed above the walkway to collect the garbage thrown  down by israeli settlers.
more.. e-mail the day after zionism hannah mermelstein, ma’an  news agency 1/16/2011
new labeling laws for olive oil will be introduced in response to  last week's revelations that oils in lebanon are contaminated with toxic  chemicals, caretaker agriculture minister hussein hajj hassan said monday.
updated on october 23, 2011....
qumsiyeh hopes this recent freedom ride possible because a bus driver let them ride by mistake, he said will spark the same kind of response that its namesake did across the united states in the early 1960s, when interstate bus trips helped end racial segregation in the south.
with a population of approximately 3,500 that is wholly dependent on the yields of their olive trees, burin's lands are hemmed in by two settlements on the north and south ends of the village, named bracha and yitzhar respectively.
in an interview with watan tv, daik said 50 employees work  at the department documenting settler attacks of palestinian olive groves and  farm land.
settlers vandalize mosque, burn cars in huwwara 4/14/2010 - nablus  - ma'an - israeli citizens living in an illegal west bank settlement vandalized  a mosque in huwwara, after storming the nablus village early wednesday morning.
"attacks by  settlers on palestinians in the nablus district continue, almost every  day," said ghassan daghlas, a palestinian authority official.
it uncomfortably  co-habits with 5,500 arab refugees in the neighbourhood of wadi hulwah, based  on the slope of a hill running from the mount of olives.
he urged  human rights organizations to immediately intervene on behalf of affected  farmers.
settlers uproot 270 olive trees near nablus 2/20/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
after congregating in nearby olive groves for midday prayers, demonstrators marched towards the illegal annexation wall with flags and chants led by village youth.
tamir was arrested for harvesting olives out of time.
we are making such material available in our efforts to advance understanding of environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and social justice issues.
in a report... sailors return to uk after iran detention daily star 4 dec 2009 four british yachtsmen seized by iran returned to  britain on friday, saying it was "great to be back," as they planned  a trip to the pub.
to the fragile west bank economy - 22 percent of total agricultural production....
settlers attack demo in qaryut 2/12/2012 - international solidarity movement - 10 february 2012, popular struggle coordination committee - demonstrators in qaryout attempted to plant olive trees to resist land grab.
pink irises, red puppies, and yellow flowers weave  intricate patterns among the endless green carpet...
but rani and his family have a problem.
clashes were reported;...
the manager  demonstrates how the entire press operation is controlled.
the current plan for al-walaja will see the town surrounded on all sides by the wall.
a note: the millions of "trees" planted by zionists, including... activists work to stop wall construction and uprooting of olive trees in beit jala 3/5/2010 - international solidarity movement - beit jala popular committee, 4 march - in the early morning on march 2, 2010, israeli bulldozers started uprooting ancient olive trees in the garden of a palestinian family in the town of beit jala, north-west of bethlehem, in order to make room for the construction of yet another section of the apartheid wall.
settlers  destroyed 2,600 olive trees in october 11/1/2011 - nablus (ma'an)  --
israeli troops fired tear gas in an-nabi saleh village on thursday, setting fire to olive trees, witnesses said.
this is how much it meant to mohammed el massry, a 20 year old student in al azhar university to enter a high risk area to help farmers begin the olive harvest and help maintain land that used to be the breadbasket of the palestinian economy.
waving flags and chanting we reached the edge of the  buffer zone and continued walking.
over  the past decade, workmen have returned to both sites.
fair trade palestinian olive oil sold by zaytoun  uk.
israeli settlers uproot 250 olive nurslings 20
'murdered simply for being a jew' ynet news, 24 apr 2011 -  thousands gathered at mount olives cemetery in jerusalem to bid farewell to  ben-yosef livnat, who was killed sunday morning in a shooting at joseph's tomb,  presumably by ... ....
yasur helicopter: a history of splendid service - and deadly collisions ha'aretz 26 jul 2010 -
america’s weapon of choice is  "proximity talks," with the threat that if either side fails to meet  american expectations, the us will squarely and publicly lay blame.
however, they did not allow the israeli occupation force to prevent them from going to their land.
the jerusalem post, an israeli daily, has reported, via their website, on tuesday that the state of israel intends to open a new police station at the mount of olives in occupied east jerusalem. ...
luaghing, tamir told me that at the moment when he was arrested, he was carrying a bucket full of olives, which untill know continues at the same place when he was arrested, as nbody can touch it according to the soldiers' orders.
stop the wall campaign announces this year's olive harvesting program stop the wall - sep 17, 2011-- stop the wall campaign announces this year's olive harvesting program, "you will not face settler violence alone"
from it's release in 1988 in algiers until today, it's lessons continue to be relevant.
no-one else was injured.
israeli forces stationed  along the separation wall near the jerusalem-area village of qatanna fired  tear-gas canisters at a group of young farmers on monday, the heat from which  caused a brush fire damaging 40 trees.
villagers tried to put off the  fires, but soldiers....
we are going to bilin in order to protest the confiscation of the villages land for settlement and wall construction.
akram jamil uweis  said his family headed to their field to harvest olives, and found their trees  destroyed.
the olive fights the occupation
the whole of  the bethlehem district has been surrounded by the separation wall and  ever-expanding settlements for years.
we all watch  the israeli separation wall cutting through palestinian family’s houses  and olive orchards.
ammar recently participated at a lebanese performing contest and won second  place....
from an israeli point of view, ileana ros-lehtinen is the ideal american politician.
this is  particularly damaging because this year’s olive harvest is expected to  yield only half the oil of last year’s harvest, making each tree all the  more valuable more farmers.
olive trees like the one above were damaged in a settler...
an elderly woman cuts huge heads of lettuce from both outside and inside greenhouses.
there are countless carved olive-wood crucifixes, angels and last  suppers.
passing through checkpoint 56, one of eleven permantly  staffed checkpoints betweeen h1 and h2, the consequences of this policy can be  heard, seen, and smelled.
but following budruss success and faced by a growing numbers of civilians protesting the confiscation of their lands, israel has responded with military might, attempting to quell this new movement.
source more.. e-mail israeli settlers' terror palestine chronicle: 1 nov 2010 -
the olive groves of hares revealed not only my ignorance of how much the  farmers care for their land, but also my lack of understanding of the impact of  the annexation boundary fence on the farmers of mas-ha.
it is, in fact,  "israeli lawlessness" and her opposition to a palestinian statehood  that has made her a darling to israel and its lobby.
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not  to be worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an  area (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,... pa wields olive branch in one hand, stone in the other ha'aretz 6 mar 2010 -
it was here that the  old jerusalem centre, circa 1000 bc, was discovered, making it a holy site for  judaism as well as a justification for deepening occupation of this area.
-- see  also:ism: khuza’a more.. e-mail palestinian trees destroyed in  ongoing settler vandalism, harassment alternative information  center - in the early morning of 12 may 2011, palestinian farmers discovered  that during the night unknown perpetrators had vandalized ten olive trees in  the humra valley, near at -tuwani in the south hebron hills.
iof burns large areas of olive trees to suppress ni'lin protest stop the wall - the occupation forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s cement blocks, fired tear gas at the demonstrators and opened the gate of the wall to chase the protesters after have been inhaling gas in unsuccessful efforts to arrest them.
jewish settlers, returned to the land of the  bible, burn a girls school and beat farmers trying to harvest olives mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers/land,  property & resource theft and destruction/ethnic cleansing settlers torch,  vandalize nablus school nablus (ma'an) --
wild boars in nablus awad, from awarta, nablus, had been  harvesting his olives in fields near the illegal itamar settlement with his  family.
the village straddles b and c areas, falling under administrative and military israeli control.
a man bends down to pull up some plants, extends his arm and points his finger at a dune a few tens of meters away, you see that land?
the restriction on movement should also be seen in context of everyday israeli harassment which aim at making life unbearable in order to make people leave the village.
[uruknet.info] just two prisoner stories and the olive harvest uruknet october 22, 2011 - western media try to make palestinian political prisoners mere numbers while personalizing one israeli soldier.
we informed them that we could not guarantee their  safety, that the israeli army had killed foreign civilians too.
unbearable lightness of thomas friedman book review palestine chronicle:
had the settlers only been defending themselves, one wonders why they would cover their facesa practice popular among setters engaged in wanton violent attacks on palestinian civilians and their supporters.
mondoweiss - olive harvesters watch israeli soldiers after being told to stop picking olives in burin.
the agricultural committees called on palestinian authority officials to intervene to stop violations.... jewish settlers set on fire hundreds of palestinian olive trees pic - jewish settlers torched hundreds of palestinian olive trees south of nablus on sunday night, local sources said.
if  so, it will help to catalyse markets and make a real economic difference to the  communities that need it most.more..
settlers denied the allegations.
my eyes are confused; one eye on the people around me and another on the fences that surround me from all destinations, laughing and sarcastically pitying the situation.
this morning the israeli army demolished homes, wells and trees in the village of susiya, south hebron hills.
what was there to gain from  killing civilians—at least nine are dead, along with several dozen  injured—attempting to deliver desperately needed humanitarian aid for the  1.5 million people of gaza suffering under an israeli blockade?
rabbi allows stealing  palestinian crops and water pic 7 dec 2009 -
they also attacked a palestinian resident while he was picking olives, they said.
issa amr said dozens of students joined farmers to  assist in the olive harvest but were stopped by israeli forces who.... israel settlers start fires amid west bank harvest uruknet  october 16, 2010 — thick black smoke billows from the olive grove under  the gaze of israeli soldiers as palestinian farmers use branches to try to beat  out the fires lit by jewish settlers.
locals said a  five-year-old planting trees suffered from shock when a tear gas canister  detonated beside him.
the defense secretary says he doesn't expect tehran to comply.
"when there is a lot of people near by  house, the presence of the stettlers increases, as well as the atacks,"  tamir said.
khamis, as she is known to local villagers, in  her home in bil'in:
jewish settlers uproot very old olive trees near salfit pic - jewish settlers on friday destroyed 100 very old olive trees, amongst them olive trees that locals believe to have existed since roman times.
the sun will come up tomorrow.
in the cold and gloomy winter season we have a variety of traditional dishes, starting with the crushed lentil (adas majroosh) soup prepared by slightly browning chopped onion in olive oil and then adding the crushed lentils, stirring for a few minutes, adding water, salt and boiling the mixture till well cooked.
this most recent  attack on palestinian agriculture follows a month of israeli settler violence  and harassment aimed at preventing palestinian farmers from plowing their  fields and thus earning their livelihoods.
whenever this happens at the following day my children  are always scare of going out and run into the settlers," tamir said.
making the humanitarian  primitive: time and violence on the eternal frontier peter  lagerquist, jerusalem quarterly file 8/26/2011 summer along the  route of the west bank’s main north-west trunk road there is a passage of  road some 20 minutes south of hebron where the country’s roiling sweep of  silver olive groves begins to thin out, and the land grows noticeably more  arid.
the olive industry under siege in palestine david's reports, bostontopalestine, october 8 - 20, 2004 olive groves in disrepair
and other news from today in palestine: land theft and destruction/ethnic cleansing iof burns large areas of olive trees to suppress ni'lin protest june 26th, 2010-- the occupation forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s cement blocks, fired tear gas at the demonstrators and opened the... farmer says israeli forces confiscate tractor 6/27/2010 - hebron - ma'an - israeli soldiers prevented a farmer from working his land by confiscating his bulldozer and driving it away, the farmer reported sunday.
despite condemnation over jerusalem and gaza, israel has boasted of improved conditions in parts of the west bank.
“we’re here to  harvest olives and be with the land because this is our land and we don’t  want to abandon it,” said 27-year-old randa hilou a local student to came  to pick in solidarity with the farmers in beit hanoun.
[uruknet.info]  palestine's farmers: refusing to die in silence uruknet january  10, 2012 - a new organization in the west bank, refusing to die in silence,  offers support to the palestinian farmers who face violent attacks from jewish  settlers as they attempt to harvest their olives.
witnesses said clashes erupted... israeli soldiers kidnap non-violent palestinian and israeli  activists in al-walaja imemc - wednesday july 27, 2011 - 13:00,  two palestinian and four israeli activists were kidnapped outside al-walaja  village wednesday morning while protesting the bulldozing of an olive tree  grove.
on saturday, february 4th, 2012, palestinian villagers in beit ommar conducted their weekly demonstration against the settlement appropriation of their lands.
nor are vegetables, fruit or olives, formerly a thriving  export business.
the  epicenter of the struggle for the public university in latin america is puerto  rico.
the site targeted by the sewage is called al-haraeq and is planted  with grape vines and olive trees....
the ma'an network  produced a documentary on the project, cataloging the success of palestinian. .
* the  destruction begins as far as 700 metres from the border it was senseless,  random, gratuitous violence against the farmers and their hopes.
the minister added that the "yasuf village suffers from  constant attacks by settlers. "
eu project trains palestinian olive farmers 4/20/2010 -  bethlehem - ma'an -an eu project has helped small-scale palestinian olive  farmers in the west bank produce international standard organic olive oil for  global sale and develop their trade.
[end] planting trees, building bases in bethlehem stop the wall - february 16th, 2010-- last week, occupation forces act on their intentions to re-establish a military base in beit sahour.
in just two weeks last october, qedumim  settlers perpetrated three attacks in immatin.
part of the site has  remained abandoned, though, as it falls inside of zone c, as designated by  interim agreement on the west bank and the gaza strip, also referred to as oslo  2, signed in 1995.
west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli bulldozers invaded tuesday the village of dier esta in salfit and started razing operations to agricultural lands uprooting 200 olive trees.
politically speaking, it had virtually no effect on me; i was an immature youth from a thoroughly apolitical middle class background, and knew next to nothing about international affairs, and hardly knew, for example, the difference between arabs and israelis.
dozens of israelis  threw stones at a palestinian house near an illegal settlement in the northern  west bank on monday, witnesses told ma'an.
eu officials to attend palm sunday detainees’ court appearance 3/31/2010 - hebron - ma'an - representatives of the european union, french and spanish offices in jerusalem will attend the court appearance of a plo executive committee member detained on palm sunday during bethlehem protests, the official's aides said.
like so many other villages in qalqilia, immatins recent history is marred by stories of confiscated lands, uprooted olive trees, and the approach of the wall, which threatens to isolate 10,000 of the villages 27,000 dunums.
he said the lands were  registered to palestinian families living in the city, and that he went to warn  the settlers against continued colonization of the lands.
joined by 15 israeli and international activists, the demonstrators protested the israeli occupation which has claimed over 40% of the village's land.
marwan sha'ban of the local popular committee against settlements in bethlehem said "we came here with our solidarity friends to say: stop attacking the land, uprooting trees, and forcing people out of their houses.
the demonstration was met with violent resistance by israeli occupation forces, including the use of tear gas, rubber-coated steel bullets and.
west bank: settlers destroy 500 olive saplings, three  arrested and car impounded in hebron pnn - nablus – pnn -  israeli settlers near the northern west bank city of nablus destroyed at least  500 young olive saplings before dawn on friday, according to local sources.
the operation took place under the... thinking of rachel corrie during the olive harvest in the galilee mondoweiss - it is olive gathering season and people in arrabeh are at it again.
this is  not the first time a us administration has used its creativity in crafting new  terminology to deal with the conflict instead of relying on the time-tested  body of international law that provides the keys to real progress.
a sign printed with the slogan "price tag" was left on ... ....
a legal injunction preventing further destruction expired this week.
protests held in several syrian  cities: witnesses daily star 20 may 2011 pro-democracy protests  erupted in several syrian towns and villages on friday after the weekly muslim  prayers, with demonstrators holding olive branches and calling for more freedom  in defiance of a brutal crackdown, witnesses said.
walking through the abandoned palestinian village of lifta, yacoub odeh is transported back to a time more than 63 years ago when as a child he would play in these streets before his carefree existence came to an abrupt end.
"while searching the area, idf soldiers discovered a second explosive device, which was detonated in a controlled manner by idf sappers," the spokesman added.
the soldiers refused to give a reason  for suspending the harvest.
but it is also true that the apartheid  system is facing grassroots activists everywhere despite all these tactics.
it also appears that the arrival of a new commander, who infamously boasted, i am the law, i am god has also contributed to what incredibly may be a deterioration in the treatment palestinians and internationals.
after the 1898 spanish american war, the  u.s. extended to puerto rico a newly crafted colonial system which had never  been implemented in the mainland, eugenic programs were tested in the island,  sterilization of women and the use of the contraceptive pill also used the  island as a laboratory.
1- palestine is the western part of the fertile crescent: an area that includes palestine, jordan, lebanon, syria, and iraq.
they were charged with illegal entry to jerusalem and obstructing police business.
seeking to "reclaim public space from its  corporate governors", these green-fingered activists plant flowers,  sometimes vegetables, in waste ground under overpasses, at the side of roads  and in the centres of cities where concrete has long since replaced living,  breathing flora and fauna.
for example, none of these reports mention that the location of the murders, itamar (near nablus), is an illegal jewish-only settlement on stolen palestinian land in the midst of refugees whom israel pushed off their ancestral land through massacres and ruthless military actions.
in  the southern... settlers "maniacs" vandalize nablus area  fields, attack residents 4 mar 2011 - palestine, (pal teleraph) -  israeli settlers vandalized late thursday and early friday several villages in  the nablus area, uprooting olive tree and throwing rocks at palestinian cars,  according to local residents and officials.
one look at this  year’s olive harvest, taking place throughout the west bank over the next  two weeks, proves the statement to be correct.
residents of deir al-hatab, a palestinian village in the nablus district, said some 660 olive trees were destroyed by runoff from factories connected to the elon moreh settlement....
the difficulties i  observed did not just stem from the reality of a military occupation, but of a  planned and calculated policy to make life in the west bank difficult - too  difficult - for palestinians in what i believe to be an effort leaning toward  expulsion.
uruknet april 22, 2010 -
with a population of  approximately 3,500 that is wholly dependent on the yields of their olive  trees, burin's lands are hemmed in by two settlements on the north and south  ends of the village, named bracha and yitzhar respectively.
the bus took the  group to the hizma checkpoint, just outside the northern entrance of jerusalem,  where activists resisted authorities’ efforts to remove them.
"it is nothing to do with us, we just get  orders from our superiors," they said.
after everything that happened between us, we are sorry for the inconvenience  caused by our refusal to give up our soul.
h1 refers to 80% of the city, which is officially under control of the  palestinian authority, while h2 makes up the remaining 20% and falls under full  israeli military control.
the land belongs to villagers isaac al-qadi and muhammad....
now, beit jala is being hit...
it shadowed us for some considerable time, keeping on our port side about five miles off.
the goldstone report,  b’tselem, gisha and many other organizations and individuals have  documented the systematic violation of palestinian human rights in the past  several years.
sulaiman abu mustafa, an olive and eggplant grower with a small farm near the border with israel outside of deir al-balah, was celebrating the eid al-adha holiday with....
you are the father of palestine, president yasser arafat.
khamis, as she is known to local villagers, in her home in bil'in:
craft from the secret base are allegedly flying missions to niger,  mali and mauritania, with the ostensible mission of seeking... palestinian farmers disappointed with olive harvest alternative  information center - palestinian farmers had a disappointing olive harvest this  year, their trees yielding only two-thirds of last year's harvest.
the palestinian film forum (the forum) was established in 2004 as a branch of the pal estinian artists union covering both gaza and the west bank.
in its weekly  report on israeli human rights violations in the occupied palestinian  territories for the week of 20 – 26 october 2011, the palestinian center  for human rights found that israeli forces conducted 58 incursions into  palestinian communities, abducting 13 and destroying palestinian farmland for  the ongoing construction of the annexation wall. ...
safed is known for its hostility towards arabs in general and  palestinian israelis in particular.
a group of israeli settlers broke into an all girls' school in the nablus district village of as-sawiya on wednesday, setting fire to...
in the early hours on february 23, 2012, a combined group of israeli settlers and soldiers came to surif, a palestinian village near the separation barrier in the southern west bank, and cut down 700 trees and destroyed two water wells.
before the second intifada melons were grown there, along with other fruit trees and olive trees.
uruknet.info] settler  violence against palestinian farmers in ramallah area uruknet  november 1, 2011 -
diliani added that such "aggression" occurs in parallel with the decision of israel's jerusalem municipality to resume house demolitions in the occupied city, in addition to settlement building, the separation wall, seizing residents' houses for the benefit of settlers, imposing high taxes, restricting movement, confining the process of education, and systematically disrupting social and cultural development.
a friend from jerusalem had asked us for two jerry cans of fresh olive oil direct from the press.
ghassan doughlas, who  heads the palestinian authority file on northern west bank settlement activity,  told ma'an that several....
cpj: journalists assaulted  south of nablus 3/28/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a group of  palestinian journalists was assaulted on 28 january 2010, while reporting on  olive tree planting in burin village, south of nablus in the west bank, the  us-based committee to protect journalists reported saturday.
israeli settlers uprooted olive trees, set fire to cars and vandalized a mosque  in the nablus area on thursday, officials said.
israel ‘outraged’ as un calls for end to settler attacksun envoy slams attacks on mosques, olive trees uruknet october 26, 2010 - un special coordinator for the middle east peace process robert serry today condemned a flurry of high profile settler attacks across the west bank, urging the israeli government to "combat violence and terror" by the settler groups.
fires in the... pa report: israeli settler violence on the  rise 7/7/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
homes and livelihoods gone in an instant electronic intifada: 11 mar 2010 - radia abu sbaih, 47, lives with her sister and one niece on family land roughly 700 meters from the "green line" boundary between israel and gaza.
the bus took the group to the hizma checkpoint, just outside the northern entrance of jerusalem, where activists resisted authorities efforts to remove them.
if so, it will help to catalyse markets and make a real economic difference to the communities that need it most.more..
most shops are closed in the old  city.
the attempts to squash the  nonviolent popular resistance have been in vain.
"we are here, in  palestine, facing them.
family says students detained while picking olives 11/12/2011 -  salfit (ma'an) -- israeli forces detained two men on saturday while they were  picking olives near the separation wall north of salfit in the northern west  bank, family members said.
wafa settlers attack farmers harvesting olives in nablus area imemc - monday october 10, 2011 - 12:15, dozens of extremist israeli settlers attacked palestinian farmers harvesting their olive trees on monday morning in the village of ‘azmoot, east of the west bank city of nablus, the ma'an news agency reported.
settlers accused of the attack imemc - villagers from  at-tuwani, in the southern west bank region, discovered, on wednesday, that  olive groves belonging to residents of the village had been attacked, with six  trees destroyed.
israel razes palestinian home in east jerusalem 11/24/2010  - jerusalem (afp) --
militarily and politically  israel locked itself into a limbo.
bethlehem resident in 30-year fight to defend land 6/13/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- maher mohammed seb'a says he will stay on his land despite 30 years of harassment, intimidation and bribery by israeli forces seeking to displace him.
theirs  was one of three homes demolished by israeli military bulldozers that day in  al-mossadar, eastern gaza.
particularly eloquent was ali abu awwad, a young  activist who runs a new organization, the palestinian movement for non-violent  resistance, with its offices in bethlehem and growing influence throughout the  occupied territories.
more.. e-mail police: settlers uproot olive trees in jerusalem 10/27/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
west bank,  palestine – on november 15, mazin qumsiyeh and other palestinian activists  boarded public bus number 148, an israelis-only bus that normally takes jews  from the israeli west bank settlement of ariel to jerusalem.
beit ommar demonstration plants hundreds of olive trees palestine solidarity project 5 feb 2012 -
he always carries with him a large bundle of maps which he lays before the judges, earnestly explaining why the wall must pass here and not there, why the security of the state demands that the palestinian villages be separated from their land, why leaving an olive grove in the hands of its owner would expose israeli soldiers to mortal danger.
a net has been placed above the walkway to collect the garbage thrown down by israeli settlers.
bostoner rebbe levi yitzhak horowitz dies at 88 jeruslalem post 5 dec 2009 -
6th annual conference on popular resistance  in bil'in palestine monitor:
firefighters were called to a  qalqiliya village on friday after settlers torched palestinian olive groves, a  civil defense spokesman said.
the post featured an incredibly  striking photo of a palestinian protester holding an enormous palestinian flag  jumping off the stumps of a destoyed olive tree...
the village has been targeted with  demolition orders in an attempt to repress the popular struggle.
three international  solidarity movement (ism) activists were turned away from the seldom-staffed  partial checkpoint of "˜atara, between ramallah and an nabi salih.
the state first demolished the unrecognized village in july 2010destroying homes and tearing olive trees from the ground to make way for a forest to be planted by the keren
palestinians 'to march on jerusalem' 8/23/2011 -  jerusalem (ma'an) -- palestinians will march on jerusalem from four directions  in a coordinated protest organized by the "olive-revolution" movement  on the last friday of ramadan, activists said tuesday.
five years ago, in the wake of the palestinian intifadah uprising, israel began to build its concrete security wall to fend off would-be bombers coming into jerusalem.
before ignatius’s article, i had seen  no one allude to the fact that much about this crime-stopper tale had come from  the cia.
union: settlers burn olive trees near nablus 7/5/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
as naser guided ism volunteers through his village, the roadblock obstructing the village from free movement was visible.
demonstration outside jelemeh prison in solidarity with arrested palestinian grassroots activist 12/17/2009 - international solidarity movement - 16 december -
the soldiers informed the palestinians that the area was a closed military zone, showing them a map that encompassed a large area south of havat ma'on outpost.
it was a revelation to find out what well-tended olive groves look like.
near the concrete wall which  separates bil'in from modiin illit colony, occupied by ultra-orthodox jews,  there is an olive tree.
land owned by 40 families in  battir village -- 148 dunams of vegetable, fruit and olive groves -- is  earmarked for confiscation, villagers told ma'an.
in july 2004, the  international court of justice (icj) ruled israel's 'separation wall' illegal,  saying its route inside the west bank, and associated gate and permit system,  violated israel's obligations under international law, ordering the completed  sections dismantled, and "all legislative and regulatory acts relating  thereto" repealed or rendered "ineffective forthwith."
burin, located in the northern west bank, comes under frequent attack from the  settlements of yitzhar and bracha enveloping the village.
the prison is notorious for its ill-treatment of prisoners, in  particular palestinian political prisoners.
besieged gaza, occupied palestine, international solidarity movement 12/27/2011 we, palestinians of gaza, 3 years on from the 22-day long massacre in israels operation cast lead, are calling on international civil society to make 2012 the year when solidarity with us in palestine captures the spark of the revolutions around the arab world and never looks back.
facing a dry year and an unprecedented... as settlers disrupt olive harvest, israeli officer declares: 'i am the law, i am god.'
10/23/2011 - international solidarity movement - 22 october 2011,  international solidarity movement, west bank - intimidation of palestinians in  the israeli-controlled h2 section of hebron continued today as the israeli  military and settlers harassed palestinians and international observers as they  attempted to pick olives on their land in tel rumeida.
i responded by stating that that did not  accord with international law, that we were unarmed, had no materials which  could be put to military use, that we carried a consignment of aid for gaza and  that we expected safe passage.
palestinian peace activists from europe, south africa and canada, as well as several foreign nationals, participated in the olive harvest with residents of the al-bathan village in the nablus district on tuesday.
civil defense crews also extinguished fires in two cars in qalqiliya and dura, the report added.... today in bil’in mondoweiss - a protester protects his face from tear gas during the weekly march against the wall in the west bank village of bil'in.
live ammunition fired at nonviolent demonstrators in ni’lin 4/9/2010 - international solidarity movement - facing tear gas, rubber-coated steel bullets and live ammunition, roughly sixty palestinians gathered outside of ni'lin today.
this is not the first time a us administration has used its creativity in crafting new terminology to deal with the conflict instead of relying on the time-tested body of international law that provides the keys to real progress.
bil'in  / demonstration in bi'lin - 7
the alternative tourism group and the ymca-ywca began the olive planting program on feb. 4, and it will last until feb. 13.
the  alternative information center explores the reasons behind the decrease [uruknet.info] israel can never steal our heritage uruknet december 6, 2011 -
abu hani, 54, lives with his wife umm hani, 54, and three sons in johr  al-dik, eastern gaza, in the rubble of their demolished home, destroyed in the  2008- 2009 israeli war on gaza.
he rarely attended shul, and on the high  holidays, he would show up late to avoid the tithe.
however, according to the israeli paper, the humanitarian cargo would  then be unloaded, inspected and sent to gaza overland via the united nations.
as you progress past turnoffs for thinly spaced israeli  settlements, red- tiled roofs and agro-industrial cowsheds poised on the  surrounding hilltops, these shacks slide in and out of view behind folds of  scrubland, until a left turn past the settlement of susyia takes you up to the  edge of the frontier in the southern west bank.
community members hold up signs that tell the names of their family members that have been killed by israeli forces.
sulaiman abu  mustafa, an olive and eggplant grower with a small farm near the border with  israel outside of deir al-balah, was celebrating the eid al-adha holiday  with....
written and photographed by valentine van vyve.
in  ramallah, on a sliver of land inside the occupied west bank, it’s possible  to imagine what palestinian freedom might feel like.
while i was writing nonstop, an old woman sat next to me.
the israel-palestine 'peace process' is in a vegetative state, leaving the application of international law a complex process as a former professional diplomat, i regard international law, with all its shortcomings, as much better than the... friday in ni'lin:
mayor:  israeli settlers uprooted 40 olive trees 3/12/2010 - nablus -  ma'an - israeli settlers uprooted dozens of olive trees in qaryut, south of  nablus, at dawn on friday, officials said.
together, we can do this."
many  countries condemned the attack—notably turkey, until recently a key  israeli ally and regional power broker with whom relations may now be  irreparably damaged because so many of its nationals were in the flotilla.
in memory of nakba he closed his eyes when  the smell of the thyme found its way to the deepest memory his mind is still  tirelessly clinging to.
demonstrators planted olive trees and hung palestinian flags and banners outside the prison gates, calling for the release of palestinian political prisoners.
in the early hours on  february 23, 2012, a combined group of israeli settlers and soldiers came to  surif, a palestinian village near the separation barrier in the southern west  bank, and cut down 700 trees and destroyed two water wells.
jul 2010 - washington - witnesses reported  to ma'an news agency friday that israeli soldiers guarded settlers as they set  fire to a grove of olive trees in the saffa village near ramallah thursday.
beautifully built and  dressed in crafted jerusalem stone, lifta hugs the slopes straddling the  highway leading from west jerusalem to tel aviv.
trees were the most common target, with burnings and land confiscations, especially land close to settlements, which serve the aim of expanding settlements and providing strategic points for attacks on palestinian residents traveling by road.
vandals have not only snatched  harvested olives, but also destroyed thousands of trees.
unfortunately it is not rare that we... russia holds firm against military intervention in syria la times 2
if it turns out that the murderer or murderers were israeli, as some previously presumed terrorists have turned out to be, or a foreign worker who had previously threatened the family over unpaid wages, as some reports from the area suggest, it is likely that coverage of the incident will quickly vanish from u.s. headlines.
jewish settlers burn 300 olive trees near salfit pic - 13/10/2011 - 06:04 pm
the tree-planting, on the edges of burin village, was set to see 250 olive saplings dug into the soil under a new "green palestine" project in cooperation with the palestinian authority ministry of agriculture.
air force craft  attacked a ... ....
it appears this commander has  ambitions of promotion beyond the rank of, “god” and recognises that  the path to this within the israeli army is inhumane treatment of palestinians  and any who dare support them.
from the pyrennes to the atlases, tunis to athens,  jerusalem to damascus, farmers and families are climbing trees and filling  sacks in their grey-green groves.
wednesday morning, the family, which had already lost a significant portion of its lands when israel seized them to build the "by-pass road" 60 that connects the equally illegal settlements, found the little playground for the children in the garden destroyed and three olive trees directly in front of the house chopped off.
israel fears that the money can be used for  terrorism.
their work was organized by the palestine mininstry of information in kafir kadom, near qalqilia.
with no apparent provocation or reason, soldiers fired volleys of tear  gas and percussion grenades at the assembled villagers, then seized houses at  the edge of the village to fire rubber bullets and more tear gas into the  street.
settlers, palestinians  clash over olive harvest ynet news - mohai nasser's olive harvest  season ended before it began.
one of these individuals is irving moskowitz, the well-known american jewish millionaire, who made his fortune as a "casino magnate".
derivative of airbus craft to use radar  to monitor airspace, warn of approaching.... israeli soldiers  interrupt funeral with tear gas, close entrance to beit ommar palestine solidarity project 20 jun 2011 -
this week psp, along with many international volunteers, joined farmers from surif in the olive harvest.
ramallah's olive press palestine monitor -
“there’s a major lobby in the united states,” stone said, adding that “they are hard...more ramallah: settlers burn olive trees under military guard 7/23/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - soldiers protected israeli settlers as they set fire to olive trees in saffa village near the west bank city ramallah on thursday, witnesses reported.
yesterday afternoon, villagers rushed to quench a fire in an olive tree sited close to the apartheid-annexation wall which had
israeli  forces notified villagers near bethlehem that their land will soon be  confiscated, local residents said wednesday.
to those  who were martyred for the land of sad oranges.'
syrians take to the streets as regime lashes out at us the national 7 jul 2011 -
"here  was where the water went down to the spring.
adjacent to the largest israeli settlement in the west bank, ari'el, salfit farmers are enclosed on all sides by urban centers that specialists say disrupt grazing patterns for the large animals.
later in the week, ism volunteers  picked closer the erez crossing in an area that used to be full of olive,  orange and grapefruit groves.
the private security company hired to man the checkpoint escaped leaving the protesters the ability to pass through the checkpoint without restrictions.
women’s handcraft union shows off tradition 3/18/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - women hovered expectantly over tables of handcrafted silver pendants next to booths of rich embroidered shawls and olivewood carvings, waiting for the tens of thousands of tourists that visit bethlehem in the spring to wander in.
the residents called the local civil defense and firefighters...
settlers, palestinians clash over olive harvest ynet news - mohai nasser's olive harvest season ended before it began.
on tuesday, israeli forces enforced a closed  military zone order to assist the ongoing operation.
"if we had money we'd get  married right away," says samir*, 23.
two israelis were arrested immediately,  and six internationals were later arrested.
witnesses told ma'an that tanks and soldiers  arrived in the village and began digging up land in order to expand the nearby  israeli settlement of qedumim.
the use of unarmed craft to protect american buildings and personnel may foreshadow an expansion of such operations to the united states government’s diplomatic arm.
the olive tree of jerusalem (armenian ceramics, east jerusalem)
according to the report, 55 attacks took place across 37 villages and in... israel destroys jerusalemite home, 20 olive trees in oj pic -
the olive and citrus trees  were blooming all over palestine on prisoners’ day.
israel continues to uproot  hundreds of olive trees for construction of separation wall alternative information center -
as you can see in the embedded video, many settlers had covered their faces with masks, with some carrying metal poles in addition to several firearms.
in honor of land day, an upbeat group of local residents and school children gathered on wednesday in front of the half-occupied al kurd home in sheikh jarrah.
israeli authorities uproot olive trees in beit eska 21
"we learned several new things about  olive trees and plant diseases and how to deal with them.
the cia and the iran caper ray mcgovern, counterpunch 10/14/2011 "which other government in the middle east would like nothing better than to see relations between iran and the united states take a big step toward military confrontation?" washington post columnist david ignatius, in his accustomed role as unofficial surrogate cia spokesman, has thrown light on how the cia under its new director, david petraeus, helped craft the screenplay for this weeks white house spy feature: the iranian-american-used-car-salesman-mexican-drug-cartel plot to assassinate the saudi ambassador to the u.s.
settlers smash  palestinians' cars, block olive harvesting in nablus 26 oct 2011 -  west bank, (pal telegraph)-a number of israeli settlers smashed yesterday  overnight several palestinians'  cars passing through yitzhar road, while  other settlers blocked palestinian farmers from accessing their fields to  harvest  their olives in hawra village, southern nablus.
according to elen eloussie, who runs the embroidery project, the christian and muslim women in bethlehem historically shared the common heritage of embroidery.
all kinds of israeli air crafts were over seeing and protecting the ground iof while the invasion, then they missiled a playground in khan younis targeting a bunch of children playing football.
, israeli officials fear that washington will not rush to exercise its veto power against such a resolution, which calls for international pressure for construction freeze.
the tree-planting, on the edges  of burin village, was set to see 250 olive saplings dug into the soil under a  new "green palestine" project in cooperation with the... settlers attack palestinians in retaliation for outpost demolition 1/27/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an/agencies - several dozen israeli settler youths  attacked the village of beit ilu on tuesday, north of ramallah, in response to  israeli forces razing the gush talmonim outpost, israeli media reported.
last year, the israeli authorites gave tamir a permit to  harvest his olives, only for one day and a couple of hours, for him not to be  attacked by the settlers when doing it.
it was world peace day, and speaker after speaker reaffirmed a commitment to peace and to nonviolent resistance to the occupation.
jerusalem - driving east from jerusalem on the  winding jordanian-built road that once led down from the mount of olives to the  dead sea, one passes through a series of arab suburbs and soon comes to a dead  end in front of the grotesque west bank barrier.
he... as settlers disrupt olive harvest, israeli officer declares: ‘i am the law, i am god.’
boycott is a time honored method which was the  catalyst that ended legal segregation in the united states.
this ongoing  situation has occurred within the ‘h2’ zone in the city of hebron,  which is notorious for its intense and illegal israeli military presence due to  a small number of israeli citizens who have illegally invaded and occupied a  historically significant part of the city.
jewish settlers uproot 21 olive trees in salfit pic 26 mar 2011 - jewish settlers from ali zahav settlement on saturday morning uprooted about 21 olive trees in deir ballut town west of salfit city.
more.. e-mail farmers, internationals plant olive trees  near bethlehem 2/7/2012 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
situated on the north-west edge of jerusalem, the  village is divided by the 1949 armistice green line, which leaves part of it in  west jerusalem and part in east jerusalem.
it is just getting worse and worse," said thawabteh, sitting beneath one of his trees, with the west bank city of nablus shimmering in the distance.
additionally, and in keeping with the biblical story of the entry of jesus to jerusalem, the marchers waving palms and olive branches were led by a man
he immediately rushed to the land along with other residents.
negev and ethnic cleansing in the israeli negev more.. e-mail fires reported across west bank 7/27/2010 - qalqiliya - ma'an - palestinian authority civil defense crews controlled several fires across the west bank on tuesday, a report read.
the volume, featuring the work of over 30 accomplished writers, is the most articulate treatise on the collective victimization of palestinians to date.
they told farmers that settlers would be in the area between 7am and 2pm, and they could not harvest or tend crops during the visiting hours.
the bulldozers began operating on lands  near the cremisan monastery road, said leila awad, whose home is the only one  in the area.
i wonder how to make contact for i am ashamed.
e-mail expired dates and pickled olives seized in nablus maan news agency 9/2/2008 nablus maan
but before these kilos can be poured  on pasta, heated to fry, or soaked in bread, the olives must go to a press.
the trees,  part of the agricultural land belonging to saleh shtewi and his brothers, were  torn up at the south-eastern end of the village, abutting the settlement.
as you descend the penultimate ridgeline before the southern border the  concrete carapace of an army post floats by, tight up on a hardscrabble village  where dusty farmer’s children scatter fearfully on sighting a car with  yellow israeli license plates.
local sources said that the settlers spoiled 55 olive trees using a white chemical material unknown to locals, adding that the material dries the trees and slowly kills them.
israel's blood diamonds electronic intifada: 29 mar 2010 - every year, consumers the world over unwittingly spend billions of dollars on diamonds crafted in israel, thereby helping to fund one of the world's most protracted and contentious conflicts.
the ....... settlers violence -- interview with ahmad jaradat alternative information center - fall 2010 was marked by a drastic raise in attacks by israeli settlers against palestinians.
the world today is caught between two conflicting ideologies: the growing trend of some democratic countries to join in unions with open borders, joint legal systems, and a common currency, of which the european union - notwithstanding its problems - is a great success.
by philip giraldi president barack obama's speech in indonesia in which he conceded that the united states must do more to establish a good working relationship with many muslim nations would have ranked as one of the more pathetic performances by an american president in recent years but for the fact that there have been so many awful performances to choose from.
several hundred people were taken back to the rahat area where they originally came from, he told the afp news agency, referring to a nearby bedouin town in israels arid south.
army fires on iraq  burin during olive tree planting 4/10/2011 - international  solidarity movement - ism - bullets and tear gas were fired upon palestinians  and internationals whilst they planted olive trees on the land legally owned by  the village of iraq burin yesterday.
the trees were planted on property owned by cousins suhail najjar, murad ma'roof najjar, and issa mahmoud najjar, the official said.
budrus depicts our ten month campaign of protest marches in 2003-2004, which included participation by men, women and children, and by representatives from all palestinian political factions, along with israeli and international activists, to resist the construction of israels separation barrier on our lands.
the letter notes, "our core remains a viable,  independent and sovereign palestinian state with contiguous territory that ends  the occupation that began in 1967."
i visited hebron, jericho,  ramallah and bethlehem after the oslo chamber of commerce was approached by a  palestinian company that hopes to do business with norway.
al badia is the first of the association najdeh's self-help...more.. cave arts & crafts center (al-kahf) al-kahf arts & crafts center aims at reviving the local communitys sense of beauty,
on september 5th bulldozers protected by dozens of soldiers arrived at 4 am and uprooted 50 olive trees that date back at least 100 years.
local sources said that the israeli soldiers who came along with the  settlers threatened the students...
shouts will go up when...more partisan politics, neo-liberalism, and struggle for democracy and public education in puerto rico dissident voice: 4 apr 2011 -
as these olive  trees have been uprooted or burned, the state of israel has attempted to sow  these popular demonstrations with salt.
year, their trees yielding only two-thirds of last year's harvest.
the olive harvest is a busy season and many hands are  required to do the job.
the area where the farmers, along with three  international ism activists and five palestinian activists traveled to, is  about 450 meters from the border.
settlers steal olive-crops in  northern west bank; troops open fire at gaza farmers pnn -  nablusgaza – pnn – a number of villagers from burin, near nablus in  northern west bank, were injured during clashes with israeli settlers on  tuesday midday.
olive trees destroyed outside bethlehem 5/31/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity movement - this morning maher abu sab'a' discovered that 248 out of the 250 olive tree saplings that had recently been planted on his land had been destroyed over-night.
since then, their objections to this injustice have been met with terrifying force.
israeli authorities deny salfit farmers access to olive crops pic 25
we have five dunams of land (one dunam is 1,000 square metres), on which we had olive and fruit trees, chickens, sheep and some pigeons,” recalls abu hani.
this year has witnessed a surge in israeli military crackdowns, as al-walaja joins bili'n, ni'lin and beit jala, as the scene of heated weekly anti-wall demonstrations and popular resistance.
that year a known member of the settler  community of khalil, baruch goldstein, walked fully armed into the ibrahami  mosque and killed 29 people – injuring a over 100.... --
in  gaza: 8 jan 2012 -
villagers entered the qaryut's eastern farmlands following the midday prayer, carrying 200 baby olive trees donated by palestinian agricultural relief and the ministry of agriculture.
[uruknet 60831 07-dec-2009 15:46 ect] rabbi allows stealing palestinian crops and water uruknet december 7, 2009 --
settlers  desecrate olive groves in burin uruknet january 8, 2010 - 20 olive  trees belonging to the sufan family of burin village were destroyed by settlers  this morning.
will  you marry poor me 1/15/2010 - international solidarity movement -  eva bartlett, inter press service, 14 january -
"while the farmers were planting olive trees, israeli forces attacked them and clashes erupted between both sides," said media spokesman for the palestine solidarity project mohammad awad.
the letter notes, "our core remains a viable, independent and sovereign palestinian state with contiguous territory that ends the occupation that began in 1967."
see also: flickr: freedom march from bethlehem to jerusalem 3/28/2010 more.. e-mail gazans plant trees on land day 30 mar 2010 - gaza, march  30, (pal telegraph) gazan children along side with security men and government  officials planted olive trees on the ruins of an emptied israeli military  position in the martyrs square south of gaza city, in commemoration of the  thirty-fourth land day anniversary.
[sic] palestinian farmers face barriers to carrying out  normal agricultural activities caused through restrictions in movement and  water shortages.
what could have driven israel to order its navy to attack, in international waters, a flotilla of ships full of human rights activists, mps from governments around the world, a nobel prize winner and two former us diplomats?
heatwave causes qalqiliya crop fires 6/21/2010 - qalqiliya - ma'an -
norway supports palestinian economy lars-kare legernes, maan news agency 6/3/2010 some weeks ago [i vistied] the west bank.
as they did so, the family talked.
refugees from lifta appeal to the international community to  halt the final destruction of their village; israel should not be allowed to  continue justifying its annexation practices and denial of palestinian rights  in order to build luxury apartments exclusively for jews.
in some cases, as in the village of at- tuwani, soldiers harassed local palestinians, threatening and prohibiting them from calling the international volunteers of operation dove.
jewish settlers cut off 45 olive trees pic 24 feb 2010 - jewish armed settlers cut off 45 olive trees in the village of burin, south of nablus city, on tuesday, local sources reported.
a rally was held in occupied east jerusalem sunday in solidarity with local farmers who are denied access to their land by the israeli army.
later, an export-based developmental model was crafted,  euphemistically called “manos a la obra” translated as  “operation bootstrap” (in mexico called maquiladora program), which  was later touted as a developmental model for the “third world.”
ha’aretz,  israel’s leading daily, said, "the decision makers’ negligence  is threatening the security of israelis, and israel’s global status.
at-ateera told ma'an.
chisel, scrape, chisel, scrape.
few imagine that between these ancient walls they can also enjoy  the beauty of nature.
the story of a shoemaker living in hebron's h2 tamir: "... they want to scare and despire us, they want us to leave the are, that is why they do this.
ramallah's downtown olive press was founded in 1972 and when in season, it produces on average 2.5 tons of olive oil a day.
the palestinian minister of agriculture, dr. muhammad ramadan al-agha, has described the agricultural sector as "the backbone of the palestinian economy".
although many in the us  government aspire to her level of commitment to israel, few can measure up to a  dedication that extends so far beyond the interests of her own country.
joseph, born and raised in the arid hills, fought back and bloodied not a few settlers with his labor-hardened fists.
settlers launch new attack 7/27/2010 - nablus - ma'an - on monday evening, settlers launched their second attack of the day on a northern west bank village, setting fire to land and olive trees and throwing rocks.
both of his legs were broken and he received many cuts."
upon  arriving they stood in front of the construction machines and forced them to  halt their work.
al faqeeh, renowned throughout the nablus region for his tireless campaigning and non-violent action against the israeli occupation, was kidnapped from his home by israeli occupation forces in the night of tuesday, 8 december.
ramallah  is not palestine sandy toalan, le monde diplomatique, israeli  occupation archive 4/1/2010
it's about time jeruslalem post 26  apr 2011 -
celebrating heroes and olives: qaryut begins to dismantle roadblock 2/5/2012 - international solidarity movement - by aaron, 5 february 2012, international solidarity movement, west bank - hundreds of peaceful demonstrators confronted heavily armed israeli soldiers this friday, february 3rd, at a new protest in the village of qaryut, planting nearly one hundred trees and partially demolishing the roadblock that has obstructed access to the highway since the first intifada.
while i was writing nonstop, an old woman sat next to  me.
but settler attacks are taking their toll, says the united nations, which has recorded a surge in general violence this year.
coming soon: ahmadinejad through oliver stone's lens?
we went with mahmud's family to harvest their olives.
i  have crossed the rafah border, walked upon the holy land in the holy month of  ramadan, dug my toes into the soft sand, trailed my fingers through the warm  sea, touched the olive trees, befriended my palestinian brothers and sisters,  and left my heart there.
journalism project helps verse visually impaired in craft daily star 5 dec 2011 in a room of furn al-shubbak’s press club monday, students practice their radio voice with antoine mrad, the general manager of radio liban libre, while some read sample lines out loud from their books.
the remaining protesters were held at distance so that the work could resume.
a mob of extremist settlers stormed palestinian farmland and  uprooted olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, palestinian  officials said.
the fire also damaged vineyards and the  electricity grid in the area, a spokesman from the town's police department  ashraf shamasneh said....
the soldiers regularly met us with clubs, rubber-coated bullets,  curfews, arrests and even live ammunition.
[uruknet.info] breaking: harsh israeli response to protest in palestinian village uruknet july 31, 2011 - a group of about 30 international, palestinian and israeli demonstrators demonstrated in front of israeli construction equipment sunday morning, in an effort to prevent the uprooting of olive trees to make way for the continued construction of the separate wall that is to surround this village located just south of jerusalem.
pa: settlers clash with olive harvesters near  nablus 10/10/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
security and defense: the olive branch jeruslalem post 23
this year, let alone any for sale.
still, i feared that something might be missing in this noble and monumental undertaking: palestinian peoples own responses to the cruelties theyve suffered.
and you can see why… history has its hands full.
first established in 1968 and made a national holiday in 1998, it marks an annual occasion to celebrate the repossession of the western wall and the unification of jerusalem under israeli control more generally.
on a hilltop between the nablus-district villages of beita and... at-tuwani:
on january 11, the delegation i’m traveling with visited with mohammed jaradat of the badil resource center for palestinian residency and refugee rights.
al-samri told  ma'an the settlers left a banner with "price tag" written on it.
the area includes over 2,000 olive trees, all owned by palestinians in  the predominantly christian town between bethlehem and jerusalem.
the al-kurd family live in the back half of their home, but were evicted from the newly built front partition in december 2009.
also around bethlehem last week, activists planted olive trees  near the wall in a symbolic display of steadfastness and a refusal to be  uprooted from their land.
french  heart team completes week of surgeries in jerusalem 3/7/2010 -  bethlehem - ma'an - a french surgery team left jerusalem at the end of february  having completed a number of pediatric cardiac surgeries in occupied east  jerusalem, supported by the palestine children's relief fund.
source more.. e-mail settlers stone elderly palestinian lady 31
on october 20, oxfam reported that israeli settlers have already cost west bank palestinian farmers $500,000 this year in destroyed olive trees.
amazingly, the loss did not embitter izzeldin abuelaish.
nor are vegetables, fruit or olives, formerly a thriving export business.
hamad abdul hamid sleiby told ma'an that settlers attacked his land in beit  ummar for the fifth time on tuesday.
israel has deemed that 300 meters from the wall is a  buffer zone, so palestinian farmland is taken away.
apr 2010 - nablus, april 20, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli settlers uprooted today 250 olive nurslings in qarout village south of nablus.
she was only three years old when her family was expelled from her original village, acre.... more..
jewish settlers assault shepherd, start fire in olive trees pic - 23/07/2011 - 08:22 am israeli soldiers uproot 100 olive trees in jerusalem area
a few days ago, my father emailed me a photo of my mom and him standing proudly next to my newest sibling; a young olive tree they've planted in their garden in queensland australia.
oct 2010 - israeli authorities continue to deny farmers in the west salfit town of masha access to their land located behind the separation wall to harvest their olives, local sources reported monday.
yes, i was one of the last generation of british 18-year-olds obliged to do two years of military service.
my grandmother’s trees changed the face of palestine mondoweiss - 6 mar 2010 - peter belmont writes: here’s an interesting (if a bit long-winded) pdf file law-professor article on the israeli government and israeli settlers’ attacks on palestinian olive-trees, including a discussion of the cultural meaning of olive-trees to palestinians.
e-mail israeli settlers and soldiers attack palestinians near  nablus: 10 palestinians, 1 settler injured imemc - monday march  07, 2011 - 19:02, according to local sources, a large group of armed israeli  settlers invaded qusra village, near the city of nablus in the northern west  bank, on monday, and began uprooting olive trees, throwing stones and firing  live ammunition at palestinian farmers.
alongside its many  successes, the american-made craft also has a long list of accidents that  claimed dozens of soldiers' lives.
the organization released a report on the matter  tuesday and makes specific reference to damage caused to olive groves, central  to the livelihood... opt: harvesting olives in the west bank - not  as simple as it sounds relief web 25 nov 2009 - source: icrc harvest under fire 11/1/2009 -
im here to pick olives, declared 9-year-old mahmoud, taking a break from dumping olives into a blue plastic crate.
"i want  to fly, daddy," said his daughter, aya.)
the israeli rights group yesh din on monday called on israeli authorities to protect palestinians during the olive harvest season.
so when joseph fell  behind on his property tax, the settlers took over their home, forcibly evicted  joseph and mary and offered them a one-way bus ticket to jerusalem.
awad... home demolitions in amniyr, a community north of susiya in the south hebron hills 2/22/2011 - international solidarity movement - this morning the israeli army demolished homes, wells and trees in the village of susiya, south hebron hills.
surif, a large  community of... israeli court implements hebron evacuation order 2/23/2012 - hebron (ma'an) -- israeli forces implemented  wednesday the israeli supreme court's decision to evacuate settlers from a  building owned by the tahbub family in the old city.
al jaba is surrounded by illegal settlements, a soldier camp, one major checkpoint, the construction of the separation wall as well as one permanent roadblock which blocks access to jabas land and the neighboring village of surif.
under the cover of dark, settlers entered the olive groves of the sufan family home at around 3am... settlers desecrate olive groves in burin 1/8/2010 - international solidarity movement - 20 olive trees belonging to the sufan family of burin village were destroyed by settlers this morning.
al-agha also described the palestinian olive oil as a strategic commodity of the national economy due its high quality taste, color and odor.
palestinians accuse settlers of  destroying dozens of olive trees in west bank ha'aretz - idf  officials have confirmed that vandals chopped down 150 olive trees near the  village of qusra; residents of nearby settlement deny involvement.
israeli  forces detain journalists in nablus 10/14/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
"we will pray for rain and wait," he  said.
israeli forces bulldozed olive trees on village  land in hebron overnight wednesday, villagers told ma'an.
sam hamod is a poet...more settlement security officer torches palestinian olive trees uruknet october 1, 2010 - a security guard working at the itamar jewish  settlement, near the northern west bank city of nablus, torched a number of  olive trees that belong to resident of awarta village, east of the city, no'man  awwad, a 40-year-old local villager, told the maan news agency that he saw the  security officer parking his jeep near... zionist settlers block  palestinian villagers from harvesting olive crop pic 3
they are not the whispers from the presidents of christmas past, we will come to them; no?
where  are the israeli poets?
at 9:30am residents of bil'in village, palestinian political representatives, and international activists gathered in bil'in to plant olive trees and almond seeds for 20 farmers who own land besides israel's apartheid wall.
the demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of palestinian land for approximately one hour before soldiers violently....
each once housed 400 tear gas canisters and the evidence they had been filled to the brim was scatted about the farmfield.
“many people who couldn’t leave their homes had only bread and  olive oil to sustain them for long periods.”
separating a last cluster of settler tract housing from a welter of native  sheds, before finally dead- ending in a small terminal, comprising two booths  straddling the road and a clump of concrete barracks.
flowers are no longer exported.
once i entered the dirt road leading to the village i saw scores of vans with  heavily armed policemen getting ready to leave.
imports cast shadow on lantern trade in egypt
witnesses said two bulldozers uprooted the  trees, which were loaded onto trucks and transported to israel.
nablus village stoned, clashes  with settlers 2/27/2012 - nablus (ma'an) --
idf announces closure of judea, samaria for yom kippur jerusalem
most people live  their lives never thinking about nor contemplating death.
olive revolution in pictures: palestinians march on jerusalem 26 aug 2011 - qalandia (pal telegraph) -
they  noted that... israeli settlers attack farmers in nablus 9
yet ramallah, with its coffee bars and restaurants,  is far away from area c, with its refugee camps, roadblocks, military patrols  and harassment, where nothing much has changed
if this was a sitcom it would be the opportune time to crack up laughing; regretfully this is not the case.
israeli settler violence  against palestinians increased "dramatically" in june, according to a  palestinian authority report released wednesday.
the wall is often described as a scar through  palestine, but right now it is more of a fresh wound.
activists accompanied by israeli and international supporters will convene to launch the campaign by marching on jerusalem from north, west, south and east, the popular....
in budrus a demonstration was held against an israeli quarry located on land of palestinian villages.
west bank rain welcomed by olive farmers ma’an news 10/27/2006 qalqiliya - welcome rain continued to fall in the northern west bank on thursday following storms on wednesday.
on what rock is...more report: 30 olive  trees cut down near hebron 12/21/2011 - tel aviv, israel (ma'an)  -- over two dozen olive trees were chopped down near the palestinian city of  hebron in the occupied west bank, israeli news media reported wednesday.
israeli  settlers uprooted some 20 olive trees in southern jerusalem, police said  thursday.
on may 8th in  addition to the activists there were eight farmers in the fields, mostly women,  but also a child of 13 years and a girl of seven, all brothers and sisters of  the annajjar family which resides in khuza’a.
an 'educational garden....
major israeli roadblocks  and checkpoints are down or unmanned, allowing drivers who used to be stalled,  fuming, to travel nearly unimpeded from jericho, up the ancient hills to  ramallah, and on to nablus in northern palestine.
animals from the rapidly closing smuggling tunnels brought to gaza via egypt roam fresh pens in the 14 dunum area next to picnic areas and barbecue pits, as well as two new buildingshousing a shop and small recreation center.
exploring the narrow alleys, visitors weave their way through street vendors, picking their way through a maze of spice sacks, hand-woven rugs, and stacked pottery.
we have 40 years of occupation and where are they?
opening the seminar, lord phillips asked the audience to stand for a minute's silence in solidarity with those who were struggling for their rights across the middle east, before introducing the director of memo, dr. daud abdullah, who provided a brief insight into the significance of the palestine papers.
the smaller ones, delighted to  discover this new place, ran among the olive, fig and apricot trees, before  finally settling down to eat their falafel sandwiches beneath a bower of vines.
pa settlement  affairs official ghassan doughlas said the fire continued to rage as  firefighters were unable to reach the area.
every kilometer of the wall and  the fence.
they have been here,  looking like this since antiquity.
witnesses said clashes erupted... israeli soldiers kidnap non-violent palestinian and israeli activists in al-walaja imemc - wednesday july 27, 2011 - 13:00, two palestinian and four israeli activists were kidnapped outside al-walaja village wednesday morning while protesting the bulldozing of an olive tree grove.
all that remains of this once-prosperous  village are the shells of dozens of houses dotted throughout the valley, their  outer walls largely intact but now overgrown with wildflowers and weeds.
iof soldiers detain three palestinians for trying  to extinguish fire pic 18 nov 2010 - iof soldiers on wednesday  detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of al-khalil, for  participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers in olive and  almond trees.
where are the poets of hope, bringing us this  precious land and its active people in odes, sonnets, magic speech and  children's songs of hope, prosperity and peace?
settlers begin construction of housing at east jerusalem yeshiva ha'aretz 15 dec 2010 - new construction starts on 18 apartments around the beit orot yeshiva on the mount of olives.
palestinian authority agriculture minister ismail daik announced tuesday that  his ministry established a legal department to prosecute settlers who damage  palestinian fields.
the israeli military violently obstructed a peaceful demonstration against the  israeli separation wall in al-ma'sara, near bethlehem, today.
unknown agitators  entered the building and set the fire, causing damage to carpets and the  structure itself.
according to the  report, 55 attacks took place across 37 villages and in... israel  destroys jerusalemite home, 20 olive trees in oj pic -
the black kites of palestine lynn jones, ma’an news  agency 7/8/2010 most kids love kites.
my eyes are confused; one eye on the people around me and another on the  fences that surround me from all destinations, laughing and sarcastically  pitying the situation.
uruknet december 11, 2011 -
we drove on 443 until the shilat junction, and turned toward the west  bank.
most people are unaware that israel is one of the world's leading producers of cut and polished diamonds.
israeli settlers vandalized orchards in two ramallah-district villages late saturday, locals told ma'an.
"he tried to protect his family, but it bit him and pushed him so that he fell a long way into a ditch.
according to a statement from zaki's office, non-violent popular rallies will continue across palestine demanding his release.
however, according to the israeli paper, the humanitarian cargo would then be unloaded, inspected and sent to gaza overland via the united nations.
the village of battir, north west of bethlehem, was once a haven for farmers.
three arrested in hebron, troops cut down olive trees, pile waste near bethlehem pnn - hebron – pnn - on wednesday morning, dawn raids  conducted by the israeli army ended with the arrests of three palestinians, as  settler attacks escalated and israeli soldiers near nablus cut down... call to save the history, culture and heritage of lifta village sons of lifta society, alternative information center 3/14/2011 few palestinian villages capture the tragedy of  1948 like lifta.
swaths of land were eaten by the  military bulldozers’ blades, also seemingly randomly:  the wheat  crop which might mature to waist high if not bulldozed was left to grow, but  the calf-high beans and onions were mowed, not fully but insultingly so.
israeli activists said 1,500  police arrived in al-arakib village at dawn.
the conspicuous and unusual absence of both settlers and police contributed greatly to the positive mood of the day, although the ongoing threat of further evictions looms over the whole neighborhood.
the protesters raised palestinian flags and banners  demanding that farmers be allowed to access their lands to pick olives.
israeli settlers attack olive trees in nablus 23
israeli soldiers attacked demonstrators:... al-walaja: defending  palestinian land from bulldozers palestine monitor - a sit-in  protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja (south of  bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall, which was  resumed last thursday.
israeli settlers torch olive trees near bethlehem imemc - 19
for months i have been hearing  about disproportionate use of force by the army against weekly demonstrations  in nabi saleh – a small pastoral palestinian village northwest of  ramallah.
we  are... olive harvest in the south hebron hills: what the occupation  has become uruknet november 1, 2010 - how many israeli soldiers  does it take to remove an elderly palestinian woman from harvesting olives?
and then finally after all these days and weeks of anticipation we identified a frigate on the horizon.
the settlers cut  down no less than 100 olive trees of the palestinian villages yasouf and  jamain.
it is a metaphor that has repeated itself from  joshua’s encircling of jericho, to the berlin wall and its remaining east  side gallery, to garth hewitt’s ballad: “they’ve cancelled  christmas in bethlehem” - about the stranglehold the wall has placed on  both day-to-day life and religious pilgrimage in the place where jesus the  prince of peace was born 2,000 years ago.
here, in the political and commercial centre of the west bank, a relative sense of ease and prosperity has emerged as new shops and bars serve well-educated and discerning customers.
the photographer, cris toala olivares, took the shot in october  2009 when he was in the west bank for its annual olive harvest.
the first day of the palestinian olive harvest officially began on 15 october,  and rani ali and his family – like hundreds of others – were out  among their olive trees, starting to bring in what looks like being a good  harvest.
zionist setters burn 150 olive  trees in al-khalil uruknet may 23, 2010 - dozens of zionist  settlers raided the village of sa'ir east of al-khalil district on saturday and  burned tens of fruitful olive trees, local sources reported.
witnesses said jehad jamal al-amla, 17, and iyad jamil  al-'amla, 18, were detained while picking olives in beit ula west of....
over 8,600 dunhams (34,400 acres) of palestinian land were stolen for the construction and roads to the settlements.
qaryut village council head abed an-naser al-qaryuti said "this is  the second time the settlers had uprooted and chopped olive trees of the  village only within a week. "
this doctrine had been affirmed by the us supreme court in  1896 -plessy v ferguson - and the court contained such notables as oliver  wendel holmes.
the day i rise from the ashes of your oppression i promise you i will not rise alone
in photos: bilin march in solidarity with prisoners 10/15/2011 - maanimages / bilin popular committee - palestinians and  international activists marched in solidarity with prisoners on hunger strike,  and in celebration of the annual olive harvest, in the west bank village of  bilin, near ramallah, on friday, oct. 14, 2011.
the olive and the f-16:
as some of the  trees...
in three cases, the perpetrators damaged olive trees.
more.. e-mail srulik, meet handala palestine note
of looking inward if only in a dream on a barren moonlit landscape while wandering the winding paths stepping on the rubble on ancient villages which are no longer but villages whose souls still weep for the familiar voices they may sometime hear in the distance when the wind is rightmore
tens of troops  and two bulldozers were used.
a few children were trying to find a shaded spot to hide from the  scorching desert sun, while behind them a stream of black smoke rose from the  burning hay.
previously, only two of the defendants had been charged with murder; the other two were charged with aiding and abetting in mr. arrigoni’s kidnapping and killing, and...more oxfam: settlers cost farmers over $500,000 this harvest 10/20/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
i’ll craft new words of expression outside of this suffocating language that has occupied me your words, are like your walls they encroach on my humanity i am more than demography i’m neither your collaborator nor your enemy i am not your moderate not your terrorist not...more we will not be uprooted-tree planting in fasayel 6/26/2011 - international solidarity movement - jordan valley solidarity - today local and international activists joined families affected by last week's demolitions in the palestinian community of fasayel in the occupied jordan valley as they planted 300 olive trees on their land.
(photo: palestine solidarity project )
the  israeli occupation forces (iof) destroyed 100 olive trees in the salfit village  of masha to make way for building a section of the separation wall, local  sources said on wednesday.
iof soldiers destroy tens of palestinian olive trees pic - israeli occupation forces (iof) bulldozed tens of palestinian olive trees in deir estiya village west of salfit city on tuesday.
but there are also unexpected nativity scenes complete with joseph, mary, crib, wise men and large israeli concrete wall with military watchtower.
" [uruknet.info] bethlehem's modern nativity scene - crib, wise men and separation wall uruknet december 23, 2009 - the shelves of bethlehem's tourist shops this winter are filled with the gifts you might expect.
a subsequent decision, brown vs the board of education , 1954, was essentially unimplemented until the mid to late 1960’s with the onset of the administration of lyndon johnson.
it is not about the right to exist; everyone has the right to exist.... --
do they truly comprehend what it is that makes an old man from a  west bank village face the brutality of jewish settlers, year after year, as he  returns to harvest his few remaining olive trees?
pa: settler violence 'not random' 10/3/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
zionist settlers destroyed tens of fruitful olive trees in al-mughir town, northeast of ramallah, on friday after spraying them with a chemical material.
israeli police on wednesday razed a palestinian house in  occupied east jerusalem, shortly before the owner arrived home with a court  order halting the demolition.
the israeli army arrived this morning to the village in a convoy of jeeps and bulldozers and razed 17 buildings to the ground.
the following is an excerpt from the written  testimony of glyn secker, captain of the irene, the latest boat to attempt the  breaking of israel's blockade of the gaza strip.
the signs of destruction were  immediately evident.
they come from across the planet and meet in the  shadow of israel's 12m concrete wall.
on 12 january 2010 my father ibrahim was  arrested by the israeli army and sentenced to two years in prison for  organizing and participating in nonviolent protests against the israel's wall  in the occupied west bank.
clashes were reported; soldiers fired gas bombs at the protesters leading to a number of injuries.
i have been in  dangerous situations before, and was prepared for another one.
i am going to gaza and wonder.
the fire was  lit around 9:30 pm, and burned for 3.... iof soldiers detain three  palestinians for trying to extinguish fire pic 17 nov 2010 - iof  soldiers on wednesday detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of  al-khalil, for participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers  in olive and almond trees.
on the edge of the village you own a plot of land on which you  raise olives and grow vegetables to feed your family.
that was the start of a very interesting conversation  about our lands, which all palestinian refugees were cleansed from in 1948.
the demonstration follows yesterday's incursion, in which israeli soldiers fired tear gas and a sound grenade at villagers as they attempted to plant olive trees on village land close to the nearby settlement of yitzhar.
they have also intensified their repression and attempts at intimidation of activists (with help from palestinian collaborators).
ghassan daghlas, who holds the settlement file for the northern west bank, reported the incident, which followed on the heels of the destruction of at least 40 fruit trees just north of the area the week before.
"we lived in a paradise".
the fire damaged 16 trees belonging to the abu haikel family in tel rumeida, christian peacemaker teams said, adding that some of the trees affected were over 1,000 years....
over the years, parc has become the leading organization serving palestinian farmers and helping them overcome their problems.
around 95% of the harvest is used to make olive oil, with the remainder for pickles, table olives, and....
tamir used to live in another house in the north of hebron, however israel confiscted 30 dunums of his land and then the soldiers and the settlers pushed him to leave.
the national 1 mar  2011 -
an israeli military spokesman confirmed  the incident, saying troops responded to the group of farmers with "riot  dispersal means," after youth threw rocks at the encroaching soldiers.
it is now scarily real and deeply  personal.
related:when it is illegal to use your front door:  freedom of movement in al khalil and israeli court implements hebron evacuation  order when it is illegal to use your front door:
uruknet september 25, 2011 - dozens of israeli settlers uprooted sunday  morning more than 400 olive trees in the towns of qosrah and douma, south of  city of nablus.
palestinians: settlers attacked our  olive trees ha'aretz - fall olive harvest presided over by  soldiers and solidarity activists, but extremists managed to damage a dozen  trees, villagers say.
palestinian agricultural relief committees: 3.5 olive trees destroyed per hour in 2011 pnn - pnnthe palestinian agricultural relief committees (parc) released its monthly report on monday, revealing that about three and half olive trees were destroyed per hour during the 2011 season.
join the 2010 olive harvest campaign 8/29/2010 - international solidarity movement - at a time of increasing settler violence in the west bank, the international solidarity movement is issuing an urgent call for volunteers to participate in the 2010 olive harvest campaign at the invitation of palestinian communities.
but the bedouin didnt rebel and now, despite plans to expel tens of thousands of them from their homes in the west bank and the negev, things remain relatively quiet.
one day you return from your olive grove carrying a  sack filled with olives that your wife will press.
israel defied it and continued building,  now 61% finished, another 8% under construction, and the remaining 31% planned  but not begun.
settlers also vandalized a mosque in yatma village....
he tried to ship out his tomatoes through jordan after getting all the necessary permits from israel, but when the cargo came to the border, it took the israelis 3 days to check the container for explosives.
when olive season came to the northern west bank village of tell, the ramadan family could be found spreading tarps underneath trees and thwacking down the high-hanging fruits with sticks.
at my first, two weeks ago, the israeli army had fired a few shots from the military towers at the border.
settlement security officer torches palestinian olive trees imemc - 2
olive harvest in the west bank the guardian 24 oct 2010 -
times were tough for joseph and mary.
the settlers also steal their olives, but tamir explains me that the attack of the settlers does not only ocurre during the olive harvesting season, but it occure at any time at any moment at any places.
another week of pausing, breaths held, as israeli tanks the color of sand moved nearby along the buffer zone, another week of children frightened at the sound of roaring f-16s, another week below
the un body for humanitarian affairs, ocha, says 7,500 trees were uprooted, burnt or chopped down in the first nine months of 2011.
jewish settlers  uproot very old olive trees near salfit pic - jewish settlers on  friday destroyed 100 very old olive trees, amongst them olive trees that locals  believe to have existed since roman times.
despite these restrictions, battir's farmers retain faith that with determination and effective use of their natural resources, the good years...
report: israeli settlers uproot 25 olive trees near nablus 3/19/2010 - nablus - ma'an - settlers from israel's eli area uprooted 25 olive  trees from the al-batshisha neighborhood of qaryut village in the northern west  bank, an official said friday.
...more official: settlers set fire to west bank land 12/2/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
carrying flags and alternately chanting, singing and walking in silence we approached the israeli border.
village council head  ihab tahseen said residents from yitzhar settlement destroyed palestinian-owned  trees and sprayed anti-arab slogans in hebrew.
all this, of course, for the greater good of zionism, the jewish people, israels eternal capital, and many tens of millions of shekels.
harriet lamb, executive director of the fairtrade foundation, said: "we hope this will be the first of many more fair trade products coming from the world’s conflict zones and least-developed countries.
and i only  managed to sleep at 4:30 am, then woke up again an hour and a half later.
olive harvest, operating mills timing determined wafa - settlers uproot 100 grape trees east of hebron 9/20/2010 - hebron (ma'an) --
violent settler  attacks on previous saturdays leave the villagers and their land threatened.
remembering earlier massacres in gaza uruknet january 14, 2010 -  it's a sunny day in the border region east of beit hanoun.
led by women striving for a social change, it operates in the arab population in the galilee region, northern...more..
the word is already out that condi rice...more israeli forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily  unrest in silwan 9 nov 2010 - jerusalem, november 9, (pal  telegraph - ism)
israeli army raids bil'in and burns olive tree uruknet may 26, 2010 - early tuesday morning israeli soldiers raided the town  of bil'in in the central west bank.
see also:source more.. e-mail jerusalem police arrest two arab youths suspected of vandalizing jewish cemetery ha'aretz - east jerusalem residents allegedly smashed mount of  olives gravestones in order to steal bronze casings of memorial candles.
... pa ministry seizes fake olive oil 4/12/2010 - nablus - ma'an -
on monday morning, 10 october, israeli military bulldozers entered the agricultural...
the israeli  military rerouted the barrier in budrus, allowing us access to almost all of  our land.
the report by the gaza-based ngo issued findings on settler violence and attacks against palestinian agriculture in october.
incidents of violence continue during the olive harvest imemc - 19 oct 2010 - tuesday october 19, 2010 - 11:10,
invitation: join the palestinian olive  harvest efforts!
janet micha’el, the mayor  of the city said that this action is being taken in order to maintain the  healthy and balanced environment of the city, and she added that the action is  a part of campaign to make the city green.
"they [the jews] did not destroy lifta in time of war, so they should not destroy it when israel is talking about peace," says mr odeh, a palestinian in his early 70s who spent his early childhood there.
iof soldiers uproot 450 olive trees pic - israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday uprooted 450 olive trees west of salfit province, local sources reported.
khalil nasir, coordinator of the local initiative  group sees farmers as the first line of resistance: “we’re here today  to offer some support for the farmers who have continued the resistance to the  occupation everyday of their lives, not letting go of these lands so near to  the israeli wall...."
the israeli government approved on  wednesday the construction of a new settlement in the palestinian town of  shufat, in occupied east jerusalem.
olive trees burned in fire sparked by tear-gas palestine note 6 jun 2011 - ma'an - israeli forces stationed along the separation wall near the jerusalem-area village of qatanna fired tear-gas canisters at a group of young farmers on monday, the heat from which caused a brush fire damaging 40 trees.
when was the last time you thought about death?
for three years, palestinians in the  north have been marching into the barren, no-man’s land which encircles  the inside of the narrow strip like a slowly-tightening noose.
now under israeli occupation, the old city of nablus remains a  charming and well-preserved cultural experience.
without such an inquiry, it’s unlikely that  those responsible for this assault will be held accountable.
mohammed, the 14 year old son of one of the discouraged me,  knows the land and its history.
"dozens of olive trees....
israeli police join settler pogrom at  anatot, 23 israeli, palestinian activists injured tikun olam -  israeli settlers have celebrated the second day of the new year of 5772 in the  only way they know how, by a pogrom which drew the blood of palestinians and  israeli peace activists who’d come to a palestinian village to help a  local landowner plant olive...
the quiet that hangs over neighboring  olive groves, in the far south of the west bank, is broken here by the shouts  of workers, many of them children, and the grinding of a bulldozer covering the  picked-over trash with sand and dirt.
remembering arafat -- letter from a palestinian diplomat saadi salama, ma’an news agency 11/10/2011 mr president, the first time i met you 30 years ago, i was studying at hanoi university in vietnam; that was only a few days after the assassination of egyptian president anwar sadat in cairo and the assassination in rome of your brother-in-arms majed abo sharar.
the settlers uprooted 40 olive trees in the al-batashiyah area of qaryut, the village's mayor abdel nasser al-qaryuti told ma'an.
"the army was meant to be here to protect us, but there was no one around.
here the first domestication of  animals (e.g. goats, donkeys, camels) and plants (e.g. wheat, barley,  chickpeas, lentils, olives) happened.
opening the seminar,  lord phillips asked the audience to stand for a minute's silence in solidarity  with those who were struggling for their rights across the middle east, before  introducing the director of memo, dr. daud abdullah, who provided a brief  insight into the significance of the palestine papers.
an israeli military spokesman said he had no knowledge of the incident. . . . .
iof demolish eight homes, number of tents in negev region pic 9 dec 2009 -
first us-born hassidic master  brought many closer to judaism, laid to rest at j'lem's mount of olives.
oct 2010 - wednesday october 06, 2010 - 16:46, on wendesday afternoon,israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive trees and looted the harvested fruits from villages of yanoun and al-hawara near the city of nablus.
animals from the rapidly closing  smuggling tunnels brought to gaza via egypt roam fresh pens in the 14 dunum  area next to picnic areas and barbecue pits, as well as two new  buildingshousing a shop and small recreation center.
but they also took care to preserve the older sites, both sacred and secular.
“as long as the za’atar remains. .
for three years, palestinians in the north have been marching into the barren, no-mans land which encircles the inside of the narrow strip like a slowly-tightening noose.
israel raids jenin, no reported detentions 28 apr 2010 - jenin, april 28, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli occupation forces raided jenin today, no detentions were reported.
israel  plows farms paving way for apartheid wall extension in bethlehem village pic - israeli bulldozers began tuesday plowing through ''vast''  palestinian farmlands and uprooting olive trees to pave the way for an  extension of the apartheid wall in al-walaja village.
the israeli military violently obstructed a peaceful demonstration against the israeli separation wall in al-ma'sara, near bethlehem, today.
insisting on humanity ramzy baroud, ma’an news agency 12/18/2010 when a copy of william a. cooks latest book, the plight of the palestinians arrived in my mailbox, i initially felt a little worried.
security  forces identified the father as an, and said the 40-year-old threatened to  torch his son mohammed, 14, when he....
olivares, a dutch citizen originally from ecuador, also  visited the gaza strip in january 2009 and produced a series of photos during  israel's assault on the coastal enclave over the winter. . . . .
so let me just give you the names and brief story of...more harvesting olives as a statement of resistance electronic intifada: 24 oct 2011 - ben lorber
one almost longed to see bill clinton choking up and shedding a tear or two.
an israeli military spokesman told ma'an that the civil administration, a branch of the country's defense ministry in the occupied territories, received a complaint about the incident, and that civil administration officials were dispatched to the crime scene to investigate.
the israelis call it the "buffer zone."
refugees from lifta appeal to the international community to halt the final destruction of their village; israel should not be allowed to continue justifying its annexation practices and denial of palestinian rights in order to build luxury apartments exclusively for jews.
but to the  palestinians who live near this wide swath of land alongside the border between  the gaza strip and israel, it is fertile land where their children played and  they made a decent living by raising wheat and olives.
israeli authorities uproot olive trees in beit  eska 21
i was moved beyond belief looking at that photo and thinking of my beautiful palestine.
oct 2010 - wednesday october 06,  2010 - 16:46, on wednesday afternoon,israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive  trees and looted the harvested fruits from villages of yanoun and hawwara near  the city of nablus.
not just base existence, but existence of a culture, a distinct society, that dares to live and breathe within the confines of walls, and razor wire, bombs and bullets, and any and all daily harassments that few in the western world face.
more.. e-mail entry 6: the land, the gun, the olive tree mondoweiss - by sameeha elwan
settlers set saffa ablaze, 3 palestinian youth arrested 11/17/2010 - international solidarity movement - palestine solidarity project -
home to around 2,000 people, mainly agricultural workers, the land is rich in olive trees, summer crops and other natural resources.
ha’aretz, israel’s leading daily, said, "the decision makers’ negligence is threatening the security of israelis, and israel’s global status."
palestinian civil defense officials in bethlehem said 20 dunums were completely burnt, while the other 50 sustained partial damage.
the delegation included thomas kazalis,  coordinator of the oxfam’s olive oil quality project, as well as haitham  hassassneh and engineer mahmoud abu ’assba.
no food, no water, no money, flattened neighborhoods from the reign of terror.
it was strangely uplifting to spend two nights and three days in the galilee, north palestine.
bil'in's ongoing nonviolent protests against the construction of the wall on its land, has made the village an internationally recognized symbol of palestinian resistance to israel's occupation, theft of land and apartheid wall.
they detained five israelis and one palestinian, chasing the protestors  from the olive grove into the village.
military uses live ammunition on burin demonstration 1/30/2010 - international solidarity movement - a demonstration against the israeli order to halt construction of a nearly-completed mosque today, on threat of demolition, drew local, regional and international supporters in addition to attendance by the palestinian authority minister of religion.
located in the old city of bethlehem, the union strives to meet the needs of the bethlehemites of all ages, organizing luncheons for senior citizens, activities for youth, and income-generation projects for women through food and craft production.
the family's home sits on the southern tip of the village towards the hill ascending to yitzhar settlement, and bears the brunt of their violent neighbours' attacks.
the valley and its springs have been suffering... aqraba plants  olive trees to ward off settlers 8/1/2010 - international  solidarity movement - residents of the village of aqraba, near nablus, planted  forty young olive trees on their land on thursday (29 july 2010) to send a  message to settlers who have been plowing the area in an attempted land-grab.
vandals have not only snatched harvested olives, but also destroyed thousands of trees.
the  al-mathloums were one of the best-known bamboo furniture-making families in  gaza but now, of his brothers, only zakariya, the eldest son, is struggling to  keep the tradition and the business alive.more [uruknet.info]  property damaged, palestinians attacked in weekend of settler violence uruknet january 15, 2012 -
the official, yousef shakarneh, said approximately 10 israeli military vehicles were present during the incident, adding that the digging was largely undertaken....
knesset to discuss security at mount of olives cemetery jerusalem post 26 feb 2012 -
pa: settlers prevent farmers from harvesting olives 10/26/2011 -  nablus (ma'an) --
despite this barrage of weaponry, villagers refused to run and hide,  and the soldiers ultimately retreated at dusk.
a scent from the past caresses our hair; we stretch our limbs, slip our... video - olive harvest brings settler violence in west bank joseph dana, +972 magazine 10/21/2011 on the outskirts of the northern west bank village of qasra, a 19-year-old resident recently told me that settlers are not going to stop attacking palestinians, simply because they dont have too.
the destruction took place in an area of over 1 square mile and  was declared a closed military zone, prohibiting media coverage of the  devastating operation.
protesters marched from the nativity church in  bethlehem towards the checkpoint near rachel’s tomb.
a fire that destroyed olive trees on land east of azzun village near qalqiliya on friday night has been put out by civil defense forces.
palestine monitor visited ramallah's downtown olive press to see how the  season's harvest gets from the raw to the extra virgin.
-- see also:ism: more about al jab'a more.. e-mail open letter from gaza: three years after the massacre, justice or nothing!
the pwec was created by nawal slemiah just over 6 years ago.
as people worked in the sun today, army jeeps made rounds on the road above the home, and stood watch from the road on the opposing side of the highway.
occupation news disclaimer: the views expressed in the material posted on this site are the sole responsibility of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the webmaster or vermonters for a just peace in palestine/israel.
zionist settlers uproot 200 palestinian olive trees pic 17 aug 2010
(all photos: international solidarity movement )
shireen al-araj and another local youth were kidnapped when they, together with a number of villagers and international peace activists attempted to stop israeli bulldozers from uprooting olive trees in the village to build the wall.
bulldozers return to destroy children’s playground in beit jala.
israeli forces on thursday detained a group of journalists and government  employees who were helping to harvest olives in a nablus village, a palestinian  authority ministry said.
have  kidnappings and bannings discouraged you?
"despite the decision by an israeli court allowing palestinian farmers to work on their lands, israeli troops banned farmers today from planting [olive trees]," said muhammad awad, media spokesman for the palestine solidarity project.
journalists, residents hurt in beit jala anti-wall rally 3/7/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - three journalists and several demonstrators were  injured by israeli forces at a protest against israel's construction of the  separation wall in the town of beit jala, north of bethlehem, on sunday.
this was my second buffer zone protest.
"sha'ban termed any construction on privately owned land as illegal, but said the beit jala construction flaunted the law, noting previous remarks by fayyad nasser, a lawyer who represents the beit jala municipality.
protests held in several syrian cities: witnesses daily star 20 may 2011 pro-democracy protests erupted in several syrian towns and villages on friday after the weekly muslim prayers, with demonstrators holding olive branches and calling for more freedom in defiance of a brutal crackdown, witnesses said.
locals said that bulldozers and military jeeps arrived in the village of surif at dawn and began digging up land in order to confiscate it.
and yet, much of israeli society is either unaware of the extent of the violence, or unwilling to call it anything other than the random actions of a few fanatics.
and it also means they are on hand to sort out any rubbish that comes in after dark.
as you know 'christmas is the day that holds all time  together' (alexander smith) certainly as you rustle through your christmas  stocking and wrestle with your conscience perhaps to find as you dig deep in  both and past ‘hegemonic imperatives’ an olive twig or a so-called  ‘peace process’?
firefighters were called to a qalqiliya village on friday after settlers torched palestinian olive groves, a civil defense spokesman said.
the israeli military  conducted arrests, mistreated detainees and continued to prevent villagers from  picking olives in certain areas of burin, near nablus, yesterday on october 16  2011.
al faqeeh abu as sabe 12/13/2009 - international solidarity movement - a demonstration will be held outside jelemeh prison in haifa at 12pm, monday 14 december 2009, to protest the arrest of prominent grassroots palestinian activist wa'el al faqeeh abu as sabe.
“including during the last war,”  says sourani, referring to the 23 day war israel waged on gaza three years ago.
but it is safe to say we can add to these reliable astronomical and physical certainties the fact that israeli settlers will attack palestinian civilians and their olive groves during the annual fall olive harvest....
more.. e-mail israeli settlers and soldiers attack palestinians near nablus: 10 palestinians, 1 settler injured imemc - monday march 07, 2011 - 19:02, according to local sources, a large group of armed israeli settlers invaded qusra village, near the city of nablus in the northern west bank, on monday, and began uprooting olive trees, throwing stones and firing live ammunition at palestinian farmers.
"this tree is blessed for usand our grandfathers and ancestors have taken care of this tree forgenerations.
palestinians: settlers attacked our olive trees ha'aretz - fall olive harvest presided over by soldiers and solidarity activists, but extremists managed to damage a dozen trees, villagers say.
the protest on march 28th focused on the israeli restrictions to palestinians from bethlehem from participating in the palm sunday events in the holy city of jerusalem, a mere 8 miles away.
the tomatoes spoiled and the man lost both his customer and his cargo.
i wondered what would happen today.
like all kids, their imaginations take them up with those kites, and i know that while they fly them they, too, are up therefree.
to... turkey: our new drone better than israel's ynet news - engineers say new surveillance craft, capable of 24-hour excursions, is better.... 'beware of small states': journalist david hirst interviewed robin yassin-kassab, electronic intifada
settlers uproot over 500 trees in salfit uruknet september 19, 2011 -- israeli settlers uprooted over 500 olive and fig trees in deir istiya village in salfit on monday morning, witnesses said.
noting a recent escalation in attacks  on palestinian lands and farmers, the agricultural support organization said it  will organize groups of volunteers to accompany workers.... as  israeli violence spreads across israel/palestine, shin bet worries it will soon  target law enforcement mondoweiss - settlers uproot dozens of  olive trees near nablus imemc 1 oct -- a group of extremist armed israeli  settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that belong to  residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
celebrating heroes and olives: qaryut begins to dismantle roadblock 2/5/2012 - international solidarity movement - by aaron, 5  february 2012, international solidarity movement, west bank - hundreds of  peaceful demonstrators confronted heavily armed israeli soldiers this friday,  february 3rd,  at a new protest in the village of qaryut, planting nearly  one hundred trees and partially demolishing the roadblock that has obstructed  access to the highway since the first intifada.
agricultural engineer, khalid junaidi, said “i have informed  several... palestinian envoy plants olive seedlings in dubai 4/5/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an/agencies - commemorating earth day  in a unique way, the palestinian consul general to the united arab emirates has  planted two olive seedlings in dubai, naming them "jerusalem" and  "church of the holy sepulcher" respectively.
olson’s writing brings out...more dutch band brings music to palestinian streets pnn - pnn exclusive /by
journalist arrested at peaceful tree-planting action 1/23/2010 -  international solidarity movement - christian peacemaker team - on 23 january,  israeli soldiers declared palestinian land south of the israeli settlement  outpost havot ma'on (hill 833) a closed military zone, then arrested a  palestinian journalist from pal media.
muhammad came towards me,  pointed towards the olive grove and presented me to the long gray dragon that  was approaching his house.
the family  believes that israeli settlers from the ma'on settlement and
abuelaish cherished their laughter, the way they mimicked and teased one another.
bulldozers continued work on wednesday near route 60 on the  edge of town.
[ gaza: life in the "buffer zone" uruknet february 13, 2010 -
diliani warns of ’rapidly escalating’ aggression 4/15/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - fatah revolutionary council member dimitri diliani warned thursday that israel's "continuous and rapidly escalating aggression" against villages surrounding occupied jerusalem was in cooperation with settler groups.
tear gas canisters resulted in the setting of several small fires and burning of numerous olive trees.
the writing, however, is at least as good as  you’d expect from a high quality prose work.
amongst the demonstrators were palestinian minister of agriculture ismail du'eik and other officials from the bethlehem area.
it was surrounded by a... mount of olives vandalized and desecrated palestine note  24 mar 2011 - arabiya - a wide patch of steep hillside overlooking jerusalem's  old city holds row after row of graves.
israeli soldiers attacked demonstrators: among them, dr mustafa barghouthi, secretary general of the palestinian national initiative who declared that “despite the attempt of israeli authorities to weaken and interrupt the protest, the non-violent struggle will continue weekly rallies to stop the construction of the apartheid wall”.
in his short period in charge the commander has revoked a long established agreement that teachers; pregnant women and others with health issues do not have to pass through the radiation emitting checkpoint and must instead submit to being searched every time.
i was disturbed because all of the clips showed how the  demonstrations ended; none showed how they began.
then  taking "route 6" north.
israeli occupation forces raided al-zbabda, mithlon, sanour and other neighborhoods in south of jenin, while travelled in the city streets, local sources said.
the harvest had  been interrupted by israeli soldiers who claimed the land was disputed,  although israeli government-issued aerial maps showed it to be palestinian...
the court appearance was  set for wednesday, when abbas zaki will stand on as yet unannounced charges for  his role in a non-violent protest against the israeli decision to refuse entry  of west bank christian worshipers to jerusalem for the palm sunday march from  the mount of olives into the old city.
mayor: israeli settlers uprooted 40 olive trees uruknet march 12, 2010 – israeli settlers uprooted dozens of olive trees in qaryut, south of nablus, at dawn on friday, officials said.
in one case,  settlers assaulted farmers who had come to their land to pick olives.
al-walaja villagers rally to save oldest living olive tree  from destruction by israeli forces imemc - monday august 15, 2011  - 11:33, on saturday august 13, 2011, a show of nonviolent popular resistance  occurred in al-walaja village, west of bethlehem.
at the far end of the hill, created entirely from layers of garbage ploughed over with sand, are makeshift residences -- planks of wood with tarpaulin or rubbish bags strapped over them to provide shelter.
a reddish sun  rises on the mountain slope ans brings life to all elements of nature.
mohammad awad,  spokesperson of the popular...
although those responsible "crossed the border from sinai", the israeli government claims that it was carried out by "terrorists from gaza".
for palestinian farmers, settler violence against them or their property is a practically a daily occurrence.
in gaza: 4 sep  2010 - * cooking over olive branches bulldozed by the israeli military in one  of continuous invasions along gaza’s borders johr al-dik, eastern gaza  strip, sep 4, 2010 (ips) – with power cuts up to 16 hours to full days, a  soaring heat wave and unbearable humidity, the israeli-led siege on gaza is but  one of many factors leaving ramadan miserable for the majority of palestinians  in gaza.
jewish settlers assault shepherd, start fire in olive  trees pic - 23/07/2011 - 08:22 am israeli soldiers  uproot 100 olive trees in jerusalem area
it is surrounded on one side by  the separation wall and on the other by two settlements, bitay illet and walja.
attacked palestinian farmers in burin village, south of nablus, on saturday  morning while harvesting olives, local sources reported.
zionist settlers attack farmers during olive harvesting pic 9 oct 2010 - zionist settlers attacked palestinian farmers in burin village, south of nablus, on saturday morning while harvesting olives, local sources reported.
soldiers assault man in jenin 2/7/2012 - jenin  (ma'an) --
the trees were uprooted and confiscated, deputy to the nablus  governor anan at-ateera told ma’an.
obama says time ripe for mideast peace accord la times 1 sep 2010 - meeting separately with the israeli and palestinian  leaders, on the eve of israeli-palestinian talks, he calls on them to seize the  moment to craft a two-state plan.
israelis chop down 220 olive trees envisioning settlement expansion pic 20 feb 2011 -
he added that tens of thousands of shekels of damage was caused....
the israeli  occupation forces (iof) uprooted 100 olive trees from beit egza village,  northwest of occupied jerusalem, and took them in trucks to an unknown  destination.
and the olive trees planted a thousand new suns ago by those who are no longer but whose sweat lingers in the soil are there no israeli poets?
jewish settlers uproot olive trees, iof  soldiers detain west bankers pic 26 jan 2010 - jewish settlers cut  off 15 olive trees in palestinian land in deir nizam village to the north west  of ramallah while israeli occupation forces (iof) abducted 7 palestinians  overnight.
they were cut off from their olive trees and left without a  source of income.
residents of an illegal outpost "waged war on olive trees uprooting 270...
abu hani, 54, lives with his wife umm hani, 54, and three sons in johr al-dik, eastern gaza, in the rubble of their demolished home, destroyed in the 2008- 2009 israeli war on gaza.
approximately 60 people live in the valley itself, and many more own land in the area in which they farm animals and cultivate both citrus and olive trees.
instead of entering at the lions gate, the damascus gate has also served as the point of entry for the annual parade, encouraging participants to march through the historic muslim quarter in waves lasting from early afternoon to early evening.
all of us must stand together and mourn the loss of life generated by this conflict.
the palestinians were from the nearby village of jalud and had been picking olives in peace until settlers descended from their outpost.
by george s. hishmeh – washington, d.c. palestinians will begin heading home a year from now to reclaim property in their homeland, which they have not seen for 62 years since the state of israel was established there.
bil'in's ongoing nonviolent protests against the construction of  the wall on its land, has made the village an internationally recognized symbol  of palestinian resistance to israel's occupation, theft of land and
perched on a hillock opposite the  biblical mount of olives, the cliff offered (still offers) imposing views  — eastward through the judean desert down to the dead sea and up the  mountains of moab across the jordan river; southwards to the church spires of  bethlehem; and westwards to the walled old city and the golden dome of the  rock.
micha’el thanked the  palestinian pharmaceutical company bier ziet for the donation of the trees and  everyone who helped in the action and encouraged the residents of the city to  protect the trees and help in keeping them alive.
they seem to think that the israelis were less likely to use lethal violence when americans, italians, and brits walked with them.
as light turns from red to orange to deepest blue, as mountain fades into darkness, i think of my palestine imprisoned in the paranoid face of israel starved of life and dragon flies.
an israeli military spokesman told ma'an that the civil  administration, a branch of the country's defense ministry in the occupied  territories, received a complaint about the incident.
residents of deir al-hatab, a palestinian village in the nablus  district, said some 660 olive trees were destroyed by runoff from factories  connected to the elon moreh settlement....
iran's nuclear chief turned foreign minister reaches out to west ha'aretz 19 dec 2010 - ali akbar salehi does not mention u.s. or israel in  inaugural speech, but seemed to extend olive branch to the european union.,  egyptian leaders tells parliament session that israel is to blame for stalemate  in talks, urges u.s. and other peacebrokers to 'assume' responsibility.,
a rally was  held in occupied east jerusalem sunday in solidarity with local farmers who are  denied access to their land by the israeli army.
fugitive leader moammar kadafi  remains a danger and libya faces "stubborn resistance" from former  regime loyalists,...
were here to harvest olives and be with the land because this is our land and we dont want to abandon it, said 27-year-old randa hilou a local student to came to pick in solidarity with the farmers in beit hanoun.
may their  memories be a blessing.
the family, accompanied by four international activists, went to the land and was initially pleased to find army jeeps nearby....
a few years ago when i was installing the slideshow you see in my banner above, i discovered a beautiful mural on a website called tikkun tree .
but it is as implausible as it sounds, says every professional intelligence officer i have talked with since the plot was somberly announced on tuesday.
some of the olive trees... [uruknet.info] settlers uproot 200 olive trees near nablus uruknet october 6, 2011 - a group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted on thursday morning, at least 200 olive trees that belong to residents of qasra village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
as this year’s olive... [uruknet.info] settler violence against palestinian farmers in ramallah area uruknet november 1, 2011 -
hebron and south west bank region at midday on 11 november, settlers from the takoa  settlement to the southeast of bethlehem threw stones at the students of the  girls school in the tako’a village.
as residents worked the land, others began clearing the large earth mound that had been constructed across the small dirt road serving as qaryut's sole link to road 60.
amir levy, spokesman for the firefighter squad in the western galilee, said that in some of the situations, arson was suspected, but a formal investigation has not been opened yet.
in a matter of seconds, abu nidal was running all the way down the... new labeling laws for olive oil will be introduced: ministry daily star 28
the director of the marketing department in the palestinian center, fadi mousa, said that the exhibition aims to support rural production "and to strengthen the palestinian attachment to the blessed olive tree."
this month also saw israeli  settlers perpetrate violence against palestinian property, destroying six olive  trees.
"ya abu nidal, lahhiq  ibnak, lahhiq darak, hurry up, the soldiers are raiding your home and want to  take your son nidal."
they have also  intensified their repression and attempts at intimidation of activists (with  help from palestinian collaborators).
i realized then  that one might disagree with you but no one can refute you.
e-mail open letter from gaza: three years after the massacre,  justice or nothing!
a total of five tents, two wells and a number of olive trees were demolished.
bumper olive crop expected in syria jerusalem  post 5 nov 2011 -
witnesses: settlers uproot over 500 trees in salfit 9/19/2011 - salfit (ma'an) --
accompanied by ism volunteers the family climbed the hillside above beit furik and marched through the olive groves to within....
border police beat protesters demanding halt to wall 4/25/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - demonstrators participating in a sit-in protest against the continued construction of israel's separation wall in beit jala and al-walaja were beaten with sticks and batons by israeli border police, witnesses said.
the lack of an event here in beit sahour happened because  the popular committee decided collectively (over 15 people) to put the actions  before the local forces to decide on how (and if?) to support the popular  resistance.
troops uproot olive orchards near jerusalem imemc - thursday july 21, 2011 - 16:38, israeli army bulldozers uprooted, on thursday morning, palestinian olive orchards that belong to residents of beit iksa village, in occupied east jerusalem, in order to build a section of the illegal annexation wall, and to allow the expansion of ramot illegal settlement.
the fire was lit around 9:30 pm, and burned for 3.... iof soldiers detain three palestinians for trying to extinguish fire pic 17 nov 2010 - iof soldiers on wednesday detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of al-khalil, for participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers in olive and almond trees.
julian borger: obama plays it (electorally) safe the... settlers destroy 60 olive trees in west bank village wafa israeli army detains citizens and increases checkpoints and presence in villages pnn - the israeli army detained citizen baha’
jeb al theeb, a small west bank village south of bethlehem, is under constant threat by the illegal israeli settlements surrounding it.
residents in the village of deir al-hatab said 660 olive trees were poisoned by....
in the cold and gloomy winter season we have a variety  of traditional dishes, starting with the crushed lentil (adas majroosh) soup  prepared by slightly browning chopped onion in olive oil and then adding the  crushed lentils, stirring for a few minutes, adding water, salt and boiling the  mixture till well cooked.
thus the palestinian arab people ensured for itself an everlasting union between itself, its land, and its history.
report: israel to  expand hotel owned by jordan 12/15/2010 - tel aviv, israel (ma'an)  -- israel is planning a major expansion to a jordanian-owned hotel atop the  mount of olives in jerusalem, an israeli newspaper reported wednesday.
the millions of visitors to jerusalem's old city every year are usually seeking the sacred - a prayer at the western wall, the temple mount or the church of the holy sepulchre - or more earthly pursuits, like a good price on a rug or an olive wood camel.
will you marry poor me 1/15/2010 - international solidarity movement - eva bartlett, inter press service, 14 january -
the donation comes in support of the  cultural sector and for job creation in the sector of heritage and  women’s development.more.. ramallah municipality plants one  thousand olive trees international middle east media center  1/15/2007 ramallah municipality and the palestinian pharmaceutical company  bier ziet organized a campaign on monday to plant one thousand olive trees in  the city of ramallah in the central west bank.
why i support the olympia co-op boycott rabbi lynn gottlieb, mondowiess, israeli occupation archive 8/4/2010 dear friends, the olympia food co-op boycott of israeli products (except for fair trade olive oil) has generated much controversy and emotion.
the official, yousef shakarneh, said approximately 10  israeli military vehicles were present during the incident, adding that the  digging was largely undertaken....
where the wheat fields end the land is crossed by sand dunes caused by israeli bulldozers; here grows thorn bushes and small trees that seem dry, but are a good food for donkeys and sheep.
settlers uprooted olive trees owned by palestinian farmers and set fire to the groves in the central west bank villages of nabi saleh and deir nidham, witnesses said.
10/28/2011 - international solidarity  movement - by alistair george - international solidarity movement, west bank -
he said the trees were  planted on land belonging to village residents muhammad jaber abdullah, ahmad  jaber abdullah and yasser hassan.
the zionist terrorist gangs had forcefully occupied my country, razed about 400 palestinian towns, perpetrated many massacres against their palestinian residents, and evicted many hundreds of thousands others out of the country into refugee camps.
"the troops  said that it is a closed military area," awad said.
but the kids in the west bank need a certain strength too.
in public, the fbi had taken the lead role, presumably because the key informant inside a mexican drug cartel worked for u.s. law enforcement via the drug enforcement administration.
we ran off  immediately,” says sbaih.
in one case, soldiers stopped a car carrying a pregnant woman and sick  child at a flying checkpoint outside of at-tuwani; soldiers forced the family  to remain there for more than thirty minutes.
on gaza's streets and even among its own ranks the sentiment is rising that it is time for hamas to reconcile with its secular rivals in the west bank.
civil defense  personnel trapped by fire in olive grove daily star 25 jul 2011
sulafa is...more.. zaytoun zaytoun (arabic for olives) is a uk-based non-profit project to import olive oil from palestinian farmers at fair trade prices.
saed and salam afana while they were picking olives in the family's field behind the separation wall north of salfit, relatives told....
looking east across  unfenced hills rolling clear down to the dead sea one may have the feeling of  peering over the brink of another world, and if you read power only in what it  constructs, in concrete and steel, you might briefly have the impression that  the hold of the occupation somehow attenuates here.
oct 2010 - washington -  palestinian prime minister salam fayyad spoke to an italian newspaper reorter  on thursday during his daily olive picking routine and announced that the  palestinian authority would declare an independent state by summer of 2011....
more.. e-mail [uruknet.info] fresh olives and the sound of bombs uruknet august 19, 2011 -
while negotiations,  lobbying and dialogue occur, those who have been directly impacted by  occupation, the palestinians, have called upon the world to engage in  meaningful nonviolent action to apply pressure upon israel so that israel  cannot conduct the business of occupation as usual.
two men sustained injuries from rubber bullets used by israeli forces and hisham al-khlayel, 5, was taken to hospital to undergo treatment for shock as a result of tear gas used by forces to disperse those present, awwad said.
"during the last war many people who  couldn't leave their homes had only bread and olive oil to sustain them for  long periods."
pa  settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas told ma'an the clashes broke out  between settlers from elon moreh and farmers from azmut, east of....
you can read their fantastic  understanding of how the events unfolded on ynet.
israeli bulldozers uproot olive trees
'decision points' is a hoax as transparent as clifford irving's fake autobiography of howard hughes.
one of the farmers said the settlers  came by car to the area and as.... settlers attack family picking  olives 10/22/2010 - hebron (ma'an) -- dozens of settlers attacked  a family who were picking olives in yatta, in the west bank district of hebron,  witnesses said.
visiting the galilee and north palestine mazin qumsiyeh, phd, axis of logic 4/7/2010 a short description and a 7 minute video on a  two-day trip to the galilee, north palestine.
breaking gaza: 2 martyrs and many critically injured in khan younis 26 mar 2010 - gaza, march 26, (pal telegraph)
shireen al-araj and  another local youth were kidnapped when they, together with a number of  villagers and international peace activists attempted to stop israeli  bulldozers from uprooting olive trees in the village to build the wall.
since its creation, 63 years ago, israel received more american tax money, $3 trillions as reported by army war college in 2003, than any other country on earth.
jewish settlers clash with palestinian farmers daily star 9 oct 2011 jewish settlers clashed with palestinian farmers on sunday as they tried to pick olives from land owned by the family of two men convicted of killing a young settler family in march.
but the wheat needs several hours to be collected, and snipers have fun terrorizing the farmers during those hours.
the whole of  the bethlehem district has been surrounded by the separation wall and... a cloud over jerusalem uri avnery, dissident  voice 5/1/2010 everyone has the right  to change his or her mind.
israel plows 15 donums in east of bethlehem 25 may 2010 - west bank, may 25, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli bulldozers plowed palestinian lands in nahlen village in the west of bethlehem city.
the land belongs to villagers isaac al-qadi and muhammad ghneimat....
the weather was still very kind to us and we made  better progress than expected.
while no one yet knows who committed this act, reports presume that the murderers were palestinian, and for this reason the incident is receiving major attention.
ghassan doughlas, who heads the pa file on northern settlement activity, said settlers brought sheets and ladders "as though they were the owners of the land" and started....
this is the only the most recent chapter in a  long struggle for the small agricultural community to keep their lands.
not five minutes passed and 2 shots rang out, one kicking up dust at our feet.
then, there is the trend of other countries - many repressive and undemocratic - to defend their borders with minefields and walls.
the olive tree of al-walaja - video the guardian 15 sep 2011 - farmer salah abu ali tells how his village has lost land and people since the foundation of the state of israel in 1948 david levene mona mahmood
electronic intifada  radia abu sbaih, 47, lives with her sister and one niece on family land roughly  700 meters from the “green line” boundary between israel and gaza.
oct 2010 - tuesday october 19, 2010 - 15:03, on tuesday afternoon, beitar illit settlers torched a number of olive trees that belong to residents of the village of husan.
in recent weeks, residents have reported the assault of 75-year-old khadr ahmad mansour by settlers in the area, as well as the destruction of olive trees, agricultural fences and structures.
when the journalists refused to stop, soldiers hit them and attempted to take their cameras before throwing tear-gas canisters and stun grenades, swidan said.
people are still harvesting near the apartheid wall/colonial settlements and if you are in palestine and interested, you may still get a... intimidation continues in susiya as peace activists are arrested palestine monitor - two activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta'ayush were arrested while assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
the hamas-run  government has launched a series of campaigns targeting fortune-tellers,  mannequins and cigarette vendors in the gaza strip.
the israeli occupation of the west bank and siege of  gaza are seriously harming palestinian olive oil production which contributes  up to us$100 million annually for some of the most underprivileged palestinian  families, the international ngo oxfam said in a report on friday.
by  wilhelmina & george baramk, this week in palestine 2/7/2007 dear  kyoto, in reply to your letter which we received a few days ago and in which  you wrote at length about the traditions of your country, japan, mainly the  ceremonial way of preparing tea, the arrangement of flowers in their simple yet  elegant way, and the traditional dishes that accompany religious festivities,  we would like to tell you about the many culinary and cultural traditions that  we, in palestine, have.
islam afana, a high school student and saed afana, a university student, were detained by israeli soldiers while they were picking olives in the.... abbas: continuous attempts to drop arafat’s olive branch wafa hundreds mourn rabbi killed by idf fire in w. bank jerusalem post 11 nov 2011 -
in photos: settlers  disrupt burin olive harvest uruknet october 13, 2010 -
many live in  extreme poverty.
south hebron hills: palestinians prune trees as act of resistance in susiya christian peacemaker teams - palestine - on the morning of 23 april, palestinians from the village of susiya pruned olive trees on their land in an act of protest against land confiscation and violence by residents from the nearby israeli settlement, also named susiya.
the settlers looked down on joseph.
the israeli army blocked everyone from access to the olive grove which  is being uprooted.
khaled mahmood suleiman qudaih called us a few days  before, asking us if we would accompany his family to his father’s fields  so that they could sow wheat.
[uruknet.info] settlers 'chop down 100 olive trees' in nablus uruknet january 14, 2012 --
-- see also:source more.. e-mail 6 trees cut down in at-tuwani.
iof burns large areas of olive  trees to suppress ni'lin protest stop the wall - the occupation  forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s cement blocks, fired tear  gas at the demonstrators and opened the gate of the wall to chase the  protesters after have been inhaling gas in unsuccessful efforts to arrest them.
around 30 young men and women from a group "ihna gheir" (we are different) planted around 100 olive trees in a'bud village north west of ramallah to commemorate land day.
something inside us drive us away  not from death but from pondering at death.
suspected right-wing extremists uproot 20 olive  trees belonging to jerusalem arab family ha'aretz - unknown  vandals post sign saying 'price tag' at family's lot in beit safafa; attack  follows spike in violence by right-wing extremists against arabs and idf  soldiers price tag: 20 olive trees cut down in j'lem ynet news, 27 oct 2011 - some 20 olive trees that belong to a resident of  jerusalem's arab neighborhood beit safafa were cut down thursday.
it is in our genes of survival.
in the sunday  interview, stone reportedly said u.s. public opinion was focused on the  holocaust as a result of the “jewish domination of the media,”  adding that an upcoming film of him aims to put adolf hitler and soviet  dictator joseph stalin “in context.”
sacco depicts fear,  humiliation and anger very well indeed, and often achieves far more with one  picture than he could in an entire newspaper column.
when was the last  time you thought about death?
several demolition orders were delivered to the community  of susya, including against a school, water tanks and trees.
oct 2011 - clashes erupt day before yom kippur between security forces, settlers; arab and jewish-owned olive trees destroyed in west bank violence.
about fifteen demonstrators were  treated on-site for severe tear gas inhalation.
teargas canisters set the trees alight, the  witnesses....
this week in palestine - november 2009 - compiled by the palestinian grassroots - immatin is a small village of nearly 2,500 people that is nestled in the hills east of qalqilia.
like john lennon, i prefer the first vision - of a growing global union without barriers.
'price tag': olive trees uprooted near hebron ynet news, 29 sep 2011 - anonymous vandals mutilate palestinian olive trees in west bank, spray paint....
yet, we did go to ush ghrab in the morning and an ashkenazi white man wearing a blue shirt entered as we were meeting and drinking coffee, fiddled with his backpack, for a few minutes, then left.
palestinian star ammar hassan will celebrate  this year's olive festival in bethlehem.
palestine monitor visited ramallah's downtown olive press to see how the season's harvest gets from the raw to the extra virgin.
olive trees are very important part of the palestinian agricultural economy.
[uruknet.info] settlers uproot dozens of olive trees near nablus uruknet october 1, 2011 - a group of extremist armed israeli settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
despite this, the soldiers have continued to attempt to abuse their power, generally using tactics of intimidation and threats, in a vain hope that they will force the internationals to submit to their inflated sense of power.
on the hilltop loomed the big antenna of the settlement of yitzhar, whose  houses lay on the other side of the hill.
now, israeli settlers in the occupied west bank are... video:
ghassan douglas, settlement issue chief in the northern of the west bank,  told... suspected 'price tag': 100 olive trees torn down near nablus ynet news, 25 sep 2011 - police launch investigation into  palestinian villagers' claims suggesting.... israeli settlers  attack palestinians, burn 60 olive trees 23 sep 2011 - palestine,  (pal telegraph) -
the small  house we called home for a month had a view of the so-called lieberman road,  which...
israeli settlers cut 500 trees near salfit imemc - monday september 19, 2011 - 16:43, a number of armed israeli settlers invaded on monday morning an olive orchard in the village of deir istia, near salfit, in the northern part of the west bank.
for more information go to:http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.html if you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
how can it be that arms will be outstretched to  welcome me?
but now i have visited gaza.
you can read their fantastic understanding of how the events unfolded on ynet.
and it's a growing movement, with more than 120 international volunteers arriving in bethlehem governorate alone to assist with this year's harvest.
reuvan, our 82-year-old holocaust survivor, was amazing, confidently swimming away from the boat and me trying to keep him within reach of the safety line!
[end] palestinian social fund supporting gaza strip women and traditional embroidery palestine news network 1/25/2007 the social responsibility fund and the palestinian communications group are making gestures in solidarity with women and traditional crafts.
the ramallah-based ministry of agriculture confiscated considerable quantities of sub-par olive oil on monday in occupied east jerusalem and hebron.
or a palestinian woman from gaza who keeps coming back to hold a vigil before the red cross office with a framed photo of her once-young son, now ailing in some israeli jail?
tear gas fired at protesters by an israeli army unit caused fire in nearby olive groves.
we are sorry that we are in the way of the natural growth of your beautiful settlements and luxurious houses, stopping your children from playing and running in the gardens of kiryat arba, maale adumim, beit eil, efrta, aztion and others
i was moved beyond belief looking at that photo and thinking of my  beautiful palestine.
more.. e-mail settlers 'burn olive trees' near ramallah 10/15/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
today we joined the demonstration in beit jala as we did not have a competing event at ush ghrab.
palestinian authority settlement affairs official ghassan  doughlas told ma'an that farmers from farata village, east of qalqiliya had  arrived at their land to find that olives had been stolen.
village mayor nazmi sulaiman said some  of the trees uprooted had been planted more than five years ago on land  belonging to kamal muhammad abdul rahman.
they detained five israelis and one palestinian, chasing the protestors from the olive grove into the village.
now under israeli occupation, the old city of nablus remains a charming and well-preserved cultural experience.
pink irises, red puppies, and yellow flowers weave interesting patterns among the endless green carpet underneath the fruiting almonds, fig, and loquet trees.
the family believes that israeli settlers from the ma'on settlement and havot ma'on outpost are responsible for the vandalism.
west bank olive trees uprooted by settlers middle east monitor 26 sep 2011 - dozens of israeli settlers have uprooted  400 palestinian-owned olive trees in the occupied west bank village of qusra  near nablus.
as diamonds are  normally not hallmarked, consumers cannot distinguish an israeli diamond from  one crafted in india, belgium, south africa or elsewhere.
celebrating workers and ingenuity palestine note 2 may 2010 - olive oil producer nasr ouda is turning production  waste into an energy source by mariam hamed in gaza - special to palestine note  saturday was may day (international labor day), and cities across the world  celebrated... settlers uproot 30 olive trees near qalqilia imemc - 1 may 2010 - israeli settlers uprooted on friday at least 30 olive  trees that belong to residents of kefir qaddoum town, near the northern west  bank city of qalqilia.
in my ignorance i had just assumed that palestinians don't pay a great deal  of attention to these things, after all it's not unusual for farmers anywhere  in the world to allow groves and orchards to grow quite wild.
around half live in  villages that are not recognised by the state, and have no access to municipal  services like water and electricity.
during the 1940s and leading up to the end of the british mandate in palestine in 1948, lifta expanded markedly eastward and northward, linking with the buildings of the rumayma neighbourhood just west of jerusalem.
it uncomfortably co-habits with 5,500 arab refugees in the neighbourhood of wadi hulwah, based on the slope of a hill running from the mount of olives.
ghassan douglas, an official at the nablus office of the palestinian authority, said some settlers of yizhar settlement truncated 45 olive trees belonging to the najjar family:... bil’in village plants 200 trees next to apartheid wall: existence as resistance!
"we were impressed by their commitment to peaceful political action,  and their success in challenging the wall that unjustly separates the people of  bil'in from their land and their olive trees.
since 1948 olive trees have been uprooted, quarries mined, the most fertile lands taken for settlements and water illegally extracted.
around the same time,  a tractor overturned in an olive grove in jadeidi-makr, killing the driver. ...
two men sustained injuries from  rubber bullets used by israeli forces and hisham al-khlayel, 5, was taken to  hospital to undergo treatment for shock as a result of tear gas used by forces  to disperse those present, awwad said.
the report provides an overview of incidents that occurred during this years harvest season collected by field workers on the ground in the west bank.
as the village expanded, the villagers built new  stores, established a social club and opened two coffee houses.
settlers burn cars, vandalize mosque in nablus area 9/8/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers uprooted olive trees, set fire to cars and vandalized a mosque in the nablus area on thursday, officials said.
germany nearly  succeeded....more [uruknet.info] israeli settlers harass released  prisoners, threaten them with death uruknet december 1, 2011 -
residents of the village, in the northern qalqiliya district, had applied for 98 requests to access their olive groves....
he  said there were no reports of injuries or damages, however.
palestinians say gas canisters set fire to village land 6/16/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- israeli forces fired tear gas canisters that  started a fire wednesday and burned acres of olive trees in the occupied west  bank, witnesses said.
one local protester was removed from the area by ambulance when he was shot  with a rubber-coated steel bullet.
in addition to these government-sanctioned settlements, there are four outposts that have taken root up on these hilltops over the last 10 years.
israeli settler violence against palestinian farmers during the olive season is not an exception.
mp dr. mustafa barghouthi, secretary general of the palestinian national initiative, said that the destruction of lands and uprooting hundreds of olive trees in deir estia are heinous...
no creature to soothe your piercing screams your...more israeli occupation forces invade wadi qana stop the wall - jul 11, 2011-- israeli occupation forces invaded on monday
the iof  carried an invasion in khan younis opening random fire on civilians causing  many injuries among them.
in photos: protests continue in beit jala 3/4/2010 - maanimages / luay sababa - 1-6: palestinians and foreign activists replant uprooted olive trees during a protest against israel's separation wall in the west bank village of beit jala, near bethlehem, on 4 march 2010.
the  israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday demolished eight palestinian homes as  well as tents and uprooted dozens of olive saplings in different areas of the  occupied negev region.
villagers, israelis and internationals descended the hillside to attempt to plant olive trees in the settler-occupied land.
the 80-year-old woman  was reported to be injured in the head and transferred to hospital for  treatment.
he had been hit with  shrapnel.
the destruction took place in an area of over 1 square mile and was declared a closed military zone, prohibiting media coverage of the devastating operation.
we have 40 years of occupation and where  are they?
in  addition, during the action some shepherds of the village decided to graze  their flocks in the area.
the site targeted by the sewage is called al-haraeq and is planted with grape vines and olive trees....
i informed them that we were heading for gaza port, that we were in international waters and had no intention of entering israeli waters.
lasting agriculture versus lasting occupation palestine monitor: 1 feb 2010 -
french pleasure boat makes dash to gaza daily star 5 jul 2011 a small french pleasure craft slipped out of greek waters tuesday in an attempt to break israel’s naval blockade on gaza, reviving an international campaign that appeared to have ground to a halt.
aside from a glaring absence of the citrus and olive trees which for decades abounded on this fertile land, finally razed by israeli military bulldozers, all seems idyllic.
tamir also said that he know he is half alone in this struggle, and he asked me: "where are all those large international organization of human rights, the un?
the soldiers  informed the palestinians that the area was a closed military zone, showing  them a map that encompassed a large area south of havat ma'on outpost.
olive  oil and tears mazin qumsiyeh, phd, desert peace 3/15/2010 "if the olive tree knew the suffering of  its owner, its oil would turn into tears"-- palestinian poet, mahmoud  darwish
i was disturbed because all of the clips showed how the demonstrations ended; none showed how they began.
from there, we began a trek of about an hour through the hills, finally  arriving, after a steep climb, at the edge of the village.
we rehearsed our strategies  and waited, with adrenalin levels slowly rising.
the active jewish settlement societies active doubled their efforts in the acquisition of jerusalemites real estates in the old town and silwan, and the districts of sheikh jarrah, ras al-amud, mount of olives and have done in the past two days media and advertising propaganda campaigns in support of jewish settlement in the heart...
as hundreds near the village of baida block a roadway, chant slogans and shake olive branches, symbolizing peaceful protest, security forces threaten violence, witnesses say.
masri said there was  some... rawabi developer to replace trees donated by jnf 2/8/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- bashar al-masri, developer of a new west  bank city rawabi, said tuesday that trees donated to the project by the jewish  national fund would be replaced by olive trees.
if you look east from his  land....
nor are vegetables, fruit or olives, formerly a thriving export  business.
i have crossed the rafah border,  walked upon the holy land in the holy month of ramadan, dug my toes into the  soft sand, trailed my fingers through the warm sea, touched the olive trees,  befriended my palestinian brothers and sisters, and left my heart there.
israeli police failed... experts  hail ever-versatile olive oil at j’lem conference jeruslalem  post 28 jul 2010 - israel can become prominent in the industry by developing  food, health products, mediterranean forum participants say.
aside from a glaring  absence of the citrus and olive trees which for decades abounded on this  fertile land, finally razed by israeli military bulldozers, all seems idyllic.
israeli army detains journalists helping with harvest imemc - 14
settlers torch  agricultural lands near jenin 17 aug 2011 - west bank, (pal  telegraph)-dozens of israeli settlers set fire yesterday to several dunums  planted with olive trees in bart'a, a village in the south of jenin.
awarta man suffers broken legs after settler pig attack palestine monitor - farmer ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his legs.
villagers tried to put off the fires, but soldiers....
did you have land behind the wall?
the israeli government fails to gather that the tide has changed.
israel has deemed that 300 meters from the wall is a buffer zone, so palestinian farmland is taken away.
beneficiaries: 150 women from villages and refugee camps in bethlehem area.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 30 olive trees near nablus imemc - a group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted, monday, at least 30 olive trees that belong to the palestinian villagers of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus, the maan news agency reported. ...
last week's orders posted in bil'in and ni'lin declaring the villages closed military zones for all of friday had no effect on the demonstrators or village-life in general.
related:'we are different' brings joy to palestinian children and ehna gheir palestinian voluntry group j’lem bureaucratic hump sees kojak the camel ‘jailed’ jeruslalem post 31 mar 2011 -
following the start of the second intifada in september 2000, the area of the buffer zone was increased to 150 meters wide.
filming for b'tselem near susiya in  the southern hebron hills, 'aliaa a-nawaj'ah, 12, and her 14-year old brother  hamzah were leading their sheep on their own land when, according to 'aliaa,  around 7:30 am, two soldiers arrived via an army jeep.
some 70 demonstrators, palestinian, israeli and international, marched from the centre of the village towards the route of the apartheid fence, carrying young olive trees to be planted in the lands near the fence.
experts said 2010 was a naturally occurring  low season between a cycle of two seasons of high yields, which combined with a  record hot summer of.... israeli settlers looted olive trees in  nablus imemc - 7
as the men of iraq burin sat peacefully at the edge of their village, watching soldiers and settlers on their terraces and in their olive groves on the opposite hillside, another group of soldiers approached from the hill immediately above the village.
7-17: a day earlier, israeli border police clashed with  palestinian protesters as bulldozers continued work near route 60 on the edge  of town.
we are sorry that our land has many olives on it that obstruct your eyes which are used to seeing imported or artificial plants and trees, and that you have to pay for your settlers' wars as they chase villagers and set fire to trees and olives.
along  with david bloomer, a bahrain-based radio journalist, they were detained by  revolutionary guards on november 25 and freed wednesday.
in honor of land day, an upbeat group of  local residents and school children gathered on wednesday in front of the  half-occupied al kurd home in sheikh jarrah.
the village's mayor  said that the three farmers, all in their teens, were fertilizing olive trees  in one of the fields north of the village when the settlers mounting horses  attacked them....
police investigating qalqiliya village fire 10/29/2011 - qalqiliya (ma'an) --
security cameras reduce vandalism on mount of olives jerusalem post 21 dec 2011 - vandals desecrating graves are caught more often, and are more easily convicted due to video evidence; 80 out of 147 planned cameras are already monitoring the cemetery.
at 8 am this morning (5 september) bulldozers  arrived at the olive tree fields in the bethlehem-area village of al-walaje.
but it is also true that the apartheid system is facing grassroots activists everywhere despite all these tactics.
some 800 olive farmers attended a series of courses on administration, trimming olive trees, harvesting, olive oil extraction and laboratory work, undertaken by the european commission, oxfam, the union of palestinian farmers, and bethlehem university's fair trade development center.
[end] al-habbash calls mosque arson  ’war crime’ 12/12/2009 - nablus - ma'an - palestinian  minister of endowments and religious affairs mahmoud al-habbash visited the  mosque set on fire allegedly by settlers early friday morning in the northern  west bank village of yasuf, and described the incident as a "war  crime" in a statement issued on saturday following his visit.
price tag: who's to blame for settler violence?
on tuesday, israeli forces enforced a closed military zone order to assist the ongoing operation.
a caustic exercise in realistic imagination offered by james petras.
settler violence against palestinians up 57 percent in  the west bank daily star 14 jul 2011 scorched hillsides and  charred olive groves near nablus pinpoint the latest acts of arson by hard-line  jewish settlers against palestinians who say they are ever more the victims of  such attacks in the west bank.
the report,  entitled, "the road to olive farming: challenges to developing the... palestinian-settler clash over olive farms in west bank palestine note 15 oct 2010 - washington - tensions between the palestinians and  settlers in the west bank erupted into violence after gunshots were exchanged  and fires were ignited on the first day of the olive harvest, ynet news  reported friday.
there... six people  detained as israeli army chases non-violent protestors into homes at walaja imemc - wednesday august 10, 2011 - 12:26, the israeli army  responded to a non-violent protest at al-walaja on wednesday with gas and sound  bombs.
they were  prevented by israeli soldiers and border guards deployed in the area.
the demonstrators succeeded in halting the razing of  palestinian land for approximately one hour before soldiers violently broke up  the protest arresting one palestinian and one israeli activist.
the hebron-france association for cultural  exchange is organizing a crafts festival in hebron on october 15, a statement  said.
“they enabled many thousands of very  poor palestinian families to survive,” recalls sourani.
olives and balfour and  more uruknet november 2, 2010 we just finished our olive harvest.
but following budrus’s  success and faced by a growing numbers of civilians protesting the confiscation  of their lands, israel has responded with military might, attempting to quell  this new movement.
after inspections, we knew where the truck was unloaded and  we stormed the place accompanied with representatives of the ministry of  health. ”
khirbet tana centered around two natural springs, lying 7km east of beit furik in the nablus area of the west bank.
we eat breakfast, thank our hosts, and get in a bus with the right color license plate, driven by a driver with the right color id card, and head towards the city of yafa.
your help needed: donating olive trees  this holiday season 12/19/2011 - international solidarity movement  - 19 december 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - as we creep  up to christmas and are seeing more and more trees appear in houses and high  street windows, while we debate when to put up our own, if at all this year, i  ask you all to give consideration to a much more special tree....
pa: settlers prevent farmers from harvesting olives 10/26/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
[brazil] pedido de solidariedade/request for solidarity a-infos 1
awad said her family of nine is threatened with eviction.
this is a pesticide free zone, with organic  farming practices being the norm.more.. e-mail unique glass mosaic  unveiled after restoration in caesarea nadav shragai, and the  associated press, ha’aretz 1/28/2008 israel antiquities authority  (iaa) has restored a unique 1,400-year-old glass mosaic, which was discovered  in 2005 during excavation of the ancient bird palace in caesarea, haaretz has  learned.
during the raids, officers also found 28 gallons of oils marketed as olive oil  but not meeting minimum health or quality standards, officers said.
on june 2, maher said he woke up to find more than 250 of his olive trees  destroyed by settlers.
she and  her family had already... a day
until this weekend, these attacks seemed to be confined to the west bank.
two cars were further set on fire in the village, belonging to ziad abdullah theeb and sameer ibrhaim zahar respectively.
demonstrations broke out in cities worldwide, including new york.
the maan news agency reported that three olive trees, over 300 years old, were burnt down while dozens of trees were partially burnt.
here was the root of the village.
in a recent ynet news story, a news group operating within west bank settlements witnessed "arabs and leftists" staging an event in which their olive trees were vandalized, so as to further demonize settlers...
he wants to move it, so as to leave the lands of al-walaja village on the israeli side.
however, tamir and his family not only have to face the soldiers, but also the settlers, he said that when his wife makes laundry, the settlers would come and make it dirty again.
he was taken to nearby raffidya  hospital, where he is being kept under observation.
the general manager of the reconstructing hebron committee, their lawyers and a group of people were present during the process.
yet more than just....
“when the  israeli army imposes curfews on us, preventing us from leaving our homes, it is  our main food source.
" he accused "powerful political circles"  within the israeli government, army and police of "treating with extreme  leniency the perpetrators of such crimes.â--êœi believe that  the government of binyamin netanyahu, which is the most extreme government in  israel's history, lacks both the will and determination to stem the tide of  jewish terror.
the  latest call came after suspected jewish terrorists vandalised and defaced  muslim and christian graves at the main cemetery of jaffa.
for villagers in al-walaja, a... the real enemy of the palestinians dr. elias akleh, intifada-palestine 10/15/2011 when i was young i perceived the zionist israelis to be the palestinians, and my, only enemy.
local sources said that dozens of settlers carrying machine  guns stormed yesterday night agricultural lands belong to ahmed al-wahesh and  uprooted hundreds of olive trees before their withdrawing... salaam  fayyad offers 'pragmatic' olive branch to hamas
'heritage and tourism' festival to be held in hebron 10/11/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
yesterday, february 22 2011, a number of palestinian news agencies, including the agency that i work for, published articles on the destruction of olive fields in the west bank town of jab’a,... hebron settlers attack at tiwana, uproot trees imemc - wednesday february 23, 2011 - 02:28, a group of armed extremist jewish settlers attacked on tuesday at tiwana village, near the southern west bank city of hebron and uprooted several olive trees.
a red cross was painted two meters away from the front door to signal where the wall is designed to pass.
several traditions and rituals are related to the olive harvest, and it is also...
most readers of mainstream media in the united states think of the first intifada (1987-92) as the stone-throwing uprising and the second intifada (2000-2004) as the attack of the suicide bombers....
oliver smith, 31, oliver young, 21, sam usher, 26, and luke porter, 21, flew back into london heathrow airport from dubai.
for  months many israelis shrugged off the mosque burnings, the uprooted palestinian  olive trees and even the death threats against... al jab'a: 'if the  judge is your enemy, who are you going to complain to' 12/28/2011  - international solidarity movement - by sarah morand, 28 december 2011,  international solidarity movement, west bank -  at first sight al jab'a  appears as an idyllic palestinian village, and sitting in a lovely garden under  big olive trees, this seems like a perfect escape to the country side: white  houses, friendly people, nice nature, and a splendid view until.... al jab'a: ’if the judge is your enemy, who are you going to complain  to’ sarah morand, international solidarity  movement 12/28/2011 at first sight al  jab’a appears as an idyllic palestinian village, and sitting in a lovely  garden under big olive trees, this seems like a perfect escape to the country  side: white houses, friendly people, nice nature, and a splendid view until you  glance just 500 meters from the village’s border.
two cars were further set on fire in the village,  belonging to ziad abdullah theeb and sameer ibrhaim zahar respectively.
the emirates news agency, quoting a statement from the consul general, reported that on this occasion, "earth day comes at a time when our people in jerusalem are threatened by a vicious plan by israel to swallow the holy land."
israeli  army fails to protect palestinian children operation dove,  alternative information center 1/19/2012
in the afternoon of 14 january palestinians  discovered that a family owned olive grove in khoruba valley had been recently  destroyed.
another week of pausing, breaths held, as israeli tanks  the color of sand moved nearby along the buffer zone, another week of children  frightened at the sound of roaring f-16s, another week below
it was over 25 years ago, during my service in the israeli paratroopers.
israel razes palestinian home in east jerusalem 11/24/2010 - jerusalem (afp) --
eventually, as a camera broadcast the action online, eight people were pulled from the bus and arrested.
where are the palestinian poets, brother arabs, progeny of homer, shakespeare, lorca whose dreams enrich us all, dreams opposing hate and war, the vicious greed of israelis and the blind-eyes of the world?
the maan news agency reported that three  olive trees, over 300 years old, were burnt down while dozens of trees were  partially burnt.
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has....
seán clinton  analyzes for the electronic intifada.
as people worked in the sun today, army jeeps made  rounds on the road above the home, and stood watch from the road on the  opposing side of the highway.
he tours us around, points out vacant plots  where almond, fruit and olive trees once stood,... israel to adjust  wall’s route in bil’in 2/5/2010 - ma’an news  agency - ramallah – ma’an – attorney of bil’in local  council, michael sfard, said on saturday that israeli authorities informed him  of the new route of the separation wall, adjusted according to a decision by  the israeli supreme court of justice in 2007.
olive branch olive oil olive branch olive oil imports fairly-traded, extra-virgin, first cold press olive oil from the palestinian agricultural relief committees, a non-profit, non-governmental organization supporting sustainable agriculture in rural palestine since 1983...
farmers' valley declared closed military zone 7/11/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
silwan residents say settler arson behind olive grove  fire 5/13/2010 - jerusalem "“ ma'an "“ eleven  dunums of olive trees were reported destroyed by the awad family, who blamed  nearby settlers for setting the wednesday night blaze.
[uruknet.info] settlers burn cars, vandalize mosque in nablus area uruknet september 8, 2011 - - israeli settlers uprooted olive trees, set fire to cars and vandalized a mosque in the nablus area on thursday, officials said.
here the first domestication of animals (e.g. goats, donkeys, camels) and plants (e.g. wheat, barley, chickpeas, lentils, olives) happened.
a few minutes later we crossed the green line (borders before 1967) that is neither marked or guarded.
harvest daily star 4 nov 2011 it was hit-or-miss for this  autumn’s olive harvest, but most farmers, many of whom are struggling  with rising cost and stagnant profits, have their sights set on next year.
oct 2010 - b’tselem and  rabbis for human rights say thousands of palestinians trees, hundreds more have  been vandalized, allegedly by settlers in west bank.
1- palestine is the western part of the fertile crescent: an area  that includes palestine, jordan, lebanon, syria, and iraq.
since then, their objections to this injustice have been met  with terrifying force.
with unemployment levels above 45 percent, and the price of most goods doubled or more, living, and marrying, are becoming unaffordable.
the soldiers detained the siblings with plastic handcuffs before releasing them.
kafr ad-dik residents, however, are  convinced this latest annexation of land will be allocated to the construction  of an entirely new outpost.
“good thing”, joseph thought, “we have a few sheep and olive  trees and mary keeps some chickens.
iran says it is planning to clone and mass produce the bat-winged craft for use against its enemies.
meanwhile, settlers entered kfir qaddum village east of qalqiliya, and wrote graffiti on.... settlers attack village and steal olives 10/21/2010 - salfit (ma'an) -- settlers attacked residents of kifl haris village in salfit and stole their olives, witnesses said.
fatah secretary general radi khadour said at the march that the  separation wall was isolating the village and turning it into a prison....
brother bassem ibrahim abu rahmah was killed in 2009 when idf soldiers shot him in the chest with a teargas canister.
demonstrators carried two huge maps of palestine that noted  the palestinian land lost in 1948 and 1967.
beautifully built and dressed in crafted jerusalem stone, lifta hugs the slopes straddling the highway leading from west jerusalem to tel aviv.
will rise with me you will be liberated from your own tyranny and my freedom will bring your salvation
i have crossed the rafah border, walked upon the holy land in the holy month of ramadan, dug my toes into the soft sand, trailed my fingers through the warm sea, touched the olive trees, befriended my palestinian brothers and sisters, and left my heart there.
it is olive picking season in the palestinian territories, an important harvest as the fruit represents an integral part of the agricultural livelihood of many.
then we saw a number of smaller craft lined  up and realized that the encounter was approaching.
zionist settlers block palestinian villagers from harvesting olive crop pic 3 oct 2010 - zionist settlers stormed the village of al-mughir in northern ramallah on sunday and wreaked havoc in olive fields, cutting trees, and stealing the harvest.
the guards approached a group of farmers and threatened them with bodily harm, assaulting one man mayor nathmi salman said.
salam fayyad  vows to plant 10 million saplings at "green qalqilya week," ynet news  reported tuesday.
how can it be that arms will be outstretched to welcome me?
video - settler attacks during olive harvest not  random moriel rothman, +972 magazine 10/30/2011 notes and stories from the olive harvest:  palestinian farmers tell stories of intimidation, vandalism and violence from  settler neighbors, as they attempt to harvest their olives.
friedman, who commands a $75,000 speaking fee (more than most americans make in a year), wrote in his book the lexus and the olive tree that when he did his first column as the new york times' chief diplomatic correspondent in 1989: "i certainly did not know anything about most of the issues the senators were quizzing
the remaining olive trees had been marked with yellow-tags, to be uprooted another day.
awarta  land reclamation attacked by armed settlers and military stop the  wall - on thursday morning, palestinian farmers and international supporters  were barred from irrigating the olive trees they had planted on land day (march  30) in the valley east of awarta.
but in some places and with some  people death sometimes can be seen as their shadow on the ground.
by jonas weber, 4 february 2012, international solidarity movement, west bank - on the 4th of february international solidarity movement (ism) and the ecumenical accompaniment programme in palestine and israel (eappi) attended the replanting of 50 olive trees on the hillsides above the village of burin, outside of nablus.
songs tear down fences in izbat tabib 7/14/2011 - international solidarity movement - 13 july 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - on july 13th villagers in the small town of izbat tabib wanted to protest against the illegal israeli construction of barbed wire fences outside the village, preventing farmers from tending their lands and olive trees.
injured uruknet september 30, 2011 -
"the benefactor of a controversial jewish  development in eastern jerusalem is a major donor to us representative ileana
the cornerstone was laid for a newly approved settlement project being built on jerusalem’s mount of olives, monday 31 january.
settlers  burn hundreds of olive trees 8/25/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --  dozens of israeli settlers set fire on thursday to more than 100 olive trees in  mikhmas village southeast of ramallah.
the israeli siege imposed shortly after hamas's election in early 2006 has ruled out marriage for many.
now i hear it all again from a  big rabbi contender for the jewish heroes competition.
in photos: olive harvest in west bank village 10/17/2011 - maanimages / trevor lewis - the badar family harvest olives in the  village of beitillu, northwest of ramallah.
freedom of  movement in al khalil 2/23/2012 - international solidarity  movement - by andreas, 23 february 2012, international solidarity movement,  west bank - al-khalil (hebron) is a divided city.
more.. photos from gaza israel using banned weapons products archives | about us | art | articles background | books | boycott cartoons | chemical war | children contact | donate | elections |events email us | film | home | letters links | maps | mission | music videos | news | performance photos | poetry | polls | prisoners products | search | take action
israel urged to clamp down on jewish terror al-ahram weekly 10/13/2011 desecration of graveyards and destruction of olive groves are just two manifestations of violence palestinians -- on the west bank and inside israel -- face daily from israeli society the palestinian authority (pa) as well as arab leaders in israel have urged the israeli government to "swiftly and decisively clamp down on spiralling jewish terror and vandalism against palestinian targets, including mosques and islamic as well as christian cemeteries", writes khaled amayreh in occupied jerusalem.
that is why we are here, because we exist and we are not going to allow them to kick us from our lands.
climbing a small embankment we waved our palestinian flags and chanted to the soldiers hidden in the guard towers.
the center of burin, where most families live, lies at the base of these hills.
during a  non-violent demonstration in the same village, a palestinian male child was  arrested.
villagers reported that the  settlers threw rocks and.... oxfam gb, eu help palestinian farmers  kick-start the olive harvest in move to boost profits wafa -  ramallah, october 16, 2010 (wafa)- olive picking event organized on 15 october  to help farmers overcome risks of settler attacks, as oxfam launches its new  report on palestinian olive oil settlers attack students sent to  help farmers in tel armida pic 16
a scent from the past caresses our hair; we  stretch our limbs, slip our... video - olive harvest brings settler  violence in west bank joseph dana, +972 magazine 10/21/2011 on the outskirts of the northern west bank  village of qasra, a 19-year-old resident recently told me that settlers are not  going to stop attacking palestinians, simply because they don’t have too.
does anyone remember the nazis sixty years ago?
stop the wall campaign announces this year's olive harvesting program stop the wall - sep 17, 2011-- stop the wall campaign announces  this year's olive harvesting program, "you will not face settler violence  alone"
israeli forces are forbidding truckloads  of olives to enter to gaza via the kerem shalom crossing even though there is  security coordination, theenclave's.... awarta man suffers broken  legs after settler pig attack uruknet october 16, 2010 - farmer  ismael awad, 57, is recovering in raffidya hospital, south of nablus, after a  wild boar attacked him in his olive fields yesterday, breaking both of his  legs.
one women explained that since her husband is sick and she does not want to leave her children alone, she has to walk with them every 4th day to do the basic shopping and to buy milk for her baby.
“we came here to do  barbecue, party and relax… the israeli jeeps used to pass in the distance  but did not bother us, they used to leave us in peace.”
azzun village, west of qalqiliya  in the northern....
israeli soldiers 'attack' journalists near nablus uruknet january  28, 2010 - a group of palestinian photojournalists documenting tree-planting  near nablus on thursday afternoon said they were accosted by israeli forces,  who declared the area a closed military zone.
olive  harvesting under apartheid 10/19/2010 - international solidarity  movement - 16 october 2010 - qusin, near nablus, west bank -
most fridays there are dramatic confrontations between the soldiers and the villagers protesting this land grab and the other difficulties of life under occupation.
the olive... [uruknet.info] a harvest of tears: palestinian agriculture continues to suffer as a result of ruthless israeli policies uruknet october 19, 2011 - it is olive harvest season once again in the occupied palestinian territories (opts) and something unusual is taking place, something unique to this region.
thus access to land is nearly 9 folds more to the jewish population (most of it not native) even without the return of refugees.
the lack of an event here in beit sahour happened because the popular committee decided collectively (over 15 people) to put the actions before the local forces to decide on how (and if?) to support the popular resistance.
as the servees enters village land we pass a synagogue  and a forest villagers are forbidden from reaching.
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has seen a troubling rise in settler attacks.
the first lie you'll encounter in 'decision points' is the identity of the author; bush didn't write no damn book and if i'm wrong about that, i'll eat the shoe that iraqi journalist threw at him.
international activists have been prevented by the military from attending olive harvests during the past two days in some areas and settlers harassed.... [uruknet.info] burin: zionist soldiers and colonists collaborate against harvesting uruknet october 17, 2011 -
this  was the fourth cardiac mission to palestine in 2010 and dozens of sick babies  with congenital heart disease have already had life-saving surgery through  these teams.
the olive season produced jobs, which reduced unemployment in the fourth quarter of 2006.
so is the fact  that almost every palestinian male has a cigarette in his mouth.
their radiant smiles, warm hugs and bright laughter belie the staggeringly awful times they've had to endure, and are still going through.
al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers uruknet april 26, 2010 - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank  village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing  construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
feb 2012 - u.n. diplomats say they have made progress on a security council resolution, but challenges remain.
norway supports palestinian  economy lars-kare legernes, ma’an news agency 6/3/2010 some weeks ago [i vistied] the west bank.
phone: 802-861-9700... more..
the city of david is  located in the very centre of silwan, east jerusalem.
the annual olive harvest has been hit  by an upsurge in violence this year, attributed to a rise in settler militancy west bank olive groves become battleground
as diplomats attempted to craft a compromise, russia remained firm wednesday in its pledge to veto any u.n. security council resolution that... israel to open new police station in occupied east jerusalem imemc -
in a "day... jewish settlers uproot 500 olive saplings to the south of nablus pic 4 mar 2011 -
this transformation was a difficult one for  many, but certainly not all, my parent’s and grandparent’s  generation.
residents discovered the destruction thursday morning, when they arrived at the agricultural lands approximately 600 meters away from the eli settlement.
so is the fact that almost every palestinian male has a cigarette in his mouth.
west  bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli bulldozers invaded tuesday the village of dier  esta in salfit and started razing operations to agricultural lands uprooting  200 olive trees.
khuza’a is a village near the israeli  border in the southern gaza strip.
gaza man, 26,  dies of heart disease after waiting weeks for an exit permit mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: settlers/ land, property,  resource theft & destruction/ethnic cleansing settlers launch attacks on  palestinians olive groves in nablus, stealing fruit palestinian sources  reported on wednesday that settlers attacked palestinian olive groves in boreen  village, in the southern part of nablus....
residents of an illegal outpost "waged war on olive trees uprooting 270 using chainsaws and other means," in duma and qusra villages, said ghassan daghlas, a palestinian authority official who monitors settlement activities...
the anti-apartheid wall campaign  and its popular committees are coordinating collective efforts to safeguard the  annual olive harvest and are calling on volunteers to stand in solidarity with  palestinian communities and join in the harvest on october 5 until november 15,  2010.
amongst the  demonstrators were palestinian minister of agriculture ismail du'eik and
israeli settlers from yitzhar, south of the northern west  bank city of nablus, uprooted and destroyed 60 olive trees in madama village,  south of nablus, according to local sources.
the qudiahs and many other farmers were afraid  that the israeli army would shoot them if the attempted to reach their land  near the buffer zone.
condemned by true believers, the zionist story makes one shutter.
[uruknet.info] rights group: 69 cases of palestinian olive trees destroyed, but no prosecutions uruknet november 25, 2009 -
israel's vast separation barrier is at its most... bethlehem's  modern nativity scene – crib, wise men and separation wall pnn 24 dec 2009 - israel's security barrier, complete with looming watchtowers,  has found its way into the nativity scenes on sale to tourists.
[brazil] pedido de  solidariedade/request for solidarity a-infos 1
following the beginning of construction of a new watchtower at the site of the former military base, this week, residents of beit sahour and international volunteers gathered at the surrounding farmlands, on friday, to cultivate the land, planting 250 olive trees.
trouble flared when israeli authorities ordered  the demolition of a structure in an illegal settler outpost because of the  freeze on settlement construction.
he was then taken to  the halamish police...
in  turn unemployment and poverty rates in the farming-based community have  skyrocketed.
it reached  the highest level with 26.
so when joseph fell behind on his property tax, the settlers took over their home, forcibly evicted joseph and mary and offered them a one-way bus ticket to jerusalem.
in july 2004, the international court of justice (icj) ruled israel's 'separation wall' illegal, saying its route inside the west bank, and associated gate and permit system, violated israel's obligations under international law, ordering the completed sections dismantled, and "all legislative and regulatory acts relating thereto" repealed or rendered "ineffective forthwith."
oliver smith, 31, oliver young, 21, sam usher, 26, and  luke porter, 21, flew back into london heathrow airport from dubai.
moskovitz was also behind the mount of olives project, which is intended to house 24 settler families adjacent to a jewish religious school.
reporting from aaron dearborn.... fires in jenin controlled, authorities say 7/1/2010 -  ramallah - ma'an - palestinian firefighters have controlled two fires in jenin,  civil defense reported thursday.
he rarely attended shul, and on the high holidays, he would show up late to avoid the tithe.
a bomb dropped by an israeli air force f-16 jet exploding in beit hanoun, north of the gaza strip, on january 3, 2009.
oct 2010 - b’tselem and rabbis for human rights say thousands of palestinians trees, hundreds more have been vandalized, allegedly by settlers in west bank.
more.. e-mail eupol copps helps palestinians in harvesting olives wafa settlers 'attack palestinian near nablus' 10/12/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
palestinian sources that this attack is the “fiercest” on the palestinian lands, the maan news agency reported.
like john lennon, i prefer the first vision - of a growing global  union without barriers.
we visited good friends, made new friends, saw 3000 year old olive trees, walked in the ruins depopulated villages, and shopped and ate in palestinian towns which survived 62 years of colonial apartheid.
one of these families has been unable  to access their land for the last nine years due to settler attacks and  pressure from israeli... jewish settlers on the rampage in salfit pic 31
israeli  soldiers uprooted a number of trees on monday in the village of al-walaja,  north of bethlehem, the official palestinian authority news agency wafa  reported.
international activists accompanying farmers....
we get out of the  sunshine-yellow minibus to a view of scorched land, burnt when tear-gas  canisters ignited the dry grass below the olive trees.
shortly  after the group started planting, israeli soldiers descended on the area from  near the karmi zur settlement, 19% of which is built on palestinian owned land,  according to peace now, and residents say much of the rest of the land belonged  to the village of beit ummar.
a lebanese army helicopter doused a fire monday that  erupted in an olive grove.
this  week psp, along with many international volunteers, joined farmers from surif  in the olive harvest.
a life-saving surgery for palestinian children palestine note 18 may 2010 - on may 7, a six member team of doctors and nurses from messa, italy finished a week of pediatric cardiac surgery at makassed hospital on the mount of olives in east jerusalem.
for our movement to thrive and serve as a true  alternative to violence, we need americans’ to demand that israel, a close  us ally, end this repression.
ambulances and firefighters rushed to burin village to control the flames  apparently started by residents of the illegal yizhar settlement, palestinian  authority settlement affairs officer ghassan.... yasur helicopter:  a history of splendid service - and deadly collisions
the wrinkles of her face looked like she was bearing so many burdens that  i thought she was older than only 66 years old.
additionally, and in keeping with the biblical story of the entry of jesus to  jerusalem, the marchers waving palms and olive branches were led by a man
in the washer, twigs and dirt are removed from the... more in photos: olives hit the presses 11/3/2010 -  maanimages / luay sababa - palestinian women bottle freshly pressed olive oil  and can pickled olives to be sold at the olive harvest festival in the west  bank city of bethlehem, 30 october 2010....
erekat: settlers have israeli authorities' full cooperation 10/27/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- plo chief negotiator saeb erekat "strongly condemned" on wednesday a flood of raw sewage that destroyed a palestinian olive grove in the near the northern west bank city of nablus, which israeli settlers are suspected of perpetrating.
woman flees harvest to escape violent settlers and wild boars 10/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - 20 october 2011,  international solidarity movement, west bank - early thursday morning, a  palestinian woman in beit furik was picking olives when a settler began to  chase her and set loose wild hogs to chase after her, causing her to fall and  suffer broken bones in both her legs.
but the actions of these few  fanatics correspond directly to settler policy, which, while not explicitly  declared, is certainly normatively inscribed.
b'tselem worker beaten by israeli soldier palestine monitor - two palestinian family members were beaten and arrested by an israeli soldier in their own olive grove last november, following an unlawful detainment of their two teenage relatives.
the olive trees were....
- a group of palestinian photojournalists documenting tree-planting near nablus on thursday afternoon said they were accosted by israeli forces, who declared the area a closed military zone.
it has been to no avail.
witnesses told ma'an that tanks and soldiers arrived in the village and began digging up land in order to expand the nearby israeli settlement of qedumim.
sides have been cut down, poisoned or torched.
israel severely restricts palestinian freedom of movement in h2 in the name of separation, but in practice this is a policy of segregation.
the operation took place under the... israeli forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily  unrest in silwan 11/8/2010 - international solidarity movement -  wadi hilweh information center - today, workers from the jerusalem municipality  and israeli forces removed the memorial of samer sarhan, this morning.
i first noticed the chickens and geese running loose near  a bulldozed house, and then saw another house and then another one, all of them  in rubble.
jerusalem post on adding olives to your seder plate jewish voice for peace - in an overview of changing passover traditions, the jerusalem post mentions the new tradition of chosen bites: passover game plan jeruslalem post 7 apr 2011 - because all extra virgin olive oils are kosher for passover and year round, make sure you purchase a great oil.
shenstone joined palestinian beneficiaries of the un money for work program to plant 360 saplings in an attempt to save over 30,000 square meters of land in....
pact supports the work of palestinian artisans...more..
settlers uproot 80 olive saplings near nablus 21 aug 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)- settlers from the illegal settlement of eish kodash uprooted 80 newly planted olive saplings in the south of al-masara village, southeast of the northern west bank city of nablus.
their simple cottage was located in a nearby ravine with water from a stream, which flowed year round.
i'm not suggesting that bush is stupid.
in case the israelis still fail to see it, they are dealing this time with an international flotilla that is sailing under turkish and greek flags, a fleet that carries 800 enthusiast activists from all over the world.
all that is left for israel is to come to terms with its true nature: a shameless racist, murderous and terrorist state.
the order was issued three days ago to the  village, declaring that the village must halt construction of the mosque, on  consequence of demolition.
main changes in the  labour market: the 4th quarter 2006 testified to dramatic changes in the labour  market, which occurred due to the strike of the public sector employees, and at  the same time the closure of schools.
we: provide accompaniment to palestinian civilians (including  farmers during the annual olive harvest), document and non-violently intervene  in human-rights abuses , support palestinians in their non-violent resistance  to end the israeli military....
imemc - thursday march 04, 2010 - 13:07, residents of beit jala  town, southern west bank, along with israeli and international supporters  chained themselves to olive tree in protest of the israeli built wall on their  land.
homes and livelihoods gone in an  instant electronic intifada: 11 mar 2010 - radia abu sbaih, 47,  lives with her sister and one niece on family land roughly 700 meters from the  "green line" boundary between israel and gaza.
i do pray for healing and understanding among those who support and those who oppose such a boycott in the community of olympia, washington...
olive trees are very important  part of the palestinian agricultural economy.
tree-planting action to be held in at-tuwani 1/20/2010 - international solidarity movement - christian peacemaker team - on saturday 23 january palestinians will demonstrate against the recent destruction of a grove of olive trees and plant new trees, in order to show their determination to continue accessing and cultivating their land.
an  observer with the christian peacemaker teams said israeli demolition crews
other settlers beat up the night before entire families in the jordan valley.
even ambulances are not allowed to drive through certain areas.
like the rocky, palestinian landscape, dotted with olive trees, this resistance is fertile.
their simple cottage was  located in a nearby ravine with water from a stream, which flowed year round.
now under israeli occupation, the old city of nablus remains a charming and well-preserved cultural...
yesterday afternoon in ni’lin, in an act of vandalism and repression, ‘the world’s most moral army’ opened fire with tear gas and set olive trees ablaze as a response to the weekly non-violent demonstration by residents and international activists.
palestinians to sell first fair trade product nick mathiason, the observer, the guardian 12/28/2008 the glimmers of an economic revival for palestinians will grow early next year with the launch of their first fair trade product.
israeli forces bulldozed olive trees on village land in hebron overnight wednesday, villagers told ma'an.
with support  from the israeli government, it has also become an attraction specifically for  zionist youth groups from the united states, europe, and other nations to come  and fulfill the passover seder prayer of “next year in jerusalem.”
it has more patience than is  bearable.
my beautiful palestine palestine chronicle: 30 mar 2010 - by samah sabawi
politically speaking, it had virtually no  effect on me; i was an immature youth from a thoroughly apolitical middle class  background, and knew next to nothing about international affairs, and hardly  knew, for example, the difference between arabs and israelis.
one women explained that since her  husband is sick and she does not want to leave her children alone, she has to  walk with them every 4th day to do the basic shopping and to buy milk for her  baby.
more  importantly, they will not...
that year a known member of the settler community of khalil, baruch goldstein, walked fully armed into the ibrahami mosque and killed 29 people injuring a over 100.... --
it was six in  the morning on my first day off in a while and i was hoping to stay  well-planted in dreamland until 9am.
it is  impossible to know how it survived the construction of the  wall and how it continues to resist to the lack of a few  cares that the specie demands - a lack caused by  the israeli barbed wire fence that prevents the access of the  residents to the point....
by philip giraldi president barack obama's speech in indonesia in which  he conceded that the united states must do more to establish a good working  relationship with many muslim nations would have ranked as one of the more  pathetic performances by an american president in recent years but for the fact  that there have been so many awful performances to choose from.
local witnesses told ma'an that settlers from the illegal ma'ale mikhmas settlement adjacent to the village set fire to agricultural land before vacating the area.
he also  stated that the trees would not be able to bear olives for at least three  years.
they belonged to the palestinian residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus, the maan news agency reported. ...
it was his  intention, that sunny winter morning, to shine a little light on them, to give  his brood some respite, however brief, from their grief.
the survey sample of this is based on the 1997 census (updated in 2003); 7,563 households were selected to represent the palestinian society, of which 6,571 questionnaires were completed.
they strap olive saplings and water  bottles to the back of a donkey, silent under its burden.
those who would search their dreams for memories lost or denied those who would look inward to see the archetypes of shadows fleeing in the night or who would search the rocky landscape of the mind to see those whom they have chased away where are those who would survey the scrubgrass and the pale horse and the winter moon
21 apr 2011 - yesterday, 20 april, the village of bil'in commenced its sixth annual conference on popular resistance.
as diplomats  attempted to craft a compromise, russia remained firm wednesday in its pledge  to veto any u.n. security council resolution that... israel to open  new police station in occupied east jerusalem imemc -
he added that the israeli occupation... israeli settler opens fire on schoolboys, wounding two 16-year-olds mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: land theft  and destruction/ethnic cleansing 80 olive trees uprooted in walaja bethlehem  – ma'an – israeli bulldozers began overturning agricultural land  and uprooting trees in the al-walaja, a village south of jerusalem inside the  1967 green line, palestinian landowners...
he had been hit with shrapnel.
shortly after the settlers left, israeli forces prevented....
moreover, rabbi shapira’s yeshiva in  the settlement of yitzhar has received substantial government funding.
the women and children blocking a roadway outside the north syrian coastal village of baida shook olive branches as symbols...
military vehicles and bulldozers were present in the site where they plew 15 donums and uprooted number of olive trees.
jewish settlers burn olive trees in nablus pic 14 nov 2010 - jewish settlers burnt dozens of palestinian olive trees east of salem village, nablus district, on sunday, local sources reported.
since its creation, 63 years ago, israel received  more american tax money, $3 trillions as reported by army war college in 2003,  than any other country on earth.
[uruknet.info] defending olive trees: israeli army cracks down on protest in al-walajah uruknet august 13, 2011 - twelve protestors-two palestinians and ten israeli activists-were arrested yesterday by israeli forces in the village of al-walaja during a weekly protest against the expansion of the wall.
how are its leaders greeting this latest move?
they flee on donkey carts piled up with nothing to nowhere!
in case the israelis still fail to see it, they are  dealing this time with an international flotilla that is sailing under turkish  and greek flags, a fleet that carries 800 enthusiast activists from all over  the world.
approximately 200 palestinian,  international and israeli protesters sat in the path of israeli bulldozers  scheduled to tear up olive groves on sunday, and faced israeli border police  who detained four, including an israeli man.
instead of entering at  the lions’ gate, the damascus gate has also served as the point of entry  for the annual parade, encouraging participants to march through the historic  muslim quarter in waves lasting from early afternoon to early evening.
the village of burin is located less than 10 kilometers south of nablus in the occupied west bank.
the european union has contributed 2.
returned u.s. envoy to  libya doesn't see long-term insurgency la times 22 sep 2011 -
the blaze was extinguished after damaging  over 200 olive trees, the civil defense said in a statement.
condemned by true believers, the  zionist story makes one shutter.
israeli settlers uprooted some 20 olive trees in southern jerusalem, police said thursday.
the fire in the southern town of maamarieh in the  zahrani region had trapped several civil defense personnel.
when the journalists refused to stop, soldiers hit them  and attempted to take their cameras before throwing tear-gas canisters and stun  grenades, swidan said.
al-samri told ma'an the settlers left a banner with "price tag" written on it.
more.. e-mail walking to the buffer zone johnny barber, counterpunch 6/10/2011 inside the jail of gaza
it is impossible to know how it survived the construction of the wall and how it continues to resist to the lack of a few cares that the specie demands - a lack caused... israeli forces 'block olive harvest in nablus' 10/14/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli forces blocked villagers in nablus from harvesting olives on lands near israeli settlements on friday, locals told ma'an.
he added that the israeli occupation... israeli settler opens fire on schoolboys, wounding two 16-year-olds mondoweiss - and other news from today in palestine: land theft and destruction/ethnic cleansing 80 olive trees uprooted in walaja bethlehem – ma'an – israeli bulldozers began overturning agricultural land and uprooting trees in the al-walaja, a village south of jerusalem inside the 1967 green line, palestinian landowners...
colonel tirzeh was responsible for planning the wall that envelopes jerusalem the one that cuts the city off from the west bank in order to turn it into the united capital of israel for all eternity.
israeli settlers broke car windows tuesday evening and cut down olive trees hours after four israelis were killed in a shooting near a west bank settlement in hebron, an official said.
israeli occupation bar  farmers from harvesting their olives pic 15
"are you leaving my ceremony?
demonstration outside jelemeh prison in solidarity with arrested  palestinian grassroots activist 12/17/2009 - international  solidarity movement - 16 december -
the worst of these israeli terror attacks are committed during harvest seasons, especially during olive season.
so let me just give you the names and brief story of two of those released palestinian political prisoners.
daghlas denounced what he termed the continuous aggression, particularly in villages near settlements.
we often hear of israels need for security, yet the people of gaza are under occupation by the state of israel and no one utters a word about their security....
[end] planting trees, building bases in bethlehem stop the wall  - february 16th, 2010-- last week, occupation forces act on their intentions to  re-establish a military base in beit sahour.
as a foreigner, i was to don a reflective fluorescent yellow vest and  walk in front of the palestinians, which seemed to provide them a degree of  solace.
you paid a high price militarily, economically and psychologically to  control and destroy it
jeruslalem post 15 jun 2011 - is the olive tree initiative, an interfaith program that brings american students here to learn about the israeli-arab conflict, offering its participants the appropriate mosaic of views?
he was then taken to the halamish police...
mayor: israel uproots olive trees in northern west bank 6/28/2011 - salfit (ma'an) --
torat hamelekh was not an aberration.
burin, located in the northern west bank, comes under frequent  attack from the settlements of yitzhar and bracha enveloping the village.
on september 5th bulldozers protected by dozens of  soldiers arrived at 4 am and uprooted 50 olive trees that date back at least  100 years.
we have five dunams of land (one dunam is 1,000  square metres), on which we had olive and fruit trees, chickens, sheep and some  pigeons,” recalls abu hani.
the obama administration fears tough u.s. sanctions against companies doing business in iran would anger foreign allies.
french pleasure  boat makes dash to gaza daily star 5 jul 2011 a small french  pleasure craft slipped out of greek waters tuesday in an attempt to break  israel’s naval blockade on gaza, reviving an international campaign that  appeared to have ground to a halt.
a few children were trying to find a shaded spot to hide from the scorching desert sun, while behind them a stream of black smoke rose from the burning hay.
we visited devastated palestinian villages like iqrit (a catholic christian community of which only the church remains), al-zeeb (a fishing muslim community where the mosque and the few remaining buildings are converted for recreation of israelis), and al_bassa (that used to be a thriving mixed town of christians and muslims and was filled with jewish immigrants initially from bulgaria and is now called shlomi).
settlers begin construction of housing at east jerusalem yeshiva ha'aretz - new construction starts on 18 apartments around the beit orot yeshiva on the mount of olives.
the settlers cut down no less than 100 olive trees of the palestinian villages yasouf and jamain.
although organizers.... planting hope and natural resistance in burin 2/4/2012 - international solidarity movement -
the  award is widely considered the foremost prize for press photography in the  netherlands.
the badil resource center for palestinian residency and refugee rights recently published rights in principle -- rights in practice , which examines a rights-based approach to crafting durable solutions for palestinian refugees.
following navy warning, gaza flotilla takes 'alternate route' ynet news - video - three israeli naval craft left a haifa naval base just after 9 pm and approached the "freedom flotilla" after dark on sunday, according to the twitter page of .......
beware of small states, an equally important book on  lebanon’s complex tragedy.
the village council of wadi e-rasha in the west bank petitions high court to issue an order allowing village residents to access their olive groves.
[uruknet 60780 05-dec-2009 02:07 ect] report: 14000 palestinian olive  trees subjected to israeli aggression in 2009 uruknet december 4,  2009 -
village council head ihab tahseen said residents from yitzhar settlement destroyed palestinian-owned trees and sprayed anti-arab slogans in hebrew.
mondoweiss - sometimes a food is more than just something you eat.
locals said  israeli residents of the nearby illegal betar illit settlement obstructed  palestinian firefighters.... opt: oxfam urges lifting of barriers  to olive production uruknet october 19, 2010 - the first day of  the palestinian olive harvest officially began on 15 october, and rani ali and  his family – like hundreds of others – were out among their olive  trees, starting to bring in what looks like being a good harvest.
the  president’s grammar and syntax were perfect and the speech was cleverly  crafted, exactly what we have come to expect.
upon reaching the wall, demonstrators  were met with a violent military response.
palestinian olive trees in october pic - parc said that jewish settlers had burnt 2600 palestinian olive trees in  october, assessing the palestinian farmers’ damages as a result at around  156000 dollars.
it has been reported in the  israeli newspaper ha’aretz, that president obama submitted a letter of  commitment to the palestinian side to get these indirect "proximity  talks" off the ground.
settlers destroy 55 olive trees south of hebron wafa israeli forces hand bethlehem village  confiscation orders palestine solidarity project 29 sep 2011 -  bethlehem -israeli forces notified villagers near bethlehem that their land  will soon be confiscated, local residents said wednesday.
up until a month ago, i would have responded in the standard manner on hearing it, with somewhat feeble exclamations of protest and a few facebook and twitter posts.
settlers uproot 250 olive  trees near nablus imemc - 16 aug 2010 - monday august 16, 2010 -  17:18, a number of armed jewish settlers uprooted on monday morning more than  200 olive trees near the village of qasra, south of the northern west bank city  of nablus.
neighbours were prevented from reaching the  families, and teachers...
the olive harvest in the west bank and  gaza - oct 2006 reliefweb/united nations 11/3/2006 31 oct  2006 -- olives, a centuries-old mainstay of the palestinian economy, are in  peak season for harvest from the middle of october to the beginning of  november.
nabi saleh an eleven-year-old  child was arrested at a protest in nabi saleh on friday.
attack comes in response to recent rocket fire from gaza into israel; precise targets identified; all air craft safely returned to bases.
colonel tirzeh was responsible for planning the wall that “envelopes”
for centuries christians from around the world  have reenacted the triumphant entry of jesus to jerusalem from the mount of  olives one week before his crucifixion, burial and resurrection.
israeli rights orgs demand action over settler vandalism 10/30/2010 - jerusalem (ma'an) --
this is our land and we ae not going to  give up," tamir said.
the houses of the palestinian village of burin lie in this valley, which  lies between two hills: on one stands yitzhar; on the other, har bracha,  outside nablus. ...
once a time of happy industry, the autumn harvest  season in particular has degenerated into antagonism, with farmers accusing  extremist jewish settlers of destroying their crops and trying to seize their  land.
erekat: settlers have israeli authorities'  full cooperation 10/27/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- plo chief  negotiator saeb erekat "strongly condemned" on wednesday a flood of  raw sewage that destroyed a palestinian olive grove in the near the northern  west bank city of nablus, which israeli settlers are suspected of perpetrating.
rula halawani pnn 25 jan 2010 - any of us see the relationship between the photographer and his/her subjects as if the camera were an extension of the photographer’s eye.
the large israeli settlement of halamish nearby has taken over nearly half of the village lands, including a precious freshwater spring.
we all know what the  jewish state stands for.
the delegation included thomas kazalis, coordinator of the oxfam’s olive oil quality project, as well as haitham hassassneh and engineer mahmoud abu ’assba.
in his first public comments since returning to libya, ambassador gene cretz voices hope that moderate elements will prevail as authorities seek to craft the nation's first representative government.
the village has been targeted with demolition orders in an attempt to repress the popular struggle.
the electronic intifada contributor robin yassin-kassab interviews hirst on his work and views.
on 12 january 2010 my father  ibrahim was arrested by the israeli army and sentenced to two years in prison  for organizing and participating in nonviolent protests against the israel's  wall in the occupied west bank.
luaghing, tamir  told me that at the moment when he was arrested, he was carrying a bucket full  of olives, which untill know continues at the same place when he was arrested,  as nbody can touch it according to the soldiers' orders.
olive pressing output down in 2009 4/18/2010 - bethlehem -  ma'an - a palestine central bureau of statistics report revealed that olive  pressing in the occupied palestinian territories was considerably lower in  2009, compared with previous years.
at... iof troops raid the village of kafr al-deek and uproot trees pic - iof troops raided on thursday afternoon the village of kafr al-deek near salfit and uprooted dozens of olive trees from the fields belonging to the villagers.. israeli forces confiscate palestinian olive orchards near ramallah imemc - thursday june 30, 2011 - 08:27, hundreds of acres of olive orchards in al mazra’a al gharbiya village were taken over by israeli troops on tuesday, who claimed that the area was a 'closed military zone' and that the land was being confiscated for military use.
the release announces a day of action to "knock on jerusalem's gates" by marching on the city from... settlers raid nablus village 8/21/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
the palestinian authority's chief of jerusalem affairs condemned thursday israel's plans to renovate and expand a hotel confiscated from its jordanian owners when israel occupied the west bank in 1967.
the colonel has ceased acting on behalf of the israeli  army and now represents private entrepreneurs who want to build 14 thousand  housing units for 45 thousand jewish souls.
israeli settlers damaged 16 olives trees belonging to residents in the nablus region on wednesday after harvesting the olives and depriving several families of their income source, the village council chief said.
however, in the naqab  (hebraized as negev) desert and the galilee this ecological occupation takes on  a very different form.
unknown agitators entered the building and set the fire, causing damage to carpets and the structure itself.
i was then out on one of my long weekend walks.
israeli bulldozers clear land near bethlehem, destroy 230 olive trees pnn - bethlehem – pnn - on tuesday, israeli army bulldozers cleared land near jub’a village south of bethlehem, uprooting and confiscating hundreds of olive trees and taking them to an unknown location.
the palestinian authority says 800,000 trees have been destroyed since the 1967  war, when israel seized the territory.
more iran unveils 'unmanned bomber' aljazeera 22 aug 2010 - ahmadinejad calls domestically built  craft "ambassador of death" to country's enemies.
strengthening the cultural identity, and cultivating the artistic talents... more..
four human rights organizations collaborated on a project  documenting settler vandalism during the 2010 olive harvest, reporting a total  of 35 incidents of tree vandalism during the six-week season.
but in the occupied  palestinian territories, it is a slightly different story.
the soldiers frequently arrived in tamir's house to raid at, usually they arrived late night during wokrking days.
2 million euros  ($2. 8 million) to support palestinian olive farmers, a statement said tuesday.
but settler attacks are taking their toll, says the united nations, which has  recorded a surge in general violence this year.
although those responsible "crossed the border from sinai", the  israeli government claims that it was carried out by "terrorists from  gaza".
israeli settlers have celebrated the second day of  the new year of 5772 in the only way they know how, by a pogrom which drew the  blood of palestinians and israeli peace activists who'd come to a palestinian  village to help a local landowner plant olive trees.
different palestinian local sources reported that israeli bulldozers knocked down seven homes and uprooted dozens of olive saplings in al-araqeeb village and demolished another home in umm mitnan village.
while heading to his daughter's school to  attend an awards ceremony, rajih abu al-sukkar was notified that israeli forces  uprooted dozens of olive trees in lands belonging his village turmusayya near  ramallah.
tamir has to face the attaks of the settlers who are protected by the israeli police and soldiers.
what an israeli official admits to when his guard is down palestine note 10 jun 2010 -
yet, we did go to ush ghrab in the morning and an ashkenazi white  man wearing a blue shirt entered as we were meeting and drinking coffee,  fiddled with his backpack, for a few minutes, then left.
in memory of nakba he closed his eyes when the smell of the thyme found its way to the deepest memory his mind is still tirelessly clinging to.
fires destroy 200 olive trees in west bank cities 7/2/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- civil defense crews from several  districts in the west bank were able to control and suppress fires that broke  out in the west bank thursday morning.
police sources told ma'an  that 142 fortune tellers were forced to sign an agreement at the ministry of  interior pledging that they would not practice their craft.
jewish flotilla to break  gaza siege uruknet june 6, 2010 -
11:00-12:00 we will rename her with a bottle of palestinian olive oil as a celebration of palestinian land rights, and international...
a recent flurry of demolition orders in silwan have raised fresh tensions between palestinian residents and the ever-growing settler community.
around 40 students from different palestinian  universities marched onto the land at 11am saturday morning and began to pick... just two prisoner stories and the olive harvest intifada-palestine:
awad told ma'an she was surprised to see israeli bulldozers, accompanied by police, enter her land and begin uprooting olive, walnut and lemontrees.
in photos: settlers disrupt burin olive harvest 10/13/2010 - maanimages - israeli residents living on the illegal west bank settlement of yitzhar in the northern west bank district of nablus have been disrupting the olive harvest in the nearby burin village since the season began in early october.
normally, in this region, you get a good crop one year followed  by a smaller yield the next year, but the two-year cycle appears to have been  broken - exacerbated by a dry winter in 2008-2009, according to some experts.
more.. e-mail the day after zionism hannah mermelstein, ma’an news agency 1/16/2011 as we trudge through the terraced land, ducking under branches of olive trees and trying to avoid prickly bushes, i think about landscape, consciousness, and memory.
most nations ignored the ruling.
available land has been steadily decreasing since 1949, when the israeli government began building a railroad through the village.
some of the trees were owned by the grandfather of essam badran,  who was killed last by israeli occupation forces during clashes sparked when  settlers tried... setters uproot 400 olive trees south of nablus.
the five tents giving shelter to some 50 bedouin residents of amniyr, a tiny community north of susiya in the south hebron hills, were torn down on monday, their olive trees uprooted and water sources covered over.
israeli army uproots over 230 olive trees near bethlehem imemc - tuesday february 22, 2011 - 17:26, the palestine news network reports that the israeli army uprooted over 230 olive trees near bethlehem.
according to the  palestinian center for development and media freedoms (mada), israeli forces  assaulted rami swidan, a photographer for ma'an news agency; ashraf abu  shawish, a cameraman for palmedia, and reuters photographers abdel rahim  al-qusini and hassan titi.
oct  2010 - saturday october 23, 2010 - 10:48, a group of fundamentalist israeli  settlers uprooted on saturday at least 40 olive trees in al lubban al sharqiyya  village, south the northern west bank city of nablus.
awad said soldiers attacked the group and fired teargas as well as sound bombs at them until they retreated from the area.
although many in the us government aspire to her level of commitment to israel, few can measure up to a dedication that extends so far beyond the interests of her own country.
cpt: settlers torch palestinian olive grove 5/29/2011 - hebron (ma'an) --
yael gurin-rosen, head of the iaa’s glass department, said that the mosaic panel is the first of its kind to be excavated in israel, and due to the quality of its preservation, given its age, and its gleaming, gilded craftsmanship indicating christian origins, it is most likely the only one in the world.
diliani warns  of ’rapidly escalating’ aggression 4/15/2010 -  bethlehem - ma'an - fatah revolutionary council member dimitri diliani warned  thursday that israel's "continuous and rapidly escalating aggression"  against villages surrounding occupied jerusalem was in cooperation with settler  groups.
they told the pic reporter that the iof troops  escorted three military bulldozers, noting that the iof soldiers fired three  projectiles at cultivated lands east of shujaia inflicting material damage.
even if this time of year is particularly violent in the  west bank due to the olive harvesting season, other notable changes can be  observed this year.
it has also been used to  finance ros-lehtinen's campaigns.
h1 refers to 80% of the city,  which is officially under control of....
the report by the gaza-based ngo issued findings on settler violence  and attacks against palestinian agriculture in october.
olive harvesting under apartheid 10/19/2010 - international solidarity movement - 16 october 2010 - qusin, near nablus, west bank - on saturday, for the first time in several years, families in the village of qusin with properties close to the illegal settlements shave shomeron and shave shomron, were able to spend a few hours harvesting their olives before soldiers forced them to leave.
[uruknet.info] secret us-french drone base in libya?
the leader of the village council told  ma'an that the brush around the olive....
last sunday, settlers smashed windshields of cars driving along  the nablus-jenin road and assaulted a palestinian doctor.
settlers set fire to palestinian crops,  iof troops burn olive groves pic - extremist jewish settlers on  thursday torched palestinian crops in agricultural land belonging to the  villagers of awarta to the south east of the northern west bank city of nablus.
the president’s grammar and syntax were perfect and the speech was cleverly crafted, exactly what we have come to expect.
filming for b'tselem near susiya in the southern hebron hills, 'aliaa a-nawaj'ah, 12, and her 14-year old brother...
one of  the abu haikel sons took the cpters to the scene of the fire.
the  evening ended with a panel of the speakers taking questions from the audience  of more than 200 people.
by clive hambidge happy christmas mr president or may i call you barack this yule tide?
french boat 'departs greece for gaza' 7/5/2011 - paris (afp) --
israeli officials fear that washington will not rush to exercise its veto power  against such a resolution, which calls for international pressure for  construction freeze.
i discovered that life under military occupation does not offer many opportunities for a decent life, however.
when... bil'in: iof kidnap, imprison and terrorize "confession"
[uruknet.info] what will you do when palestine is free?
during a non-violent demonstration in the same village, a palestinian male child was arrested.
israel severely  restricts palestinian freedom of movement in h2 in the name of  ”separation,” but in practice this is a policy of segregation.
‘olive revolution’ plans to march on jerusalem from four  directions this friday mondoweiss - the following press release  was sent out by a group called the olive revolution , which describes itself as  an "unarmed, popular, patriotic, and human revolution against israeli  occupation."
they have been a major source of livelihood for palestinians for thousands of years.
in most of the settler attacks in march and april 2011, the connection between settlers and israeli soldiers is evident.
the small house we called home for a month had a view of the so-called lieberman road, which... israeli settlers torch olive trees in west bank village of beit ommar, 13 solidarity activists detained alternative information center - 13 international israeli and palestinian activists were detained this morning (18 november) at around 9.30 a.m. in the west bank’s saffa valley, while working with local palestinian farmers to clear the land.
on friday morning i was picked up from french hill at 10:30.
for years i kept meeting him in the halls of the supreme court.
it was a horrible sight, a massacre of trees, he said.
today an archaeological site, the ‘city of david', threatens to drive yet more palestinians from their homes.
when the israeli army were building the wall on our land, they stole  land. . .
mya guarnieri, +972  magazine 2/9/2012 in 2004, israeli  officials were up in arms about an impending bedouin intifada.
and i only managed to sleep at 4:30 am, then woke up again an hour and a half later.
“i went picking with my  mother and father,” added bursa, also 9-years-old.
israelis chop down 220 olive trees envisioning  settlement expansion pic 20 feb 2011 -
meanwhile,  israeli forces destroyed farmland in al-baq'a east of the west bank city of  hebron, residents said.
the city of david is located in the very centre of silwan, east jerusalem.
until this  weekend, these attacks seemed to be confined to the west bank.
joined by 15 israeli and international  activists, the demonstrators protested the israeli occupation which has claimed  over 40% of the village's land.
last night settlers from the bat ayn settlement set fire to 70 olive trees in the saffa region of beit ommar.
olives and balfour and more uruknet november 2, 2010 we just finished our olive harvest.
-- the project is based in the gaza strip to protect cultural heritage and is providing sewing machines, embroidery materials and other essentials for the traditional embroidery sewn by generations of palestinian women.
israel postpones granting  palestinians olive-picking permits wafa settlers burn  dozens of olive trees north of jerusalem imemc - friday october  07, 2011 - 05:19, a group of armed extremist israeli settlers of the ramat  shlomo illegal settlement installed on lands that belong to residents of  shu’fat, north of jerusalem, set ablaze dozens of olive trees that belong  to two palestinian families, the palestine news network reported.
john oliver proposes a "time share"  solution to settlement crisis palestine note 30 sep 2010 -
“including during the last war,” says sourani, referring to the 23 day war israel waged on gaza three years ago.
solidarity actions with  palestinian olive harvesters alternative information center -  olive harvest season is a time of personal, political, and economic  significance in palestine, as agricultural villages across the west bank work  hard to harvest their valuable crops and protect their lands from settler  attacks.
its divisions make television sets, jeeps, washing machines, wooden furniture and olive oil, as well as... settlers uproot olive seedlings in ramallah area 15 feb 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) -
the remaining protesters were held at distance so that the work could  resume.
ghassan daghlas, the head of a... palestinian olive harvest begins in west bank, gaza jeruslalem post 10
since the first construction workers and soldiers arrived to begin clearing land for the wall almost four years ago, locals say they have received an increasing number of eviction orders, arrests, threats and intimidation from idf soldiers.
the festival is open to children and adults, locals and foreigners.
heatwave causes qalqiliya crop fires 6/21/2010 -  qalqiliya - ma'an -
overhead  the sky is clear and the sun beats down, heating up the detritus of modern life  -- vegetable scraps, washing liquid bottles, old clothes, cans with dregs of  soda in them.
for the israelis it is a no win situation....
settlers destroy olive trees imemc - monday february  21, 2011 - 14:13, the ma'an news agency reported, on monday, that a group of  settlers uprooted olive trees and damaged palestinian farmland near nablus.
i came to work in the early  morning.
residents discovered the destruction thursday  morning, when they arrived at the agricultural lands approximately 600 meters  away from the eli settlement.
but sales are brisk, which is good enough for canawati,  who was forced to shut up shop altogether for two years when tourism slumped  during the early years of a palestinian uprising -- or intifada -- that erupted  in 2000 as reaction to israeli policies and long occupation.
celebrating workers and ingenuity palestine note 2 may 2010 - olive oil producer nasr ouda is turning production waste into an energy source by mariam hamed in gaza - special to palestine note saturday was may day (international labor day), and cities across the world celebrated...
eu launches $2.8 million support to olive farmers 2/7/2012 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
it is unpleasant, tiring work, but is a rare source of income in the west bank, where unemployment stands around 15.2 percent.
the writing, however, is at least as good as you’d expect from a high quality prose work.
this week the military also chose to oppress the naalin demonstration using live ammunition.
olive groves are spread all over the country and every palestinian house has a couple of olive trees in its...more how many israeli soldiers does it take to keep an elderly palestinian woman from harvesting her olives?
israeli authorities deny salfit farmers access to olive  crops pic 25
still, i feared that something might  be missing in this noble and monumental undertaking: palestinian people’s  own responses to the cruelties they’ve suffered.
the israeli occupation of the west bank and siege of gaza are seriously harming palestinian olive oil production which contributes up to us$100 million annually for some of the most underprivileged palestinian families, the international ngo oxfam said in a report on friday.
all films focused on al quds or palestine and explored issues of life under siege and occupation and five of them were awarded gold olive prices.
the attack was coordinated by text message, the israeli daily haaretz said, and the settlers began chanting "the police destroy nothing that belongs to arabs.
in the kiryat ata forest and in the olive groves belonging to kibbutz  yochanan, 60 dunams were ruined.
the yearly settler festival of destroying the  palestinians’ olive trees and orchards mondoweiss - and  other news from today in palestine settlers/ land, property, resource theft  & destruction/ethnic cleansing abbas pressures u.s. to aid in stopping  israel settlement building the palestinian president says israel is 'still  putting obstacles' in the path of peace talks, singles out west bank settlement  building....
"my fellow elders and i met abu rahmah and his colleague mohammad khatib in august when we visited bil'in," said desmond tutu.
we stood in the back, swaying wildly, holding on for dear life.
villagers reported that the settlers threw rocks and.... oxfam gb, eu help palestinian farmers kick-start the olive harvest in move to boost profits wafa - ramallah, october 16, 2010 (wafa)- olive picking event organized on 15 october to help farmers overcome risks of settler attacks, as oxfam launches its new report on palestinian olive oil settlers attack students sent to help farmers in tel armida pic 16
they are not the whispers from the presidents of christmas past,  we will come to them; no?
settlers target palestinian olive trees uruknet november  8, 2010 -
with a vague idea of staying there for a  couple of years or so, i found myself drifting into journalism, and, taking to  it, i ended up staying fifty.
visiting the galilee and north palestine mazin qumsiyeh, phd, axis of logic 4/7/2010 a short description and a 7 minute video on a two-day trip to the galilee, north palestine.
yet ramallah, with its coffee bars and restaurants, is far away from area c, with its refugee camps, roadblocks, military patrols and harassment, where nothing much has changed
a poem palestine chronicle: 30 mar 2011 -
both... oxfam: pa and idf could help olive farmers  double crop jeruslalem post 14
despite the israeli military interventions, the palestinians successfully planted 20 olive trees during their demonstration.
earth day was celebrated jointly by the palestinian consulate general in dubai and the social and cultural committee of the northern emirates.
jewish settlers, at dawn friday, uprooted more than 500 olive saplings from fields belonging to the residents of the village of qasra to the south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
middle eastern promises www.thedailyshow.com daily show full episodes political humor rally to restore sanity this is the real peace process pnn - by: jenne jan holtland – olive tree campaign - during two years the palestinian activist baha hilo and the american journalist jared malsin shared an apartment in west bank city of bethlehem.;...
they were overgrown with thistles and weeds, and the terrace walls and boundary walls were in a poor state of repair.
the wall cuts us off from our land and our olive  groves, robbing our family of its livelihood.
related:israel uproots  palestinian olive trees near nablus settlers uproot olive trees  near nablus 17 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-dozens of  olive trees were uprooted and confiscated by jewish settlers in the area of  beit dajan in the east of nablus city to facilitate israeli movements around  settlements.
scorched  hillsides and charred olive groves near nablus pinpoint the latest acts of  arson by...
we marched to the buffer zone with about 20 others including members of the beit hanoun local initiative who have been organizing non-violent demonstrations for the past three years, as well as several members of gybo (gaza youth break out).
the olive and citrus trees were blooming all over palestine on prisoners’ day.
the king of jars: mohammad taha nassar, mosaics and jars, jnah, south beirut / tentmakers of cairo: tentmakers of cairo from the aramco world magazine, november...more.. palestinian arts and crafts trust (pact)
oct 2010 - thursday october 14, 2010 - 15:44, israeli army detained, on thursday afternoon, a number of journalists who participated as volunteers in harvesting olives.
metras has led several past missions to makassed with the pcrf, in cooperation  with the french consulate in east jerusalem.
it was recently shown in israel.
now ourolive groves are bulldozed and farm  workers are shot at so we are herein solidarity with farmers whose lives are  made impossible by theisraeli siege and occupation."
fast times in palestine - book review palestine chronicle: 25 jul 2011 -
winter traditions in palestine
a potent symbol of peace and  harmony, the olive has become a source of confrontation and violence in the  decades-old conflict that pits israel against palestinians.
settlers desperately try to fit the role by stealing olives 10/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by aida gerard - 25 october 2011 | international solidarity movement, west bank - on tuesday, illegal settlers from the susiya settlement harvested the olive trees belonging to the abu sabha family from susiya and yatta, south hebron hills.
speaking to reporters on the mount of olives in east jerusalem, pinera said chile wanted to help the two sides work towards a peace agreement that would see....
residents in the village of deir al-hatab said 660 olive trees were poisoned  by....
the plantation belongs to abdul rahman sharif  sultan, said syfian sultan, who estimated damages caused to reach thousands of  dollars.
they are blocking the road ahead so as not to allow people to arrive in the palestinian village of bilin.
the israeli government approved on wednesday the construction of a new settlement in the palestinian town of shufat, in occupied east jerusalem.
more.. e-mail walking to the buffer zone johnny barber, counterpunch 6/10/2011 inside the jail of gaza
the gate was unlocked at 7:00am to allow farmers to reach their.... related:pictures of salim's olive harvest ordeal army demolishes a house and cowshed, bulldozes olive orchard in hebron imemc - tuesday october 04, 2011 - 13:42,
palestinian film forum  breaking the cultural siege on gaza 1/17/2010 - international  solidarity movement - bianca zammit & rada daniell, ism gaza -
the website algeria isp reports (citing unnamed  "arab" sources) dec. 11 that the us and france have jointly  established a secret drone base in the libyan desert, near the area of  katroune.
settlers desperately try to fit the role by stealing olives 10/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by aida gerard -  25 october 2011 | international solidarity movement, west bank - on tuesday,  illegal settlers from the susiya settlement harvested the olive trees belonging  to the abu sabha family from susiya and yatta, south hebron hills.
the village of kafr ad-dik, and the greater salfit district, is located on top of the largest water table in the west bank, thus providing it with some of the most fertile land in the region.
have we all not seen and  read about life in palestine under occupation?
the union’s embroidery project aims for the preservation and revival  of bethlehem heritage and for meeting the economic needs of women in the area.
nour rida/ english.moqawama.org “marches of return” encircle the occupied palestinian territories (opt) while the palestinians inside the opt rally from within… restating commitment to the right of return of all palestinians, all palestinians, and marking the 1948 nakba in which...
once a time of happy industry, the autumn harvest season in particular has degenerated into antagonism, with farmers accusing extremist jewish settlers of destroying their crops and.... palestine's farmers: refusing to die in silence alternative information center - a new organization in the west bank, refusing to die in silence, offers support to the palestinian farmers who face violent attacks from jewish settlers as they attempt to harvest their olives.
ma'an correspondent said israeli forces blocked residents from entering and exiting the wadi qana area.
a  spokesman for israel's civil administration told ma'an on thursday that nearly  100 olive trees bulldozed near beit dajan the day before were planted on land  that did not belong to jamal abu kanaan.
the palestinians  were from the nearby village of jalud and had been picking olives in peace  until settlers descended from their outpost.
the documents, he said,  exposed the main players in the israel-palestine peace process negotiations,  primarily the state of israel, the palestinian authority and the united states;  the british government and intelligence services, the french and other western  states were also mentioned in the papers....
their mission, it seems, had  been accomplished.
oct 2010 - palestinian pm says israeli "colonies"  must come to an end; "the youngest olive trees have deeper roots than the  largest israeli settlement.
report: israel to expand hotel owned by jordan palestine note 15 dec 2010 - maan - israel is planning a major expansion to a jordanian-owned hotel atop the mount of olives in jerusalem, an israeli newspaper reported wednesday.
organizers said  border police dislocated the shoulder of an israeli man "during the  violent arrest," and say the man is being denied access to medical  treatment as he is kept in a police station.
yet, somehow the grandfather insists on  preserving his right to love his grandson.
"guerilla  gardening" has its roots among the levellers and the diggers of mid-17th  century england, but today has branches spanning the globe.
he tried to ship out  his tomatoes through jordan after getting all the necessary permits from  israel, but when the cargo came to the border, it took the israelis 3 days to  check the container for explosives.
palestine's farmers: refusing to die in silence alternative information center - a new organization in the west  bank, refusing to die in silence, offers support to the palestinian farmers who  face violent attacks from jewish settlers as they attempt to harvest their  olives.
pcbs: 280 olive presses in palestine wafa 15 apr 2010 -  ramallah, april 15, 2010 (wafa)- the palestinian central bureau of statistics  (pcbs) said that olive presses in the palestinian territory for the year 2009,  are 280, of which 235 were operating, no-one saw, no-one heard: 300  palestinian olive trees uprooted ha'aretz 15 apr 2010 - some 300  olive trees belonging to palestinians were uprooted on the night between monday  and tuesday in groves near the village of mihmas, close to the illegal outpost  of migron.
the area where the farmers, along with three international ism activists and five palestinian activists traveled to, is about 450 meters from the border.
settlers also noted that the palestinians did not get permission from the proverbial master of the land the israeli army to have an olive harvest.
it was hard to believe that only ten years ago  fruit orchards and olive trees filled this area.
the whole of the bethlehem  district has been surrounded by the separation wall and... al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers palestine  monitor - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja  (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall,  which was resumed last thursday.
worsening living conditions under the siege are changing relationship patterns.
the  official added that settlers crashed into another vehicle belonging to zaher's  brother.
ghassan daghlas, who holds the pa's northern settlements portfolio, said  residents of the illegal yitzhar settlement chopped down 45 olive trees on land  belonging to burin, a palestinian village near nablus.
surif, a large community of... israeli court implements hebron evacuation order 2/23/2012 - hebron (ma'an) -- israeli forces implemented wednesday the israeli supreme court's decision to evacuate settlers from a building owned by the tahbub family in the old city.
settlers attack farmers, foreign volunteers  harvesting olives wafa ongoing murder trial of vittorio palestine chronicle: 21
this is our land and we ae not going to give up," tamir said.
we often hear of israel’s need for security, yet  the people of gaza are under occupation by the state of israel and no one  utters a word about their security....
flowers are no  longer exported.
settlers burn olive trees near nablus uruknet  november 15, 2010 - a group of extremist jewish settlers torched, on sunday, at  least 200 palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of salem village,  near the northern west bank city of nablus, and also torched a number of nearby  farms.
most people are unaware that israel is one of the  world's leading producers of cut and polished diamonds.
but non-violent demonstrations do cause a threat, especially when people walk to the wall and demand access to their land, their olive trees, their resources, and their homes.
israel slams  oliver stone’s interview jeruslalem post 26 jul
the attack was widely condemned by the arab community throughout israel and the occupied territories.
israeli settlers attack peace activists attempting to harvest olives in hebron imemc - 10
the popular committee asked for a group of  internationals to assist them in planting olive trees on the village land which  is close to an army out....
but joseph worried, cheese and olives are not enough to feed a growing boy.
french boat 'departs greece for gaza' 7/5/2011  - paris (afp) --
settlers plant trees on palestinian land 4/12/2011 - tubas (ma'an) -- residents of the rotem settlement continued  planting olive trees on lands on which they are squatting.
the farmland of... sheikhs and rabbis in pursuit of peace on mount of olives the national 29 jan 2010 - yerushalom, a group founded by jewish settlers, says it is trying to build bridges with palestinians and help them realise their dream.
for  more information go to:http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.html if you  wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that  go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
of course, we were not a  physical threat, i imagine the israeli soldiers laughed at us as we turned and  headed back.
omar, the man we were working with today,  said that his fields had been in his family for generations, and the trees we  were picking were at least one hundred years old.
by samah sabwai to the people of israel who fear our freedom: don’t be afraid, we will liberate you too.
it's about time jeruslalem post 26 apr 2011 -
at bil'in's demonstration a week earlier, 36-year-old jawaher abu rahmah inhaled a lethal dose of tear gas.
more.. e-mail israeli army raids bil'in and burns olive tree imemc - 26
he added that the ministry has succeeded, through its communication with local, regional and international bodies, to market large quantities of the palestinian territories’ surplus olive oil for this year.more..
neighbors, friends and supporters cleaned up the garden and planted olive trees.
we drove off the beaten settlers’ track through the palestinian  villages in the area.
settlers cut down more than 500 olive trees in nablus imemc - friday march 04, 2011 - 12:18, 500 olive trees, which were planted some weeks ago near an settlement outpost called yash adam, were cut down by the israeli settlers this morning in nablus.
several traditions and rituals are related to the olive  harvest, and it is also...
approximately 200 palestinian, israel and international demonstrators tried to block bulldozers uprooting an olive grove, sitting in... palestinian popular struggle against home demolitions, olive tree destruction in bethlehem area alternative information center - tuesday, 27 april 2010, one of the fronts of the popular struggle in the west bank is now beit jala, bethlehem district.
"despite the decision by an  israeli court allowing palestinian farmers to work on their lands, israeli  troops banned farmers today from planting [olive trees]," said muhammad  awad, media spokesman for the palestine solidarity project.
israeli movement restrictions, like the closures and the  barrier, which israel has stated are meant to protect israeli citizens, raise  concerns over the ability of palestinian farmers to complete this cycle....
in niilin, in the dark of night, israeli soldiers have staged hundreds of military raids and arrests of civilians from the village; hundreds more were injured forty by live ammunition, and five, including a ten year old, were shot dead.
west bank protests  mark olive harvest 10/9/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
this year we got over twice as much olives as last year from our own grove.
if so, you would be advised to recall those encampments now long vanished from view, bereft of a single place sign, or exit road.
yousef karajah, member of the popular committee against the.... report: soldiers guard settlers as they torch olive grove palestine note 23
we were born to live and think about how to best enjoy our life while we are still alive.
settlers attack irraq burin farmers 14 oct 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli settlers  attacked on friday palestinian farmers who were trying to harvest their olive  trees in the village of irraq burin, southwest of nablus.
no freedom in the land of false  prophets – a poem palestine chronicle: 2 dec 2011 -
songs tear down fences in izbat tabib 7/14/2011 - international  solidarity movement - 13 july 2011, international solidarity movement, west  bank - on july 13th villagers in the small town of izbat tabib wanted to  protest against the illegal israeli construction of barbed wire fences  outside the village, preventing farmers from tending their lands and olive  trees.
nameer at-tirawi, 28, said more than 50 settlers descended upon the village and began throwing stones at.... palestinian diaspora join in olive harvest 10/13/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
remembering arafat -- letter from a palestinian diplomat saadi  salama, ma’an news agency 11/10/2011 mr president, the first time i met you 30 years  ago, i was studying at hanoi university in vietnam; that was only a few days  after the assassination of egyptian president anwar sadat in cairo and the  assassination in rome of your brother-in-arms majed abo sharar.
when we arrived on friday, the densely packed soil formed small hills with alien, ridged, patterns: israeli tanks had roamed here, dozens of them.
this morning (friday), a group of armed settlers from the illegal outpost of  ash kodesh (sacred/holy light) approached a group of palestinians picking  olives, accompanied by israeli and international activists.
the very knowledge of their presence  inspired dread.
[uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers set fire to olive trees in burin uruknet july 28, 2011 - -- israeli settlers on friday torched olive trees in  burin village, south of nablus, and fired live ammunition at firefighters'  trucks trying to reach the blaze, palestinian authority officials said.
[uruknet.info] settlers 'chop down  100 olive trees' in nablus uruknet january 14, 2012 -- israeli  settlers chopped down more than 100 olive trees belonging to palestinians south  of nablus on friday evening, a pa official said.
i smiled at her, nodding my head to confirm that.
so its patently absurd.
we learned new picking and storage methods and much more through the project," says um yazan, a palestinian woman who benefited from the training.
"the mosaic is particularly important because the small  colored tiles forming...more.. bethlehem makes best of christmas  despite israeli policies middle east online 12/19/2007 bethlehem, west bank - bethlehem souvenir store owner mike canawati is gearing  up for his merriest christmas in years.
israeli forces uproot 100 olives trees in salfit pic -
settlers uproot olive trees near jerusalem and ramallah imemc - a group of armed israeli settlers uprooted, on thursday evening, twenty olive trees that belong to palestinian residents of beit safafa town, south of occupied east jerusalem.
he opened them with a persistence to inhale as much of the smell as he... israel demolishes industrial buildings north of jerusalem, settlers uproot 30 olive trees pnn - jerusalem – pnn - citing lack of license and proximity to a military crossing, israeli forces demolished an agricultural storehouse, a gas station, and several other industrial buildings in the palestinian village... demonstrations in ni'lin: routine or resistance?
around 8am that morning, approximately five israeli military  bulldozers and upwards of 10 israeli tanks, accompanied by more than 50 foot  soldiers, invaded the farming region, according to locals.
threads of tradition: palestinian traditional costumes, antiochian heritage museum, bolivar, pa, may 2005 to april 2006...more..
settlers target palestinian olive trees uruknet november 8, 2010 -
following the  previous demolition, in early march, local palestinian residents and  international supporters rebuilt the playground and planted new olive trees in  the garden.
a month ago near to where we were picking the olives grandfather ibrahim abu sayed, his 17 year-old grandson and friend were mutilated and killed by israeli tank shelling despite being twice as far from the border as we were.
i  met a farmer who had an order for tomatoes from germany.
-- see also:notes from behind the blockade more.. e-mail israeli court 'extends students detention' 11/20/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
destruction and uprooting of trees...more..
the olive tree is a national symbol  for palestinians.
at around 5pm a group of 25 palestinian and  international activists joined 10 families whose homes were destroyed....
settlers caused damage several palestinian villages' land in the qalqiliya and nablus districts on sunday, an official said.
israel to adjust wall’s route in bil’in 2/6/2010 - ramallah - ma'an - attorney of bil'in local council,  michael sfard, said on saturday that israeli authorities informed him of the  new route of the separation wall, adjusted according to a decision by the  israeli supreme court of justice in 2007.
[end] israeli bulldozers return to beit jala 3/3/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - dozens of palestinians and foreign solidarity activists rallied near bethlehem on wednesday, in protest of the bulldozing of olive trees near a section of israel's wall, which weaves through the occupied west bank.
(good, as it turned out.
as a foreigner, i was to don a reflective fluorescent yellow vest and walk in front of the palestinians, which seemed to provide them a degree of solace.
settlers uproot trees in nablus village 10/6/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --
neighbours were prevented from reaching the families, and teachers...
however,  according to ignatius, “one big reason [top u.s. officials became  convinced the plot was real] is that cia and other intelligence agencies  gathered information corroborating the informant’s juicy allegations and  showing that the plot had support from the top leadership of the elite quds  force of the iranian revolutionary guard corps, the covert action arm of the  iranian government.”
in the west bank, palestinian freedom riders, inspired by the us freedom riders of the 1960s, were getting ready to board segregated buses to occupied east jerusalem.
, gaza fishermen attacked likes vermin by israeli killer boats.
one way to describe the hills wedged in between route 317 and the west banks southern border is to say that they cover approximately four square kilometers, yet can take as long as two hours to traverse.... more.. e-mail witnesses:
when completed, its expected to be over 800 km, twice the length  of the green line, four times as long as the berlin wall, and in...more israel imprisoned my father for nonviolently resisting the occupation uruknet july 16, 2010 -
military uses live ammunition on burin demonstration 1/30/2010 - international solidarity movement - a demonstration against the  israeli order to halt construction of a nearly-completed mosque today, on  threat of demolition, drew local, regional and international supporters in  addition to attendance by the palestinian authority minister of religion.
they said that they hoped that the  price of one kilogram of olive oil would be between us $3. 5 and $ 4.
the unnamed man was stopped at a flying checkpoint near the jenin village of yabad.
israeli forces demolish 17 buildings in northern west bank 1/11/2010 - international solidarity movement - 10 january - israeli military forces have demolished 17 buildings in the palestinian community of khirbet tana for the second time.
see also:source more.. e-mail jerusalem police arrest two arab youths suspected of vandalizing jewish cemetery ha'aretz - east jerusalem residents allegedly smashed mount of olives gravestones in order to steal bronze casings of memorial candles.
a palestinian  family living in jerusalem had invited me to visit their village south of  hebron, where they owned acres of land with olive trees they'd...
what  justifies the brutal rampage of terror and murder?
they just go to provoke the volunteers  looking for clahses, he said.
settler violence on  the rise; violent incidents in 2011 may double those in 2010 mondoweiss - in west bank, settler violence seen on the rise huwara, west bank  (reuters) 14 july – scorched hillsides and charred olive groves near  nablus pinpoint the latest acts of arson by hardline jewish settlers against  palestinians who say they are ever more the victims of such...
in photos: settlers disrupt burin olive harvest 10/13/2010  - maanimages - israeli residents living on the illegal west bank settlement of  yitzhar in the northern west bank district of nablus have been disrupting the  olive harvest in the nearby burin village since the season began in early  october.
join the 2010 olive harvest campaign 8/29/2010 - international solidarity movement - at a time of increasing settler  violence in the west bank, the international solidarity movement is issuing an  urgent call for volunteers to participate in the 2010 olive harvest campaign at  the invitation of palestinian communities.
demonstrators chanted songs of protest  and carried baby olive trees in the hopes of planting them on the seized land  as a peaceful assertion of their rights to be there.
i forced myself to stay under my blanket.
settlers burn olive trees in bil’in 16 jun 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli settlers burnt yesterday dozens of olive trees planted in the territories of bil’in village located behind the apartheid wall in the west of ramallah.
bloomberg has noticed that the area shows an annual growth rate of 7%.
'decision points' is a hoax as transparent as clifford irving's fake  autobiography of howard hughes.
settlers smash palestinians' cars, block olive harvesting in nablus 26 oct 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-a number of israeli settlers smashed yesterday overnight several palestinians' cars passing through yitzhar road, while other settlers blocked palestinian farmers from accessing their fields to harvest their olives in hawra village, southern nablus.
two settlers and three palestinians were hurt during the violence that began when settlers, protesting the razing of illegal structures in the nearby yitzhar settlement, set fire to palestinian olive trees....
footnotes are inessential at best; at worst they trip up the greater narrative.
that effectively ended the demonstration; we turned and headed back toward the village.
the village of burin is located less than  10 kilometers south of nablus in the occupied west bank.
the herbal condiment za'atar, a mixture of dried thyme, sumac and sesame seed commonly eaten with olive oil and bread, has become well known in recent years outside the middle east, especially among visitors and solidarity...
passing through the checkpoint, the scents, sounds  and sights of the vibrant commercial city center give way to a deserted area  where the only people to be seen are a few settlers strolling down emptied  streets and israeli soldiers posted on rooftoops and street corners.
the palestinians report that, as in previous incidents, the forces... extensions to mount of olives mosque illegal, says city jerusalem post 12 jul 2011 - construction continues despite municipal stop-work order; located next to rotary at main entrance to ras el-amud, mosque was built in 1950s.
israeli forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily unrest in silwan 9 nov 2010 - jerusalem, november 9, (pal telegraph - ism) today, workers from the jerusalem municipality and israeli forces removed the memorial of samer sarhan, this morning.
tear gas fired at protesters by an israeli army unit caused  fire in nearby olive groves.
hundreds gather to mourn 4 victims of kiryat arba attack jeruslalem post 1 sep 2010 - yitzhak ames, 47, and his wife tali ames, 45, will be buried at the mount of olives cemetery in jerusalem, kochava even-haim, 37, in ashdod, and avishai schindler, 24, in petah tikva.
journalists and photographers were prohibited from accessing the area, as the frequently employed designation also applies to press coverage.
yesterday afternoon in ni’lin, in an act of vandalism and  repression, ‘the world’s most moral army’ opened fire with  tear gas and set olive trees ablaze as a response to the weekly non-violent  demonstration by residents and international activists.
to make matters worse, the people of immatin have the misfortune of  living just south of the qedumim settlement.
ghassan doughlas,  palestinian authority head of the settler portfolio in the northern west bank,  told ma'an that settlers from the illegal hayovel outpost east of the village  uprooted the olive crop, which palestinian farmers planted for earth day.
oliver stone - film director and screenwriter america-hijacked.com o utspoken hollywood director says new film aims to put adolf hitler, who he has called an ‘easy scapegoat’ in the past, in his due historical context.
ramallah is not palestine sandy toalan, le monde diplomatique, israeli occupation archive 4/1/2010
the olive branch fights back ips "during hard times, we have survived off olive oil," says ahmed sourani from the palestinian agricultural relief committee.
conversely, the olive season was lucrative, which was substituted lost incomes and provided temporary employment to families.more.. opening "the blessed tree" exhibition at the plaza marketing center ma’an news agency 1/25/2007 ramallah - chief of the union of palestinian chambers of commerce, ahmad hashim, has on thursday opened an exhibition of products of the olive tree, entitled "the blessed tree".
the area includes over 2,000 olive trees, all owned by palestinians in the predominantly christian town between bethlehem and jerusalem.
once the adjusted route is  implemented, residents of bil’in are expected to restore almost half of  their 2,300 donums confiscated during the construction of the wall’s  original route.
see also:video - israel police raze ‘illegal’ bedouin village in negev
the two soldiers saw nasser filming the events, went over to him and pushed  him, telling him that he was forbidden to be there.
more.. e-mail the battle for al-walaja uruknet july 1, 2010 - hidden between the ancient cities of jerusalem and bethlehem, lies the village of al-walaja.
later, as we were leaving, we notice the israeli army on the hill and the same man with the blue shirt briefing them.
earlier tuesday, troops  advanced on the farmers planting trees, who responded to the encroachment by  throwing rocks.
in accordance with title 17 u.s.c. section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes.
this is my rendition of an  anthem to be sung that day you and i will stand side by side shoulder to  shoulder watching a new dawn wipe away decades of hate and savagery
the sheep, goats and the cattle were nowhere to be seen –  perhaps because the police had confiscated them.
nor do reports mention  the frequency with which israeli settlers beat, occasionally torture, and  sometimes murder palestinians of all ages, burn their crops, and hack down  their groves of olive trees, the livelihood of many palestinian villagers;  hundreds, at least, of these trees, have been destroyed by rampaging israeli  settlers.
the village of bil'in is beautifully situated amongst soft green hills.
a group of settlers destroyed eight olive  trees and damaged two lemon trees belonging to farmer abdel razzaq khaled  mansour in the wadi qana area of deir istaya, locals told ma'an.
the pwec was created by nawal slemiah just over 6  years ago.
the report, entitled, "the road to olive farming: challenges to developing the... palestinian-settler clash over olive farms in west bank palestine note 15 oct 2010 - washington - tensions between the palestinians and settlers in the west bank erupted into violence after gunshots were exchanged and fires were ignited on the first day of the olive harvest, ynet news reported friday.
israeli settlers raid olive orchards, attempt to steal olive imemc - 21
bulldozers return to destroy  children’s playground in beit jala.
“when the israeli army imposes curfews on us, preventing us from leaving our homes, it is our main food source.
ghassan douglas, in charge of the... official: settlers  uproot trees in nablus village 10/6/2011 - nablus (ma'an) --  israeli settlers uprooted 200 olive trees in qusra village near nablus  overnight wednesday, a palestinian authority official said.
soldiers fired tear gas and percussion grenades over  the wall at nonviolent demonstrators, who were not deterred and continued a  spirited protest.
in an exclusive interview with ‘the  jerusalem post,’ coordinator of government activities in the territories  eitan dangot talks about his unit’s mission of assisting the population  of gaza without benefiting hamas, as well as working together with the pa in  the west bank.
pa  settlement affairs officer in the northern west bank ghassan doughlas said  residents of the nearby svhut rachel outpost ascended upon the village....
“for us to exist on this  land is to resist,” says qumsiyeh, who teaches at bethlehem and birzeit  universities.
young olive trees were replanted in place of the mature trees that were destroyed during the first days of uprooting last week.
supported by caretaker prime minister salam fayyad, the democracy and workers rights center (dwrc) and the handicrafts union of bethlehem, the opening ceremony - with minister of tourism khoulud da'iebes in attendance - celebrated the achievements of the women in putting together the event, and working to strengthen the handicrafts union.
wadi qana farmland being polluted by settlement sewage uruknet august 1, 2010 -
in a report... sailors return to uk after iran detention daily star 4 dec 2009 four british yachtsmen seized by iran returned to britain on friday, saying it was "great to be back," as they planned a trip to the pub.
and my  freedom will bring your salvation this is my rendition of an anthem to be sung
locals told ma'an that troops entered the village and fired on houses, breaking into some of the homes and deploying on their rooftops.
at least three palestinians were injured when dozens  of settlers from itamar armed with sticks and stones attacked the group of  about 50 workers harvesting....
a subsequent decision, brown vs the board of education, 1954,  was essentially unimplemented until the mid to late 1960’s with the onset  of the administration of lyndon johnson.
for the first time in many days, his spirits lifted.
two  families were made homeless.
some were able  to secure special permits during harvest seasons from israeli authorities,  however this did not always guarantee access to groves and orchards if settlers  were present in the area.
soldiers prevent farmers from planting olive trees near bethlehem imemc 1 feb 2010 - monday february 01, 2010 - 13:36, the israeli military prevented, on monday, palestinian farmers and their international supporters from planting olive trees near the southern west bank city of bethlehem.
instead of uprooting trees, they... clashes between hebron university students and settlers pnn - muhannad al-adam – hebron – pnn - dozens of hebron university students clashed with settlers from the hebron area outpost of susya this morning after helping local farmers harvest their olive trees....
israeli soldiers uproot olive saplings in jeruasalm 4 may 2011 -  west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli army uprooted dozens of olive saplings in  the village of al-nabi samuel in the north-west of jerusalem.
the story of a shoemaker living in hebron's h2 stop the wall - we are here because we exist.
a number of villagers from nearby deir istiya, including village mayor nazmi....
uncovering the  ancient crafts of nablus palestine monitor:
one resident was injured by a teargas  canister and dozens suffered tear gas inhalation.
the obama administration has sent a formal diplomatic request asking iran to return the radar-evading drone aircraft... gaziantep journal: turkey’s sanctions on syria hurt business for border city new york times 13 dec 2011 -
yet the first thing i saw in al-nabi salih was a huge sign in arabic and english: we believe in non-violence.
more pa to support olive oil  farmers 9/25/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
once every week or two she drives to these places by herself.
approximately 60 people live in the valley itself, and many more own land in  the area in which they farm animals and cultivate both citrus and olive trees.
as you know 'christmas is the day that holds all time together' (alexander smith) certainly as you rustle through your christmas stocking and wrestle with your conscience perhaps to find as you dig deep in both and past ‘hegemonic imperatives’ an olive twig or a so-called ‘peace process’?
jaser abdel -razaq from deit ballut, salfit, on tuesday morning.
residents petition high court to access olive groves 10/12/2010 - bethlehem (ma'an) -- residents of the wadi ar-rasha village filed a petition tuesday with the israeli high court of justice to secure access to their land during the olive harvest, an israeli rights group said.
a palestinian agriculture expert warned  from filling the palestinian market with "peat" refined oil through  an israeli merchant from the galilee, and mediated by local traders, to be sold  on the basis that its extra virgin olive oil but with fair prices cheating the  consumers.
soldiers fired  tear gas, sound bombs, and live ammunition at villagers, detained three  journalists attempting to document the raid, and set fire to an ancient olive  tree.
knesset to  discuss mt. of olives cemetery security jerusalem post 26 feb 2012  - the 3,000-year-old cemetery suffers from rampant desecration of graves and  violence against visitors.
during my visit i saw shoe factories and olive oil presses, i met palestinian businessmen who, just like me, want to have a decent life for themselves and their families.
zionist setters burn 150 olive trees in al-khalil uruknet may 23, 2010 - dozens of zionist settlers raided the village of sa'ir east of al-khalil district on saturday and burned tens of fruitful olive trees, local sources reported.
luba al-samri, police representative for arabic media, said the  settlers uprooted 20 trees in the beit safafa area of jerusalem.
so far, the department is.... israeli settlers’  violence report – september and october 2010 ahmad jaradat,  alicia isani, aic, alternative information center 11/18/2010 introduction the  following report highlights a drastic change in israeli settler attacks against  palestinians, not only because of the increasing number of aggressions but also  because of the evolution of the violence itself.
a palestinian man was moderately injured on wednesday as a group of israeli settlers attacked farmers in the jit village near nablus, witnesses said.
on 26  september, settlers and their supporters publicly celebrated the beginning of a  new wave of illegal construction in the west bank, a celebration they had been  preparing since the beginning of september.
in may 2009, the israeli military... 250 olive trees planted by volunteers near osh grab imemc 12 feb 2010 - friday february 12, 2010 - 17:10, following the beginning of construction of a new watchtower at the site of the former military base, this week, residents of beit sahour and international volunteers gathered at the surrounding farmlands, on friday, to cultivate the land, planting 250 olive trees.
and when the world is celebrating the rescue of 33 chilean miners trapped underground- whom we all are glad to see brought back to life again-
the activists organized this week’s actions to plant dozens of olive trees near the israeli settlement of karmei tsur.
farid batch and his brother wasfi live about 500 meters from their  old houses in jabaliya, north gaza.
al-habbash accused the israeli government of supporting the "terrorism of settlers who are corrupting the west bank, burning palestinian olive orchards, and attack palestinian villages with the support and protection of the israeli army," he said in a statement.
they also attacked a palestinian resident while  he was picking olives, they said.
israeli prime minister bows to us demands and suspends construction of settler homes in east jerusalem
unlike most harvests around the world which are collected either by local farmers or migrant workers, in the case of palestine people are literally flying in from all over the... psp accompanied farmers` olive harvest in surif palestine solidarity project 19 oct 2011 - october 19th, 2011, psp, members from the popular committees of beit ommar and surif, several international volunteers, and boy shouts from the area supported palestinian farmers from abu shook in surif while they harvested their olive trees.
in silwan imemc - 13 may 2010 - a group of fundamentalist israeli settlers torched, wednesday night, an 11-dunam olive orchard in al-rababa valley, in silwan, south of the old city of jerusalem.
but there are also unexpected nativity scenes complete with joseph, mary, crib, wise men and large israeli...
shortly after midnight, a group of israeli settlers invaded the village and vanadalized the orchard, eyewitnesses reported.
towards the end of the planting, a  settler from the illegal settlement of shilo came down in a pickup carrying an  assault rifle....
"including during the last war," says sourani, referring  to the 23 day war israel waged on gaza three years ago.
"every year as the olive harvest season comes around so do various  groups of provocateurs," settler leader david ha'ivri.... video:
the smell produced is overpowering  at times, a sickly-sweet stench of rotting organic matter and chemical  effluvia, which sticks to clothes and hair despite the light breezes that sweep  over the hilltop.
nameer at-tirawi,  28, said more than 50 settlers descended upon the village and began throwing  stones at residents,...
they told the pic reporter that the iof troops escorted three military bulldozers, noting that the iof soldiers fired three projectiles at cultivated lands east of shujaia inflicting material damage.
middle east conflict played out in the olive groves pnn 3 dec 2009 - akram imran says the jewish settlers came at night.
we put out a long line with a fender on the end and in we all plunged a swim to remember.
israeli authorities attack agricultural project of palestinian children alternative information center - project olive trees , conducted by the italian-palestinian association amal since christmas 2010 in the palestinian village of al walaje, is currently under threat by israel.
the program, implemented by oxfam gb and the palestinian agricultural relief  committees, will increase the ministry of agriculture's capacity to create a  good business environment for producers, and....
wadi qana in the south of nablus after being declared a “military closed zone” and held a number of citizens from the nearby town of deir esta while bulldozing around 450 olive trees and destroying 3 donoms ready to be planted.
"we are getting there," he remembers thinking.
in al-walaja near bethlehem imemc - tuesday july 26, 2011 - 18:31, israeli troops detained, kidnapped two palestinians from the village of al-walaja near bethlehem tuesday morning.
on january  11, the delegation i’m traveling with visited with mohammed jaradat of  the badil resource center for palestinian residency and refugee rights.
related:'we are different' brings  joy to palestinian children and “ehna gheir” palestinian voluntry  group j’lem
the "dignite al karama" is so far the only boat in a planned flotilla organized by pro-palestinian activists to set sail from....
awwad, a 40-year-old local villager,  told the maan news agency that he saw the security officer parking his jeep  near... israeli forces toss gas bomb on protester near hebron,  causing ’severe burns to the entire body of mohammed jamal abu hashim,  14′ mondoweiss -
al-qaryuti said the trees were on land  belonging to mohammad jaber,ahmad jaber, abed al-aziz al-mardawi and yaser  hasen.
the  report provides an overview of incidents that occurred during this year‘s  harvest season collected by field workers on the ground in the west bank.
we drove off the beaten settlers track through the palestinian villages in the area.
“we  were in our home when we heard the israeli tanks and bulldozers approaching.
israeli settlers torch olive trees  near bethlehem imemc - 19
eva bartlett reports for the electronic intifada.
as a bumper crop year, the olive  industry promises to contribute over 118 million usd (based on 2003/4 figures)
settlers desecrate olive groves in burin uruknet january 8, 2010 - 20 olive trees belonging to the sufan family of burin village were destroyed by settlers this morning.
despite this, the soldiers  have continued to attempt to abuse their power, generally using tactics of  intimidation and threats, in a vain hope that they will force the  internationals to submit to their inflated sense of power.
they were driven by private contractors and guarded by israeli soldiers.
the volume, featuring the work of over 30 accomplished writers,  is the most articulate treatise on the collective victimization of palestinians  to date.
he added that the ministry has succeeded,  through its communication with local, regional and international bodies, to  market large quantities of the palestinian territories’ surplus olive oil  for this year.more..
the popular committee  popular committee against the wall and settlements issued...
-- see also:aljazeera video:
he was taken to nearby raffidya hospital, where he is being kept under observation.
we: provide accompaniment to palestinian civilians (including farmers during the annual olive harvest), document and non-violently intervene in human-rights abuses , support palestinians in their non-violent resistance to end the israeli military....
take a good look at the man who held the title of potus for eight years - he looks jittery and it’s worth speculating if he’s back on the bottle.
various heads of state,  including president obama, have condemned it.
it was replete with carefully  designed pauses, indonesian words and phrases, and some self deprecating humor,
most shops are closed in the  old city.
firefighters were deployed at the site of a fire on a 15-dunum olive grove in  the jayyous village near qalqiliya as well as fires on farmland in rafat in  salfit and in beit fajjar in.... settlers riot in burin, shooting  and setting fire to olive trees 7/27/2010 - international  solidarity movement - at 11:30 yesterday, 26th july 2010, settlers from the  berakha shomronim settlement began shooting at palestinians in the village of  burin and setting fire to crops on their land.
my beautiful palestine palestine chronicle: 30 mar 2010 -
"dozens of olive trees from the  at-tyur area east of... israel uproots palestinian olive trees near  nablus 3/16/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli troops blocked off  access to agricultural fields near the village of beit dajan on wednesday,  while bulldozers tore out dozens of olive trees from privately owned property,  officials said.
tuba  is in the upper galilee, nearby is the jewish town of safed.
the fire gutted the interior of the mosque, burning  quranic texts and other sacred objects.
and other news from today in palestine:  land and property theft and destruction / ethnic cleansing settlers burn 10  dunums of farmlands south of nablus nablus, (pic)-- israeli settlers from  the itamar settlement in south nablus burned on friday at least ten dunums of  land cultivated with olive...
tamir told me that in previous years when he and his family harvested the olives they were frequently attaked by th settlers who threw them stones while they were farming.
israeli settlers violence report september and october 2010 ahmad jaradat, alicia isani, aic, alternative information center 11/18/2010 introduction the following report highlights a drastic change in israeli settler attacks against palestinians, not only because of the increasing number of aggressions but also because of the evolution of the violence itself.
we palestinians have nothing to cherish more than our roots and ancestral identity.
israel's  blood diamonds electronic intifada: 29 mar 2010 - every year,  consumers the world over unwittingly spend billions of dollars on diamonds  crafted in israel, thereby helping to fund one of the world's most protracted  and contentious conflicts.
according to an israeli military spokesperson, the troops  responded with "riot dispersal" mechanisms.
over 500 olive trees were burned and uprooted on saturday night,  in settler attacks on villages near nablus and hebron, a government statement  said.
it is the norm encouraged by the settler leadership, which, in turn is supported by the government.
the fire gutted the interior of the mosque, burning quranic texts and other sacred objects.
but before these kilos can be poured on  pasta, heated to fry, or soaked in bread, the olives must go to a press.
palestinian star ammar hassan will celebrate this year's olive festival in bethlehem.
4/22/2010 - international solidarity movement - israeli bulldozers today destroyed a garden and children's playground in beit jala, and 100 fruit and olive trees in al walaja, both in the bethlehem district, to make way for the continued construction of their illegal apartheid wall.
they said that tens of  settlers descended from hills overlooking the village and burnt the trees over  almost ten dunums of land.
al-qaryuti said the trees were on land belonging to mohammad jaber,ahmad jaber, abed al-aziz al-mardawi and
police opened an investigation into whether the blaze was due to  negligence or arson, a press statement said.
international activists have been prevented by the military from  attending olive harvests during the past two days in some areas and settlers  harassed and threw stones at... [uruknet.info] this year's olive  harvest in walaja may be the last uruknet october 17, 2011 - this  week, the olive harvest began across the west bank, with people returning to  villages from city jobs to assist with the picking.
settlers damage trees after harvesting olives, locals say 10/6/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
today we worked in the olive groves of the village of hares.
outgoing unrwa director plants saplings near nablus 2/14/2011 - nablus (ma'an) -
inside the weekly anti-wall protests pnn - ni’lin - pnn/exclusive - in another world, these would be the beginnings of a picnic.
it will be a major milestone in a remarkable year - one that brought  the european capital of culture to tallinn and the euro to estonia.
"my fellow elders and i met abu rahmah and his  colleague mohammad khatib in august when we visited bil'in," said desmond  tutu.
israel prevents christian pilgrims from  visiting bethlehem palestine note 3/31/2010 in a response to a totally nonviolent protest by  palestinian christians and muslims demanding their freedom of movement the  israeli army has effectively banned entry of christian pilgrims and tourists  from visiting the birth place of christ.
akram na'san, a resident of the village of al-mughayyir, north-east of ramallah, discovered on monday morning that approximately 260 olive seedlings which he planted recently were uprooted and destroyed.
settlers also  vandalized a mosque in yatma village south of nablus, spraying... al walajeh: demonstrators , military clash over olive trees uproot.
my  arrival in nabi saleh tells me a lot about the village nestled deep in the west  bank, north of ramallah.
and it  isn’t just mosques that are targets.
local farmers and international volunteers planted olive trees in the bethlehem village of al-khader on monday as part of an ongoing advocacy initiative to protect palestinian land.
the olive groves where peaceful solidarity grows | seth freedman the guardian 28 oct 2010 - while some israelis are vandalising west bank farms, others are volunteering to help the harvest with the olive harvest in full swing across the west bank, reports are flooding in of settler attacks on palestinian farmers...
palestinians appeal to court jeruslalem post 13 oct 2010 -
some of the graves  there date back several centuries.
the gaza government's ministry  of agriculture said monday that israeli forces were disrupting the entry of  olives from the west bank into gaza.
seeking to "reclaim public space from its corporate governors", these green-fingered activists plant flowers, sometimes vegetables, in waste ground under overpasses, at the side of roads and in the centres of cities where concrete has long since replaced living, breathing flora and fauna.
the report documented 139 attacks on  palestinians in the west bank by the israeli army and settlers during the  month, including the demolition of 95 buildings and over 3600 olive trees and  vines.
the army arrested abdel-razaq in an olive field near “al  ze’if’ settlement while he was checking...
this past weekend’s demonstrations (3-4 june)  against the israeli occupation, settlements and apartheid walls were conducted  in the west bank villages of bil’in, na’alin, nabi saleh, al masara  and beit ummar.
the seven arches hotel  belongs to the jordanian royal family but it...
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not to be worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an area (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,... random violence
israeli army fails to protect palestinian children operation dove, alternative information center 1/19/2012
obama’s administration crafted a legal document in secret ahead of the  assassination of u.s.-born al-qaeda leader anwar al-awlaqi, which permitted the  killing of an american citizen without trial, a report said saturday.
west bank protests mark olive harvest 10/9/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
in his short period in charge the commander has revoked a long  established agreement that teachers; pregnant women and others with health  issues do not have to pass through the radiation emitting checkpoint and must  instead submit to being searched every time.
around 40 students from different palestinian universities marched onto the land at 11am saturday morning and began to pick... just two prisoner stories and the olive harvest intifada-palestine:
derivative of airbus craft to use radar to monitor airspace, warn of approaching.... israeli soldiers interrupt funeral with tear gas, close entrance to beit ommar palestine solidarity project 20 jun 2011 -
in a small jerusalem store, nathan serfaty carries the torch of a  dying craft - watchmaking.
dear friends -- greetings --- the comrades of the “sindicato de artes e ofícios vários de araxá” (syndicate of various arts and crafts of araxá), minas gerais, brazil, affiliated to the “confederação operária brasileira” (brazilian workers’ confederation), brazilian section of the international workers association, are under...
the committee, consisting of various ministry of economy departments including the department of consumer protection and the economic department of the palestinian security police, conducted an investigation into the produce sold in hebron markets to ensure that groceries were consumable for the eid al-adha holiday, the committee told ma'an.
on the way, they were attacked by settlers and the army.
despite the crippling israeli occupation of her village, she continues to work her land, along with her husband, on a daily basis.
settlers who were travelling on the road  stopped their cars and threw stones at the students.
the month of december was characterized by increased  israeli military and police actions against the palestinian communities of the  south hebron hills.
pink irises, red puppies, and yellow flowers weave intricate patterns among the endless green carpet...
the daily show with jon stewart mon - thurs 11p / 10c
the attack on the freedom flotilla is the culmination  of more than four years of failed policy, in which a siege has been imposed on  the entire population of gaza in an attempt to weaken and isolate hamas after  its victory in the 2006 parliamentary elections.
bulldozer treads dug through bean and onion crops, in zigs and  zags, seemingly without direction.
land for settlement and wall construction.
10 - today a family in the village of  salim, southeast of nablus, was prevented from harvesting their olives for a  second time this year.
craftsmen carve out their corner in egypt la times 30 nov 2009 - with almost no unemployment, damietta, a center of handmade furniture, is an anomaly in egypt.
witnesses said that soldiers took the man to a nearby area of olive trees where they began to assault him.
for many of those working here, these shacks act as their home during the week, a place they can sleep at night rather than going back to the village of yatta.
"more peace  means more tourists," said canawati, wrapping a plastic cherub for a  customer as a jazzed-up version of "o come all ye faithful" filtered  through the loudspeakers with its message of pilgrimage to bethlehem.more..
the first blaze hit an an olive tree grove in the northern west bank district of tubas, after which forces put out a fire in a citrus grove near the far'un village....
related:pa official: settlers harvest palestinian olives pa official:
olive groves and orchards once bloomed on your land, fishermen now dead.
settlers torch olive orchards near ramallah imemc - thursday june 16, 2011 - 11:24, a number of armed extremist israeli settlers torched on wednesday at night dozens of olive trees that belong to villagers of bil’in village, near the central west bank city of ramallah.
the small courtroom was packed with friends and colleagues of arrigoni, in addition to four or five members of the defendants’ families.
israeli soldiers attacked demonstrators:... al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers palestine monitor - a sit-in protest was organised in the west bank village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
they said that tens of settlers descended from hills overlooking the village and burnt the trees over almost ten dunums of land.
we are sorry to disturb you with our miserable poor  workers who crowd your checkpoints at dawn with permits, and sometimes without  permits, dressed in worn-out clothes, their sleepiness charged with hunger.
" palestinian olive grove destroyed in the night 1/16/2010 - international solidarity movement - 15 january, christian peacemaker team -
"it is nothing to do with us, we just get orders from our superiors," they said.
more.. e-mail occupation bulldozers change features of bab al-amoud pic - israeli occupation bulldozers under protection of occupation police and soldiers started on tuesday morning to uproot olive trees from a park close to
an israeli military spokeswoman said riot-dispersal means were  used to disperse a violent riot.
the israeli army blocked everyone from access to the olive grove which is being uprooted.
rivlin visits mount of olives project jeruslalem post 22  jul 2010 -
the activists organized this week’s actions  to plant dozens of olive trees near the israeli settlement of karmei tsur.
olson’s writing brings out...more dutch band  brings music to palestinian streets pnn - pnn exclusive /by
according to israeli media, more than 300 olive trees were uprooted and the racist graffiti was sprayed across the village.
residents of the village, in the  northern qalqiliya district, had applied for 98 requests to access their olive  groves....
then we head east out to the farmland, passing between giant slabs of concrete placed at the outskirts of the village in an attempt to protect children playing in the streets from israeli army gunfire.
the seven arches hotel, atop the mount of olives in east jerusalem,  belongs to the jordanian royal....
i'm just  saying that the ex-president was in no mental state to write a book - certainly  not a book of this size.
not wanting to time the encounter with the israeli navy in the dark we slowed down and when the morning had warmed up i suggested that a good way to de-stress would be to stop the boat and for us all take a swim in the sparkling deep blue water.
when completed, its expected to be over 800 km, twice the length of the green line, four times as long as the berlin wall, and in...more israel imprisoned my father for nonviolently resisting the occupation uruknet july 16, 2010 -
visitors to the old city of nablus are greeted by an exotic patchwork of colours and aromas.
some 800 olive farmers attended a series  of courses on administration, trimming olive trees, harvesting, olive oil  extraction and laboratory work, undertaken by the european commission, oxfam,  the union of palestinian farmers, and bethlehem university's fair trade  development center.
jewish lobby has distorted united states foreign policy for years mycatbirdseat.com: 26 jul 2010 - stone said that israel had distorted “united states foreign policy for years,” adding he felt u.s. policy toward iran was “horrible.”
the israeli prime minister, binyamin netanyahu, has bowed to american demands to suspend the construction of settlement homes in east...
they are beautiful, in every single sense of the word.
according to a new report released by operation dove, israeli authorities have been increasingly intransigent in their obligation to protect palestinian children from settler violence in the south hebron hills this school year.
a potent symbol of peace and harmony, the olive has become a source of confrontation and violence in the decades-old conflict that pits israel against palestinians.
for now, however,  american news reports continue to provide excruciating details about the  atrocity.
around 8am that morning, approximately five israeli  military bulldozers and upwards of 10 israeli tanks, accompanied by more than  50 foot soldiers, invaded the farming region, according to locals.
around 12 o'  clock a villager from the area spotted two settlers picking olives from the  land of....
israeli groups call on security forces to protect  palestinians 10/11/2010 - tel aviv (ma'an) --
on friday, israeli forces killed a palestinian man, issam kamal....
eu project trains palestinian olive farmers 4/20/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an -an eu project has helped small-scale palestinian olive farmers in the west bank produce international standard organic olive oil for global sale and develop their trade.
as this year’s olive... [
from time to time, as  bolder, more streamlined editions appear, history shakes off some footnotes  altogether.
speeches denounced the occupation  and its measures to destroy palestinian life.
it sounds like the beginning of a bad joke but it is an unfortunate reality of life in the west bank.
beit ommar  demonstration plants hundreds of olive trees palestine solidarity  project 5 feb 2012 -
a number of  jewish settlers accompanied by israeli military forces started uprooting 25  olive trees near the fureidis mount in the east of bethlehem and attacked  civilian houses.
0% in 2009, compared with 23.
palestinian legislative council members mustafa barghouthi and fayez as-saqa joined the protest, as well as members of the beit jala. . .
founded by  romans nearly 2,000 years ago, the city has survived byzantine, crusader,  islamic, and ottoman rule.
zionist settlers uproot 200  palestinian olive trees pic 17 aug 2010 - zionist settlers  uprooted more than 200 palestinian olive trees near the qasra village, south of  nablus, on monday, eyewitnesses reported.
israeli forces on monday uprooted 250 olive trees in al-jab'a northwest of hebron, locals said.
i have been in dangerous situations before, and was prepared for another one.
according to their website, "beit orot is at once defending  the sacred traditions of our nation, the physical security of eretz yisrael and  the integrity of yerushalayim as the undivided capital of israel and the jewish  people. "
"us campaign to end the israeli occupation's 10th anniversary video"; a2a_config.linkurl = "http://endtheoccupation.org/article.php?id=3150"; this year, contributions from supporters will allow us to plant 2,050 olive trees for palestinian farming families in 2012.
following navy warning, gaza flotilla takes 'alternate route' ynet news - video - three israeli naval craft left a haifa naval base just  after 9 pm and approached the "freedom flotilla" after dark on  sunday, according to the twitter page of .......
its rich soil, water resources and favourable climate produced abundant harvests of olives and vegetables.
- zionist settlers uprooted more than 200 palestinian olive trees near the qasra village, south of nablus, on monday, eyewitnesses reported.
on what rock is...more report: 30 olive trees cut down near hebron 12/21/2011 - tel aviv, israel (ma'an) -- over two dozen olive trees were chopped down near the palestinian city of hebron in the occupied west bank, israeli news media reported wednesday.
there are already some  ripening loquots....
occupation affects  every aspect of olive oil production electronic intifada: 19 oct  2010 - london, uk (irin) -
twelve weeks earlier, nadia, his wife of 21 years, had died suddenly of leukaemia and ever since, every day had dawned black.
dozens of israeli settlers on sunday uprooted  over 400 palestinian-owned olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, a  palestinian authority official said.
the israeli  military left it to settlers to monitor palestinian farmers during the olive  harvest mondoweiss - avigdor lieberman's home settlement of  nokdim.
israeli police failed... experts hail ever-versatile olive oil at j’lem conference jeruslalem post 28 jul 2010 - israel can become prominent in the industry by developing food, health products, mediterranean forum participants say.
i, however, offer a proposal to use  it for something even more meaningful – as an opportunity to show  ourselves and the world that estonia is as committed to the idea of freedom as  it was in 1991 – by recognizing the independence of palestine.
a palestinian research centre, specialised in monitoring israeli  violations, revealed that the israeli occupation authorities destroyed 14000  olive trees in the palestinian territories during 2009.
bil'in has been at the forefront of the non-violent resistance movement against the israeli occupation.
nilin protest photo wins silver camera award pnn 26 jan 2010 - holland –cris toala olivares, a dutch  citizen of ecuadorian origin, has won the “silver camera award” in  the foreign news category for a photo taken during a protest in nilin village  in the west bank in october 2009.
do most academics  know this?
the  operation took place under the... thinking of rachel corrie during  the olive harvest in the galilee mondoweiss - it is olive  gathering season and people in arrabeh are at it again.
“we were in our home when we heard the israeli tanks and bulldozers approaching.
however, demonstrators did manage to reach the wall (which in this area is a barbed wire fence) and removed tens of metres of it.
union: settlers burn olive trees  near nablus 7/5/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
its gardens are lush with fig and olive trees, roses and newly planted rows of vegetables.
under  the cover of dark, settlers entered the olive groves of the sufan family home  at around 3am... settlers desecrate olive groves in burin 1/8/2010 - international solidarity movement - 20 olive trees belonging to  the sufan family of burin village were destroyed by settlers this morning.
i dreamt  about my travel to jerusalem, the smell of its air, the view of its nature, its  streets, and its people.
palestinian youth threw stones at the  settlers, and the israeli army then attacked the youth with live ammunition,  injuring ten, three seriously.
where are the palestinian poets, brother arabs, progeny  of homer, shakespeare, lorca whose dreams enrich us all, dreams opposing hate  and war, the vicious greed of israelis and the blind-eyes of the world?
he added  that tens of thousands of shekels of damage was caused....
we are in the middle of the olive harvest  season and with it comes  episodes of violence  as well the harsh  face of israeli...
olives have been cultivated in palestinian  land for thousands of years.
the new neighborhood is called beit orot, and will house 24 new residential  units.
my excitement to reach it kept me awake
witnesses:  israeli bulldozers uproot 250 olive trees 2/22/2011 - hebron  (ma'an) --
students from the school were engaged in a demonstration against the soldiers who had stopped in front of the school, which is located near the main road.
i first noticed the chickens and geese running loose near a bulldozed house, and then saw another house and then another one, all of them in rubble.
the words  'strong', 'courageous', 'resilient' just aren't enough.
early tuesday morning israeli  soldiers raided the town of bil'in in the central west bank.
uruknet december 16, 2009 - another incident of olive tree vandalism occurred  in west bank.
rioters broke into the home of the mazar  family, trying to set fire to the car of family members trying to escape the  violence and then. . .
by william james martin where are the israeli poets?
biblical prophets, revered rabbis and a prime minister are buried there.
it is now scarily real and deeply personal.
but in the end  he sat, battered on their bridal bed under the olive tree, in black despair.
"during the last war many people who couldn't leave their homes had only bread and olive oil to sustain them for long periods."
bt selem release footage of settler attack imemc - wednesday july 06, 2011 - 16:24
dr. mohammed al-agha, the agriculture minister in gaza, asserted that the decision was meant to protect the local product of olives and olive oil in order to enhance the steadfastness of the palestinian farmer on his land.
the fire damaged 16 trees belonging to the abu  haikel family in tel rumeida, christian peacemaker teams said, adding that some  of the trees affected were over 1,000 years....
beforeisrael  started construction of the wall in bil'in, my family had 45 dunams (1 dunam =
from it's  release in 1988 in algiers until today, it's lessons continue to be relevant.
the blaze was extinguished after damaging over 200 olive trees, the civil defense said in a statement.
in thursday’s  column, ignatius notes that, initially, white house and justice department  officials found the story “implausible.”
barack this yule tide?
but as you dig, can you hear the  whispers?
palestinian sources that this attack  is the “fiercest” on the palestinian lands, the maan news agency  reported.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 100  saplings near nablus imemc - 8 jan 2011 - saturday january 08,  2011 - 10:21, israeli settlers uprooted on friday at least 100 olive saplings  that belong to residents of qasra village, southeast of the northern west bank  city of nablus.
israeli settlers torch olive trees in west bank village of  beit ommar, 13 solidarity activists detained alternative  information center - 13 international israeli and palestinian activists were  detained this morning (18 november) at around 9.30 a.m. in the west  bank’s saffa valley, while working with local palestinian farmers to  clear the land.
maybe because death is the only  concrete and dreadful fact we are sure of.
it seemed a little strange though, since at some point in the past they had obviously taken the trouble of building the walls, but having no way to find out more i was left with my assumptions.
this has aroused tension in the are and for  tamir the work of harvesitng olives has turned very complicated, beyond the  physical effort it may require.
ni'ilin knocking on doors: qalandiya shuafat a-infos 31 aug 2011 -
the horror was caught live on  israeli tv when the doctor phoned his broadcaster friend.
the obama administration, which labored for months to impose tough new united nations sanctions against iran, now is pushing in the opposite direction against congress as it crafts u.s. sanctions that the white house fears may go too far.
bil’in and ni’lin demonstrate in the face of closed military zone orders 3/19/2010 - international solidarity movement - the smell of tear gas hung over the villages of ni'lin and bil'in today.
colonel tirzeh is not just anybody.
the sufan  family has experienced harassment from the settlement almost from the. . .
some of them are at least 70 years old.
most students take za’atar (wild thyme) and olive  oil sandwiches to school...more video: 10 years of struggle for  justice us campaign to end the occupation 4 jan 2012 - var  a2a_config =
“we love olives,” added other children,  who gathered around.
oct 2010 - saturday october 02, 2010 - 05:51, a security guard working at the itamar jewish settlement, near the northern west bank city of nablus, torched a number of olive trees that belong to resident of awarta village, east of the city, settlement security officer torches palestinian olive trees uruknet october 1, 2010 -
well, actually the settlement has been built on his land and  the land of other farmers of hares - stolen from them by the settlers with the  complicity and assistance of the israeli government.more.. bethlehem arab women’s union (bawu)
mondoweiss - and other news  from today in palestine: settlers/ land, property, resource theft &  destruction/ethnic cleansing official: settlers set fire to west bank land  nablus (ma’an) --
but to the palestinians who live near this wide swath of land alongside the border between the gaza strip and israel, it is fertile land where their children played and they made a decent living by raising wheat and olives.
other muslim  leaders, including some knesset members, reminded jews in israel and abroad  that, "this is how the holocaust started.
palestinian embroidery
that the wind courses in from the shores of the mediterranean and over the low hills, scrubbing the stones white, rustling through the olive trees, and whistling through the cracks in the windowsbegging to lift aloft the dreams of the blessed, cursed souls who must live here.
they call it museum of tolerance, i call it ethnic cleansing, killer of those deemed inferior.
as a result of the oslo agreements negotiated in the 1990s  – the people of al khalil became familiar with two new terms – h1 and  h2.
that  culture is alive and well in spite of it all, and perhaps healthier than many  would expect.
olive harvest fact sheet - october 2011 relief web 19 oct 2011 - source: un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs country: occupied palestinian territory fast facts about 45% of the agricultural land in the opt is planted with 12 million olive trees, the vast majority in the west bank.
the day i  rise from the ashes of your oppression i promise you i will not rise alone you  too will rise with me you will be liberated from your own tyranny
before leaving, they sprayed messages on the walls outside:  “price tag” and “revenge”, in hebrew.
israel uproots palestinian olive trees near nablus uruknet march 16, 2011 - israeli troops blocked off access to  agricultural fields near the village of beit dajan on wednesday, while  bulldozers tore out dozens of olive trees from privately owned property,  officials said.
the active jewish settlement societies active  doubled their efforts in the acquisition of jerusalemites real estates in the  old town and silwan, and the districts of sheikh jarrah, ras al-amud, mount of  olives and have done in the past two days media and advertising propaganda  campaigns in support of jewish settlement in the heart...
u.s. filmmakers craft documentary on genocide survivors la times 23 jul 2010 - 'the last survivor' chronicles how four people — survivors of the holocaust, rwanda, darfur or congo — rebound from atrocities and find new meaning in their lives.
soldiers abandon  palestinian farmers in kufr qalil 10/25/2010 - international  solidarity movement - 24 october - farmers in kufr qalil, near nablus, were  scheduled to receive army protection yesterday through the israeli district  coordination office (dco), in order to harvest their olives on land near the  illegal bracha settlement.
more.. e-mail father of 5 run over and killed by settler 11/9/2011 - international solidarity movement - thom andrews, international  solidarity movement, west bank - this afternoon, 45 year old abdullah mutaled  al-mashni, father of 5, was run over and killed by an illegal settler.
an estimated 10 million olive trees dot the  israeli-occupied west bank, thriving in the arid climate and covering 45  percent of all agricultural land in the region.
"i live here to confirm my existance and prove that we are going to solve our presence in this land," tamir said.
under the capable chairmanship of lawyer and liberal democrat peer, lord andrew phillips, the seminar was divided into two sessions: the first was an opportunity for political analysts and middle east experts to share their insights and thoughts on the palestine papers, as the leaked documents are now called; former cia analyst and author kathleen christison, britain's former ambassador to iran sir richard dalton and director and co-founder of the community empowerment charity forward thinking, oliver mcternan, led the way.
the national 7 sep 2011 -
as you turn the corner and start toward your home you notice the family gathered in front of it with all of their belongings surrounding them.
tonight, i’m  repaying a debt that is long overdue.
several israeli settlers uprooted approximately 100 grape trees in the al-buera village in the southern west bank district of hebron on monday, owners of the grape plantation said.
israeli bulldozers enter beit jala for wall  construction 3/3/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - israeli forces  enforced a closed military zone in beit jala, bethlehem, on tuesday, to assist  bulldozers in overturning land in the area to make way for further construction  of the separation wall, witnesses said.
on wednesday, dozens of local children joined in the  picking.
a similar incident was alleged to have occurred several months earlier, it said.
mya guarnieri, +972 magazine 2/9/2012 in 2004, israeli officials were up in arms about an impending bedouin intifada.
along with these closures, israel has imposed a ban on all palestinian vehicular traffic on shuhada street, which was once the vibrant main street connecting the north with west of al-khalil.
witnesses said the fire was caused by....
imemc - sunday september 25, 2011 - 12:07, dozens of israeli settlers uprooted sunday morning more than 400 olive trees in the towns of qosrah and douma, south of city of nablus.
diliani added that such "aggression" occurs in parallel with  the decision of israel's jerusalem municipality to resume house demolitions in  the occupied city, in addition to settlement building, the separation wall,  seizing residents' houses for the benefit of settlers, imposing high taxes,  restricting movement, confining the process of education, and systematically  disrupting social and cultural development.
in total, 14  protesters were injured, including one hit in the face with a tear gas  canister.
even during the current economic crisis, when american tax-paying citizens are losing their jobs, losing their homes, the majority are without medical benefits.... --
the  farmland of battir.
trouble flared when israeli authorities ordered the demolition of a structure in an illegal settler outpost because of the freeze on settlement construction.
the  israeli occupation forces (iof) set fire to dozens of fruitful olive trees,  some of them perennials, in kafr kadum village, qalqiliya city.
tears of gaza dr. ashraf ezzat, dissident voice 11/4/2010
one almost  longed to see bill clinton choking up and shedding a tear or two.
[uruknet.info] defending olive trees: israeli army cracks down on  protest in al-walajah uruknet august 13, 2011 - twelve  protestors-two palestinians and ten israeli activists-were arrested yesterday  by israeli forces in the village of al-walaja during a weekly protest against  the expansion of the wall.
the remaining 130 villages and towns had most of their land taken and now the remaining palestinians who comprise 20% of the israeli population live on about 2% of the land while the jewish population controls the rest (which is mostly palestinian property).
when it is illegal to use your front door: freedom of  movement in al khalil andreas, international solidarity  movement 2/23/2012 al-khalil (hebron)  is a divided city.
witnesses said that a group of israeli settlers vandalized more than 40 olive  trees this morning.
home to  around 2,000 people, mainly agricultural workers, the land is rich in olive  trees, summer crops and other natural resources.
the  human rights organization yesh din says not one of the 69 complaints filed  during the past four years on damage to palestinians' trees in the west bank  has resulted in an indictment.
resolute throughout that history, the palestinian arab people forged its national identity, rising even to unimagined levels in its defense, as invasion, the design of others, and the appeal special to palestine's ancient and luminous place on the eminence where powers and civilizations are joined.
maybe because death is the only concrete and dreadful fact we are sure of.
those who would search their dreams for memories lost or  denied those who would look inward to see the archetypes of shadows fleeing in  the night or who would search the rocky landscape of the mind to see those whom  they have chased away where are those who would survey the scrubgrass and the  pale horse and the winter moon and the olive trees planted a thousand new suns  ago by those who are no longer but whose sweat lingers in the soil are there no  israeli poets?
he said the family...
following mid-day  prayers, protesters marched towards thewell and their agricultural lands but  were immediately confronted with tear-gasand rubber-coated bullets.
police sources told ma'an that 142 fortune tellers were forced to sign an agreement at the ministry of interior pledging that they would not practice their craft.
the ministry also specified specific dates for harvesting and processing olives in both gaza strip and the west bank governorates.more..
organised by the middle east monitor  (memo) in conjunction with the federation of students islamic societies  (fosis), the event sought to draw attention back to the important documents  leaked to and published by al jazeera and the guardian newspaper; the  publication of the papers was overshadowed by the turbulent political situation  in egypt and elsewhere across the middle east.
"it’s in its original state," patrich said, "because the  panel fell face down, protecting its green, blue and gold facade from debris  and damage."
mr. swisher is head of the transparency unit at al jazeera which published the papers.
settlers caused damage several  palestinian villages' land in the qalqiliya and nablus districts on sunday, an  official said.
tree-planting action to be held in at-tuwani 1/20/2010 -  international solidarity movement - christian peacemaker team - on saturday 23  january palestinians will demonstrate against the recent destruction of a grove  of olive trees and plant new trees, in order to show their determination to  continue accessing and cultivating their land.
(photo: hamde abu rahmah) intimidation continues in susiya  as peace activists are arrested uruknet novrember 4, 2010 - two  activists from the jewish-arab equality group ta’ayush were arrested  while assisting olive farmers in susiya village on saturday.
farmer: settlers uproot trees in beit ummar 8/24/2011 - hebron (ma'an) -- settlers from the illegal bat ayin settlement, northwest of hebron, have uprooted olive, plum and grape trees belonging to a local farmer in beit ummar.
however, according to ignatius, one big reason [top u.s. officials became convinced the plot was real] is that cia and other intelligence agencies gathered information corroborating the informants juicy allegations and showing that the plot had support from the top leadership of the elite quds force of the iranian revolutionary guard corps, the covert action arm of the iranian government.
picking olives under occupation uruknet october 30, 2010 -  families in the village of qusin with properties close to the illegal  settlements shave shomeron and shave shomron, make an attempt to harvest their  olives but soldiers forced them to leave.
as usual, swift "full force retaliation" took place,  leaving six palestinians dead in the first wave early on friday morning, 19  august.
more.. e-mail settlers occupy home in al-tur, east jerusalem imemc - 25 nov 2010 - wednesday november 24, 2010 - 17:34, a group of settlers, on wednesday, with the help of the israeli police force, took possession of the apartment in the al-tur neighborhood, in the area of the mount of olives in occupied east jerusalem.
armed settlers uprooted more than 45 olive... settlers uproot dozens of olive trees near nablus imemc - saturday october 01, 2011 - 23:20, a group of extremist armed israeli settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that belong to residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
troops uproot olive orchards near jerusalem imemc - thursday july 21, 2011 - 16:38, israeli army bulldozers  uprooted, on thursday morning, palestinian olive orchards that belong to  residents of beit iksa village, in occupied east jerusalem, in order to build a  section of the illegal annexation wall, and to allow the expansion of ramot  illegal settlement.
a few minutes later we crossed the  green line (borders before 1967) that is neither marked or guarded.
oct 2010 - robert h. serry tells fayyad that all int'l players agree that palestinians are ready for statehood during olive picking.
king solomon undermines silwan refugees palestine monitor: 24 feb 2010 -
demonstrators carried two huge maps of palestine that noted the palestinian land lost in 1948 and 1967.
my parent's generation were generally decent honorable people who wished no one harm, neither black nor white, they believed in the humane treatment of everyone, but many also believed in the doctrine of separate but equal.
in the washer, twigs and dirt are removed from the... more in photos: olives hit the presses 11/3/2010 - maanimages / luay sababa - palestinian women bottle freshly pressed olive oil and can pickled olives to be sold at the olive harvest festival in the west bank city of bethlehem, 30 october 2010....
it pays for free  education of every israeli child from elementary school until university  graduation.
as hundreds near the village of baida block a roadway, chant slogans  and shake olive branches, symbolizing peaceful protest, security forces  threaten violence, witnesses say.
by mariam hamed in gaza - special to palestine note saturday was may day (international labor day), and cities across the world celebrated their workers with parades, but in gaza, being able to produce something valuable... zionist settlers burn olive trees in hawara pic
[uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers burn  hundreds of olive trees uruknet august 25, 2011 - dozens of  israeli settlers set fire on thursday to more than 100 olive trees in mikhmas  village southeast of ramallah.
[uruknet.info] the israeli government is directly responsible for the ongoing harm inflicted on the residents of qusra uruknet october 6, 2011 - this morning (6.10.2011), palestinian farmers from the village of qusra, south of nablus, discovered that approximately 200 of their olive and fig trees were completely destroyed or uprooted.
firefighters were deployed at the site of a fire on a 15-dunum olive grove in the jayyous village near qalqiliya as well as fires on farmland in rafat in salfit and in beit fajjar in.... settlers riot in burin, shooting and setting fire to olive trees 7/27/2010 - international solidarity movement - at 11:30 yesterday, 26th july 2010, settlers from the berakha shomronim settlement began shooting at palestinians in the village of burin and setting fire to crops on their land.
settlers  uproot olive trees near jerusalem and ramallah imemc - a group of  armed israeli settlers uprooted, on thursday evening, twenty olive trees that  belong to palestinian residents of beit safafa town, south of occupied east  jerusalem.
bassem tamimi with his threatened house, built in in 1964.
as you descend the penultimate ridgeline before the southern border the concrete carapace of an army post floats by, tight up on a hardscrabble village where dusty farmers children scatter fearfully on sighting a car with yellow israeli license plates.
later, as we were  leaving, we notice the israeli army on the hill and the same man with the blue  shirt “briefing” them.
the 2011 olive harvest, which began in early october, has seen a  troubling rise...
residents of the illegal shvut rachel settlement raided qusra village and chopped down the trees, said ghassan doughlas, pa official for settlement affairs in the northern west bank.
one of these individuals is irving  moskowitz, the well-known american jewish millionaire, who made his fortune as  a "casino magnate".
neither was getting much  attention, but craftmakers and officials were justifiably proud of the event.
this decision – along with the inability of  international leaders to force israel to apply a new settlement freeze so that  negotiations could continue – was largely perceived by the settlers and  their leaders as recognition of their presence in the west bank and as  encouragement to go ahead with their colonization.
the wall is often described as a scar through palestine, but right now it is more of a fresh wound.
, though we were left in the rain and cold,” mohamed  talalqah, one of taweel abu jarwal residents, said.
a menacing  convoy of bulldozers was heading back to be’er sheva as i drove towards  al-arakib, a bedouin village located not more than 10 minutes from the city.
approximately 60 people  live in the valley itself, and many more own land in the area in which they  farm animals and cultivate both citrus and olive trees.
the large israeli settlement of  halamish nearby has taken over nearly half of the village lands, including a  precious freshwater spring.
the  imaginary green line had long disappeared since israeli colonies go deep into  the occupied west bank.
mondoweiss -  the headline sounds like the beginning of a bad joke but it is an unfortunate  reality of life in the west bank.
the day concluded with the usual wednesday night community dinner, in which international. . . .
iof troops bulldoze land in gaza, detain jerusalemites for planting olives uruknet january 12, 2010 - israeli occupation forces (iof) advanced east of shujaia suburb in gaza city afternoon tuesday and bulldozed palestinian plantations, local sources said.
the electronic intifada  contributor robin yassin-kassab interviews hirst on his work and views.
source: un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs country:  occupied palestinian territory fast facts about 45% of the agricultural land in  the opt is planted with 12 million olive trees, the vast majority in the west  bank.
prime minister salam fayyad is  sponsoring the event scheduled for saturday in the city's nativity square.
in a recent ynet  news story, a news group operating within west bank settlements witnessed  "arabs and leftists" staging an event in which their olive trees were  vandalized, so as to further demonize settlers...
palestinians: settlers  picked our olives ynet news - palestinians and settlers continue  to clash over olive picking in the west bank: the residents of a palestinian  village adjacent to ramallah claimed that settlers .......
[uruknet.info] 300 trees uprooted in salfit village by iof uruknet june 28, 2011 - today, 28 june, the israeli occupation forces uprooted 300 olive trees in the palestinian village of deir estia in the salfit district of the west bank.
in photos: bilin march in solidarity with prisoners 10/15/2011 - maanimages / bilin popular committee - palestinians and international activists marched in solidarity with prisoners on hunger strike, and in celebration of the annual olive harvest, in the west bank village of bilin, near ramallah, on friday, oct. 14, 2011.
those wishing to travel into h2 from palestinian-controlled h1 must pass through metal detectors and checkpoints, where they may be arbitrarily harassed or detained by bored israeli soldiers.
the manager demonstrates how the entire press operation is controlled.
we  ask – a peom palestine chronicle: 4
the army failed to provide the farmers with adequate... [uruknet.info] ngo: settlers destroyed 2,600 olive trees in october uruknet november 1, 2011 --
a new stage for  west bank popular resistance dylan collins, palestine  monitor 1/28/2012 in a hazy room,  clouded with cigarette smoke and steam from hot syrup-sweat tea, residents of  kafr ad-dik and its neighboring villages, along with palestinian, israeli,  and international activists, excitedly gathered together waiting for
by lillian rosengarten i am a jew symbolic of the  carnage of gaza.
a few days ago, my father emailed me a photo  of my mom and him standing proudly next to my newest sibling; a young olive  tree they've planted in their garden in queensland australia....
many houses have a demolition order as do its trees, plants, fences, walls and mailboxes.
related:israeli court implements hebron evacuation order and villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land [uruknet.info] villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land uruknet february 23, 2012 -- israeli forces bulldozed olive trees on village land in hebron overnight wednesday, villagers told ma'an.
the so-called ‘buffer zone' is a military no-go area that extends along the entire northern and eastern gazan border with israel, as well as its southern border with egypt (known as the philadelphi corridor).)
forty-five percent of palestinian agricultural land (228,560  acres/914,235 dunums) is planted with olive trees.
the 500  residents of nabi saleh, all from the tamimi family, are demonstrating against  the continuous encroachment of the helamish settlement on their land.
b'tselem worker beaten by israeli soldier palestine monitor - two  palestinian family members were beaten and arrested by an israeli soldier in  their own olive grove last november, following an unlawful detainment of their  two teenage relatives.
human rights group yesh din, which is part of a coalition of ngos which are helping palestinians during the olive harvest season, issued sunday a letter to several zionist settlers attack palestinian farmers, hurt old man pic 10
its no small wonder, however, that a similar case exists not far from mamilla.
if the settlements continue to expand at their current rate, they will soon  merge, further isolating battir.
on the other hand, the jewish state pathetically also wants to  evoke sympathy for being ‘sensitive’ to humanitarian issues and the  palestinian plight.
demonstrators faced tear gas as they approached the barrier separating the tiny village from an israeli settlement....
a palestinian agriculture expert warned from filling the palestinian market with "peat" refined oil through an israeli merchant from the galilee, and mediated by local traders, to be sold on the basis that its extra virgin olive oil but with fair prices cheating the consumers.
we are walking through the land because israeli soldiers are blocking the road ahead.
air force craft attacked a ... ....
tamir said that whenever his children leave house to go to school or other place he is worried, because the settlers can attack them.
that effectively ended the  demonstration; we turned and headed back toward the village.
[uruknet.info] settlers uproot olive trees, grapevines, plum trees near hebron uruknet wednesday august 24, 2011 - dozens of extremist israeli settlers of the beit ayin illegal colony, north of beit umamar, north of the southern west bank city of hebron, attacked on tuesday palestinian orchards and farmlands and uprooted dozens of olive trees, plum trees, and grapevines in wad abu al reesh area.
i grew up in north carolina and was around for the transformation to an  integrated society where in the laws of the state and nation became  color-blind; and blacks were afforded equal protection under the law.
liar, liar palestine chronicle: 18 nov 2010 -
iaf air craft attack  terror tunnel in northern gaza jerusalem post 5 jul 2011 -
and now, suddenly, tirzeh pops up as the main opponent of the wall he himself planned.
the pa agriculture  ministry has strongly condemned sunday a new religious edict issued by a rabbi  allowing israeli settlers to steal palestinian olive crops and to poison  palestinian water.
" we will continue to work and build in all palestinian territories occupied in 1967, paying no attention to the unjust classifications and the so-called c zones.
ghassan douglas, an official at the nablus  office of the palestinian authority, said some settlers of yizhar settlement  truncated 45 olive trees belonging to the najjar family:... bil’in village plants 200 trees next to apartheid wall: existence as  resistance!
qaddum village residents said they woke up to settlers from the hifat gilad outpost of the illegal qedumin settlement bloc tearing up some 30 olive trees on private lands.
take a good look at the man who held the title  of potus for eight years - he looks jittery and it’s worth speculating if  he’s back on the bottle.
a few weeks ago i was in al-nabi salih, a palestinian village northwest of ramallah in the occupied west bank.
in a stark departure from finely crafted talking  points, israeli ambassador to the united states, michael oren spoke with rare  clarity about israel's intentions in imposing and maintaining the blockade on  gaza's 1.5 million people.
i’ve heard the racist words before, when jews were driven from their homes and vilified.
that land is mine and i can not go there.
in gaza: 7 mar 2010 -
last week,  the us, europe, and other world powers condemned a plan announced. . .
more.. e-mail israeli bulldozers plow 15 dunums of olive trees near salfit pnn - salfit – pnn - on thursday morning, israeli bulldozers plowed 15 dunums of land cultivated with olive trees (a dunum is about a quarter of an acre) in deir istiya, a village... army bulldozers uproot olive trees in northern west bank pnn - salfit – pnn – israeli army bulldozers uprooted on thursday olive trees and destroyed farm land owned by a local farmer from the village of dier istiya near the northern west bank...
according to palestinian news agencies maan and  wafa, settlers from the tapuah settlement attacked palestinian land in the area  south of salfit in the central west bank yesterday (saturday).
in the past, in place of "independent state" the us has attached such adjectives to the word "state" as "contiguous," "viable," "economically viable," "territorial continuity," and the like.
by georgina reeves on sunday night, the  mosque in the small village of tuba suffered an arson attack.
it has become  obvious to all, by now, that israel could not have been created nor could it  continue to exist as a viable state without the assistance of the west  especially the usa.
today, workers from the jerusalem municipality and israeli forces removed the memorial of samer sarhan, this morning.
major israeli roadblocks and checkpoints are down or unmanned, allowing drivers who used to be stalled, fuming, to travel nearly unimpeded from jericho, up the ancient hills to ramallah, and on to nablus in northern palestine.
last week's  orders posted in bil'in and ni'lin declaring the villages closed military zones  for all of friday had no effect on the demonstrators or village-life in  general.
clashes  ensued when young palestinian men began hurling stones toward israeli forces,  who responded by firing rubber-coated bullets and tear-gas canisters.
settlers burn  ancient olive trees in tel rumeida christian peacemaker teams -  palestine - at 4:30 p.m. on 27 may 2011, cpt received a call that settlers set  fire to olive orchards on the abu haikel property in tel rumeida.
on may 8, 9, and 10th the farmers of khuzaa harvested their wheat.
such attacks  are becoming increasingly... memo to obama: settlers torch cars,  torch olive trees, and release wild boar that breaks 57-year-old palestinian  farmer’s legs mondoweiss - and other news from today in  palestine: settlers / land, property and resource theft and destruction /  ethnic cleansing israel begins expanding settlements in jenin israel began  large-scale digging works on saturday in preparation for the expansion of an  illegal settlement in the northern west bank district of... awarta  man suffers broken legs after settler pig attack palestine  monitor: 16
the attack is the third of its kind in the last  two months, with the family losing 96 trees in november.
a high proportion of the revenue he made from the gambling industry has been used to demolish palestinian homes, raze ancient olive trees and fund jewish settlements.
would palestinians be  presented yet again as merely poster-child victims, eager for handouts?
ma'an  correspondent said israeli forces blocked residents from entering and exiting  the wadi qana area.
ynet news - torching fields, vehicles and houses,  uprooting olive trees, vandalizing kindergartens – these are part of a  long list of almost routine violent acts of settlers against ....... settlers attack a palestinian town in northern west bank and destroy  property and trees imemc - thursday april 29, 2010 - 18:38, a  group of israeli settlers attacked on thursday the town of huwara, in northern  west bank, and destroyed olive trees and property.
the two are crouching  before a small, stained tent.
israeli forces previously confiscated one and half dunums of her  land, awad said, to build a tunnel connecting jerusalem settlement blocs with  the kfar etzion settlement in bethlehem.
the elderly woman, who says she does not like to talk about politics, said that she sells her lettuce in bethlehem, and when it’s not lettuce season she does the same with cucumbers and eggplant.
part of the accords divided the land in the west bank into 3 sections; areas a, b and c. collective wall-building effort baffles iof in an-nabi salih 2/13/2010 - international solidarity movement - ism, 12 february - israeli army and border police used tear gas, stungrenades, rubber- and plastic-coated bullets, live ammunition and "stinky water"to disperse close to 150 palestinians who tried to reach their village wellin an-nabi salih.
journalists and  photographers were prohibited from accessing the area, as the frequently  employed designation also applies to press coverage.
however, as the portion of the wall already built will be  removed, farmers will expect significant damage to their olive groves located  in the area.
exploring the  narrow alleys, visitors weave their way through street vendors, picking their  way through a maze of spice sacks, hand-woven rugs, and stacked pottery.
israeli bulldozers bury bedouin village 2/22/2011 - hebron (ma'an) --
“world-class vibrant beats in the evenings and fine-dining at all  times,” reads the facebook page for orjuwan, a popular ramallah lounge.
over 530 palestinian towns and villages were depopulated.
settlers prevented farmers from picking olives on wednesday in a nablus village, a palestinian authority official said.
settlers launch attacks on palestinians olive groves in nablus, stealing fruit imemc - 13
clashes  between hebron university students and settlers pnn - muhannad  al-adam – hebron – pnn - dozens of hebron university students  clashed with settlers from the hebron area outpost of susya this morning after  helping local farmers harvest their olive trees....
here, for instance, is page nine: “history can do without its footnotes.
on 11 november, settlers from the beitar illit  settlement, west of the bethlehem district, opened the pipes of the  settlement’s sewage onto the land of the hosan village to the east of the  settlement.
israeli settlers uproot 250 olive nurslings 20 apr  2010 - nablus, april 20, 2010 (pal telegraph) – israeli settlers uprooted  today 250 olive nurslings in qarout village south of nablus.
the harvest had been interrupted by israeli soldiers who claimed the land was disputed, although israeli government-issued aerial maps showed it to be palestinian...
fresh olives and the sound of bombs umaymah hewitt, middle east monitor (memo) 8/19/2011 gaza is under fresh attack from israel following an incident near eilat in which seven israelis were killed and 40 injured.
however, as  the portion of the wall already built will be removed, farmers will expect  significant damage to their olive groves located in the area.
the army collaborates with the  violent settler aggression against palestinian residents; proof of this link  includes military harassments against palestinian farmers and residents who are  trying to defend their villages and lands against settler attacks.
he captured  this moment when dozens of tear-gas canisters were shot at palestinians in an  olive grove in nil'in.
when olive season came to the northern west bank village of tell, the ramadan  family could be found spreading tarps underneath trees and thwacking down the  high-hanging fruits with sticks.
" bulldozers demolished two homes belonging to ali and salem suleiman ibn said northeast of deir al-balah, both on the outskirts of al-masaddar, and large swaths of olive groves, relatives said by phone.
fortunately, a back route was established and the group made it to the village,
when demonstrators reached the separation wall, israeli soldiers shot tear gas and skunk water at them.
my grandmother used to say about jrash; her village to the west of occupied jerusalem, her home and only home.
-- see also:source  more.. e-mail jewish settlers set fire to olive groves in beit  fourik pic 6 aug 2010 - extremist jewish settlers on friday  afternoon set fire to olive groves in the village of beit fourik to the east of  the northern west bank city of nablus.
the park opening was attended by the local government's minister of the interior fathi hammad, minister of agriculture muhammad al-agha, plc member ahmad bahar and de facto police chief jamal al-jarrah amid a large festival to celebrate the event.
calls to an israeli police spokesman based in the west bank went unanswered.
in gaza: 9 feb 2010 - it’s  like spring
settlers fire at teenage palestinian farmers uruknet august 31, 2010 - ten zionist settlers fired at and chased three palestinian farmers in deir istiya village, nablus, on tuesday morning while tending to their lands.
this recent change of approach from the israeli military towards internationals appears to have coincided with a strong international presence at a olive harvest within the h2 zone during which israeli soldiers refused palestinians their inherent right to harvest their own land.
this is particularly damaging because this year’s olive harvest is expected to yield only half the oil of last year’s harvest, making each tree all the more valuable more farmers.
in gaza: 9 feb 2010 - it’s like spring and we’re visiting the abu taima region.
zionist settlers destroyed  tens of fruitful olive trees in al-mughir town, northeast of ramallah, on  friday after spraying them with a chemical material.
gazan ngos often call it the “hot zone.”
the idf continued friday evening to bomb targets in the gaza strip in response to unceasing projectile fire by terror groups.
unencumbered by scores of roadblocks, or by delays caused by the  arbitrary decisions of teenaged soldiers, these palestinians can now enjoy a  modicum of freedom to move about and do business....
when you cant eat, drink, move freely, watch tv, have access to internet, have a decent job and home and send your kids to schools then death could be a liberating thought.
the villagers tried to put off... may day in gaza:
report: israeli settlers uproot 25 olive trees near nablus 3/19/2010 - nablus - ma'an - settlers from israel's eli area uprooted 25 olive trees from the al-batshisha neighborhood of qaryut village in the northern west bank, an official said friday.
[uruknet.info] just two prisoner stories and the olive  harvest uruknet october 22, 2011 - western media try to make  palestinian political prisoners mere numbers while personalizing one israeli  soldier.
new labeling laws for olive oil will be introduced in response to last week's revelations that oils in lebanon are contaminated with toxic chemicals, caretaker agriculture minister hussein hajj hassan said monday.
called geder ha-hafrada (separation fence) in hebrew and jidar al-fasl al-unsuri (apartheid wall) in arabic, the insurmountable (if still incomplete) barrier has no doubt contributed to a reduction in terror and car theft.
nine homes are  due to be demolished next month.
the guardian 20 mar 2010 - israeli  prime minister bows to us demands and suspends construction of settler homes in  east jerusalem
the day concluded with the usual wednesday night community dinner, in which  international. . . .
in  his first public comments since returning to libya, ambassador gene cretz  voices hope that moderate elements will prevail as authorities seek to craft  the nation's first representative government.
from the wrinkled hands of old men and women who spent years harvesting rows of ancient olive groves, to the soft yet determined faces of a younger generation unfazed by decades of dispossession, palestine...
negev more.. e-mail video - israel police raze ‘illegal’ bedouin village in  negev israeli occupation archive 7/27/2010 around 300 bedouins living in israel’s
the israeli apartheid forces have  been uprooting olive trees in beit jala the last few days.
israeli  soldiers torch dozens of olive trees in w. bank village pic -
as the village expanded, the villagers built new stores, established a social club and opened two coffee houses.
the family rose early, packed a picnic and, at 7am, climbed into his old subaru and headed out.
the  committee, consisting of various ministry of economy departments including the  department of consumer protection and the economic department of the  palestinian security police, conducted an investigation into the produce sold  in hebron markets to ensure that groceries were consumable for the eid al-adha  holiday, the committee told ma'an.
with a population of approximately 3,500 that is wholly dependent on the yields of their olive trees, burin’s lands are hemmed in by two settlements on the north and south ends of the village, named bracha and... the village of burin: under attack by surrounding settlements palestine monitor - the village of burin is located less than 10 kilometers south of nablus in the occupied west bank.
fayyad picks olives in tulkarem 10/9/2010 - tulkarem (  ma'an) -- palestinian authority prime minister salam fayyad marked the start of  the olive harvest on saturday with farmers in the tulkarem district.
like so many other villages in qalqilia, immatin’s recent history is  marred by stories of confiscated lands, uprooted olive trees, and the approach  of the wall, which threatens to isolate 10,000 of the village’s 27,000  dunums.
journalist david hirst interviewed electronic intifada: 9 jul 2010 - veteran middle east correspondent david hirst, author of the seminal work on the palestinian plight the gun and the olive branch , has a new release: beware of small states , an equally important book on lebanon's complex tragedy.
"they enter in the house and mess everything, they brake  things and they do not let my children slepp when they have school at the  following day, they also stand in the fernature.
their work was organized by the palestine  mininstry of information in kafir kadom, near qalqilia.
the olive harvest is a busy season and many hands are required to do the job.
demonstrators chanted songs of protest and carried baby olive trees in the hopes of planting them on the seized land as a peaceful assertion of their rights to be there.
at... iof troops raid the village of kafr  al-deek and uproot trees pic - iof troops raided on thursday  afternoon the village of kafr al-deek near salfit and uprooted dozens of olive  trees from the fields belonging to the villagers.. israeli forces  confiscate palestinian olive orchards near ramallah imemc -  thursday june 30, 2011 - 08:27, hundreds of acres of olive orchards in al  mazra’a al gharbiya village were taken over by israeli troops on tuesday,  who claimed that the area was a 'closed military zone' and that the land was  being confiscated for military use.
the...more israeli soldiers kill second member of palestinian family palestine monitor: 4 jan 2011 - jawahur abu rahmah died on the first day of 2011 after suffering intense teargas inhalation at the end of year anti-wall protest in bil'in.
discussing a final-status agreement while allowing a mini-intifada to unfold gives the pa leverage.
the restriction on movement should also be  seen in context of everyday israeli harassment which aim at making life  unbearable in order to make people leave the village.
in the past,  in place of "independent state" the us has attached such adjectives  to the word "state" as "contiguous," "viable,"  "economically viable," "territorial continuity," and the  like.
you have saved out a couple dozen of the best for your wife and children to eat in the evening, before retiring for the night.
all these were today destroyed.
al-quds tv representatives said that a journalist and a cameraman were detained  near the illegal settlement of ariel, south of nablus.
local witnesses told ma'an that settlers  from the illegal ma'ale mikhmas settlement adjacent to the village set fire to  agricultural land before vacating the area.
wadi qana is surrounded by five israeli settlements and four outposts, strategically located around the spring at the base of the qana valley.
twelve people, representing six  different nationalities, sat in front of the caterpillar bulldozer as it moved  up to the garden.
at least 16  protesters carrying olive branches and seeking to break a military siege were  killed on friday.
israel uproots palestinian olive trees near nablus uruknet march 16, 2011 - israeli troops blocked off access to agricultural fields near the village of beit dajan on wednesday, while bulldozers tore out dozens of olive trees from privately owned property, officials said.
olive harvest in gaza 10/15/2011 - international solidarity movement - international solidarity  movement, gaza - gaza doesn't have very much farmland left.
in these times 1/24/2012 behind the headlines, palestinians are using  nonviolent direct action to protest the status quo.
settlers uproot 250 olive trees near nablus imemc - 16 aug 2010 - monday august 16, 2010 - 17:18, a number of armed jewish settlers uprooted on monday morning more than 200 olive trees near the village of qasra, south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
11:00-12:00 we will rename her  with a bottle of palestinian olive oil as a celebration of palestinian land  rights, and international...
some 200 local protestors attended the rally, with residents attempting to plant 30 olive tree seedlings on land overturned by israeli bulldozers.
the  occasion was the annual "artas lettuce festival.
the village has been continuously inhabited for well over 2,000 years, long before the establishment of the state of israel.
experts said 2010 was a naturally occurring low season between a cycle of two seasons of high yields, which combined with a record hot summer of.... israeli settlers looted olive trees in nablus imemc - 7
the trees were planted  on property owned by cousins suhail najjar, murad ma'roof najjar, and issa  mahmoud najjar, the official said.
in order to achieve this the israeli forces launched a series of military and militia attacks on the village including the burning of the mukhtars (head of the village) house on the 11th of january 1948, and two days later 20 houses close to the entry of the city (khalittarha) were blown up.... --
soldiers fired tear gas, sound bombs, and live ammunition at villagers, detained three journalists attempting to document the raid, and set fire to an ancient olive tree.
tracks spat out earth in unwieldy clumps, not to be worked again this year, difficult to calm and smooth next year, in an area (near, but still outside of the israeli-imposed 300 metre no-go zone,... pa wields olive branch in one hand, stone in the other ha'aretz 6 mar 2010 -
this site may contain copyrighted material the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner.
here, for instance, is page  nine: “history can do without its footnotes.
on  display was the art and heritage of palestine, and renewed efforts at  integrating women into the business economy.
oct 2010 - wednesday october 06, 2010 - 16:46, on  wendesday afternoon,israeli settlers cut down dozens of olive trees and looted  the harvested fruits from villages of yanoun and al-hawara near the city of  nablus.
by surrounding settlements uruknet september 27, 2010 - the  village of burin is located less than 10 kilometers south of nablus in the  occupied west bank.
according to swidan, israeli soldiers told the  journalists they were not allowed to take pictures because the area was a  closed military zone.
see also:source more.. e-mail jewish settlers set fire to olive groves in beit fourik pic 6 aug 2010 - extremist jewish settlers on friday afternoon set fire to olive groves in the village of beit fourik to the east of the northern west bank city of nablus.
[uruknet.info] rights group: 69 cases of palestinian olive trees  destroyed, but no prosecutions uruknet november 25, 2009 -
more.. e-mail fire devours hundreds of olive trees west of jenin pic - a massive fire erupted saturday night in anin village west of jenin city in the west bank, devouring hundreds of olive trees, locals reported.
uruknet may 14, 2011 - palestine is neither a memory nor a dream - it is a homeland to which millions will one day return.
both zones are  divided by a military check-point, which must be corssed by anyone willing to  enter to the h2 area.
settlers uproot 250 olive seedlings 4/20/2010 - nablus -  ma'an - a number of israeli settlers uprooted 250 olive tree seedlings on  tuesday at dawn, after palestinian farmers spent several days planting the crop  in the qaryut village south of nablus, an official said.
e-mail at-tuwani: palestinian trees destroyed in ongoing settler vandalism and harassment christian peacemaker teams - palestine - in the early morning of 12 may 2011, palestinian farmers discovered that during the night unknown perpetrators had vandalized ten olive trees in humra valley, near at -tuwani in the south hebron hills.
when i contacted the israeli activists who regularly participate in the nabi saleh demonstrations, i was warned that it was dangerous and that there was no way to know in advance when we would get home.
according to the israeli internal defense establishment, the current olive harvest has been the most violent of the last several years, due to fact that trees on
in the second session, al jazeera executive producer and author clayton swisher  was joined by former bbc middle east correspondent tim llewellyn.
to  reject the illegal construction and demand israel comply with international  law.
as this year's olive harvest sends  palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive trees,  a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to die in silence is  patrolling the west bank, protecting harvesters from increased settler  violence.
the only thing that can be  grown, because it does not require constant attention, is wheat.
moskovitz was also behind the mount of olives project, which is intended to  house 24 settler families adjacent to a jewish religious school.
villagers harassed by israeli army whilst trying to farm their land 2/13/2011 - international solidarity movement - 12 february -
in this fertile  crescent the first human agriculture developed.
the latest diggings are in preparation for the further construction of israel's separation wall, as israel attempts to enlarge its jerusalem municipal borders into the west bank.
the pa information ministry organized a volunteering  day for approximately 40 journalists and 20 ministry employees to help  villagers in kafr qaddum pick olives....
pa settlement affairs officer in the northern west bank ghassan  doughlas said residents of the nearby svhut rachel outpost ascended upon the  village, uprooting the olive grove...
al faqeeh, renowned throughout the nablus  region for his tireless campaigning and non-violent action against the israeli  occupation, was kidnapped from his home by israeli occupation forces in the  night of tuesday, 8 december.
the ras el-amud mosque, situated on  jerusalem's mount of olives, has been illegally expanded by 217 square meters  (about 2,335 square feet) over the past year, ynet ... ....
in some cases, as in the village of at- tuwani, soldiers harassed  local palestinians, threatening and prohibiting them from calling the  international volunteers of operation dove.
the unseasonably hot weather led to a fire erupting on 50 dunums of planted olive trees....
six olive trees destroyed in the night christian peacemaker teams - palestine - israel says trees  planted on 'state land' 3/17/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
professor  dominique metras, chief of pediatric cardiac surgery at the hopital d'enfants  de la timone in marseille, france, completed a week of providing life-saving  open heart surgery on over a dozen babies from the west bank and gaza strip at  makassed hospital on the mount of olives in east jerusalem, a statement read.
israeli forces on monday uprooted 250 olive trees in al-jab'a  northwest of hebron, locals said.
[uruknet.info] oxfam: settlers cost farmers over  $500,000 this harvest uruknet october 20, 2011 -- israeli settlers  have cost palestinian farmers over $500,000 this year by destroying olive trees  in the west bank, oxfam and local organizations warned thursday.
the committee added that they will further investigate all hebron markets on thursday to guarantee the palestinian consumer is not at risk of consuming perished produce.
however, as the portion of the wall already built will be removed, farmers will expect significant damage to their olive groves located in the area.
one year  ago, foreign policy magazine placed new york times columnist thomas friedman at  number 33 on their list the top 100 global thinkers, noting that he  “doesn't just report on events; he helps shape them.”
[uruknet.info] wasteland in al walajeh: israeli military destruction of farmland uruknet september 7, 2011 - on tuesday september 6th local palestinians from the village of al walajeh gathered with international activists to protest the building of the illegal separation barrier as well as the destruction of ancient olive trees.
uruknet december 16, 2009 - another incident of olive tree vandalism occurred in west bank.
in silence is patrolling the west bank, protecting harvesters from increased  settler violence.
among the fires controlled include a blaze in a  jenin orange grove, which consumed 15 trees, and spread to a nearby olive tree  crop near the jalzon refugee camp....
hanan safwan, 49-years-old, recounted that her husband died on the  spot that day in may, "ever since then," she lamented, "the  attacks against this family have never stopped.
his dreams foretold of a sturdy son working alongside of  him…multiplying loaves and fish.
the group tore down the produce in the valley  neighboring the tappuah settlement, between yaduf and jamain  villages,palestinian authority official monitoring settlement activity ghassan  doughlas said.
for months i have been hearing about disproportionate use of force by the army against weekly demonstrations in nabi saleh a small pastoral palestinian village northwest of ramallah.
i couldn't keep straight whether the contras were our guys or their guys, and i thought the...more settlers cut down olive trees south of nablus wafa japanese ngo continues to support olive farmers and women’s group in tubas through japanese fund pnn - press release on december 8th, 2011, the representative of japan to the palestinian authority, mr. naofumi hashimoto and ms. mayumi yoshida, the representative of niccod, a japanese ngo, signed the grant contract... u.s. asks iran to return spy drone la times 13 dec 2011 -
such assaults included the uprooting of thousands of olive trees, for the sake of expanding the israeli settlements, and the burning and cutting of thousands more by settlers.
palestinians, jews race to plant olive trees in west bank ha'aretz - this year, the stakes have been raised: palestinians have planted double the number of trees as in past seasons, and jewish settlers have responded by boosting their own olive production.
olive tree [hoyas meg -...
olive groves, villagers, solidarity  actions: all are “fair game” to the wild west bank settlers.
hebron and the southern west  bank region on march 2, settlers from settlements  in the eastern bethlehem area uprooted 25 olive trees belonging to residents of  the al-frides village....
consul general hussain abdul khaliq, members of the  palestinian community and others reportedly attended the event.
yet, somehow the grandfather insists on preserving his right to love his grandson.
when the...more lifta's  legacy under threat uruknet september 1, 2010 - there are few  villages in historic palestine which invoke the memories of the nakba (the 1948  dispossession of the palestinian people) as does lifta.
the report by the gaza-based ngo issued findings on settler violence and  attacks against palestinian agriculture in october.
the ayoub family in their home which is slated for demolition next month.
the ‘study and challenge  centre’....
report: palestinian olive trees in west bank uprooted in suspected 'price tag' attack ha'aretz - writing found at scene indicates that incident may have been response to a palestinian stone throwing attack last week that killed an israeli man and his son.
later in the week, ism volunteers picked closer the erez crossing in an area that used to be full of olive, orange and grapefruit groves.
jerusalem's old city an unexpected haven for rare  animal and plant life ha'aretz 23 feb 2010 -
a ‘historic opportunity at  hand’ tonight as uc san diego votes on divestment mondoweiss  - anfal awwad, benjamin balthaser, oliver burchill, amal dalmar and aaron  dimsdale write in the ucsd newspaper the guardian about the ucsd divestment  resolution that will be voted on tonight: we have a historic opportunity to  stop our university from contributing to the violation of human rights....
as thousands of olive trees have been bulldozed, uprooted  and....
considerable damage was done in the  al-matwi, ash-shala and an-nejarah areas, farmers said, with othman balasmah  reporting that "the fields in al-matwi were totally destroyed.
despite the protests of residents, soldiers declared the area a closed military zone, bringing in heavy machinery to begin work.
settlers torch agricultural lands near jenin 17 aug 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-dozens of israeli settlers set fire yesterday to several dunums planted with olive trees in bart'a, a village in the south of jenin.
in silence is patrolling the west bank, protecting harvesters from increased settler violence.
last week, the us, europe, and other world powers condemned a plan announced. . .
the prosecutor, dressed in olive-colored military pants and a khaki shirt, then  stated that “each of the accused strangled him [arrigoni] by plastic  handcuffs,” and therefore all four were complicit in arrigoni’s  kidnapping and killing.
protesting israel's wall and settlements, which have  claimed over 40 percent of the village's lands, demonstrators marched toward  the barrier armed with flags.
the committee added that they will further  investigate all hebron markets on thursday to guarantee the palestinian  consumer is not at risk of consuming perished produce.
-- link:click here to read the report (pdf)
the words 'strong', 'courageous', 'resilient' just aren't enough.
on tuesday afternoon, beitar illit settlers torched a number of olive trees that belong to residents of the village of husan.
there are somethings we can be certain  of.
villagers from burin were  picking....
when the embroidery project was established in 1968 to respond to worsening life conditions with the beginning of the israeli occupation, the women began by collecting old dresses and studying the local embroidery tradition.
reporting from aaron  dearborn.
last night  settlers from the bat ayn settlement set fire to 70 olive trees in the saffa  region of beit ommar.
twenty mature olive trees were broken at their trunks.
nil’in photo takes top prize at dutch contest 1/26/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a dutch photographer has won the silver camera award in the foreign news category for his shot during a weekly demonstration against israel's separation barrier in the west bank village of nil'in.
however, my objection to it is more existential: like some of those in  west berlin who spray-painted their protest for freedom on the bundesrepublik  side of die mauer even as armed gdr guards used deadly force to prevent anyone  from approaching the wall’s eastern side, i believe all walls must fall.
firefighters tackle blaze in tulkarem 10/4/2011 - tulkarem (ma'an) --
for months many israelis shrugged off the mosque burnings, the uprooted palestinian olive trees and even the death threats against... al jab'a: 'if the judge is your enemy, who are you going to complain to' 12/28/2011 - international solidarity movement - by sarah morand, 28 december 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - at first sight al jab'a appears as an idyllic palestinian village, and sitting in a lovely garden under big olive trees, this seems like a perfect escape to the country side: white houses, friendly people, nice nature, and a splendid view until.... al jab'a: ’if the judge is your enemy, who are you going to complain to’ sarah morand, international solidarity movement 12/28/2011 at first sight al jaba appears as an idyllic palestinian village, and sitting in a lovely garden under big olive trees, this seems like a perfect escape to the country side: white houses, friendly people, nice nature, and a splendid view until you glance just 500 meters from the villages border.
more do you see that land?
there are at least...more palestinians eke out living on dump recycling uruknet march 10, 2011 --
thanks to your generosity, the us  campaign will be able to... hamas cracks down on fortune-tellers,  mannequins 12/31/2011 - gaza city (ma'an) --
"it’s a unique find, a piece of art," joseph  patrich, professor of archaeology at the hebrew university in jerusalem.
“the aim of plowing is to confiscate the land of abu al-qoron close to jba’out and bytar alit... palestinian and israeli security forces in beit jala and action:bethlehem/haifa etc palestine note 25 may 2010 - (occupation forces uprooting olive trees in nahhalin this monday morning; call me or email me for details)
sorry for the inconvenience issa qaraqe, ma’an news agency 10/24/2010 oh israelis .
local sources said that the soldiers ambushed the three, who included two children less than 18 years old, and arrested them... three palestinians arrested extinguishing settler fires in safa village pnn - hebron – pnn - israeli forces detained three palestinians in safa village, near hebron, for trying to put out olive grove fires set by bat ayin settlers on tuesday night.
the ministry of agriculture in ramallah said a 30 percent drop in olive oil production was expected for the 2010 season, over the 2008 yield.
it was over 25 years ago,  during my service in the israeli paratroopers.
approximately 100  residents of the qaryout joined the weekly protest against the occupation this  week, aiming to plant olive trees on their lands, as an.... related:popular  struggle coordination committee where is the ‘inevitable’  bedouin intifada israel guaranteed?
day pnn - by mazin qumsiyeh -
three arrested in hebron, troops cut down olive trees, pile waste near bethlehem pnn - hebron – pnn - on wednesday morning, dawn raids conducted by the israeli army ended with the arrests of three palestinians, as settler attacks escalated and israeli soldiers near nablus cut down... call to save the history, culture and heritage of lifta village sons of lifta society, alternative information center 3/14/2011 few palestinian villages capture the tragedy of 1948 like lifta.
the harvest had been interrupted by israeli soldiers who claimed the land was disputed, although israeli government-issued aerial maps showed it to be palestinian.
israel's separation wall: a health hazard palestine chronicle: 20 jul 2010 -
i do pray for healing and  understanding among those who support and those who oppose such a boycott in  the community of olympia, washington and around the world.
many farmers face  restrictions, imposed by the israeli defence forces, on when and where they can  harvest due to the proliferation of israeli settlements and outposts.
this is my rendition of an anthem to be sung that day you and i will stand side by side shoulder to shoulder watching a new dawn wipe away decades of hate and savagery
those israelis are being  misguided, mass-brainwashed, and militarily driven by deliberately distorted  and misinterpreted theology, political rabbis, and western zionist imperialist  powers to execute the colonial zionist project of establishing greater israel  in the heart of the middle east.
settlement  guards threaten farmers near nablus 3/13/2010 - nablus - ma'an -  guards protecting israeli settlers assaulted a palestinian farmer in the wadi  qana area of the salfit governorate on friday, mayor of the nearby town of deir  istya reported.
three people were arrested in the hebron and two in nablus,  palestinian sources said.
the trees, part of the agricultural land belonging to saleh shtewi and his brothers, were torn up at the south-eastern end of the village, abutting the settlement.
despite the hostility, at safed’s academic college over 50% of the student body is palestinian israeli.
the shelves of bethlehem's tourist shops this winter are filled with the gifts you might expect.
tel  aviv has been meticulously crafting rams’ horns and shipping them all  over israel and worldwide.
at least 16 protesters carrying olive branches and seeking to break a military siege were killed on friday.
more.. e-mail settlers occupy  home in al-tur, east jerusalem imemc - 25 nov 2010 - wednesday  november 24, 2010 - 17:34, a group of settlers, on wednesday, with the help of  the israeli police force, took possession of the apartment in the al-tur  neighborhood, in the area of the mount of olives in occupied east jerusalem.
a few months ago  she flew to malta to meet the daughter of yasser arafat, the granddaughter of  her soulmate, raymonda tawil. ...
it faces south hebron, overlooking steep, dusty terraces, planted with olive trees and cratered by old archaeological digs of excavated roman artifacts.
for the israelis it is a “no win  situation....
according to elen eloussie, who runs the embroidery project, the christian  and muslim women in bethlehem historically shared the common heritage of  embroidery.
the  village mayor said the field belonged to daoud yousef harb, a resident...
related:settlers  uproot 100 grape trees east of hebron shofar, so good jeruslalem post 7 sep 2010 -
this group of volunteers went to help tamir and his family because they practicaly live surrounded by israeli stettlers.
bassam hammdan, from wadi al-jalmoun in beit ula, north of the west bank city of hebron, was trying to plant olive and almond trees with a group of volunteers when the incident....
according to their website, "beit orot is at once defending the sacred traditions of our nation, the physical security of eretz yisrael and the integrity of yerushalayim as the undivided capital of israel and the jewish people. "
this week in palestine -  november 2009 - compiled by the palestinian grassroots - immatin is a small  village of nearly 2,500 people that is nestled in the hills east of qalqilia.
from cook’s own introduction, ‘the untold story of the  zionist intent to turn palestine into a jewish state’ to francis  boyle’s summation of ‘israel’s crimes against the  palestinians’, it takes the reader through an exhaustive journey, charting  the course of palestinian history prior to and since the nakba, the catastrophe  of 1947-48.
the apparent  vandalism was discovered as residents of the village woke up on friday morning,  al-qaryuti said... settlers torch olive orchard in hebron imemc - friday march 12, 2010 - 10:22, a group of fundamentalist jewish  settlers burnt on thursday at night an olive orchard in safa village, north  west of hebron, in the southern part of the west bank.
according to the  notices... locals: israeli forces hand bethlehem village  confiscation orders 9/28/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
settlers accused of the attack imemc - villagers from at-tuwani, in the southern west bank region, discovered, on wednesday, that olive groves belonging to residents of the village had been attacked, with six trees destroyed.
the highest quantity of extracted oil in 2009 was 1,585 tons from 6,304 of olive pressed in jenin and tubas governorates, while the lowest quantity of extracted oil was 103 tons from 389 tons of pressed olive in jerusalem.
amazingly, the loss  did not embitter izzeldin abuelaish.
ghasan daghlas, who is charged with monitoring settlement activity in the  northern west bank, told ma'an: "the settlers set fire in the.... settlers torch olive trees south of nablus 11/30/2010 -  nablus (ma'an) -- residents of illegal settlements in the nablus district set  fire to olive trees on tuesday, a palestinian authority official said.
the residents called the local civil  defense and firefighters...
jamal sbatin, the president of the council of the  village of husan reported that settlers torched... opt: oxfam urges  lifting of barriers to olive production uruknet october 19, 2010 -
the two cemeteries can be seen as mirror images of each other.
however, my objection to it is more existential: like some of those in west berlin who spray-painted their protest for freedom on the bundesrepublik side of die mauer even as armed gdr guards used deadly force to prevent anyone from approaching the walls eastern side, i believe all walls must fall.
more.. e-mail village council: israeli soldiers destroy  trees in al-walaja 9/6/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
settlers vandalize cars after hebron shooting 9/1/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
by dr. elias akleh palestinians in the israeli occupied west bank face waves after waves of israeli terror campaigns throughout the year.
the tension in burin started when...
and when dealing with historical process – the changing shape of... israeli forces cross into gaza strip 2/19/2010 - gaza - ma'an - israeli forces entered the gaza strip on thursday after a soldier was injured by a bomb planted at the border, the military said, confirming reports of an incursion following a blast hours earlier.
luba al-samri, police representative for arabic media, said the settlers uprooted 20 trees in the beit safafa area of jerusalem.
several demolition orders were delivered to the community of susya, including against a school, water tanks and trees.
the full report now follows: data was collected between 7/10/2006 and 5/01/2007, representing the 4th quarter, 2006.
soldiers present used  violent force to remove palestinian, israeli and international activists who  attempted to prevent the destruction.
settlers cut down olive trees in nablus area wafa government directly responsible for ongoing harm  to residents of qusra b'tselem 5
qaryut village council head abed an-naser al-qaryuti said "this is the second time the settlers had uprooted and chopped olive trees of the village only within a week. "
the official of west bank settlements file, ghassan douglas, said that number of israeli settlers uprooted today 250 olive nurslings which the palestinians citizens plant in the palestinian land day.
police opened an investigation into whether the blaze was due to negligence or arson, a press statement said.
but this  christmas they showed less hostility against the west bank.
nor do reports mention the frequency with which israeli settlers beat, occasionally torture, and sometimes murder palestinians of all ages, burn their crops, and hack down their groves of olive trees, the livelihood of many palestinian villagers; hundreds, at least, of these trees, have been destroyed by rampaging israeli settlers.
i  enjoyed the experience.
israeli settlers have celebrated the second day of the new year of 5772 in the only way they know how, by a pogrom which drew the blood of palestinians and israeli peace activists who'd come to a palestinian village to help a local landowner plant olive trees.
israels policies are just as inhumane on the other side of the green line, where the so-called civil administration seeks to remove 27,000 bedouin from area c in order to expand illegal israeli settlements.
approximately 4,000 dunams of vital agricultural land, shared by the four  villages, has been appropriated by the ioa over the past ten years.
according to the palestinian center for development and media freedoms (mada), israeli forces assaulted rami swidan, a photographer for ma'an news agency; ashraf abu shawish, a cameraman for palmedia, and reuters photographers abdel rahim al-qusini and hassan titi.
light in bali, like no other in the world reveals the forces of nature.
oct 2011 - this morning (6 oct.  '11), palestinian farmers from the village of qusra, south of nablus,  discovered that about 200 of their olive and fig trees were destroyed.
al-araj was released... fires eruptin an olive grove and 2 forests daily star 24 jul 2011
he accused "powerful political circles" within the israeli government, army and police of "treating with extreme leniency the perpetrators of such crimes.â--êi believe that the government of binyamin netanyahu, which is the most extreme government in israel's history, lacks both the will and determination to stem the tide of jewish terror.
it also  runs the bethlehem museum, where one can learn about local cultural heritage.
its rich soil, water resources  and favourable climate produced abundant harvests of olives and vegetables.
meanwhile in gaza radhika s, notes from behind the  blockade 11/15/2011 i awoke today with  the news that the nypd was clearing out occupy wall street and that israeli  tanks were shelling “northern gaza.”
iof soldiers uproot 450 olive trees pic - israeli occupation forces (iof) on monday uprooted 450 olive trees  west of salfit province, local sources reported.
more.. e-mail occupation bulldozers change features of bab al-amoud pic -  israeli occupation bulldozers under protection of occupation police and  soldiers started on tuesday morning to uproot olive trees from a park close to
hamas holds out olive branch to fatah the national 5 jan  2010 -
israeli settlers set fire to an olive grove belonging to a palestinian family near hebron on friday, an international monitoring group reported.
once a time of  happy industry, the autumn harvest season in particular has degenerated into  antagonism, with farmers accusing extremist jewish settlers of destroying their  crops and....
fayyad: unilateral declaration of statehood  coming in 2011 palestine note 28
the remainder of her land was confiscated to build the rest of the separation wall, only five meters from her home, she added.
palestinian olive trees in october pic - parc said that jewish settlers had burnt 2600 palestinian olive trees in october, assessing the palestinian farmers’ damages as a result at around 156000 dollars.
within 10 minutes... witnesses: settlers set fire to olive trees in burin 7/29/2011 -  nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers on friday torched olive trees in burin  village, south of nablus, and fired live ammunition at firefighters' trucks  trying to reach the blaze, palestinian authority officials said.
arson is suspected because of an ongoing  dispute between the kibbutz and shepherds from the area over usage of the  nearby fields.more.. iran to buy 5,000 tons of palestinian olive oil,  palestinian agriculture minister reveals ma’an news agency  2/22/2007 ramallah - the palestinian minister of agriculture, dr. muhammad  ramadan al-agha, has described the agricultural sector as "the backbone of  the palestinian economy".
settlers clash with palestinian farmers 10/9/2011 - nablus (afp) --
the herbal condiment za'atar, a mixture of dried thyme, sumac and  sesame seed commonly eaten with olive oil and bread, has become well known in  recent years outside the middle east, especially among visitors and  solidarity...
uncovering the ancient crafts of nablus palestine monitor:
journalists, including ma'an photographer rami swidan, said soldiers descended on the group, insisting that because they were in a closed military zone, no photographs could be taken in the area.
it is the  third attack of its kind in the last two months alone, with the family losing  96 of their olive trees in november directly after the harvest.
a group of israeli settlers  broke into the village lands of iraq burin, south of nablus in the northern  west bank today morning.
the director of the preventive securitys operations, yasser al-bulbul, told maan, the economic department of the preventive security service received information about a truckload of pickled olives coming from egypt.
jewish settlers clash with palestinian farmers daily star  9 oct 2011 jewish settlers clashed with palestinian farmers on sunday as they  tried to pick olives from land owned by the family of two men convicted of  killing a young settler family in march.
palestine monitor: 19 jun 2010 -
but the bedouin  didn’t rebel and now, despite plans to expel tens of thousands of them  from their homes in the west bank and the negev, things remain relatively  quiet.
scores of police and a single bulldozer were involved in the operation, which leveled the small house in the at-tur neighborhood near the mount of olives.
the leader of the village council told ma'an that the brush around the olive....
in the ramallah-area village of naalin the weekly demonstration commemorated the second anniversary of the death of aqel srur, who was shot in the chest with live fire in the village in june 2009.
the national committee for resisting  settlement and apartheid wall in beit ommar and palestine solidarity project  dear all, the national committee of beit ommar and palestine solidarity project  (psp ) declare the start of: “save the land – donate an olive tree  seedling” campaign in light of... [uruknet.info] refusing to  die in silence: palestinians resist settler violence during the olive harvest uruknet october 29, 2011 -
this price tag strategy is carried out through land confiscations, physical attacks using stones, guns and knives, the uprooting of olive trees and attacks on homes.
trouble flared when israeli  authorities ordered the demolition of a structure in an illegal settler outpost  because of the freeze on settlement construction.
the trees belonged to the thalji aady family, who have been subject to frequent settler violence and military harassment.
army harassment at peaceful tree-planting in qaryut 1/8/2010 - international solidarity movement - an overwhelming force of israeli military soldiers converged on farmlands outside qaryut today as villagers attempted to replenish their endangered lands with water and new olive trees.
witnesses added that the israeli settlers... palestinians: settlers cut down olive trees ynet news - owner of grove in luban a-sharkiya 'shocked' to see uprooted trees; palestinians.... settlers attack palestinian farmers in deir ibzi 10/22/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
targeting tuba: the ongoing nakba palestine chronicle: 3 oct 2011 -
as thousands of olive trees have been bulldozed, uprooted and.... jewish settlers attack qasra village and damage hundreds of olive trees pic - 30/08/2011 - 02:15 pm (en) south of hebron hills social justice struggle al walaja
the settlement  of beitar illit is located between the villages of wadi fukin, nahalin and  husan, west of bethlehem.
the pa agriculture ministry has strongly condemned sunday a new religious edict issued by a rabbi allowing israeli settlers to steal palestinian olive crops and to poison palestinian water.
israel has only one method to disperse non-violent demonstrators and that is through violent repression.
in addition to  these government-sanctioned settlements, there are four outposts that have  taken root up on these hilltops over the last 10 years.
an elderly woman cuts huge heads of lettuce from both outside  and inside greenhouses.
israeli settlers  attack olive trees in nablus 23
this week, the demonstrators were joined... witnesses: israeli forces uproot olive trees in qalqiliya village 2/5/2012 - qalqiliya (ma'an) --
from an israeli point of view, ileana  ros-lehtinen is the ideal american politician.
another group of... settlers destroy 100  olive trees near salfit wafa - 09:32-salfit, january 14, 2012  (wafa) – israeli settlers from tappuah settlement in the northern west  bank cut off and destroyed on friday around 100 fully-grown olive trees  northwest of yasouf, a town east...
locals said settlers attacked othman abu sabha and his family, damaged his car and stole their olives.
budrus depicts our  ten month campaign of protest marches in 2003-2004, which included  participation by men, women and children, and by representatives from all  palestinian political factions, along with israeli and international activists,  to resist the construction of israel’s separation barrier on our lands.
the pictures  – aerial shots, action shots, urban still lifes, crafted but realist  character studies – work as hard as the words.
leitrer, herself... free gaza the editors, the nation 6/4/2010 june 21 edition the israeli commando raid on what has become known as the freedom flotilla is shocking on a number of levels.
what are they doing?"
the  minister further asserted that the arsonists necessitated prosecution and  punishment in international courts, he said.
but in lebanon the residents had all fled long before my platoon came, and we simply walked in the debris....
soldiers declared the area a closed military zone and disbanded the protest by force within an hour.
shortly there came a call on  ch 16 over the vhf from the frigate asking us our intentions and the flag of  the boat.
rula halawani pnn 25 jan 2010 - any of us see the relationship  between the photographer and his/her subjects as if the camera were an  extension of the photographer’s eye.
awarta land reclamation attacked by armed settlers and military stop the wall - on thursday morning, palestinian farmers and international supporters were barred from irrigating the olive trees they had planted on land day (march 30) in the valley east of awarta.
oct 2010 - robert h. serry  tells fayyad that all int'l players agree that palestinians are ready for  statehood during olive picking.
palestinians say gas canisters set fire to village land 6/16/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) -- israeli forces fired tear gas canisters that started a fire wednesday and burned acres of olive trees in the occupied west bank, witnesses said.
after four israeli rights groups submitted a letter to the country's army documenting attacks on palestinians, settlers denied the allegations and said locals were more likely to blame.
on september 5th at 5 am, locals in the village of burin and other surrounding areas awoke to the.... army surrounds bethlehem village, uproots olive trees imemc - monday september 05, 2011 - 12:57, local sources reported monday that israeli soldiers are currently surrounding the al walaja village, near bethlehem, and are uprooting dozens of olive trees in order to construct a section of the illegal annexation wall in the area.
chunks  of shrapnel and....
international law clearly defines what an independent state is and any attempt to redefine it is an act of bad faith.
after inspections, we knew where the truck was unloaded and we stormed the place accompanied with representatives of the ministry of health.
israeli settlers occupying the homes  above the market, use the walkways below as their personal trash can and the  constant harassment from israeli soldiers has forced shopkeepers to move.
dozens of settlers torched the grove while the israeli army did not attempt to intervene or stop them.
inside, his olives were being  pressed, an annual autumn ritual that he and many other farmers undertake to  obtain a staple food for...
the ramallah-based ministry of agriculture confiscated  considerable quantities of sub-par olive oil on monday in occupied east  jerusalem and hebron.
it has been  exactly seven years since you departed, leaving bereft and orphaned a nation of  stateless palestinians whose cause you personified and promoted as no one else  could.
as a result of the oslo  agreements negotiated in the 1990s - the people of al khalil  became  familiar with two new terms – h1 and h2.
oct 2010 - report chastises the  palestinian authority, israel and the int'l community for failing to help  ancient form of west bank agriculture.
the tree-planting, on the edges of burin village, was set  to see 250 olive saplings dug into the soil under a new "green  palestine" project in cooperation with the palestinian authority ministry  of agriculture.
peaceful olive harvest  yields little 12/22/2009 - irin, huwwara/tel aviv - three hundred  olive trees in shaer's plot near the village of jit in the west bank's nablus  region are almost bare.
"the troops said that it is a closed military area," awad said.
meanwhile, iof soldiers detained three...
metras has led several past missions to makassed with the pcrf, in cooperation with the french consulate in east jerusalem.
the first day of the palestinian olive harvest officially began on 15 october, and rani ali and his family – like hundreds of others – were out among their olive trees, starting to bring in what looks like being a good harvest.
this  morning the israeli army demolished homes, wells and trees in the village of  susiya, south hebron hills.
un: nine violent settler incidents this week palestine note 7 may 2010 - new york - israeli settlers were  involved in nine separate attacks that injured palestinians or damaged their  property, a united nations agency said on thursday.
its economic ties with jerusalem became strong as nearly half of lifta's cultivated land was planted with cereal, wheat, barley, olives and various fruits.
"i can only hope for the future," he  said.
beforeisrael started construction of the wall in bil'in, my family had 45 dunams (1 dunam = 1000 square metres) of land, all of them filled with olive trees.
what are termed "pig attacks" by farmers are often blamed on settlers, with rumors of malicious intentions based on repeated settler attacks on the area, with olive groves ruined and sewage pumped continuously into a local spring.
[ official: settlers uproot  200 olive trees south of nablus uruknet august 16, 2010 - israeli  residents living on an illegal west bank outpost uprooted over 200 olive trees  near the qusra village in the nablus district monday, a palestinian authority  official said.
palestinians accuse settlers of destroying dozens of olive trees in west bank ha'aretz - idf officials have confirmed that vandals chopped down 150 olive trees near the village of qusra; residents of nearby settlement deny involvement.
israel postpones granting palestinians olive-picking permits wafa settlers burn dozens of olive trees north of jerusalem imemc - friday october 07, 2011 - 05:19, a group of armed extremist israeli settlers of the ramat shlomo illegal settlement installed on lands that belong to residents of shu’fat, north of jerusalem, set ablaze dozens of olive trees that belong to two palestinian families, the palestine news network reported.
israel is a military subsidiary of the us; a forward-deployed american military base in the middle east, who is totally dependent on american funds.
more.. e-mail fires in west bank destroy 300 olive trees 11/5/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
hanan safwan, 49-years-old, recounted that her husband died on the spot that day in may, "ever since then," she lamented, "the attacks against this family have never stopped.
i knew then, instantly,  that my entire outlook on the palestinian issue has changed: it is no longer  simply a 'situation' faced by the palestinian people, on my laptop screen,  safely distant, thousands of miles away.
for decades the  surrounding hills of burin are filled with their olive groves and farmlands.
the firebombers swooped down from havat gilad, a wildcat jewish  settlement unauthorised even by the israeli... settlers attack  students sent to help farmers in tel armida uruknet october 16,  2010 - a group of israeli settlers under military escort attacked a number of  university students as they were en route to help palestinian farmers in  harvesting olive trees in tel armida and jabal jawher area in al-khalil city on  saturday.
why i support the olympia co-op boycott mondoweiss - dear friends, the olympia food co-op boycott of israeli products (except for fair trade olive oil) has generated much controversy and emotion.
on friday, we arrived to the south gaza village early, drank two cups of sugary tea with sage, jumped on a cart pulled by a white donkey, and were on our way.
for palestinians, olives are an important agricultural product, and olive trees  symbolize attachment to their.... zionist settlers attack farmers  during olive harvesting uruknet october 9, 2010 - zionist settlers
a newly planted forest in the park includes dozens of olive trees with  plaques dedicating each tree to a child from the northern neighborhood killed  during the war.
"here was where the water went down to the spring.
this development includes last years prawer plan, which recommends that israel relocate between 30,000 and 40,000 bedouin citizens, ripping them from their villages and sticking them in impoverished townships, to clear the area for jewish-only settlements.
but israel had bulldozed it all, claiming it needed 300 kilometers of gazas most fertile land, but in reality taking more.
they  replied that gaza was within a prohibited area and that we should change our  course.
the president of qarout village council,  abed al-naser al-qaruoti, confirmed... settlers uproot olive trees  in qaryut wafa 20 apr 2010 - nablus, april 20, 2010 (wafa) –  jewish settlers uprooted at night tens of olive trees in west bank village of  qaryut south of nablus.
palestine monitor - walking through the olive groves separating the village of ni'lin from the west bank barrier, a group of palestinians heading the opposite direction shake their heads at us in warning.
the israeli occupation forces (iof) destroyed 100 olive trees in the salfit village of masha to make way for building a section of the separation wall, local sources said on wednesday.
but the kids in the west bank need a  certain strength too.
problems with the military escort of  school children from tuba and maghayr al-abeed during december, the operation dove team registered 20 days of school.
uncovering the ancient crafts of nablus palestine monitor  - the old city of nablus is one of the oldest cities in the world.
i've always proclaimed my support for palestine; but now, i am  genuinely terrified by the horrific prospect of my friends and their families  being harmed and killed.
the settlements were still being built, financed mostly by jewish money from america, contributions from wall street speculators and owners of gambling dens.
settlers uprooted olive trees owned by palestinian farmers and set fire to the  groves in the central west bank villages of nabi saleh and deir nidham,  witnesses said.
" washington post columnist  david ignatius, in his accustomed role as unofficial surrogate cia spokesman,  has thrown light on how the cia under its new director, david petraeus, helped  craft the screenplay for this week’s white house spy feature: the  iranian-american-used-car-salesman-mexican-drug-cartel plot to assassinate the  saudi ambassador to the u.s.
israeli forces blocked villagers in nablus from harvesting olives on lands near  israeli settlements on friday, locals told ma'an.
settlers suspected of assaulting farmers 10/20/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
west bank rain welcomed by  olive farmers ma’an news 10/27/2006 qalqiliya -  welcome rain continued to fall in the northern west bank on thursday following  storms on wednesday.
un envoy demands israel act against settler attacks ha'aretz - un mieast peace coordinator 'appalled at acts of destruction of olive trees and farmlands, desecration of mosques and violence against civilians'.
world-class vibrant beats in the evenings and fine-dining at all times, reads the facebook page for orjuwan, a popular ramallah lounge.
her traditional palestinian dress lined by red embroidery attracted my eyes.
settlers 'chop down 100 olive trees' in  nablus 1/14/2012 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers chopped down  more than 100 olive trees belonging to palestinians south of nablus on friday  evening, a pa official said.
not five minutes passed and 2 shots rang  out, one kicking up dust at our feet.
both zones are divided by a military check-point, which must be corssed by anyone willing to enter to the h2 area.
the 80-year-old woman was reported to be injured in the head and transferred to hospital for treatment.
and when  dealing with historical process – the changing shape of... israeli forces cross into gaza strip 2/19/2010 - gaza - ma'an -  israeli forces entered the gaza strip on thursday after a soldier was injured  by a bomb planted at the border, the military said, confirming reports of an  incursion following a blast hours earlier.
israeli authorities uproot, confiscate 450 olive trees in salfit wafa the lede: u.s. ambassador greeted with roses by syrian protesters in hama new york times 9 jul 2011 - video recorded by syrian activists appears to show that protesters holding olive branches tossed roses on to the american ambassador's car in hama's central aasi square on friday.
salam affana and saed affana were detained while picking olives on their land in nablus while thaer ahmad khalil....
[end] archives | art | articles | background | books | boycott | cartoons  |chemical war | children | contact | donate | elections | e-mail us | events |  film | home | letters | links | maps | mission | music | videos | news |  performance | photos | poetry | polls | prisoners | products | search | take  action | the us role | the wall | together to receive a once-daily e-mail digest of our news and articles content,  write to occupationnews-subscribe@yahoogroups.com or visit http://groups.yahoo.com/group/occupationnews/join see example: occupation  news disclaimer: the views expressed in the material posted on this site are the  sole responsibility of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views  of the webmaster or vermonters for a just peace in palestine/israel.
after the 1898 spanish american war, the u.s. extended to puerto rico a newly crafted colonial system which had never been implemented in the mainland, eugenic programs were tested in the island, sterilization of women and the use of the contraceptive pill also used the island as a laboratory.
spate of road accidents across israel kills 5, including 2 children ha'aretz 10 mar 2010 - five people died in car accidents throughout israel on wednesday, including an eight-year-old boy who was hit by a car in jisr az-zarqa.
oct 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) -
along with david bloomer, a bahrain-based radio journalist, they were detained by revolutionary guards on november 25 and freed wednesday.
demonstrators plant olive trees at al-ma’asara, one arrested 1/24/2010 - international solidarity movement - 22 january - this week's friday  demonstration in al-ma'asara celebrated the palestinian day of the tree.
my grandmother used to say about jrash; her  village to the west of occupied jerusalem, her home and only home.
near nablus, meanwhile, ramallah-based premier salam fayyad harvests olives in the iraq burin village.
in turn unemployment and poverty rates in the farming-based community have skyrocketed.
"we were not convinced that it was vital for security reasons to maintain the existing route that passes through a topographically low area of bil'in land and that there was no fitting security substitute to the construction of the barrier in order to protect the residents of modi'in illit,"
residents and firefighters  rushed to the scene, eyewitnesses said, but israeli soldiers would not allow  them to access the land.
beware of small states , an  equally important book on lebanon's complex tragedy.
huckabee: israelis should be able to live anywhere in jewish  state ynet news - israelis should be able to live "anywhere  in israel they wished to live," iikely us presidential candidate mike  huckabee said monday during a visit to the mount of olives ....... israeli settlers violence report: november, december 2010
last week, i watched several youtube videos filmed by activists in  the village, providing vivid visual images of the forceful arrests of  protesters by the army.
for a month now, on every thursday, people gather to reclaim the threatened lands.
but as you dig, can you hear the whispers?
israeli soldiers arrest a ta'ayush activist for entering a declared “closed military zone,” after appealing for his help translating for a detained palestinian woman.
jewish control of the media is  preventing an open discussion of the holocaust, prominent hollywood director  oliver stone told the sunday times, adding that the u.s. jewish lobby was  controlling washington’s foreign policy for years.
from the pyrennes to  the atlases, tunis to athens, jerusalem to damascus, farmers and families are  climbing trees and filling sacks in their grey-green groves.
the questions went something like this:  “so what now?
tamir decided to live in the h2 are,  for two reasons, as he said: the economic reason, which is important, but not  the most important; and because he considered that if palestinians give up, the  settlers will occupy more palestinian houses untill arrives the moment when  there will not be one palestinian in the h2 area.
the mayor.... israel denies salfit farmers access to their lands 28 jun 2011 -
many countries condemned the attacknotably turkey, until recently a key israeli ally and regional power broker with whom relations may now be irreparably damaged because so many of its nationals were in the flotilla.
the defense secretary says he doesn't expect tehran to  comply.
– a poem palestine chronicle: 4 apr 2011 -
so  it’s patently absurd.”
on the edge of the village you own a plot of land on which you raise olives and grow vegetables to feed your family.
i’m  sitting in a hall among lots of people, many of them patients and traders.
by international solidarity  movement - gaza
the high temperatures made it difficult for firefighters to put out  the blazes, and in some cases the teams were assisted by planes.
israeli  forces remove the memorial of samer sarhan amidst daily unrest in silwan 9 nov 2010 - jerusalem, november 9, (pal telegraph - ism) today,  workers from the jerusalem municipality and israeli forces removed the memorial  of samer sarhan, this morning.
israeli settlers set  fire to palestinian-owned olive groves near the evacuated settlement of homesh,  near the west bank city of nablus thursday, a palestinian authority official  said.
"more peace means more tourists," said canawati, wrapping a plastic cherub for a customer as a jazzed-up version of "o come all ye faithful" filtered through the loudspeakers with its message of pilgrimage to bethlehem.more..
an olive oil producer is turning production waste into an energy source palestine note 4 may 2010 -
robin yassin-kassab: you did your national service in  cyprus and egypt just before the 1956 suez war.
while no one yet knows who committed  this act, reports presume that the murderers were palestinian, and for this  reason the incident is receiving major attention.
on 12 december 2008, izzeldin  abuelaish, a doctor from gaza, took his six daughters and two sons on a day  out.
my  parent’s generation were generally decent honorable people who wished no  one harm, neither black nor white, they believed in the humane treatment of  everyone, but many also believed in the doctrine of separate but equal.
the israelis are dealing with peace lovers who are determined to break through the siege and deliver medical aid, cement, paper and food.
the most common attacks include  violent trespassing on palestinian properties during the night, stone throwing  at civilians and their homes, physical assaults on farmers, children and women,  destruction of all types of properties, burning civilian structures, crops and  trees, shooting livestock, poisoning wells, and theft of crops and cutting  fruit trees.
a group of settlers destroyed eight olive trees and damaged two lemon trees belonging to farmer abdel razzaq khaled mansour in the wadi qana area of deir istaya, locals told ma'an.
support ahmad mesleh & support independent media in israel/palestine mondoweiss - 11 jan 2010 - (photo: ahmad mesleh )
the horror was caught live on israeli tv when the doctor phoned his broadcaster friend.
the villagers refused to abandon their.... settlers attack olive harvesters in nablus district pic - 10/10/2011 - 10:10 am jewish settlers torch 20 palestinian dunums of olive trees pic - palestinian fire fighters managed on monday morning to put off a huge fire that was blazing in 20 dunums of olive farmland in orta village, south of nablus, a statement for the fire brigades said.
this is the projected path of a new segment of israeli apartheid wall through al-ma'sara, a small.... ex-cop: mount of olives stonings are ‘attempted murder’ jerusalem post 14 feb 2012 -
alas, our presence and our video cameras was all the impetus they needed to risk life and limb.
alas, our presence and our video cameras was all the  impetus they needed to risk life and limb.
pa settlement affairs official ghassan doughlas said villagers in huwwara were prevented from accessing their land near the notorious yitzhar settlement south of nablus, despite having approved coordination between israeli authorities, the official news....
two settlers and  three palestinians were hurt during the violence that began when settlers,  protesting the razing of illegal structures in the nearby yitzhar settlement,  set fire to palestinian olive trees....
the march then proceeded to meet with the larger than usual number of border policemen and soldiers, some of whom had taken over the rooftops of nearby houses, aiming guns at the demonstration.
the center of burin,  where most families live, lies at the base of these hills.
yash adam settlers attacked  a palestinian-owned farm noon sunday, chopping down hundreds of olive trees.
more.. e-mail israeli  bulldozers plow 15 dunums of olive trees near salfit pnn - salfit  – pnn - on thursday morning, israeli bulldozers plowed 15 dunums of land  cultivated with olive trees (a dunum is about a quarter of an acre) in deir  istiya, a village...
in an exclusive interview with ‘the jerusalem post,’ coordinator of government activities in the territories eitan dangot talks about his unit’s mission of assisting the population of gaza without benefiting hamas, as well as working together with the pa in the west bank.
by  lillian rosengarten i ask, how can israel finds freedom as occupier?
in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees uruknet  october 23, 2010 -
land owned by 40 families in battir village – 148 dunums of vegetable, fruit and olive groves – is earmarked for confiscation, villagers said.
returned u.s. envoy to libya doesn't see long-term insurgency la times 22 sep 2011 -
at least three palestinians were injured when dozens of settlers from itamar armed with sticks and stones attacked the group of about 50 workers harvesting....
palestinian activist in jordan uses social media for  social justice palestine note 12 jul 2010 -
near the concrete wall which separates bil'in from modiin illit colony, occupied by ultra-orthodox jews, there is an olive tree.
dozens of israeli settlers on sunday uprooted over 400 palestinian-owned olive trees near nablus in the northern west bank, a palestinian authority official said.
upon reaching the wall, demonstrators were met with a violent military response.
unfortunately it is not rare that we... russia holds  firm against military intervention in syria la times 2
that land is mine and i can not go there.”
the  100 or so olive trees that had escaped the winter 2008-2009 israeli massacre of  gaza and prior and later military invasions this time went with the 4 towering  military bulldozers and 3 tanks.
a land divided: gate closures  for salim's olive harvest by iof 10/5/2011 - international  solidarity movement - 3 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west  bank - as palestinians in salim began the first day of their annual olive  harvest this morning, october 2nd, israeli occupation forces locked the gate  which gives those living in salim access to their olive trees.
farming is now difficult and in some areas impossible.
harriet lamb, executive director of the fairtrade foundation,  said: "we hope this will be the first of many more fair trade products  coming from the world’s conflict zones and least-developed countries.
the odd  and surreal status quo was maintained this friday.
although organizers.... planting hope and natural resistance in burin 2/4/2012 -  international solidarity movement -
palestine monitor: 19 jun 2010 - the old city market in hebron has turned into a ghost town.
the following is an excerpt from the written testimony of glyn secker, captain of the irene, the latest boat to attempt the breaking of israel's blockade of the gaza strip.
israeli forces notified villagers near bethlehem that their land will soon be confiscated, local residents said wednesday.
a whole  village comprising between 40 and 45 houses had been completely razed in less  than three hours.
i find it hard to  describe the palestinian girls and young women i met in gaza.
[sic] palestinian farmers face barriers to carrying out normal agricultural activities caused through restrictions in movement and water shortages.
italian solidarity activists made...more prisoners' day uruknet april 19, 2011 -
settlers uproot over 500 trees in salfit uruknet september 19, 2011 -- israeli settlers uprooted over 500  olive and fig trees in deir istiya village in salfit on monday morning,  witnesses said.
the saplings which had been planted three months previously had been systematically uprooted from the earth and broken with their remains left.... settlers uproot 20 olive trees near hebron imemc - sunday may 29, 2011 - 05:25, a group of extremist israeli settlers, living at the beit ayin illegal settlement built on palestinian lands the belong to beit ummar village, north of the southern west bank city of hebron, attacked on saturday palestinian orchards, and uprooted twenty olive trees.
the current heatwave has led to several crop fires across  the qalqiliya district on monday, palestinian civil defense forces report read.
citrus groves have been the most affected by the outbreak of natural fires, the  report read.
palestinians are forbidden from passing through some streets by car or by foot; the main street linking north and south hebron has been closed to palestinians; turning a 5 minute journey into a 45 min trek through alternative roads.
filming for b'tselem near susiya in the southern hebron hills, 'aliaa a-nawaj'ah, 12, and her 14-year old brother hamzah were leading their sheep on their own land when, according to 'aliaa, around 7:30 am, two soldiers arrived via an army jeep.
during the period of mass worker’s strikes and school closure, many palestinians found work helping with the annual olive harvest.
fayyad goes green palestine note 11 may 2010 - washington - palestinian authority pm
iraq is angered by u.s. drones patrolling its skies new york times 30 jan 2012 -
you see, here the kites are black.
jewish settlers burn and uproot trees  belonging to palestinians in the west bank pic 23 jul 2010 - a  number of jewish settlers on thursday uprooted more than 50 olive trees near  the village of burin to the south of the northern west bank city of nablus.
"i can remember how my kids stood in panic and fear watching the fierce settlers' attack and seeing their father adnan suffering a heart attack. . .
amidst this chaos and all the people around me who are chatting as an attempt to make time pass faster, im putting my headphones in my ears and listening to fairoz, trying to live in my own world.
on friday morning i was picked up from french hill at  10:30.
under the cover of dark, settlers entered the olive groves of the sufan family home at around 3am and began chopping the trees.
once a time of happy industry, the autumn harvest season in particular has degenerated into antagonism, with farmers accusing extremist jewish settlers of destroying their crops and trying to seize their land.
in the 1960s, israel destroyed part of the  mamilla cemetery and built a parking lot on it.
the storm clouds and cold temperatures did not deter demonstrators, as some 100 locals (approximately a fourth of the village), both male and female, were joined by 20 israeli and international activists in the village square following the midday prayer.
in the kiryat ata forest and in the olive groves belonging to kibbutz yochanan, 60 dunams were ruined.
attacking burin both literally  and administratively, the settlers...
olive oil is the backbone...
butchers displayed their wares, children laughed and kicked their footballs about and the cries for freedom echoed off the walls.
such attacks are becoming  increasingly common.
do they truly comprehend what it is that makes an old man from a west bank village face the brutality of jewish settlers, year after year, as he returns to harvest his few remaining olive trees?
saed and salam afana while they were picking  olives in the family's field behind the separation wall north of salfit,  relatives told....
we are not red indians."
this year’s olive harvest is a source of hope for a community with over 2/3 of its population living in poverty (less than $2.
he was a good man who loved his family and you miss him.
israeli bulldozers raze farmlands central wb 24 feb 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli bulldozers started thursday razing operations to 15 dunums planted with olive trees in the west of dair esta town near salfit.
palestinian women handicrafts bazaar annual event sponsored by bat shalom... more..
he has found his bride, but not the money to hold the wedding.
i wanted to sleep so that 7 am today would come quickly, but  all my attempts failed.
apr 2010 - tens of jewish settlers  stormed palestinian cultivated land lots in qaryut village, south of nablus  city, last night and uprooted olive trees and caused vast damage.
more.. e-mail father of 5 run over and killed by settler 11/9/2011 - international solidarity movement - thom andrews, international solidarity movement, west bank - this afternoon, 45 year old abdullah mutaled al-mashni, father of 5, was run over and killed by an illegal settler.
related:blaze near bethlehem monastery extinguished my bali: my palestine a poem palestine chronicle: 18 jul 2011 -
jewish settlers uproot olive trees, iof soldiers detain west bankers pic 26 jan 2010 - jewish settlers cut off 15 olive trees in palestinian land in deir nizam village to the north west of ramallah while israeli occupation forces (iof) abducted 7 palestinians overnight.
it was recently shown in  israel.
-- link:click  here to read the report (pdf)
[uruknet.info] activists resisting palestinian home demolitions face idf price tag' attack uruknet january 25, 2012 - it has become commonplace among violent west bank settlers to randomly attack palestinian mosques, homes, olive orchards and individuals in order to send a message to other israelis.
[uruknet.info] settlers uproot dozens of olive trees near  nablus uruknet october 1, 2011 - a group of extremist armed  israeli settlers uprooted on saturday dozens of palestinian olive trees that  belong to residents of madama village, south of the northern west bank city of  nablus.
residents of the illegal shvut rachel settlement raided qusra village and chopped down the trees, said ghassan doughlas, pa official for settlement affairs in the northern west....
the public relations and information office said it was waiting for the go-ahead from the internal market organizing committee for the destruction of the goods.
every... [uruknet.info] as settlers disrupt olive harvest, israeli officer declares: "i am the law, i am god." uruknet october 23, 2011 - intimidation of palestinians in the israeli-controlled h2 section of hebron continued today as the israeli military and settlers harassed palestinians and international observers as they attempted to pick olives on their land in tel rumeida.
in the village of jaloud, south of nablus, around thirty villagers, two internationals, and six israeli peace activists accompanied farmers to their land to help plant one hundred olive trees.
settlers chop  down 40 olive trees 10/23/2010 - correction appendednablus (ma'an)  -- israeli settlers cut down and damaged 40 olive trees on saturday in the  northern west bank village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city,  locals said.
i’ve heard the racist words before, when  jews were driven from their homes and vilified.
settlement’s waste water destroys olive
olive trees like the one  above were damaged in a settler...
join us at the launch to gaza uruknet may 11, 2010 - when: wednesday, may 12 - where: dundalk docks, 40 quay street, dundalk, ireland - 10:00-11:00 come to the ship and be introduced to the mv rachel corrie and the organizers, donors and high profile passengers.
huckabee: israelis should be able to live anywhere in jewish state ynet news - israelis should be able to live "anywhere in israel they wished to live," iikely us presidential candidate mike huckabee said monday during a visit to the mount of olives ....... israeli settlers violence report: november, december 2010 ahmad jaradat, alternative information center 1/18/2011 the alternative information center monitored and recorded israeli settler attacks and violations during the final two months of 2010.
villagers  entered the qaryut's eastern farmlands following the midday prayer, carrying  200 baby olive trees donated by palestinian agricultural relief and the  ministry of agriculture.
on june 7, 1967, israeli paratroopers invaded the old city of jerusalem, fighting their way from the mount of olives to enter through the lions gate, eventually reaching the western wallthe most sacred religious site for jews around the world.
we stopped, daring to go no further.
about a hundred people, mostly men, gather  under the noon shadow of olive trees and spread out...
mondoweiss  - intimidation of palestinians in the israeli-controlled h2 section of hebron  continued today as the israeli military and settlers harassed palestinians and  international observers as they attempted to pick olives on their land in tel  rumeida.
israeli  settlers cut 500 trees near salfit imemc - monday september 19,  2011 - 16:43, a number of armed israeli settlers invaded on monday morning an  olive orchard in the village of deir istia, near salfit, in the northern part  of the west bank.
[uruknet.info] israeli bulldozers uproot olive trees in al-walaja near bethlehem uruknet july 26, 2011 - israeli troops detained, kidnapped two palestinians from the village of al-walaja near bethlehem tuesday morning.
they said that the settlers set fire to the trees in lands owned by two families near to the settlement of asfar then ran away, destroying 150 trees in the... mamilla cemetery what to do with the graves?
the demonstration protested the illegal seizure of valuable agricultural land and the january 9th, 2010 uprooting of hundreds of the village resident's olive trees by the hallamish (neve zuf) settlement located on highway 465, opposite an nabi salih.
the  ghost town between palestine’s past and its future catrina  stewart, the independent 4/30/2011 catrina stewart visits an abandoned settlement, frozen in time 63 years ago,  that may soon become a luxury housing development.
his land abuts the settlement boundary fence.
israel sets up trial program to expedite pa export process jeruslalem post 9 mar 2010 - palestinians in the west bank mostly export  agricultural goods such as olives, tomatoes and peppers, valued currently at  around $50,000 a year.
last week i posted on the kick off of a new website from israel/palestine called the daily nuisance .
one.... israel uproots 100 trees in wb 8 jun 2010 - west bank, june 8, 2010 (pal telegraph) –
and now, suddenly, tirzeh pops up as the main opponent  of the wall he himself planned.
the ministry also specified specific  dates for harvesting and processing olives in both gaza strip and the west bank  governorates.more..
you remember your grandfather working that land, and smile.
an interactive map...more we are here  because we exist.
israel radio reported that the plan  includes three new five-story buildings on a 5,000-meter plot of land, funded  by jewish american gambling tycoon irving moskovitz.
medics: farmers hospitalized after israel rips up land 11/24/2011 - qalqiliya (ma'an) -
al arakib could be considered an opening battle.
shortly before reaching the soldiers who awaited the protest, demonstrators stopped to watch the minister plant two olive trees at the end of the built area in the village.
the palestinian villagers were accompanied by many international volunteers – around thirty people from an american group called....
-chris bandak, a palestinian christian from bethlehem was just 21 when he was abducted by the israeli occupation forces.
civil defense crews also extinguished fires in two  cars in qalqiliya and dura, the report added.... today in  bil’in mondoweiss - a protester protects his face from tear  gas during the weekly march against the wall in the west bank village of  bil'in.
more.. e-mail gaza doctor izzeldin abuelaish: 'we saved lives,' i told the children.
police to open new station  on mount of olives jerusalem post 31 jan 2012 -
on thursday, herzliya awarded her honorary citizenship.
related:jordan valley solidarity and article and video witnesses: israeli fire torches nabi saleh olive trees 6/24/2011 - ramallah (ma'an) --
settlers claim olive oil as ‘israeli’ mondoweiss - ali abunimah posted on his blog this commercial for settler-made olive oil from an israeli regional council-- hijacking "the most important symbol and source of economic sustenance for rural palestinians."
picking olives under occupation uruknet october 30, 2010 - families in the village of qusin with properties close to the illegal settlements shave shomeron and shave shomron, make an attempt to harvest their olives but soldiers forced them to leave.
the anarchists against the wall and village activists of ni'ilin,  bil'in, nabi saleh... [uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers attack  olive trees in salfit uruknet august 27, 2011 - settlers on  saturday cut down palestinian-owned olive trees in salfit in the northern west  bank, witnesses said.
a supervisor, a freedom fighter, a peacemaker, a leader of compassion;  you stood your ground and held on with a tight grip to both the olive branch  and the freedom fighter's pistol.
bil'in has organized weekly and  sometimes daily actions against the wall for the past five years, gaining  international attention for the struggle and becoming a symbol for nonviolent,  creative, popular struggle around the west bank of palestine.
despite the diversity among the people, a common ground was established even before take-off: a desire to... oliver stone's son converts to islam in iran jerusalem post 15 feb 2012 - sean stone, a film director like his acclaimed father, says "the conversion to islam is not abandoning christianity or judaism.
palestinians say settlers torched olive trees 11/14/2010 - nablus (afp) -- residents of a nablus village said that israeli settlers burned about 200 of their olive trees on sunday and also torched surrounding grazing land.
israeli settlers uproot olive trees in northern west bank imemc - tuesday april 20, 2010 - 19:31, israeli settlers uprooted on tuesday dozens of olive trees owned by palestinian farmers form the village of qarwit near nablus city, northern west bank.
he wants to move it, so as to leave the lands  of al-walaja village on the “israeli” side.
preamble in the name of god, the compassionate, the merciful, palestine, the land of the three monotheistic faiths, is where the palestinian arab people was born, on which it grew, developed and excelled.
soldiers and police also behaved aggressively towards palestinians,  forcing a pregnant women to spend 30 minutes at a flying checkpoint, for  example, and aided settler harassment of palestinians.
the group sent a letter to high-ranking officials to remind them of israel's obligation under international law to protect residents of territory which it occupies, a statement said.... calendar of collective olive harvest initiatives stop the wall - the anti-apartheid wall campaign and its popular committees are coordinating collective efforts to safeguard the annual olive harvest.
i  am going to gaza and wonder.
qumsiyeh, author of popular resistance in palestine: a history of hope and empowerment, says other examples of nonviolent resistance include protests of the separation barrier (which many palestinians call an apartheid wall) that has effectively turned 10 percent of palestinian land into israeli land since its construction began in 2002; school girls holding class in the street when they cant get to their schools because of israeli interference; and farmers braving israeli intimidation to harvest olives.
with no apparent provocation or reason, soldiers fired volleys of tear gas and percussion grenades at the assembled villagers, then seized houses at the edge of the village to fire rubber bullets and more tear gas into the street.
they also removed the water supply donated on  the soul of samer sarhan and the olive tree planted in the place, although the  tree was present prior to the monument.
even during the first intifadah (palestinian uprising against the israeli occupation), olives and olive oil were vital to survival.
from toronto to moscow, cabals of city-dwelling horticulturalists have sprung up in most population centres with any form of urban anarchist presence.
given the amount of reportage, it is surprising how much significant  information is omitted.
let’s assume we drop the project.
the settlers collected the cut saplings and fled the scene.
international  activists accompanying farmers....
the highest quantity of extracted oil in 2009 was 1,585 tons from  6,304 of olive pressed in jenin and tubas governorates, while the lowest  quantity of extracted oil was 103 tons from 389 tons of pressed olive in  jerusalem.
jewish settlers uproot hundreds of palestinian olive trees pic - jewish settlers cut off more than 200 olive trees south of qasra village south of nablus city after midnight wednesday, local sources reported on thursday.
the village mayor said the field belonged to daoud yousef....
and yet, much of israeli society is either unaware of  the extent of the violence, or unwilling to call it anything other than  “the random actions of a few fanatics.”
settlement’s waste water destroys olive trees wafa jerusalem mosque expanding illegally ynet news, 17 nov 2011 -
but non-violent demonstrations do cause a threat, especially when  people walk to the wall and demand access to their land, their olive trees,  their resources, and their homes.
"during hard times, we have survived off olive  oil," says ahmed sourani from the palestinian agricultural relief  committee.
israeli military  profiling and assaulting international observers in hebron international solidarity movement 11/8/2011 novermber 5 for  over a week now, ism activists have been continually harassed, and on one  occasion assaulted, by israeli soldiers who have frequently demanded that  internationals to hand over possessions of their passports.
refusing to die in silence: palestinians resist settler violence during the olive harvest 10/29/2011 - international solidarity movement - ben lorber, mondoweiss - as this year's olive harvest sends palestinian families across all of historic palestine out to their olive trees, a new nonviolent resistance group called refusing to die
-- see also:source  more.. e-mail settlers stone elderly palestinian lady 31
head of the dir estia city council, nathmi salman, told the palestine news and information center, wafa, that the olive trees belong to resident nasser mansour, and... what settlements look like mondoweiss - 7 apr 2010 - anyone who wants to understand israeli settlements should understand how they look to palestinians.
my beautiful palestine uruknet march 30, 2010 -
palestinians, israelis and international activists gathered on four gates which lead to jerusalem: qalandia, biddu, shufat, and at rachel's tomb in bethlehem.
business isn’t booming.
mp dr. mustafa barghouthi,  secretary general of the palestinian national initiative, said that the  destruction of lands and uprooting hundreds of olive trees in deir estia are  heinous...
the photograph on the cover was telling: a kindly old  man with a white beard, who could have been any palestinian or middle-eastern  grandpa, is lovingly touching the hair of a toddler.
israeli authorities were operating in an area that includes over 2,000 olive trees, all owned by palestinians in the predominantly christian city between bethlehem and jerusalem.
following mid-day prayers, protesters marched towards thewell and their agricultural lands but were immediately confronted with tear-gasand rubber-coated bullets.
this transformation was a difficult  one for many, but certainly not all, my parent’s and grandparent’s  generation.
iof violently suppresses weakly peaceful protest at nil’in 19 jun 2010 - ni’lin, june 19, (pal telegraph – by  olathe litonya)
researching deep in the history and nature of the  arab/israeli conflict, watching the unfoldment of the palestinian struggle for  freedom and independence against the savage israeli oppression and territorial  expansion, and examining the western political policies towards the conflict i  came to a new different realization.
there are countless carved olive-wood crucifixes, angels and last suppers.
palestinian pharmaceutical  company bier ziet sarted a national level campaign recently to plant olive  trees all over the palestinian areas under the slogan of "lets make  palestine green.
i've always proclaimed my support for palestine; but now, i am genuinely terrified by the horrific prospect of my friends and their families being harmed and killed.
the program, implemented by oxfam gb and the palestinian agricultural relief committees, will increase the ministry of agriculture's capacity to create a good business environment for producers, and....
consequently, the  agriculture ministry has placed great importance on planting olive trees and  producing quality olive oil products.
idf announces closure of judea, samaria for yom kippur jerusalem post 7
it made the work of picking the olives much more arduous and dangerous.
the march began in its usual fashion.
the survey sample of this is based on the 1997  census (updated in 2003); 7,563 households were selected to represent the  palestinian society, of which 6,571 questionnaires were completed.
although the military escort arrived on time, only in a few cases did the soldiers walk with the children, as mandated.
related:blaze  near bethlehem monastery extinguished my bali: my palestine –  a poem palestine chronicle: 18 jul 2011 -
in the ramallah-area village of na’alin the  weekly demonstration commemorated the second anniversary of the death of aqel  srur, who was shot in the chest with live fire in the village in june 2009.
for most palestinians farmers, the olive harvest is their primary source  of income for the year and the price of olive oil has a significant impact on  their livelihood for the whole year.
he  speaks in a deep, resonant voice and has sparkling olive green eyes that  twinkle as he presents.
"we intend to leave around july," a member of the organization, kate leitrer said.
the union of agricultural work committees in the village of aqraba in nablus said monday that residents of the illegal itamar settlementburned 300 olive trees.
home to  generations upon generations of farmers, kafr ad-dik, and the neighboring  villages of rafat, balut, and bruqin, have had the majority of their  agricultural land stripped away from them in the last ten years by the ioa.
according to a statement from zaki's office, non-violent  popular rallies will continue across palestine demanding his release.
but they will  have to wait and see whether their own homes, in haifa or nazareth for example,  will still be standing, along with their traditional lemon, olive and fig trees  and grape vines, which their parents have longed to see since the beginning of  their tortuous exile in neighbouring arab countries and elsewhere.
the maps have been publically available since a peace now campaign pressured the government into disclosing data on ownership of the land in the occupied territories.
the history the protests have occurred every friday since may  of 2008, when israel began to build their 8-metre barrier wall across the  village of ni'lin, in order to “protect” the jewish settlements of  modin illit and hashmonaim.
abuelaish had been offered a job in toronto,  canada, and he wanted to know how the children, who had never known anywhere  other than gaza, would feel about this.
following the petition, the villagers were.... olives - a palestinian family affair uruknet october 20,
the soldiers detained  the siblings with plastic handcuffs before releasing them.
today, a horrid 25 foot concrete wall stands in niilin, behind which lie 620 acres of village lands taken for the expansion of illegal israeli settlements.
the most recent attack came last week, when a group of settlers snuck  onto her family's property before sunrise, and uprooted 18 olive trees.
it was hard to imagine how anything ever grew on this brown, barren soil, much less the hundreds of olive, orange and grapefruit trees the qudaih family reminisced about.
this violence ranges from the blows delivered from masked, rod-wielding youth accompanied by an armed guard in jalud last week, to the violent mob outside of anatot last month, to scores of instances of tree burning or uprooting.
protesters say army used live fire against nil’in demonstration 4/10/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - palestinians were joined by 15  israeli and international activists in the west bank village of nil'in on  friday, where israeli forces were said to have used live fire to disperse a  weekly demonstration.
middle eastern promises  www.thedailyshow.com daily show full episodes political humor rally to restore  sanity this is the real peace process pnn - by: jenne  jan holtland – olive tree campaign - during two years the palestinian  activist baha hilo and the american journalist jared malsin shared an apartment  in west bank city of bethlehem.;...
what follow are images of the  protest from qalandia.
[uruknet.info] activists resisting palestinian home demolitions face  idf price tag' attack uruknet january 25, 2012 - it has become  commonplace among violent west bank settlers to randomly attack palestinian  mosques, homes, olive orchards and individuals in order to send a message to  other israelis.
she walks over felled trees, past the bulldozed cistern, and to the ruins...
claiming nearly 30% of remaining  village land, the wall annexes ni'lin farmland for use by the nearby illegal  settlement modi'in ilit.
i think i was the only one who had any breakfast –  home made muesli (wonderful almond nuts).
the fire also damaged vineyards and the electricity grid in the area, a spokesman from the town's police department ashraf shamasneh said....
settlers also noted that the palestinians did  not get permission from the proverbial master of the land – the israeli  army – to have an olive harvest.
we visited  good friends, made new friends, saw 3000 year old olive trees, walked in the  ruins depopulated villages, and shopped and ate in palestinian towns which  survived 62 years of colonial apartheid.
one of the abu haikel sons took the cpters to the scene of the fire.
ghassan daghlas, who holds the settlement file  for the northern west bank, reported the incident, which followed on the heels  of the destruction of at least 40 fruit trees just north of the area the week  before.
the creation of a 50-meter-wide buffer zone was agreed to as part  of the security arrangements included in an interim palestinian-israeli  agreement signed in 1995.
in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees uruknet october 23, 2010 -
more.. e-mail village council: israeli soldiers destroy trees in al-walaja 9/6/2011 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
the remainder of her land was  confiscated to build the rest of the separation wall, only five meters from her  home, she added.
civil defense control fires in the north 8/16/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) -- palestinian civil defense crews controlled a house fire and a blaze in two olive fields in the northern tulkarem and qalqiliya districts on monday morning.
on the one hand, by stopping the flotilla israel attempts to maintain  its regional status as an omnipotent super power that controls the land, the  air and the sea.
im writing now from beit hanoun border or the so called erez border.
calls to an  israeli police spokesman based in the west bank went unanswered.
demanding the ouster of president bashar assad, syrians carried olive branches as they gathered in the flashpoint city of hama.
with a vague idea of staying there for a couple of years or so, i found myself drifting into journalism, and, taking to it, i ended up staying fifty.
craft from the secret base are allegedly flying missions to niger, mali and mauritania, with the ostensible mission of seeking... palestinian farmers disappointed with olive harvest alternative information center - palestinian farmers had a disappointing olive harvest this
reporting from aaron dearborn.... the battle for al-walaja palestine monitor: 1
"also on display are  tradition crafts.
an observer with the christian peacemaker teams said israeli demolition crews arrived before sunrise, at about 5:30...
the old city market in hebron has turned into a ghost town.
by dr. elias akleh palestinians in the israeli occupied  west bank face waves after waves of israeli terror campaigns throughout the  year.
the palestinian prime minister salaam fayyad's overture to hamas did not  make israel or the us very happy, but he says he is confident his agenda will  bring positive change.
-- see also:call to save the history, culture and heritage of lifta  village and palestinian refugees act to save jerusalem’s lifta village  from destruction more.. e-mail syrian forces shoot at protesters in  dara’a siege new york times 29 apr 2011 -
- international solidarity movement - by stella - it was a beautiful morning but as usual too hot.
awad's uncle salim witnessed the attack.
craftsmen carve out their corner in egypt la times 30 nov 2009 - with almost no unemployment, damietta, a  center of handmade furniture, is an anomaly in egypt.
local official in charge of the settlements file in the northern west bank ghasan daghlas said the fire was set in the jabal marwes area....
* the destruction begins as far as 700 metres from the border it was senseless, random, gratuitous violence against the farmers and their hopes.
israels barrier snakes out of the western horizon here, fence and tarmac separating a last cluster of settler tract housing from a welter of native sheds, before finally dead- ending in a small terminal, comprising two booths straddling the road and a clump of concrete barracks.
in gaza: 7 mar  2010 - * the destruction begins as far as 700 metres from the border it was  senseless, random, gratuitous violence against the farmers and their  hopes.
a  similar incident was alleged to have occurred several months earlier, it said.
arrived before sunrise, at about 5:30...
oct 2011 - rami almeghari
two israelis were arrested immediately, and six internationals were later arrested.
oct 2011 - clashes erupt day before yom kippur between security forces,  settlers; arab and jewish-owned olive trees destroyed in west bank violence.
its remaining houses look like  jewels of a necklace,... "solidarity with the entire  palestinian people" electronic intifada: 2 sep 2010 -
dozens of israelis threw stones at a palestinian house near an illegal settlement in the northern west bank on monday, witnesses told ma'an.
on the afternoon of 14 january  palestinians discovered that a family-owned olive grove in khoruba valley had  been destroyed.
they are called "price tag" attacks, after the "signature" the settlers leave scrawled on the walls of the burnt-out buildings.
it is unpleasant, tiring work, but is a rare source of  income in the west bank, where unemployment stands around 15.2 percent.
the anarchists against the wall and village activists of ni'ilin, bil'in, nabi saleh... [uruknet.info] witnesses: settlers attack olive trees in salfit uruknet august 27, 2011 - settlers on saturday cut down palestinian-owned olive trees in salfit in the northern west bank, witnesses said.
al faqeeh is now being held at jelemeh prison in haifa, israel.
umm ayman sufan said more than 40 residents of yitzhar settlement pelted her house with stones and bottles, before cutting down olive trees surrounding the home....
the ta'ayush activists, who  specialise in supporting palestinians' legal rights to their property, showed  the aerial maps to soldiers, as well as relevant land deeds.
that is why we are here, because we exist and we are not going to  allow them to kick us from our lands.
on 24-26 oct. '11, b'tselem documented four cases of attacks on farmers from beitillu, a palestinian village near ramallah, and their property.
in 2008, brother ashraf was arrested, blindfolded and  shot in the leg.
a poem palestine chronicle: 4 apr 2011 -
the firebombers swooped down from havat gilad, a wildcat jewish settlement unauthorised even by the israeli... settlers attack students sent to help farmers in tel armida uruknet october 16, 2010 - a group of israeli settlers under military escort attacked a number of university students as they were en route to help palestinian farmers in harvesting olive trees in tel armida and jabal jawher area in al-khalil city on saturday.
with unemployment levels above 45 percent, and the price  of most goods doubled or more, living, and marrying, are becoming unaffordable.
even during the first  intifadah (palestinian uprising against the israeli occupation), olives and  olive oil were vital to survival.
a bomb  dropped by an israeli air force f-16 jet exploding in beit hanoun, north of the  gaza strip, on january 3, 2009.
in photos: palestinian pms harvest olives 10/10/2010 - maanimages / rami swidan, mohamad al-ostaz, pool - prime minister ismail haniyeh of gaza visits an olive press on 9 october 2010, the start of the annual harvest.
tamir used  to live in another house in the north of hebron, however israel confiscted 30  dunums of his land and then the soldiers and the settlers pushed him to leave.
witnesses: settlers uproot over 500 trees in  salfit 9/19/2011 - salfit (ma'an) --
the seven arches hotel belongs to the jordanian royal family but it...
israeli settlers of the "aleih” settlement, which is built on the territory of “al laban” town located to the south of nablus in the west bank, attacked dozens of olive trees today morning.
israeli troops fired tear gas in an-nabi saleh village on thursday,  setting fire to olive trees, witnesses said.
near nablus, meanwhile,  ramallah-based premier salam fayyad harvests olives in the iraq burin village.
to many palestinians my generation, raised in the  diaspora, palestine is more than the landscape, old stones and holy places that  so many have written about yet most of us on the outside have never seen.
dozens of trees were uprooted earlier on thursday, near the central  west bank city of ramallah. ...
that land is mine and i cannot go there international solidarity movement 5/14/2011 on may 8, 9, and 10th the farmers of  khuza’a harvested their wheat.
swidan said soldiers  approached the group and ordered them to stop filming, but that they refused.
soldiers ’attack’  journalists near nablus 1/29/2010 - nablus - ma'an - a group of  palestinian photojournalists documenting tree-planting near nablus on thursday  afternoon said they were accosted by israeli forces, who declared the area a  closed military zone.
a subsequent decision, brown vs the board of education , 1954, was essentially  unimplemented until the mid to late 1960’s with the onset of the  administration of lyndon johnson.
in the face of overwhelming power, the message that underlies this story is the very idea of palestinian existence.
this is not what you expect: an accomplished and self-reflective work of history enclosed within a layer of war reportage – in comic book form.
we came here to do barbecue, party and relax the israeli jeeps used to pass in the distance but did not bother us, they used to leave us in peace.
at this point clusters of shacks and tents begin  to appear on the surrounding slopes, some nearly two kilometers adrift adrift  of the shoulder.
approximately 200 palestinian, israel and international  demonstrators tried to block bulldozers uprooting an olive grove, sitting in... al-walaja: defending palestinian land from bulldozers palestine monitor: 26 apr 2010 - a sit-in protest was organised in the west  bank village of al-walaja (south of bethlehem) on sunday against the ongoing  construction of the wall, which was resumed last thursday.
“my children and grandchildren all lived together in our two-storey house.
scores of bedouin men were standing on a yellow hill, sharing their experiences from the early morning hours, while all around them uprooted olive trees lay on the ground.
settlers burn olive trees in bil’in 16 jun 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli  settlers  burnt yesterday dozens of olive trees planted in the territories of  bil’in village located behind the apartheid wall in the west of ramallah.
but joseph worried, “cheese and olives  are not enough to feed a growing boy.
the full report now follows:  data was collected between 7/10/2006 and 5/01/2007, representing the 4th  quarter, 2006.
tens of troops and two bulldozers were used.
26 nov 2010  - jerusalem - driving east from jerusalem on the winding jordanian-built road  that once led down from the mount of olives to the dead sea, one passes through  a series of arab suburbs and soon comes to... srulik, meet handala gil zohar, common ground news service 11/25/2010
oct 2010 - palestinian pm says israeli "colonies" must come to an end; "the youngest olive trees have deeper roots than the largest israeli settlement.
village mayor nazmi sulaiman said some of the trees uprooted had been planted more than five years ago on land belonging to kamal muhammad abdul rahman.
approximately 200 trees were planted as part of the ongoing popular resistance to the israeli apartheid wall and settlements.
more.. e-mail valley flavors: part 1 jerusalem post 27 jan 2012 -
here, in the political and commercial  centre of the west bank, a relative sense of ease and prosperity has emerged as  new shops and bars serve well-educated and discerning customers.
the leader  of... jewish settlers burn 250 palestinian trees in nablus village pic - jewish settlers started a huge fire in palestinian farmland  in deir al-hatab village east of nablus on monday burning 250 olive and almond  trees, local sources reported.
the cornerstone was laid for a newly approved settlement  project being built on jerusalem’s mount of olives, monday 31 january.
twilight zone / mourning uprooted olive trees in west bank villages ha'aretz 20 nov 2009 -
the brutal  aggressions against lands, homes and residents are part of an obvious  systematic project to render the life of palestinian residents virtually  impossible.
peace itself is the way to peace, he said, and there is no peace without freedom.1 all of this is, in some ways, rather new in palestine, although in his latest book the philosopher sari nusseibeh, the president of al-quds university in jerusalem, traces an earlier stage of organized palestinian civil disobedience in the popular struggle of the first intifada in 1988 and 1989, in which he had a significant part....
popular resistance expands in an nabi salih 2/5/2010 -  international solidarity movement - 10 people were injured by rubber-coated  steel bullets and tear gas cannisters in today's demonstration in an-nabi salih  village, in the north ramallah region, against the expansion of the illegal  halamish settlement on to village lands.
when the israeli army were building the wall on our land, they stole land. . .
tamir also said that he know he is half alone in  this struggle, and he asked me: "where are all those large international  organization of human rights, the un?
while palestinian farmers, accompanied by internationals, were planting olive trees, fifteen settlers approached the area, some carrying slingshots.
israeli  forces were uprooting the trees to extend israel's contentious west bank  separation wall.
witnesses said jehad jamal al-amla, 17, and iyad jamil al-'amla, 18, were detained while picking olives in beit ula west of....
violence marks 'naksa' in golan heights more.. e-mail international human rights volunteers needed in palestine 6/4/2011 - international solidarity movement - international women's peace service - the internationalwomen's peace service (iwps) is a small team of international female human-rights activists in palestine.
i suddenly experienced deja vu: an image of myself walking in the rubbles of a destroyed village somewhere on the outskirts of the lebanese city of sidon emerged.
founded by the religious  settlement movement gush emunim in 1975, qedumim is populated by settlers  infamous for their violence, which inevitably increases during the olive  harvest.
negev more.. e-mail video - israel police raze illegal bedouin village in negev israeli occupation archive 7/27/2010 around 300 bedouins living in israels negev desert have been made homeless after police raided their village and razed their homes.
almost 19,860 tons of olives were pressed in 2009, extracting 4,771 tons of olive oil -- a decline in olive press output, which in 2008 saw 17,584 tons of oil extracted from 76,388 tons of pressed olives in 2008, the pcbs statistics indicated, revealing a poor olive harvest in 2009.
the un body for humanitarian affairs, ocha, says 7,500  trees were uprooted, burnt or chopped down in the first nine months of 2011.
in photos:  confrontation in beit jala 3/3/2010 - maanimages / luay sababa -  israeli border police clash with palestinian protesters at a demonstration  against the separation wall in the west bank city of beit jala, near bethlehem,  on 3 march 2010.
approximately 200 palestinian, international and israeli protesters sat in the path of israeli bulldozers scheduled to tear up olive groves on sunday, and faced israeli border police who detained four, including an israeli man.
thus  access to land is nearly 9 folds more to the jewish population (most of it not  native) even without the return of refugees.
more than 150,000 bedouin live in israel, mostly in and around the negev desert.
in photos: bethlehem souvenirs 7/12/2010 - maanimages / luay sabab - a palestinian man works at a mother-of-pearl factory south of bethlehem on 10 july 2010.
israeli  forces uprooted dozens of olive trees on tuesday in deir istiya in the northern  west bank, local officials told ma'an.
the  "olive revolution" was expressed mainly in friday demonstration in  qalandiya.
her death leaves a hole in her family that will be hard to fill.
settlers attacked residents of kifl haris village in salfit and stole their  olives, witnesses said.
one jeep came down to the playground, but people continued their work as soldiers took pictures and asked for the palestinian participants identification cards.
by lillian rosengarten i ask, how can israel finds freedom as occupier?
settlers chop down 40 olive trees 10/23/2010 - correction appendednablus (ma'an) -- israeli settlers cut down and damaged 40 olive trees on saturday in the northern west bank village of al-lubban ash-sharqiya, southwest of nablus city, locals said.
olive revolution in pictures: palestinians march on jerusalem 26 aug 2011 - qalandia (pal telegraph) -  today, the last friday of  ramadan, mass peaceful protests took place under the slogan “knocking on  jerusalem’s doors”.
last month, the ioa significantly increased its total of annexed land in the area when it earmarked an additional 1,000 dunums for the alleged expansion of the nearby illegal israeli outost, ale zahav.
countering this, the olive season was  prosperous...more..
students from the school were engaged  in a demonstration against the soldiers who had stopped in front of the school,  which is located near the main road.
the high temperatures made it difficult for firefighters to put out the blazes, and in some cases the teams were assisted by planes.
'palestinian olives stolen, groves  vandalized' jeruslalem post 13
they damaged farmland  in the village, residents said.
for a month now, on every thursday, people  gather to reclaim the threatened lands.
on display was the art and heritage of palestine, and renewed efforts at integrating women into the business economy.
costumes from palestine on online gallery of traditional palestinian costumes...more..
now they're coming for palestine's olive oil too uruknet january 17, 2012 - zionism's cultural appropriation of indigenous palestinian folklore and cuisine - such as hummus, falafel and maftoul - as "israeli" has long irked palestinians, especially when these same cultural products are used in international propaganda and marketing efforts which deny palestinians' rights and history.
palestinians, jews race to plant olive trees in west bank ha'aretz 26
the creation of a 50-meter-wide buffer zone was agreed to as part of the security arrangements included in an interim palestinian-israeli agreement signed in 1995.
soldiers ’attack’ journalists near nablus 1/29/2010 - nablus -
israeli settler violence against palestinian farmers  during the olive season is not an exception.
jerusalem post on adding olives to your seder  plate jewish voice for peace - in an overview of changing passover  traditions, the jerusalem post mentions the new tradition of chosen  bites: passover game plan jeruslalem post 7 apr 2011 - because all  extra virgin olive oils are kosher for passover and year round, make sure you  purchase a great oil.
according to palestinian news agencies maan and wafa, settlers from the tapuah settlement attacked palestinian land in the area south of salfit in the central west bank yesterday (saturday).
in september and october 2009, only a few aggressions against palestinian  farmers – related to harvest, land and farming equipment – were  reported.
in a stark departure from finely crafted talking points, israeli ambassador to the united states, michael oren spoke with rare clarity about israel's intentions in imposing and maintaining the blockade on gaza's 1.5 million people.
further inside the ancient walls, traditional soap factories, turkish  bathhouses, and antique stores have long-established their place in the heart  of this bustling hub.
oxfam:  israeli policies damaging to the palestinian olive oil industry uruknet october 15, 2010 -
bil’in and ni’lin demonstrate in the face of  closed military zone orders 3/19/2010 - international solidarity  movement - the smell of tear gas hung over the villages of ni'lin and bil'in  today.
but west bank kids have their own bitter reminders of occupation: raids and curfews, tear gas grenades that come crashing through bedroom windows, and soldierssometimes not much older than kids, themselveswho stop them from reaching their schools, hospitals, family members and friends....
al jab’a is surrounded by illegal settlements, a  soldier camp, one major checkpoint, the construction of the separation wall as  well as one permanent roadblock which blocks access to jab’a’s land  and the neighboring village of surif.
the palestinians report  that, as in previous incidents, the forces... extensions to mount  of olives mosque illegal, says city jerusalem post 12 jul 2011 -
part of the site has remained abandoned, though, as it falls inside of zone c, as designated by interim agreement on the west bank and the gaza strip, also referred to as oslo 2, signed in 1995.
latest in a  series of similar allegationsisraeli settlers set fire to a palestinian car in  the northern west bank on wednesday,. . .
the apparent vandalism was discovered as residents of the village woke up on friday morning, al-qaryuti said.
soldiers  uprooting olive trees were confronted in beit jala and later landowners with  help of other locals and internationals went back and replanted these trees and  rebuilt a bulldozed children’s playground in beit jala....
related:source refusing to die in silence: palestinians resist  settler violence during the olive harvest mondoweiss - olive  harvesters watch israeli soldiers after being told to stop picking olives in  burin.
israel fears that the money can be used for terrorism.
movement around h2 is severely  restricted.
the hamas-run government has launched a series of campaigns targeting fortune-tellers, mannequins and cigarette vendors in the gaza strip.
the olive harvest is the definitive mediterranean tradition.
on this anniversary we demand an international liberation movement that eventually leads to just that, liberation for us palestinians from 63 years of brutal military occupation and ethnic cleansing that pours shame on any organisation or government claiming to endorse universal human rights.
the trees and the land belong to at-tuwani resident salman  jibrin raba'i.
but the petraeus team soon leapt to the rescue, reflecting the four-star-general-turned-intelligence-chiefs deep-seated animus toward iran.
i call on israeli officials to release abu rahmah immediately and unconditionally. . .
this year the crop is  good.
local witnesses told ma'an that settlers from  the illegal ma'ale mikhmas settlement adjacent to the village set fire to  agricultural land before vacating the area.
[uruknet.info] pa report: israeli settler violence on the rise uruknet july 7, 2011 - - israeli settler violence against palestinians increased "dramatically" in june, according to a palestinian authority report released wednesday.
hebron and south west bank region at midday on 11 november, settlers from the takoa settlement to the southeast of bethlehem threw stones at the students of the girls school in the takoa village.
a newly planted forest in the park includes dozens of olive trees with plaques dedicating each tree to a child from the northern neighborhood killed during the war.
jewish settlers uproot scores of palestinian olive trees daily  star 6 oct 2011 occupied west bank: around 150 olive trees in the occupied west  bank were cut down overnight in an attack blamed by palestinians on jewish  settlers.
scores of police and a single bulldozer were  involved in the operation, which leveled the small house in the at-tur  neighborhood near the mount of olives.
hadeel hadeel is a uk based fair trade shop which aims to provide a sustainable source of income for crafts people working in community based groups in the west bank, gaza...
for the love of israel ramzy baroud, al-ahram weekly 9/8/2011 documenting a misguided congresswoman's war on the un.
the pcbs noted that results showed that the extraction rate increased, reaching 24.
it is here where you can find the  palestinian women's embroidery co-operative.
the iof used tear gas, sound bombs and rubber-coated steel bullets to violently repress the commemoration.
the event was organized by the (resigned) ministry of agriculture in gaza, the participants held olive branches,...
founded by romans nearly 2,000 years ago, the city has survived byzantine, crusader, islamic, and ottoman rule.
carrying flags and alternately chanting,  singing and walking in silence we approached the israeli border.
shortly before your death, you were asked by a journalist what you thought was your greatest achievement, and flashing your trademark face-splitting grin, you replied: "we have made the palestinian cause the biggest issue in the world 107 years after the basel conference, 90 years after the sykes picot agreement, all conspiracies have failed to wipe us out.
the electronic intifada contributor robin yassin-kassab interviewed hirst on his work and views.
however, in the naqab (hebraized as negev) desert and the galilee this ecological occupation takes on a very different form.
the post featured an incredibly striking photo of a palestinian protester holding an enormous palestinian flag jumping off the stumps of a destoyed olive tree...
a whole village comprising between 40 and 45 houses had been completely razed in less than three hours.
tamir or abu taleeb (the father of taleeb) is  shoemaker and lives in the h2 are of hebron's old city.
shenstone  joined palestinian beneficiaries of the un money for work program to plant 360  saplings in an attempt to save over 30,000 square meters of land in....
army bulldozers uproot olive trees in northern  west bank pnn - salfit – pnn – israeli army bulldozers  uprooted on thursday olive trees and destroyed farm land owned by a local  farmer from the village of dier istiya near the northern west bank... israeli bulldozers raze farmlands central wb 24 feb 2011 -  west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli bulldozers started thursday razing  operations to 15 dunums planted with olive trees in the west of dair esta town  near salfit.
a demonstration was held outside jelemeh prison in haifa today in protest against the arrest and imprisonment of grassroots activist wa'el al faqeeh abu
the  vandalism occurred in an area adjacent to outposts of the shilo settlement.
the nakba was still recent, and the two  palestinians, separated by two generations appear tired and haggard as they are  caught in this hopeless scene.
in a statement  issued by the israeli military, the buildings were had demolished due to the  fact they were "illegally constructed structures" built on a military  training ground, "endangering the lives of those present".
the private security company  hired to man the checkpoint escaped leaving the protesters the ability to pass  through the checkpoint without restrictions.
fayyad goes green palestine note 11 may 2010 - washington - palestinian authority pm salam fayyad vows to plant 10 million saplings at "green qalqilya week," ynet news reported tuesday.
he speaks in a deep, resonant voice and has sparkling olive green eyes that twinkle as he presents.
more.. e-mail settlers 'burn olive trees' near ramallah 10/15/2011 -  ramallah (ma'an) --
the settlers uprooted 40 olive trees in the al-batashiyah area  of qaryut, the village's mayor abdel nasser al-qaryuti told ma'an.
citrus groves have been the most affected by the outbreak of natural fires, the report read.
on october 20, oxfam reported that israeli  settlers have already cost west bank palestinian farmers $500,000 this year in  destroyed olive trees.
others spoke of the persistence  of the palestinian farmer and the beauty of showcasing local goods.
fires broke out near the communities of sakhnin and karmiel, dir el-assad and abu sna’an, but did not pose any danger to residents.
the palestinian heritage foundation is a cultural and educational organization aimed at promoting awareness and understanding of arab and, specifically, palestinian culture and traditions.
they are called "price tag" attacks, after the  "signature" the settlers leave scrawled on the walls of the burnt-out  buildings.
but,  there is a light of life in the old city market.
have you ever felt like not actually living, youre still breathing but youre living as dead?
the apparent vandalism was discovered as residents of  the village woke up on friday morning, al-qaryuti said.
mondoweiss - sometimes a food is more than just something  you eat.
the epicenter of the struggle for the public university in latin america is puerto rico.
the  position of nearby settlements mean the wall will encroach... iof  burns large areas of olive trees to suppress ni'lin protest stop  the wall - the occupation forces, who were stationed behind the wall’s  cement blocks, fired tear gas at the demonstrators and opened the gate of the  wall to chase the protesters after have been inhaling gas in unsuccessful  efforts to arrest them.
yousif  shakawi, a local resident in his 50’s was arrested along with one israeli  activist.
the family discussion over, they  headed to the beach, where the children dashed over the dunes, chased the surf,  and wrote their names in the sand.
when we take the whole of palestine (west bank and gaza included), we see that palestinians who remained (some 50% of the population is restricted to less than 10% of historic palestine.
fields in the area had previously been declared a closed military zone, locals  said, keeping farmers from planting or harvesting their crops.
settlers from the dolab outpost made the farmers leave as they threw stones before stealing their olives, according to deir ibzi locals.
it appears this commander has ambitions of promotion beyond the rank of, god and recognises that the path to this within the israeli army is inhumane treatment of palestinians and any who dare support them.
isn’t it funny that all of us here are waiting for  hours to have a pass to go to our capital, jerusalem?
more hasbara lie exposed: "staged" settler violence is  actually tree pruning uruknet november 1, 2010 -
in the olive groves of sinjil pnn - by alessandra bajec - with the recent start of the olive harvest, like every year there is a constant need for people to help, across several locations in the holy land, in... oh israelis...
where are the olive groves i love so much?
nir hasson,  haaertz, israeli occupation archive 5/20/2010 skeletons should not be sanctified – but  replacing muslim graves with an ostentatious building dedicated to tolerance  will only serve as a provocation haaretz’s  investigative reporting on the eve of shavuot about the removal of skeletons  from the mamilla muslim cemetery so the museum of tolerance can be built there  rightly prompted questions from the people at the simon wiesenthal center,  which had initiated the museum project.
much of gaza looks like a war zone, bullets holes visible on the sides of buildings.
the missile landed in a grove surrounded by homes, creating a crater the size of a tennis court and destroying over forty orange and olive trees.
those who would search their dreams for memories lost or denied those who would look inward to see the archetypes of shadows fleeing in the night or who would search the rocky landscape of the mind to see those whom they have chased away where are those who would survey the scrubgrass and the pales horse and the winter moon
this video shows one of the tanks.
here are three pictures from hamde abu rahmah’s facebook page .
they likened the indonesia speech to his cairo offering seventeen months ago,... more iof soldiers detain three palestinians for trying to  extinguish fire uruknet november 17, 2010 -- israeli occupation  forces (iof) on wednesday detained three palestinians in beit ummar, north of  al-khalil, for participation in putting off a fire started by jewish settlers  in olive and almond trees.
nearby is a contingent of soldiers holding  guns.
al  faqeeh abu as sabe 12/13/2009 - international solidarity movement  - a demonstration will be held outside jelemeh prison in haifa at 12pm, monday  14 december 2009, to protest the arrest of prominent grassroots palestinian  activist wa'el al faqeeh abu as sabe.
settlers uproot olive trees in hebron imemc - tuesday april 12, 2011 - 05:17, a group of extremist israeli settlers uprooted and destroyed more than 45 olive trees that belong to the residents of beit ummar village, near the southern west bank city of hebron.
soldiers also fired stun grenades toward fields near the village of bil'in, near ramallah, locals said.
further inside the ancient walls, traditional soap factories, turkish bathhouses, and antique stores have long-established their place in the heart of this bustling hub.
a life-saving surgery for palestinian children palestine  note 18 may 2010 - on may 7, a six member team of doctors and nurses from  messa, italy finished a week of pediatric cardiac surgery at makassed hospital  on the mount of olives in east jerusalem.
but rani and  his family have a problem.
last year, the israeli authorites gave tamir a permit to harvest his olives, only for one day and a couple of hours, for him not to be attacked by the settlers when doing it.
in  al-walaja near bethlehem imemc - tuesday july 26, 2011 - 18:31,  israeli troops detained, kidnapped two palestinians from the village of  al-walaja near bethlehem tuesday morning.
it was a glorious sunny day, the spectacular valley sprawling  below.
but they also  took care to preserve the older sites, both sacred and secular.
israeli forces declared a valley south of nablus a closed military zone on monday, while olive trees were uprooted from the area.
lebanese army helicopter attempting to extinguish flames in zahrani district  which earlier trapped several civil defense members, prompting a rescue attempt  by local villagers.
what follow are images of the protest from qalandia.
awad told ma'an she was surprised to see israeli bulldozers,  accompanied by police, enter her land and begin uprooting olive, walnut and  lemontrees.
[end] israeli bulldozers return to beit jala 3/3/2010 -  bethlehem - ma'an - dozens of palestinians and foreign solidarity activists  rallied near bethlehem on wednesday, in protest of the bulldozing of olive  trees near a section of israel's wall, which weaves through the occupied west  bank.
we slowly rode down the main street locals waving as we passed by.
palestinian.... pa lawyers to prosecute settler vandalism 11/30/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) -- palestinian authority agriculture minister ismail daik announced tuesday that his ministry established a legal department to prosecute settlers who damage palestinian fields.
filming for b'tselem near susiya in the southern hebron  hills, 'aliaa a-nawaj'ah, 12, and her 14-year old brother... video:
on monday morning, 10 october, israeli military bulldozers  entered the agricultural...
the palestinian authority settlement and wall affairs ministry organized the protest in beit surik and biddu, where locals are prevented from harvesting their olives by israel....
the weekly demonstration against the separation wall in the ramallah-area village of bilin commemorated the 44th anniversary of the naksa, the beginning of israels 1967 occupation of the west bank, east jerusalem, gaza strip and the syrian golan.
most shops are closed in the old city.
jerusalem's old city an unexpected haven for rare animal and plant life ha'aretz 23 feb 2010 -
more.. e-mail israel imprisoned my father for nonviolently resisting the occupation electronic intifada: 16 jul 2010 -
"according to the daily, the assailants cut branches from nearby olive  trees to make improvised weapons and began hurling stones.
normally, in this region, you get a good crop one year followed by a smaller yield the next year, but the two-year cycle appears to have been broken - exacerbated by a dry winter in 2008-2009, according to some experts.
green almonds are eaten with a pinch of salt and are addictive.
we are sorry that our old vehicles pass through your vast bypass roads, that the faces of our passengers provoke you, that their features and constant depression, their dirty cloths and loud voices cause you anxiety, fear and environmental pollution.
it pays for  complete medical coverage and for hefty monthly social security payment for  every israeli senior citizen.
for their part, palestinian olive farmers in the west bank considered the report as good omens for them, hoping that they could be included in the decision as importation of foreign olives and olive oil badly affected the local products.
[uruknet.info] i wish to tell you about gaza uruknet october 25, 2011 - gaza life exists in a cage, an open air prison that has been kept mostly isolated from the world.
this is my rendition of an anthem to be sung
the icj  also mandated reparations for the "requisition and destruction of homes,  businesses, and agricultural holdings (and) to return the land, orchards, olive  groves, and other immovable property seized," obligating member states
making the humanitarian primitive: time and violence on the eternal frontier peter lagerquist, jerusalem quarterly file 8/26/2011 summer along the route of the west banks main north-west trunk road there is a passage of road some 20 minutes south of hebron where the countrys roiling sweep of silver olive groves begins to thin out, and the land grows noticeably more arid.
the most recent attack came last week, when a group of settlers snuck onto her family's property before sunrise, and uprooted 18 olive trees.
during the last few years, palestinian olive trees - a universal  symbol of life and peace- have been systematically destroyed by israeli  settlers.
jewish settlers uproot 21 olive trees in salfit pic 26 mar 2011 -  jewish settlers from ali zahav settlement on saturday morning uprooted about 21  olive trees in deir ballut town west of salfit city.
as you  can see in the embedded video, many settlers had covered their faces with  masks, with some carrying metal poles in addition to several firearms.
it has also been used to finance ros-lehtinen's campaigns.
...more official: settlers set fire to  west bank land 12/2/2010 - nablus (ma'an) --
the magic of bali is the night time encounter of the divine in the form of moon, mountain, sea and trees with the worshipping faithful.
i do pray for healing and understanding among  those who support and those who oppose such a boycott in the community of  olympia, washington...
how much longer the village will remain in this state is anyone's guess.
following the rain, local farmers in the qalqiliya  governorate were optimistic about the current olive harvest, hoping that the  price of olive oil would rise in response.
settlers burn down olive trees wafa settlers uproot olive trees, grapevines, plum  trees near hebron imemc - wednesday august 24, 2011 - 06:10,  dozens of extremist israeli settlers of the beit ayin illegal colony, north of  beit umamar, north of the southern west bank city of hebron, attacked on  tuesday palestinian orchards and farmlands and uprooted dozens of olive trees,  plum trees, and grapevines in wad abu al reesh area.
settlers cut more than 100 olive trees near salfit imemc - a number of fundamentalist israeli settlers cut on friday more than 100 palestinian olive trees, including some ancient roman trees that belong to residents of yasouf and jam’een towns, near the central went bank district of salfit. ...
palestinian sources that this attack is the "fiercest" on the palestinian lands, the maan news agency reported.
in a large industrial  center, everyone from olive vendors to owners of large textile conglomerates  says the shifting geopolitics are proving bad for business.
inside this fragment of a  fragment of land, the economy is picking up, as shipments of soap, olive oil,  vegetables, soft drinks and even local beer move smoothly to their west bank  destinations.
trouble is a weekly occurrence here, signified by tear gas,  rubber bullets, and arrests.
officials said three others, an ap  photographer and two demonstrators, were also injured and evacuated to a  hospital.
bassam hammdan, from wadi al-jalmoun in beit ula, north of the west bank city  of hebron, was trying to plant olive and almond trees with a group of  volunteers when the incident....
homes and livelihoods gone in an instant in gaza: 11 mar 2010 -  israeli bulldozers destroyed three homes and 17 dunams of agricultural land in  eastern khan younis on 18 february.
7,563 households were selected to represent palestinian society, of which 6,571 questionnaires were completed.
the global diamond industry and aligned governments, including the eu, have hoodwinked consumers into believing the diamond trade has been cleansed of diamonds that fund human rights abuses, but the facts are startlingly different.
the israelis are dealing with peace lovers who are determined to  break through the siege and deliver medical aid, cement, paper and food.
the house where he lives now is rented.
israeli  forces prevent farmers from planting trees with riot gear 1/12/2010 - hebron - ma'an - two palestinians and one child were injured on  tuesday as israeli forces prohibited farmers from tending to their land in safa  village in the northern hebron governorate, solidarity workers said.
we are in the middle of the olive harvest season and with it comes episodes of violence as well the harsh face of israeli...
the report includes all... israel drops missile on north gaza neighborhood, no one cares 11/1/2011 - international solidarity movement - radhika sainath, international solidarity movement, gaza - the israeli air force fired a missile into a beit hanoun residential neighborhood in north gaza early sunday morning.
main changes in the labour market: the 4th quarter 2006 testified to dramatic changes in the labour market, which occurred due to the strike of the public sector employees, and at the same time the closure of schools.
witnesses: israeli bulldozers uproot 250 olive trees 2/22/2011 - hebron (ma'an) --
the president of al-loja town, saleh khalifa, said the israeli vehicles uprooted 100 olive and cypress trees which were planted for more than 100 years.
palestinians resist settler violence during olive harvest palestine chronicle: 7 nov 2011 -
and they made a decent living by raising wheat and olives.
see also:when it is illegal to use your front door: freedom of movement in al khalil and villagers: israeli forces bulldoze olive trees on hebron land more.. e-mail israeli forces destroy hundreds of olive trees and two wells in surif palestine solidarity project 23 feb 2012 -
this morning (friday), a group of armed settlers from the illegal outpost of ash kodesh (sacred/holy light) approached a group of palestinians picking olives, accompanied by israeli and international activists.
fires rage throughout western galilee; arson suspected in some cases jack khoury, ha’aretz 6/24/2007 dozens of dunams of fields and groves burned saturday as brush fires raged throughout the western galilee.
palestine monitor - walking  through the olive groves separating the village of ni'lin from the west bank  barrier, a group of palestinians heading the opposite direction shake their  heads at us in warning.
villagers, israelis and  internationals descended the hillside to attempt to plant olive trees in the  settler-occupied land.
oct 2010 - washington - palestinian prime minister salam fayyad spoke to an italian newspaper reorter on thursday during his daily olive picking routine and announced that the palestinian authority would declare an independent state by summer of 2011....
settlers attack homes, uproot olive trees  in bethlehem 1 mar 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-
the idf continued friday evening to bomb targets in the gaza strip  in response to unceasing projectile fire by terror groups.
it was surrounded by a... mount of olives vandalized and desecrated palestine note 24 mar 2011 - arabiya - a wide patch of steep hillside overlooking jerusalem's old city holds row after row of graves.
a neighbour came running to tell canaan who was  ploughing the land and tending the olive and almond trees.
19 year old mohammed kafarna grabbed his neck, turned, and ran back in the direction we had come.
the official of west bank  settlements file, ghassan douglas, said to safa news agency that the settlers  of jefat jelad uprooted tens of olive, grape and almond trees belonging to  villagers in tal village....
ethnic  cleansing in the israeli negev neve gordon, redress 7/29/2010 neve gordon recounts his experience of  visiting the israeli arab village of al-arakib moments after it had been razed  to the ground by the israeli authorities, in the latest example of ethnic  cleansing in the negev desert.
israeli bulldozers destroy agricultural land near settlement 1/13/2010 - hebron - ma'an - israeli troops bulldozed four dunums of agricultural lands in safa village north of hebron tuesday night, following an effort by palestinian farmers to plant olive trees in the valley near beit ummar.
would palestinians be presented yet again as merely poster-child victims, eager for handouts?
recently i was someone, now  i'm nobody' palestine chronicle: 8 aug 2011 -
lasting  agriculture versus lasting occupation palestine monitor: 1  feb 2010 -
israeli forces prevent volunteering journalists  from picking olives wafa harvesting olives as a  statement of resistance 10/25/2011 - international solidarity  movement - 24 october 2011, the electronic intifada, ben lorber - palestinian  villages across the west bank are undertaking their annual olive harvest this  october, amid fears of harassment and violence from israeli settlers  and soldiers.
today an archaeological site, the ‘city of david',
gaza, this narrow strip of land - the aching remnant  of palestine - where the orange and olive trees have been growing for hundreds  of years has lately turned into death fields and a hunting ground for the  people who planted and watered those evergreen trees generation after  generation.
they  destroyed 30 to 40 makeshift homes and uprooted hundreds of olive trees  belonging to the villagers, they said.
it is hard for...more hebron/al-khalil:
more.. e-mail witnesses:
soldiers also fired stun grenades toward fields near the  village of bil'in, near ramallah, locals said.
we are here  because we exist..."
on the hilltop loomed the big antenna of the settlement of yitzhar, whose houses lay on the other side of the hill.
many israeli lives and hopes are at  stake as well.
official: settlers uproot 200 olive trees south of nablus 8/16/2010 - nablus (ma'an) -- israeli residents living on an illegal west bank outpost uprooted over 200 olive trees near the qusra village in the nablus district monday, a palestinian authority official said.
28 dec 2010 - walking through the olive groves separating the village  of ni'lin from the west bank barrier, a group of palestinians heading the  opposite direction shake their heads at us in warning.
as well.... settlement outposts at root of jewish violence in west bank la times 29 dec 2011 -
its divisions  make television sets, jeeps, washing machines, wooden furniture and olive oil,  as well as... settlers uproot olive seedlings in ramallah area 15 feb 2011 - palestine, (pal telegraph) -
speeches denounced the occupation and its measures to destroy palestinian life.
oct 2010 - israeli authorities continue to deny  farmers in the west salfit town of masha access to their land located behind  the separation wall to harvest their olives, local sources reported monday.
the twenty-seventh of january marked the fourth friday during which the village of kafr ad-dik has staged a nonviolent protest against the annexation of its agricultural land by the israeli occupation authority (ioa).
the sheep, goats and the cattle were nowhere to be seen perhaps because the police had confiscated them.
unemployment soared among construction workers.
jewish settlers attack olive harvesters pic - jewish settlers attacked palestinian farmers in orta village, southeast of nablus, on sunday while reaping their olive harvest, eyewitnesses reported.
both... oxfam: pa and idf could help olive farmers double crop jeruslalem post 14
during the last few years, palestinian olive trees - a universal symbol of life and peace- have been systematically destroyed by israeli settlers.
some of the graves there date back several centuries.
the current heatwave has led to several crop fires across the qalqiliya district on monday, palestinian civil defense forces report read.
electronic intifada radia abu sbaih, 47, lives with her sister and one niece on family land roughly 700 meters from the “green line” boundary between israel and gaza.
her traditional palestinian dress lined by red embroidery attracted my  eyes.
abunimah writes: zionism’s cultural appropriation of indigenous palestinian folklore and cuisine – such as hummus, falafel... bamboo furniture-making tradition, brought from jaffa, survives in gaza electronic intifada: 17 jan 2012 - rami almeghari the electronic intifada gaza city
women identified themselves by their village of origin rather than  the religion, by wearing an embroidered dress with the distinct patterns and  colors of each village.more.. more about products from our  archives.. video - heated argument draws tv attention 2/29/2012 - bethlehem (ma'an) --
what kind of consciousness does the land have?
the award is widely considered the foremost prize for press photography in the netherlands.
israeli soldiers uproot 300 olive trees in salfit wafa the liberation anthem - a poem palestine chronicle: 27 jun 2011 -
it's olive harvest time in the occupied west bank.
protesters say army used live fire against nil’in demonstration 4/10/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - palestinians were joined by 15 israeli and international activists in the west bank village of nil'in on friday, where israeli forces were said to have used live fire to disperse a weekly demonstration.
leitrer, herself... free gaza the editors, the nation 6/4/2010 june 21 edition the israeli commando raid on what has become known as  the freedom flotilla is shocking on a number of levels.
clashes ensued when young palestinian men began hurling stones toward israeli forces, who responded by firing rubber-coated bullets and tear-gas canisters.
" iof soldiers destroy 4 palestinian water wells pic 28
we are here because we exist..."
a menacing convoy of bulldozers was heading back to be’er sheva as i drove towards al-arakib, a bedouin village located not more than 10 minutes from the city.
the bulldozers began operating on lands near the cremisan monastery road, said leila awad, whose home is the only one in the area.
one of these families....
jul 2010 - washington - witnesses reported to ma'an news agency friday that israeli soldiers guarded settlers as they set fire to a grove of olive trees in the saffa village near ramallah thursday.
fortunately, a back route was established and the group made it to the village, joining 10 other internationals, a dozen journalists and over 300 palestinians.
the report of the "labour force" quarterly survey for the fourth quarter of 2006 has been published.
not just base  existence, but existence of a culture, a distinct society, that dares to live  and breathe within the confines of walls, and razor wire, bombs and bullets,  and any and all daily harassments that few in the western world face.
more.. e-mail settlers  torch hundreds of nablus olive trees uruknet june 2, 2010 -  residents of the illegal yitzhar settlement set fire to more than 100 dunums of  palestinian lands near urif village, southwest of nablus on wednesday  afternoon, palestinian officials said.
well, actually the settlement has been built on his land and the land of other farmers of hares - stolen from them by the settlers with the complicity and assistance of the israeli government.more.. bethlehem arab women’s union (bawu) sunbula, 2005 traditional palestinian embroidered dress, from the palestinian embroidery web site - http://palestinianembroider.tripod.com products: embroidered placemats, cushion covers and bags.
young women, led by my 15-year-old daughter iltezam, ran past armed israeli soldiers and jumped in front of the bulldozers that were uprooting our ancient olive trees.
ei: human rights courtesy
it  can’t help producing pages by the hour, by the minute.
sep 2010 - tuesday september 21, 2010 -  18:18, a number of palestinian civilians were wounded in clashes with israeli  settlers who invaded the olive orchards that belong to the palestinian farmers  in the village of burin, near the northern west bank city of nablus, in the  early hours of tuesday morning.
as the iof soldiers made their hasty retreat, the demonstrators happened upon the remnants of israel's vain attempt to suppress the nonviolent popular resistance.
12 people  armed only with pick axes and hoes, flattened out the bulldozer tracks and deep  holes left from uprooted trees, reset two swing sets, and brought in sand by  the bucket for the new playground.
three international solidarity movement (ism) activists were turned away from the seldom-staffed partial checkpoint of "atara, between ramallah and an nabi salih.
last month, the army established a... a land divided: gate closures for salim's olive harvest by iof 10/5/2011 - international solidarity movement - 3 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - as palestinians in salim began the first day of their annual olive harvest this morning, october 2nd, israeli occupation forces locked the gate which gives those living in salim access to their olive trees.
soldiers continued shooting  toward the olive groves with the goal of setting trees on fire, even after the  demonstration ended and protesters returned to the village.
the farmland of battir.
their mission, it seems, had been accomplished.
trees were the most common target, with burnings and land confiscations,  especially land close to settlements, which serve the aim of expanding  settlements and providing strategic points for attacks on palestinian residents  traveling by road.
more hasbara lie exposed: "staged" settler violence is actually tree pruning uruknet november 1, 2010 -
he urged international human rights organizations to intervene in settlers' continuous.... jewish settlers uproot dozens of olive trees in w. bank village pic - jewish settlers savagely attacked madama village, south of nablus city, on monday and uprooted more than 25 olive trees from palestinian agricultural lands there, palestinian villagers reported.
upon arriving they stood in front of the construction machines and forced them to halt their work.
where are the israeli poets?
""in 24  hours, we will set this place up anew.
different palestinian local sources reported that  israeli bulldozers knocked down seven homes and uprooted dozens of olive  saplings in al-araqeeb village and demolished another home in umm mitnan  village.
it said  that serious work can only save jerusalem from "judaisation,"  according to the news agency.
israeli settlers vandalized  orchards in two ramallah-district villages late saturday, locals told ma'an.
e-mail at-tuwani: palestinian trees  destroyed in ongoing settler vandalism and harassment christian  peacemaker teams - palestine - in the early morning of 12 may 2011, palestinian  farmers discovered that during the night unknown perpetrators had  vandalized ten olive trees in humra valley, near at -tuwani in the south  hebron hills.
a palestinian farmer informed internationals who documented the destruction that this was the fifth time since 1997 that settlers have destroyed the olive trees in this grove.
the  family believes that israeli settlers from the ma'on settlement and havot ma'on
together with the beit hanoun local initiative, international solidarity movement (ism) volunteers picked olives with families near the buffer zone in the village of burej and in two different locations in beit hanoun this week.
residents of nira outpost burned down over 120 olive trees in the ramallah-district village, on land....
a reddish sun rises on the mountain slope ans brings life to all elements of nature.
the state first demolished the unrecognized village in july  2010—destroying homes and tearing olive trees from the ground to make way  for a forest to be planted by the keren
mason hill press, new york, 2011.)
the electronic intifada contributor adri nieuwhof interviews badil director ingrid jaradat gassner on the organization's work and the new book.more pa official:
photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo: palestine monitor photo:...
we then turned off the road and parked in an olive grove.
she's also busy with countless humanitarian issues in the territories.
a father from jabalia refugee camp in north gaza killed his son by setting fire to him because the boy refused to help the family pick olives, police said.
where  the wheat fields end the land is crossed by sand dunes caused by israeli  bulldozers; here grows thorn bushes and small trees that seem dry, but are a  good food for donkeys and sheep.
demonstrators faced tear gas as  they approached the barrier separating the tiny village from an israeli  settlement....
under the capable chairmanship of lawyer and liberal democrat peer, lord andrew  phillips, the seminar was divided into two sessions: the first was an  opportunity for political analysts and middle east experts to share their  insights and thoughts on the palestine papers, as the leaked documents are now  called; former cia analyst and author kathleen christison, britain's former  ambassador to iran sir richard dalton and director and co-founder of the  community empowerment charity forward thinking, oliver mcternan, led the way.
i’ll craft new words of expression outside of this suffocating language  that has occupied me your words, are like your walls they encroach on my  humanity i am more than demography i’m neither your collaborator nor your  enemy i am not your moderate not your terrorist not...more we will  not be uprooted-tree planting in fasayel 6/26/2011 - international  solidarity movement - jordan valley solidarity - today local and international  activists joined families affected by last week's demolitions in the  palestinian community of fasayel in the occupied jordan valley as they planted  300 olive trees on their land.
the palestinian authority  settlement and wall affairs ministry organized the protest in beit surik and  biddu, where locals are prevented from harvesting their olives by israel....
but  since the start of the occupation, battir's 4,000 inhabitants have faced  tremendous difficulties.
olive oil and tears mazin qumsiyeh, phd, desert peace 3/15/2010 "if the olive tree knew the suffering of its owner, its oil would turn into tears"-- palestinian poet, mahmoud darwish
this week the military also chose to oppress the na’alin demonstration  using live ammunition.
over 500 olive trees were burned and uprooted on saturday night, in settler attacks on villages near nablus and hebron, a government statement said.
farmers again prevented from entering their land 10/22/2010 - international solidarity movement - salim 20.
since the year 2001 israel through its military and settlers in  the west bank and gaza has uprooted, burnt... christmas story -  mary and joseph in palestine 2010 james petras,  12/12/2010 how would mary and joseph, two jews from  nazareth, have fared in the context of present-day palestine where the romans  have been replaced by jewish occupiers?
the attempts to squash the nonviolent popular resistance have been in vain.
the israeli military says it has launched an investigation....
israeli forces uprooted olive trees in the village of kafr qaddum,  east of qalqiliya, on sunday.
we are sorry that our old  vehicles pass through your vast bypass roads, that the faces of our passengers  provoke you, that their features and constant depression, their dirty cloths  and loud voices cause you anxiety, fear and environmental pollution.
ghassan doughlas, palestinian authority head of the settler portfolio in the northern west bank, told ma'an that settlers from the illegal hayovel outpost east of the village uprooted the olive crop, which palestinian farmers planted for earth day.
according to abdul qader, the group of jerusalemites went to the  location where beit orot settlers were working.
house foreign affairs committee chairwoman ileana ros-lehtinen (r. fl) is one of the worst," writes us columnist stephen lendman.
the village  council of wadi ar-rasha in the west bank, with the help of the human rights  group yesh din, petitioned the israeli high court of justice last week, asking  the court to issue an injunction allowing residents to reach their groves and  harvest olives.
frogs and dragonflies live in harmony with all creatures and man.
this most recent attack on palestinian agriculture follows a month of israeli settler violence and harassment aimed at preventing palestinian farmers from plowing their fields and thus earning their livelihoods.
when the embroidery project was established in 1968 to respond to worsening  life conditions with the beginning of the israeli occupation, the women began  by collecting old dresses and studying the local embroidery tradition.
safed is known for its hostility towards arabs in general and palestinian israelis in particular.
"i haven’t worked for 2 weeks," says owner of mt. of olives photographic icon; city municipality says animal lacks vaccinations, license.
low yield expected for 2010 olive harvest 10/7/2010 - ramallah (ma'an) --
as a result of the oslo agreements negotiated in the 1990s the people of al khalil became familiar with two new terms h1 and h2.
now i’ve  completed two hours of waiting and i don’t know for how much longer  i’ll have to wait.
the trees are located in  palestinian orchards isolated behind the annexation wall.
as we trudge  through the terraced land, ducking under branches of olive trees and trying to  avoid prickly bushes, i think about landscape, consciousness, and memory.
all the groves  i had seen before today belonged to the farmers of mas-ha and were beyond the  annexation fence (a "security fence" if you're israeli!).
meanwhile, settlers entered kfir qaddum  village east of qalqiliya, and wrote graffiti on.... settlers  attack village and steal olives 10/21/2010 - salfit (ma'an) --
soldiers stand by as settlers attack 'asira al-qibliya b'tselem 13 jul 2011 -
village wafa israel uproots dozens of olive trees in jordan valley pic -  israeli bulldozers have begun to uproot olive groves in beit iksa village in  jerusalem province.
israeli soldiers uproot olive saplings in jeruasalm 4 may 2011 - west bank, (pal telegraph)-israeli army uprooted dozens of olive saplings in the village of al-nabi samuel in the north-west of jerusalem.
on the other hand, the jewish state pathetically also wants to evoke sympathy for being sensitive to humanitarian issues and the palestinian plight.
related:committee: israel to build new bypass road south of bethlehem blast destroys egypt gas pipeline to israel for sixth time ha'aretz - local hospital says one man admitted with burns from blast, which also set olive groves and shacks on fire; fire brigades getting flames under control after company operating pipeline cut off gas supply.
it seemed a  little strange though, since at some point in the past they had obviously taken  the trouble of building the walls, but having no way to find out more i was  left with my assumptions.
the attendees discussed coordination of the  project, which aims to develop the quality of palestinian olive oil in order to  better market it for export to other countries.more.. e-mail artas  lettuce festival kristen ess, palestine news network 4/10/2008 hundreds of palestinians spent thursday afternoon in bethlehem’s artas  village, surrounded by the mountains and an italian-built monastery.
colonialism and violence mondoweiss - as we bear witness to the daily, ever escalating, ever-unprecedented yet routine israeli collective punishment and cruelty and torment inflicted on the palestinians—men and women, young and old, boys and girls, children and infants, farm animals, fruit orchards, and olive trees—one cannot but be awed at... palestine papers under the spotlight samira quraishy, middle east monitor (memo) 2/25/2011 a seminar planned to put the "palestine papers under the spotlight" has been held in the senate house of the university of london.
since then, al arakib has been  demolished and rebuilt over 30 times.
this year has witnessed a surge in israeli military crackdowns, as al-walaja joins...
what goes up, must come down.
we are... olive harvest in the south hebron hills: what the occupation has become uruknet november 1, 2010 - how many israeli soldiers does it take to remove an elderly palestinian woman from harvesting olives?
the groves of hares are  those classically beautiful terraced groves, rambling down the hillside, with  lovely sandstone terrace and boundary walls, and ploughed and weeded dry earth.
more.. e-mail settlers uproot 100 saplings near nablus imemc - 8 jan 2011 - saturday january 08, 2011 - 10:21, israeli settlers uprooted on friday at least 100 olive saplings that belong to residents of qasra village, southeast of the northern west bank city of nablus.
he pointed out those settlers  uprooted 300 centuries-old olive trees in the village of mikhmas, north of  jerusalem, on tuesday at the same time that the military ruling authority in  the west bank announced the confiscation of hundreds of acres in anata. . .
on  friday, we arrived to the south gaza village early, drank two cups of sugary  tea with sage, jumped on a cart pulled by a white donkey, and were on our way.
following an investigation, the ministry and forces seized the goods in two warehouses in ezzariya, east jerusalem, and hebron.
boycott is the  primary tool of those engaged in nonviolent resistance to systematic injustice.
while village attended funeral, zionists stole 10/21/2011 - international solidarity movement - 18 october 2011, international solidarity movement, west bank - on tuesday, a family in kufr qalil cancelled all olive harvest because of the death of a family member.
settlers chop down 500 trees in nablus uruknet march 4, 2011 -- settlers chopped down more than 500 olive trees owned by palestinians in the west bank district of nablus on friday, palestinian authority officials said.
their first stop was a surprise.
media spokesman for the project mohammad awad said the volunteers,  participating in the "voluntary day to protect lands under threat of  confiscation" brought 500 olive tree seedlings to lands registered to  hasan awad, husam ahmad bahar and ibrahim abed al-hamid abu maria.
obama’s  spin team made a heroic effort to turn a sow’s ear into a silk purse.
the twenty-seventh of january marked the fourth friday during  which the village of kafr ad-dik has staged a nonviolent protest against the  annexation of its agricultural land by the israeli occupation authority (ioa).
the organization released a report on the matter tuesday and makes specific reference to damage caused to olive groves, central to the livelihood... opt: harvesting olives in the west bank - not as simple as it sounds relief web 25 nov 2009 - source: icrc harvest under fire 11/1/2009 -
... pa ministry seizes fake olive oil 4/12/2010 -  nablus - ma'an -
several of the attacks were  done with full cooperation of the israeli army and in plain sight of soldiers,  who did nothing to prevent the settlers from attacking and burning trees.
farmers harvest olives as wall cuts through village 10/11/2011 - al-walaja (reuters) --
the olive tree campaign uruknet december 31, 2010 - the olive tree campaign (otc) seeks to replant  olive trees in areas trees have been uprooted and destroyed or in areas where  the fields are threatened to be confiscated by the israeli military occupation  and settlers.
it's olive harvest time in the occupied  west bank.
it is true  that, as the palestinian poet stated, if the olive tree knew the suffering of  its owner, its oil would turn into tears.
“when we returned after the war,  everything was destroyed.
in a village of which 99% of the  inhabitants are olive farmers, the ioa’s annexation of the majority kafr  ad-dik’s groves has been devastating.
more than 150,000 bedouin live in israel, mostly in  and around the negev desert.
israeli  settler violence report: march and april 2011 ahmad jaradat,  alternative information center 6/12/2011 israeli settler violence against palestinians in  the north and south west bank increased in march and april 2011.
what might look like ad hoc violence is actually a tool the settlers are using to push back palestinian farmers from their own land," stated a spokeswoman...
king solomon undermines silwan refugees palestine monitor: 24 feb  2010 -
the official of west bank settlements file, ghassan douglas, said to safa news agency that the settlers of jefat jelad uprooted tens of olive, grape and almond trees belonging to villagers in tal village....
all of us must stand  together and mourn the loss of life generated by this conflict.
you are not listening attentively mr president;  that’s because you’ve been genuflecting on the christmas message of  that other great statesman prime minister netanyahu, “we are living in a  time of great uncertainty and instability in the middle east and israel,  throughout this instability, remains a beacon of religious freedom and  pluralism.”
until 18 february 2010, they had nearly 600 olive, fruit, date and nut trees,  an agricultural cistern, a water well, various vegetables and a house.
wafa settlers attack farmers harvesting olives in nablus area imemc -  monday october 10, 2011 - 12:15, dozens of extremist israeli settlers attacked  palestinian farmers harvesting their olive trees on monday morning in the  village of ‘azmoot, east of the west bank city of nablus, the ma'an news  agency reported.
2 million euros ($2. 8 million) to support palestinian olive farmers
i’m  writing now from beit hanoun border or the so called erez border.
the village of burin: under attack
israeli forces detained  five people overnight saturday across the west bank, palestinian police and the  israeli army said.
what could have driven  israel to order its navy to attack, in international waters, a flotilla of  ships full of human rights activists, mps from governments around the world, a  nobel prize winner and two former us diplomats?
he said the.... in photos: settlers cut down 40 olive trees uruknet october 23, 2010 -
nil’in photo takes top prize at dutch contest 1/26/2010 - bethlehem - ma'an - a dutch photographer has won the silver camera  award in the foreign news category for his shot during a weekly demonstration  against israel's separation barrier in the west bank village of nil'in.