the little hillock which formed  the abutment of the old bridge is now an island with its tuft of trees.
he replies that he has "a better at home."
often these  sea-weeds root themselves on mussels.
a large portion of it, where water trickles and falls, is  perfectly white.
they are a rough, ignorant set of men, apparently  incapable of taking any particular enjoyment from the life of variety and  adventure which they lead.
the little frenchman impresses me very strongly, too,--so lonely as he is  here, struggling against the world, with bitter feelings in his breast, and yet  talking with the vivacity and gayety of his nation; making this his home from  darkness to daylight, and enjoying here what little domestic comfort and  confidence there is for him; and then going about the live-long day, teaching  french to blockheads who sneer at him, and returning at about ten o'clock in  the evening (for i was wrong in saying he supped here,--he eats no supper) to  his solitary room and bed.
finally settled,--the justice agreeing to relinquish his  fees, on condition that the irishman would pay for the mending of his old boots!
i like him very  much, and have seldom met with a more honest, simple, and apparently so  well-principled a man; which good qualities i impute to his being, by the  father's side, of german blood.
it must have been accustomed to discomfort, and have  concluded it to be the condition of mortal life, else it never would have  remained so quiet.
the idea to be wrought out and  extended.
a sloop from the eastward, laden with laths, bark, and other lumber, and a few  barrels of mackerel, filled yesterday, and was left by her skipper and crew.
my walk forth had been an almost continued ascent, and, returning, i had an  excellent view of graylock and the adjacent mountains, at such a distance that  they were all brought into one group, and comprehended at one view, as  belonging to the same company,--all mighty, with a mightier chief.
throughout the evening, drunken young sailors  kept stumbling into and out of the boxes, calling to one another from different  parts of the house, shouting to the performers, and singing the burden of  songs.
this sunny scene was pretty.
he is nervous, and  his hands shook while he was looking over the papers, as if he had been  startled by my visit; and when we came to the crossings of streets, he darted  across, cautioning me, as if both were in great danger to be run over.
nevertheless, their voices yesterday were in admirable accordance  with the influences of the quiet, sunny, warm, yet autumnal afternoon.
the lonelier seemed the little boy for the bright sunshine,  that showed no one else in a wide space of view except him and me.
but how is he to  accomplish it?
till  dinner-time i labored on tieck's tale, and resumed that agreeable employment  after the banquet.
what a great, broad-shouldered, elephantine personage i shall  become by and by!
he was in the cage with a leopard and a panther, and the latter  seemed continually on the point of laying his paw on the hyena, who snarled,  and showed his teeth.
he appeared to  have had a pleasant time; for he said that there were muses in the woods  to-day, and whispers to be heard in the breezes.
a pretty cabin, finished off with bird's-eye maple and mahogany; two  looking-glasses.
there is a sort of philosophy developing itself in him which will  not impossibly cause him to settle down in this or some other equally singular  course of life.
this, i suppose, has been his fate before  now!
the portrait looked dimly out  from the canvas, as from a cloud, with something that i could recognize as my  outline, but no strong resemblance as yet.
there is the  meadow, as level as a floor, and carpeted with green, perhaps two miles from  the rising ground on this side of the river to that on the opposite side.
it is a cairn, or mere heap of stones, thrown together as  they came to hand, though with some selection of large and flat ones towards  the base, and with smaller ones thrown in.
the area of the town is level; its houses  are handsome, mostly wooden and white; but some are of brick, painted deep red,  the bricks being not of a healthy, natural color.
he is a vivacious little fellow, and wonderfully  excitable to mirth; and it is truly a sight to see him laugh;--every feature  partakes of his movement, and even his whole body shares in it, as he rises and  dances about the room.
some very famous jewel or other thing, much talked of all over the world.
while this old  man is wandering among the hills, his children are the gaze of multitudes.
there appear to be no passengers.
the artist is middle-sized, thin, a little stooping, with a quick, nervous  movement.
and  there is a sort of picturesqueness in finding these factories, supremely  artificial establishments, in the midst of such wild scenery.
the passage through the cave made by the stream is  very crooked, and interrupted, not only by fallen wrecks, but by deep pools of  water, which probably have been forded by few.
as to the new cistern, it seems to be bewitched; for, while the  spout pours into it like a cataract, it still remains almost empty.
tuesday, october 12th.--the cawing of the crow resounds  among the woods.
but their growth appears to be checked now,  and they are of a brown tint and decayed.
this betty moody was a woman of the island in old times.
hillard and his wife arrived  from boston in the dusk of saturday evening, to spend sunday with us.
the artist painted awhile; but soon  found that he had not so much light as was desirable, and complained that his  tints were as muddy as the weather.
on our return we found mr.  and mrs. s---- , and e. h----, who shortly took their leave, and we sat up  late, telling ghost-stories.
some were of spotless white, some yellow, and  some scarlet.
may 6th.--this morning it is an easterly rain  (south-easterly, i should say just now at twelve o'clock), and i went at nine,  by appointment, to sit for my picture.
the master, on  the other hand, must be calm, rigid, without anger or pity, the very  personification of that immitigable law whereby suffering follows sin.
the sheep bleated  loudly; and all these tokens, according to mr. laighton, foreboded a storm to  windward.
"the syrup of my bosom,"--an improvisation of a little girl,  addressed to an imaginary child.
she expired  on learning this; and galliard, being suspected of the murder, committed  suicide.
it is only once in a while that  the image and desire of a better and happier life makes me feel the iron of my  chain; for, after all, a human spirit may find no insufficiency of food fit for  it, even in the custom house.
god bless and keep us!
other persons have bought large estates and built  splendid mansions with such little books as i mean to write; so that perhaps it  is not unreasonable to hope that mine may enable me to build a little cottage,  or, at least, to buy or hire one.
she has now got under way, and  set sail on a northwest course for portsmouth; carrying off, i believe, all the  passengers she brought to-day.
a man with a smart horse, upon which the landlord makes laudatory remarks.
she comes daily to make the  beds in our part of the house, and exchanges a good-morning with me, in a  pleasant voice, and with a glance and smile,--somewhat shy, because we are not  acquainted, yet capable of being made conversable.
while he read and prayed and  expounded there was a heavy thunderstorm rumbling among the surrounding hills,  and the lightning flashed fiercely through the gloomy room; and the preacher  alluded to god's voice of thunder.
this shrubbery consists of small birch, elders, maples,  and other trees, with here and there white-pines of larger growth.
it is a  comfortable thought, that the smallest and most turbid mud-puddle can  contain its own picture of heaven.
on one side of us was  marblehead light-house, on the other, baker's island; and both, by the  influence of the moonlight, had a silvery hue, unlike their ruddy beacon tinge  in dark nights.
then he made a transition  to the loss of his arm, and, setting his teeth and drawing in his breath, said  that the pain was dreadful; but this, too, he seems to have borne like an  indian; and a person testified to his fortitude by saying that he did not  suppose there was any feeling in him, from observing how he bore it.
indeed, he flitted about so quickly, and showed himself in  different places so suddenly, that i was in some doubt whether there were not  two or three of them.
a justice also commanded the dead curate to arise, and gave  him a rod; and the dead lord, kneeling, received penance thereby."
struck you suddenly.
formerly it doubtless flowed unbroken over  the rock, merely creating a rapid; and traces of water having raged over it are  visible in portions of the rock that now lie high and dry.
the sunshine  fills them with green light.
some trees seem to return  to their hue of may or early june before they put on the brighter autumnal  tints.
in one spot some pine boughs, which  somebody had cut and heaped there for an unknown purpose.
friday, october 22d.--a continued succession of  unpleasant, novembery days, and autumn has made rapid progress in the work of  decay.
but, really, it does  make me shiver to think of that poor home of ours.
there is a  stone fence round the monument.
at our last interview, he himself introduced  the subject of the bargain, and appeared desirous to close it.
i  suspect nothing better than a very wretched smattering is to be obtained in  these country academies.
b----, our host, combines more high and  admirable qualities, of that sort which make up a gentleman, than any other  that i have met with.
i suppose this is owing more to  the late rains than to the frost; for a heavy rain changes the foliage somewhat  at this season.
what nonsense is all this!
cow island is not an island,--at least, at this season,--though, i believe,  in the time of freshets, the marshy charles floods the meadows all round about  it, and extends across its communication with the mainland.
visitors from  boston thronging the house,--some standing at the bar, watching the process of  preparing tumblers of punch,--others sitting at the windows of different  parlors,--some with faces flushed, puffing cigars.
we landed at appledore, on  which is laighton's hotel,--a large building with a piazza or promenade before  it, about an hundred and twenty feet in length, or more,--yes, it must be more.
he becomes a torment to them; and, in the finale, he turns  out to be the former master of the estate.
huge trunks and bandboxes unladed and laded.
there is dew on the  grass.
on the hill-top where i stood, the grass had scarcely begun to  sprout; and i observed that even those places which looked greenest in the  distance were but scantily grass-covered when i actually reached them.
what had i done, that it should bemaul me  so?
in the midst of toil, or after a hard day's work in the gold-mine, my soul  obstinately refuses to be poured out on paper.
everywhere the trees wear their autumnal dress, so that the whole landscape is  red, russet, orange, and yellow, blending in the distance into a rich tint of  brown-orange, or nearly that,--except the green expanse so definitely hemmed in  by the higher ground.
in a bar-room, a large, oval basin let into the counter, with a brass tube  rising from the centre, out of which gushes continually a miniature fountain,  and descends in a soft, gentle, never-ceasing rain into the basin, where swim a  company of gold-fishes.
taconic are brought out with an accuracy unattainable in summer.
walked with ---- to see general knox's old mansion,--a large, rusty-looking  edifice of wood, with some grandeur in the architecture, standing on the  banks of the river, close by the site of an old burial-ground, and near where  an ancient fort had been erected for defence against the french and indians.
in the background of the house, a cat, occasionally stealing along on the  roofs of the low out-houses; descending a flight of wooden steps into the brick  area; investigating the shed, and entering all dark and secret places;  cautious, circumspect, as if in search of something; noiseless, attentive to  every noise.
i was most kindly received; and the  fields and woods looked very pleasant in the bright sunshine of the day before  yesterday.
leo and i attended divine services this morning in a temple not  made with hands.
the various species of pine look  exceedingly brown just now,--less beautiful than those trees which shed their  leaves.
i suppose i must have felt something like  this sense of triumph when i first learned to swim; but i have forgotten it.
cannon transformed to church-bells.
the baby-linen, etc., of governor bradford of plymouth county.
a person, even before middle age, may become musty and faded among the  people with whom he has grown up from childhood; but, by migrating to a new  place, he appears fresh with the effect of youth, which may be communicated  from the impressions of others to his own feelings.
a sketch illustrating the imperfect compensations which time makes for its  devastations on the person,--giving a wreath of laurel while it causes  baldness, honors for infirmities, wealth for a broken constitution,--and at  last, when a man has everything that seems desirable, death seizes him.
a man put his  arm and head into the lion's mouth,--all the spectators looking on so  attentively that a breath could not be heard.
as he walked down the gravel-path to-day,  after dinner, he took up a scythe, which one of the mowers had left on the  sward, and began to mow, with quite a scientific swing.
cocks, with their squad  of hens, in the grass-fields, hunting grasshoppers, chasing them eagerly with  outspread wings, appearing to take much interest in the sport, apart from the  profit.
perchance a  knock-down between two half-sober fellows in the crowd: a knock-down without a  heavy blow, the receiver being scarcely able to keep his footing at any rate.
mr. laighton says that the artist who adorned trinity church, in new york,  with sculpture wanted some real wings from which to imitate the wings of  cherubim.
yet, notwithstanding his  consummate art, the general estimate of his character seems to be pretty just.
i hung the basket out of  the window, in the sunshine, and upon looking in, an hour or two after,  found that two of the birds had escaped.
a person to catch fire-flies, and try to kindle his household fire with  them.
on the right, facing southward, rises graylock, all beshagged with  forest, and with headlong precipices of rock appearing among the black pines.
somewhat inexperienced travellers, and comparing everything  advantageously or otherwise with boston customs; and considering themselves a  long way from home, while yet short of a hundred miles from it.
this forenoon was spent in scribbling, by no means to my satisfaction,  until past eleven, when i went to the village.
we went to the farthest extremity of peter's path, and there  lay together under an oak, on the verge of the broad meadow.
meantime other trees begin to cast their  ripening windfalls upon the grass; and when i taste them, and perceive their  mellowed flavor and blackening seeds, i feel somewhat overwhelmed with the  impending bounties of providence.
a bonfire was built, and little children were made to carry wood to it,  that they might remember the circumstance in old age.
april 20th.--the children found houstonias more than a  week ago.
after landing, we came homeward, tracing up the little brook so far as it  lay in our course.
they were wrecked on this island a hundred years ago, and lie buried  in a range about thirty feet in length, to the number of sixteen, with rough,  moss-grown pieces of granite on each side of this common grave.
the ghost especially haunts the space between the hotel and the cove in front.
now, as the day  advances towards noon, it shows some symptoms of turning to rain.
these were a rough-hewn, heavy set of fellows, from the hills and  woods in this neighborhood,--great unpolished bumpkins, who had grown up  farmer-boys, and had little of the literary man, save green spectacles and  black broadcloth (which all of them had not), talking with a broad accent, and  laughing clown-like, while sheepishness overspread all, together with a vanity  at being students.
the general  aspect of the river, however, differed but little from that of summer,--at  least the difference defies expression.
on the way he cut a  stick, and, after walking a short distance, perceived that something had become  attached to the end of it.
on perceiving me, they rose up, tittering among  themselves.
we returned to the wharf at boston in the cutter's boat.
the eagerness with which  those who happen to be in the room start up and make prize of them.
ruin, perhaps, might be personified as a demon, seizing its victims  by various holds.
one was a large, plump  girl, with a heavy face, a snub nose, coarse-looking, but good-natured, and  with no traits of evil,--save, indeed, that she had on the vilest gown of dirty  white cotton, so pervadingly dingy that it was white no longer, as it seemed to  me.
after dinner (at which we cut the first watermelon and muskmelon that our  garden has grown), mr. thoreau and i walked up the bank of the river, and at a  certain point he shouted for his boat.
as night draws on, you begin to see  the gleaming of fires on the ceilings in the houses which you pass.
his manner  was full of quirks and quips and eccentricities, waving his umbrella, and  gesticulating strangely, with a great deal of action.
he can bring mr. e---- to no terms, and the more they  talk about the matter, the further they appear to be from a settlement.
he speaks without effort, yet  thoughtfully.
but there was  nothing inharmonious; and, on closer examination, it appeared that all the  tints had a relationship among themselves.
the blacksmith  loves his glass, and comes to the tavern for it, whenever it seems good to him,  not calling for it slyly and shyly, but marching steadily to the bar, or  calling across the room for it to be prepared.
he was first taught this trick by  attaching a bell to the end of his tail; but he now commences entirely of  his own accord, and i really believe he feels vain at the attention he excites.
it came fresh from the wilderness  of ocean, . . .
i keep myself uneasy and  produce little, and almost nothing that is worth producing.
"we  philosophers," he is fond of saying, to distinguish himself and his  brethren from the christians.
small birds, in  flocks, were flitting about the fields, seeking and finding i know not what  sort of food.
the streets are very wide,--two or three hundred  feet, at least,--with wide, green margins, and sometimes there is a wide green  space between two road tracks.
gulls come up from seaward, and soar high overhead, flapping their  broad wings in the upper sunshine.
i never observed, until the present season, how long and late the twilight  lingers in these longest days.
met few people this morning; a grown girl, in company with a little boy,  gathering barberries in a secluded lane; a portly, autumnal gentleman, wrapped  in a great-coat, who asked the way to mr. joseph goddard's; and a fish-cart  from the city, the driver of which sounded his horn along the lonesome way.
mine, probably, was the first human shape that they had seen all day  long,--at least, if they had been stationary in that spot; but perhaps they had  winged their way over miles and miles of country, had breakfasted on the summit  of graylock, and dined at the base of wachusett, and were merely come to sup  and sleep among the quiet woods of concord.
the broad vine-leaves, some of them yellow or  yellowish-tinged, were seen apparently growing on the same stems with the  silver-mapled leaves, and those of the other shrubs, thus married against their  will by the conjugal twine; and the purple clusters of grapes hung down from  above and in the midst, so that one might "gather grapes," if not  "of thorns," yet of as alien bushes.
it defiles the hands, indeed, but not the soul.
escaping from the bushes, i soon came to an open space among the woods,--a very  lovely spot, with the tall old trees standing around as quietly as if no one  had intruded there throughout the whole summer.
a ruffle to his shirt, crimped.--a  gentleman, young, handsome, and sea-flushed, belonging to oswego, new york, but  just arrived in port from the mediterranean: he inquires of me about the  troubles in canada, which were first beginning to make a noise when he left the  country,--whether they are all over.
whereat  there was a roar of laughter.
an ancient wineglass (miss ingersol's), long-stalked, with a small,  cup-like bowl, round which is wreathed a branch of grape-vine, with a rich  cluster of grapes, and leaves spread out.
beach birds flitting from place to place.
these mountaineers ought certainly to be  temperance people; for their mountain springs supply them with a liquor of  which the cities and the low countries can have no conception.
i hear locusts yet,  singing in the sunny hours, and crickets have not yet finished their song.
nothing has a zest in my  present widowed state.
the grass comes up along the roadside  and on favorable exposures, with a sort of green blush.
meditations about the main gas-pipe of a great city,--if the supply were to  be stopped, what would happen?
i take him to be  neither better nor worse than the average of his tribe.
coming to the mansion house about supper-time, we found somewhat of a  concourse of people, the governor and council being in session on the subject  of the disputed territory.
an ox  feeding, and putting up his muzzle to pull down a mouthful of hay; but seeing  me, a stranger, in the upper part of the field
there was something rather ludicrous in his  physiognomy and aspect.
if we see a real, great ship,  the mind grasps and possesses, within its real clutch, all that there is of it;  while here the mimic ship is the representation of an ideal one, and so gives  us a more imaginative pleasure.
there are  sheds, and a hen-house, and a pigeon-house, and an old stone pigsty, the  open portion of which is overgrown with tall weeds, indicating that no grunter  has recently occupied it. . . .
being in  great want of money to buy shirts or other necessaries, and not knowing how to  obtain it, he set out on a walk from cambridge to boston.
the impossibility of saying anything but  commonplace matters to a deaf man, of expressing any delicacy of thought in a  raised tone, of giving utterance to fine feelings in a bawl.
he is an old bachelor, and  truly forlorn.
at supper, which consisted of bread,  butter, cheese, cake, doughnuts and gooseberry-pie, we were waited upon by a  tall, very tall woman, young and maiden-looking, yet with a strongly outlined  and determined face.
i talk with everybody: to  mrs. t---- good sense,--to mary, good sense, with a mixture of fun,--to mrs.  g----, sentiment, romance, and nonsense.
such were my observations as  she approached through the scattered sunshine and shade of our long avenue,  until, reaching the door, she gave a knock, and inquired for the lady of the  house.
it  should be a child's story.
and, looking at me, "i  do not know your name," he said, "but there is something of the  hawk-eye about you, too."
there was an old  squire of the village, a lawyer probably, whose demeanor was different,--with a  distance, yet with a kindliness; for he remembered the times when they met  on equal terms.
another stumbled, and  platt bantered her thereupon.
it was jack the giant-killer, and somewhat heavy and tedious.
water boiling was kept in a reservoir  under the pipes; and, the keys being struck, the valves opened, and steam  rushed through with noise.
swift himself could not have imagined anything  nastier than what they practise by the mere impulse of natural genius.
when he came back there was a flush in his face and a sparkle  in his eye that did not look like failure; but i know not what was the result.
a girl's lover to be slain and buried in her flower-garden, and the earth  levelled over him.
once this  morning a solitary dove came and alighted on the peak of an attic window, and  looked down into the areas, remaining in this position a considerable time.
most of the road lay through a growth  of young oaks principally.
they were written in the following order:--
brook farm, september 22d, 1841.-- . . .
they have a rule and a routine, which they follow with as little  variety as other people do their rule and routine; and when once we have  fathomed their mystery, nothing can be more wearisome.
graylock rose up behind me, appearing, with its two summits  and a long ridge between, like a huge monster crouching down slumbering, with  its head slightly elevated.
george hillard and mrs. hillard paid us a visit on saturday  last.
there is a bowling-alley on the island, at which some of the young  fishermen were rolling.
it sings along, sometimes smooth, with the pebbles visible beneath,  sometimes rushing dark and swift, eddying and whitening past some rock, or  underneath the hither or the farther bank; and at these places b---- cast his  line, and sometimes drew out a trout, small, not more than five or six inches  long.
at last i had caught hold of a  reality which never could be taken from me.
november 3d.--the face of the country is dreary now in a  cloudy day like the present.
looking  downward thither, i see the rush of the current, and mark the different eddies,  with here and there white specks or streaks of foam; and often a log comes  floating on, glistening in the sun, as it rolls over among the eddies, having  voyaged, for aught i know, hundreds of miles from the wild upper sources of the  river, passing down, down, between lines of forest, and sometimes a rough  clearing, till here it floats by cultivated banks, and will soon pass by the  village.
to picture the predicament of worldly people, if admitted to paradise.
the  trees in our orchard, and elsewhere, have as yet no leaves; yet to the most  careless eye they appear full of life and vegetable blood.
yes, and so may any mortal who is capable of full  sympathy, and therefore worthy to come into my depths.
captain scott,  of the cutter, told me a singular story of what occurred during the action  between the constitution and macedonian,--he being powder-monkey aboard the  former ship.
it already looks like a dream behind me.
if he does not get a license here, he  will try at cheshire.
the captain sends him a  glass of champagne, and inquires of the waiter what percival says of it.
he alighted, saw his trunk taken off, and then, having perceived his sister  at the door, and turning to bid us farewell, there was a broad smile, even a  laugh of pleasure, which did him more credit with me than anything else; for  hitherto there had been a disagreeable scornful twist upon his face, perhaps,  however, merely superficial.
while this was going on, the father and  mother stood weeping at the upper end of the grave, at the head of the  little procession,--the mother sobbing with stifled violence, and peeping forth  to discover why the coffin was drawn up again.
the marble crags are overspread with a concretion,  which makes them look as gray as granite, except where the continual flow of  water keeps them of a snowy whiteness.
it was  really like the archway of an enchanted palace, all of which has vanished  except the entrance,--now only into nothingness and empty space.
sir william had built an elegant house for his  son and his intended wife; but after the death of the former he never entered  it.
on thursday, john flint began to gather those which  remained on the trees; and i suppose they will amount to nearly twenty barrels,  or perhaps more.
many small vessels spread  their wings, and go seaward.
rocks strewn about, half  hidden in the fallen leaves, must not be overlooked.
as i drew  nearer home, they separated, and the unity of effect was lost.
on the sides of the  mountains, some miles off, the black pines and the white snow among them  together produce a gray effect.
at the tremont, i had bridge to dine with me: iced champagne, claret in  glass pitchers.
when i go forth afield, . . .
this handkerchief was poisoned with his utmost art, . . .
whenever anything partially disturbed the child, as, for instance, when the  young lady or a by-stander patted its cheek or rubbed its chin, the child would  smile; then all its dreams seemed to be of pleasure and happiness.
in a small and secluded dell that opens upon the most beautiful cove of the  whole lake, there is a little hamlet of huts or shanties inhabited by the irish  people who are at work upon the railroad.
i rode outside nearly all day, and was very sociable with  the driver and another outside passenger.
i arose about seven, and found that the upper part of my nose, and the  region round about, was grievously discolored; and at the angle of the left eye  there is a great spot of almost black purple, and a broad streak of the same  hue semicircling beneath either eye, while green, yellow, and orange overspread  the circumjacent country.
i recollect that the man of adamant seemed a fine idea to me  when i looked at it prophetically; but i failed in giving shape and substance  to the vision which i saw.
a very fanciful person, when dead, to have his burial in a cloud.
the stream runs deep at the bottom of  a gorge, plashing downward, with rapids and pools, and bestrewn with large  rocks, deep and shady, not to be reached by the sun except in its meridian, as  well on account of the depth of the gorge as of the arch of wilderness  trees above it.
going farther forward, on the same level, we come to the crew's  department, part of which is occupied by the cooking-establishment, where all  sorts of cooking is going on for the officers and men.
october 16th.--a morning mist, filling up the whole  length and breadth of the valley betwixt my house and monument mountain, the  summit of the mountain emerging.
he's a good  dog." friday, august 31st.--a drive on tuesday to shelburne  falls, twenty-two miles or thereabouts distant.
very disconsolate must they be among the  dripping leaves; and when a single summer makes so important a portion of their  lives, it seems hard that so much of it should be dissolved in rain.
the late rains have swollen  the stream so much that many trees are standing up to their knees, as it  were, in the water, and boughs, which lately swung high in air, now dip and  drink deep of the passing wave.
october 7th.--a walk in northfields in the afternoon.
about the first thing he did was to wash the dishes; and he is really  indefatigable in the kitchen, so that i am quite a gentleman of leisure.
wherefore let them rest untold.
but the wind is northwest, making the sea look blue and cold, with little  breaks of white foam.
i  will go forth and stand in a summer shower, and all the worldly dust that has  collected on me shall be washed away at once, and my heart will be like a bank  of fresh flowers for the weary to rest upon. . . .
follow out the fantasy of a man taking his life by instalments, instead of  at one payment,--say ten years of life alternately with ten years of suspended  animation.
the  sunshine, falling capriciously on a casual branch considerably within the  forest verge, while it leaves nearer trees in shadow, leads the imagination  into the depths.
before you reach the end of the beach, you become quite attached to these  little sea-birds, and take much interest in their occupations.
their  weight was as much as he could bear, and they hung down almost to the ground  when not contorted,--as big round as a man's thigh, almost,--spotted and richly  variegated.
barberry-bushes,--the leaves now of a brown red, still juicy and healthy; very  few berries remaining, mostly frost-bitten and wilted.
the shades lay long from trees and other objects, as at  sunset, but how different this cheerful and light radiance from the mild repose  of sunset!
tarleton, of the revolution, is said to have been one of the two handsomest  men in europe,--the prince of wales, afterwards george iv., being the other.
a political or other satire might be made by describing a show of  wax-figures of the prominent public men; and by the remarks of the showman and  the spectators, their characters and public standing might be expressed.
saint augustin offered to pray for the curate, that he might remain  on earth to confirm men in their belief; but the curate refused, because he was  in the place of rest.
there is not such a vast  difference between this costume and that of lawyer h---- above mentioned, yet  never was there a greater diversity of appearance than between these two men;
when we shall be endowed with our spiritual bodies, i think that they will  be so constituted that we may send thoughts and feelings any distance in no  time at all, and transfuse them warm and fresh into the consciousness of those  whom we love, . . .
being  asked to operate, he looks at the tooth, lances the gum, and the fellow being  content to be dealt with on the spot, he seats himself in a chair on the stoop  with great heroism.
i would like to have witnessed his meeting  with his wife.
i ought to have mentioned that i arrived at north adams in the forenoon of  the 26th, and, liking the aspect of matters indifferently well, determined to  make my headquarters here for a short time.
julian, after picking up a handful of autumnal maple-leaves the other  day,--"look, papa, here's a bunch of fire!"
contrast this french foppery with his solemn moods, when we sat in  the twilight, or after b---- is abed, talking of christianity and deism, of  ways of life, of marriage, of benevolence,--in short, of all deep matters of  this world and the next.
he had a man with him, a silent and rather sulky fellow,  who, at the captain's bidding, grimly made himself useful.
they have lasted ever since the 18th of july, and  have numbered fifty-eight edible ones, of excellent quality.
when i got to salem, there was great joy, as you may suppose. . . .
i  think, so much contrast among these colors as might at first appear.
the river, if i mistake not, has risen considerably  during the day, and its current will acquire some degree of energy.
as a matter of courtesy, i may call on mr. ----
william emerson was son-in-law of  daniel bliss.
the native poplars have different shades of  green, verging towards yellow, and are very cheerful in the sunshine.
it is evident that other  wedded pairs have spent their honeymoons here, that children have been born  here, and people have grown old and died in these rooms, although for our  behoof the same apartments have consented to look cheerful once again.
they  are a very sociable little flower, and dwell close together in  communities,--sometimes covering a space no larger than the palm of the hand,  but keeping one another in cheerful heart and life,--sometimes they occupy a  much larger space.
a portsmouth youth (whom i forgot to mention) sat in the  stern of the boat, looking very white.
a wood-chopper, travelling the country in search of jobs at chopping.
first organ ever known in europe received by king pepin,  from the emperor constantine, in 757.
but, after all, perhaps it is not wise to intermix  fantastic ideas with the reality of affection.
he announced  his purpose to come to america, where he would arrive in october.
a man, virtuous in his general conduct, but committing habitually some  monstrous crime,--as murder,--and doing this without the sense of guilt, but  with a peaceful conscience,--habit, probably, reconciling him to it; but  something (for instance, discovery) occurs to make him sensible of his  enormity.
these fellows stayed awhile,  talked uncouthly about college matters, and started in the great open wagon  which had brought them and their luggage hither.
even now, it is not  without interest to me.
i was a witness  of a scuffle of his with a drunken guest.
this was now hidden.
in the morning, our pilot killed a  flounder with the boat-hook, the poor fish thinking himself secure on the  bottom.
he has a sneaking kind of look, and  does not bear a very high character among his neighbors.
miss fuller's cow hooks the other cows, and has made herself ruler of the  herd, and behaves in a very tyrannical manner. . . .
standing on the old grassy battery, that forms a semicircle,  and looking seaward.
if for a  moment i desisted from paddling, the head of the boat was swept round by the  combined might of wind and tide.
it was like the recollection of the real scene in an observer's  mind,--a confused radiance.
pittsfield is a large village, quite shut in by mountain walls, generally  extending like a rampart on all sides of it, but with insulated great hills  rising here and there in the outline.
i suppose he was building a  nest,--at least, i know not what else could have been his object.
ladies, with lace ruffles, the painting of which, in one of  the pictures, cost five guineas.
i had spent three weeks by its  side, and swam across it every day, before i could determine which way its  current ran; and then i was compelled to decide the question by the testimony  of others, and not by my own observation.
there were symptoms of rain on saturday, and the weather has since been as  moist as the thirstiest soul could desire.
in the morning he talked in the same strain at breakfast,  while quaffing fourteen cups of tea,--eliza, all the while, as she supplied  him, entreating him not to drink any more.
a scold and a blockhead,--brimstone and wood,--a good match.
summer-squashes  are a very pleasant vegetable to be acquainted with.
we must not think too unkindly  even of the east-wind.
a fellow appears with a pink guard-chain and two breast-pins in his  shirt,--one a masonic one of gold, with compass and square, and the other of  colored glass, set in filigree brass,--and the shirt a soiled one.
his own misery in the midst of it,--it making the whole universe, heaven  and earth alike, an unsubstantial mockery to him.
passing an orchard, one hears an  uneasy rustling in the trees, and not as if they were struggling with the wind.
a cloudy veil stretches over the abyss of my nature.
mr. laighton says that the spanish wreck occurred forty-seven years ago,  instead of a hundred.
a man to flatter himself with the idea that he would not be guilty of some  certain wickedness,--as, for instance, to yield to the personal temptations of  the devil,--yet to find, ultimately, that he was at that very time committing  that same wickedness.
a sail-boat has put off from her, with a passenger in the  stern.
the doors and blinds of an oyster and refreshment  shop across the street were closed, but i saw people enter it.
a circle is then  described with the steel rod about the spot, and a man walks around within its  verge, reading the bible, to keep off the evil spirit while his companions dig.
the father, a grave, clerical person, with a  white wig and black broadcloth suit; the son, with a cocked hat and laced  clothes, drinking wine out of a glass, and caressing a woman in fashionable  dress.
i see grapevines  clambering against one wall, and also peeping over another, where the main body  of the vine is invisible to me.
to look at a beautiful girl, and picture all the lovers, in different  situations, whose hearts are centred upon her.
fields of dry indian corn.
after leaving mr. ----, we proceeded through wood-paths to walden pond,  picking blackberries of enormous size along the way.
when an inlet of the sea runs far up into the country,  you stare to see a large schooner appear amid the rural landscape; she is  unloading a cargo of wood, moist with rain or salt water that has dashed over  it.
for a week past we  have been especially gladdened with a little seamstress from boston, about  seventeen years old; but of such apetite figure, that, at first view, one would  take her to be hardly in her teens.
green leaves, following the eddies of the rivulet, were now borne deep  under water, and now emerged.
other islands, perhaps high, precipitous, black bluffs, are crowned  with a white light-house, whence, as evening comes on, twinkles a star across  the melancholy deep,--seen by vessels coming on the coast, seen from the  mainland, seen from island to island.
the wall of rock before described looking as if it had been hewn, but  with irregular strokes of the workman, doing his job by rough and ponderous  strength,--now chancing to hew it away smoothly and cleanly, now carelessly  smiting, and making gaps, or piling on the slabs of rock, so as to leave vacant  spaces.
externally, our paradise has very much the aspect of a pleasant old domicile on  earth.
nevertheless, he seemed  able to talk about foreign matters, through it all.
these winds have strewn our avenue with withered leaves, although the  trees still retain some density of foliage, which is now imbrowned or otherwise  variegated by autumn.
the owners of the cattle stood near at hand,  waiting for offers.
i milked two cows this morning, and would send you some of the milk, only  that it is mingled with that which was drawn forth by mr. dismal view and the  rest of the brethren.
there are several factories in different parts of north adams, along the banks  of a stream,--a wild, highland rivulet, which, however, does vast work of a  civilized nature.
my accession to these august offices does not at all decide the question of  my remaining here permanently.
the sun shines into my soul.
these huts are placed beneath the trees, oaks, walnuts,  and white-pines, wherever the trunks give them space to stand; and by thus  adapting themselves to natural interstices, instead of making new ones, they do  not break or disturb the solitude and seclusion of the place.
" a young man in search of happiness,--to be personified by a figure whom he  expects to meet in a crowd, and is to be recognized by certain signs.
we sometimes congratulate ourselves at the moment of waking from a troubled  dream: it may be so the moment after death.
[1836] salem, august 31, 1836.--a walk, yesterday, down to the shore,  near the hospital.
these matters are concocted at ashfield, and the pedlars are sent  about with vast quantities.
the view is bounded, at perhaps thirty yards' distance, by a row of  opposite brick dwellings, standing, i think, on temple place; houses of the  better order, with tokens of genteel families visible in all the rooms betwixt  the basements and the attic windows in the roof; plate-glass in the rear  drawing-rooms, flower-pots in some of the windows of the upper stories.
the  family attended the episcopal church at christmas, easter, and good friday, and  gave a grand entertainment once a year.
i have told mr. f---- that i shall be engaged in the forenoons, and he is  to manage his own occupations and amusements during that time, . . .
it is not, i think, the most ancient families that have tombs,--their  ancestry for two or three generations having been reposited in the earth before  such a luxury as a tomb was thought of.
just emerging from  the mist is seen a yellow field of rye, and, above that, forest.
the fox directly the contrary, and likewise the wolf.
an apple-tree or  two hang over these old graves, and throw down the blighted fruit on nathaniel  mather's grave,--he blighted too.
without distrusting that the phenomena have really  occurred, i think that they are to be accounted for as the result of a material  and physical, not of a spiritual, influence.
the matter  appears improbable, though, mr. thaxter says, large quantities of soil are  annually washed into the sea; so that the islands may have been better clad  with earth and its productions than now.
i never saw the old patriarch myself, which i regret, as i  should have been glad to associate his venerable figure at ninety years of age  with the house in which he dwelt.
a bulky  company of mountains, swelling round head over round head, rises insulated by  such broad vales from the surrounding ridges.
but while looking at the rushing  and rippling stream, i saw a great fish, some six feet long and thick in  proportion, suddenly emerge at whole length, turn a somerset, and then vanish  again beneath the water.
they turned over on their faces to show him.
he led us down to the shore of the island, towards the east, and showed us  betty moody's hole.
or, if a diorama be shown (that of bunker hill, for instance, or the burning of  moscow), an immense racket of imitative cannon and musketry.
looking  down the river, it might well have been mistaken for an arm of the sea, so  broad is now its swollen tide; and i could have fancied that, beyond one other  headland, the mighty ocean would outspread itself before the eye.
it has filled up, so far as it is filled, by the soil being  washed down from the higher ground on each side.
she is not an  amiable cow; but she has a very intelligent face, and seems to be of a  reflective cast of character.
would that i were permitted to record the celestial dainties  that kind heaven provided for us on the first day of our arrival!
" a drove of pigs passing at dusk.
it was visible  through a course of two or three miles, sweeping in a semicircle round the hill  on which i stood, and being the central line of a broad vale on either side.
she  still remains off the landing, moored, with her sails in the wind.
june 22d.--i rode to boston in the afternoon with mr. proctor.
i saw, a moment ago, on the lake, a very singular  spectacle.
the atmosphere is so transparent that objects seem perfectly distinct  along the mainland.
except a pumpkin, there is no vegetable  production that imparts such an idea of warmth and comfort to the beholder.
she would be  contented to dwell in earthly love to all eternity!
her  walk has something of the roll or waddle of a fat woman, though it were too  much to call her fat.
october 25th.--a person or family long desires some  particular good.
it surprised my mother, though her own children appear  to have been bright specimens of babyhood.
never was there such a string of questions as they directed to the  boatman,--questions that seemed to have no gist, so far as related to any use  that could be made of the answers.
sometimes,  too, the well-beaten track of wheels and hoofs passed down to its verge, then  vanished, and appeared on the other side, indicating a ford.
there were two old carts, both of which had lost a  wheel.
[then follow extracts from the church records of gosport.]
there is more verdure now than when i looked out of the window  an hour ago.
he had brought a letter of  ellery channing, written in a style of very pleasant humor.
you recognize in  him at once the man who knows the world, the scholar, too, which probably is  his more distinctive character, though a little more under the surface.
she seems unable to walk, or  sit up; but every pleasant day, about the middle of the forenoon, she is  dragged out beneath the veranda, on a sofa.
singular effect of partial sunshine, the sky  being broadly and heavily clouded, and land and sea, in consequence, being  generally overspread with a sombre gloom.
one of these chasms has a spring of fresh water in the gravelly base, down  to which the sea has worn out.
i do not see where the  inhabitants could have kept their boats, unless in the chasms worn by the sea  into the rocks.
the  lake is still of adamantine substance, but all round the borders there is a  watery margin, altogether strewed or covered with thin and broken ice, so that  i could not venture on it with the children.
the wind shakes  the house.
it had once a coat of white paint; but the storms and sunshine of many years  have almost obliterated it, and produced a sober, grayish hue, which entirely  suits the antique form of the structure.
accompanied by these denizens of the wild wood, we went onward, and came to a  company of fantastic figures, arranged in a ring for a dance or a game.
like all male cooks, he is rather  expensive, and has a tendency to the consumption of eggs in his various  concoctions, . . .
mr. hatch said that he was professionally consulted the other day, by a man  who had been digging for buried treasure at dover point, up the piscataqua  river; and, while he and his companions were thus engaged, the owner of the  land came upon them, and compelled hatch's client to give him a note for a sum  of money.
mr. ticknor has a great head, and his hair is gray or grayish.
this color of the oak is more superb than the lighter yellow of the  maples and walnuts.
this morning shone as bright as if it meant to  make up for all the dismalness of the past days.
howbeit, we shall have  now and then a guest to keep our peaches and pears from decaying.
then there are in the article passages of cloudy and dreamy metaphysics,  and also passages where his thoughts seem to measure and attune themselves into  spontaneous verse, as they rightfully may, since there is real poetry in them.
perhaps it might be the museum of a deceased old man.
most of the old  timber and boards had been carted away; a pile of it, however, remained.
a boat a little way from the shore, tossing and swinging  at anchor.
a low-crowned hat--very low--is  common.
she  brought, as passenger, a mr. balch, brother to the country trader who has been  spending a few days here.
most  of the oak-leaves have still the deep verdure of summer; but where a change has  taken place, it is into a russet-red, warm, but sober.
i beheld, without a branch or leaf upon it till it has soared seventy or  perhaps a hundred feet into the air.
familiar spirits, according to lilly, used to be worn in rings, watches,  sword-hilts.
to make a story out of a scarecrow, giving it odd attributes.
we  clamber down the bank, and step upon the frozen lake.
an article to be made of telling the stories of the tiles of an  old-fashioned chimney-piece to a child.
he gave a good deal of dramatic  effect to his descriptions, but his accent and intonation cannot be written.
one of the children, drawing a cow on the black-board, says, "i'll  kick this leg out a little more,"--a very happy energy of expression,  completely identifying herself with the cow; or perhaps, as the cow's creator,  conscious of full power over its movements.
another time, when he was reading the bible within the circle,  a creature like a white horse, but immoderately large, came from a distance  towards the circle, looked at him, and then began to graze about the spot.
in my whole walk i saw  only one man, and he was at a distance, in the obscurity of the trees.
a drunken fellow sat down by him, and bought a cent's worth of his  butternuts, and inquired what he would sell out to him for.
gave them a couple of bottles of mr.  mansfield's champagne, and walked down to the lake with them.
it is a knowledge which no previous thought or power of sympathy  could have taught me, because the animal, or the machine rather, is not in  nature.
this lady ursula was the daughter of lord  thomas cutts, of grondale abbey, in england.
created  baronet in 1818, and died childless in 1833.
"then a dead body arose, and went out of the church into the  churchyard, with a white cloth on its head, and stood there till mass was over.
it was  finally resolved to enlist the influence of a brother-in-law of the head  selectman, and try to gain his consent.
ezra ripley married the widow of said william emerson, and samuel  ripley was their son.
as to our river, its character was admirably expressed last night  by some one who said "it was too lazy to keep itself clean."
she is pretty, young, and married; for a little boy comes to  her knees, and she parts his hair, and caresses him in a motherly way.
i shook our summer apple-tree, and  ate the golden apple which fell from it.
to point out the moral slavery of one who deems himself a free man.
the  cellar of the house which formerly crowned the hill, and used to be named  browne's folly, still remains, two grass-grown and shallow hollows, on the  highest part of the ridge.
they may be heard talking  of the financial affairs of the expedition, reckoning what money each has paid.
there was a wagon descending behind me; and as it followed the zigzag  of the road i could hear the voices of the men high over my head, and sometimes  i caught a glimpse of the wagon almost perpendicularly above me, while i was  looking almost perpendicularly down to the log-hut aforementioned.
nothing particular in our drive across the country.
all the ruggedness of the intervening  hill-country was likewise effectively brought out.
the people were very wrathful that the general should have  laid out his grounds over this old burial-place; and he dared never throw down  the gravestones, though his wife, a haughty english lady, often teased him  to do so.
it contains some daffodils and some willow-blossoms.
there was a northwest-wind throughout the day; and as many clouds, the  remnants of departed gloom, were scattered about the sky, the breeze was  continually blowing them across the sun.
they  consist of country traders, a country doctor, and such sorts of people, rude,  shrewd, and simple, and well-behaved enough; wondering at sharks, and equally  at lobsters; sitting down to table with their coats off; helping themselves out  of the dish with their own forks; taking pudding on the plates off which they  have eaten meat.
next mr. thoreau was discussed, and his approaching departure; in respect to  which we agreed pretty well, . . .
large cakes and masses of ice came floating down the current, which,  though not very violent, hurried along at a much swifter pace than the ordinary  one of our sluggish river-god.
these observations were made during a walk yesterday.
the rivulets race along the road, adown the hills;  and wherever there is a permanent brooklet, however generally insignificant, it  is now swollen into importance, and the rumble and tumble of its waterfalls may  be heard a long way off.
i was  interested in this; to see a man, after twenty-five years of scientific  occupation, thus trying whether his arms retained their strength and skill for  the labors of his youth,--mindful of the day when he wore striped trousers, and  toiled in his shirt-sleeves,--and now tasting again, for pastime, this drudgery  beneath a fervid sun.
all the early part of her life, i suppose, and much of her  widowhood, were spent in the quiet of a home, with kinsfolk around her, and  children, and the lifelong gossiping acquaintances that some women always  create about them.
there was one of the graduates with his betrothed, and his  brother-in-law and wife, who stayed during the day,--the graduate the very  model of a country schoolmaster in his sunday clothes, being his commencement  suit of black broadcloth and pumps.
there has been no rain, except one moderate  shower, for many weeks; and the earth appears to be wasting away in a slow  fever.
thanksgiving at the worcester lunatic asylum.
at the base of the light-house yesterday, we saw the wings and feathers of  a decayed little bird, and mr. thaxter said they often flew against the lantern  with such force as to kill themselves, and that large quantities of them might  be picked up.
he wore a suit of coarse brown cloth, cut in rather a  quaker fashion; and he had a large nose, and his face expressed enthusiasm and  humor,--a sort of smile and twinkle of the eye, with wildness.
after dinner, which was good and abundant, though somewhat rude in its  style, i was introduced by mr. laighton to mr. thaxter, his son-in-law, and mr.  weiss, a clergyman of new bedford, who is staying here for his health.
almost at the same time, a young  gypsy fortune-teller came from among the trees, and proposed to tell my  fortune.
the depth of the fissure in some  places is at least fifty or sixty feet; perhaps more, and at several points it  nearly closes over, and often the sight of the sky is hidden by the  interposition of masses of the marble crags.
i then went out to  chop wood, my allotted space for which had been very much abridged by his  visit; but i was not sorry.
there are certainly not more  than six weeks of the whole year when a frost may be deemed anything remarkable.
it was two of those broad-leaved sea-weeds, with stems  like snakes, both rooted on a stone,--all which came up together.
above all, the noting of the  appearance of the first roses should not be omitted; nor of the arethusa, one  of the delicatest, gracefullest, and in every manner sweetest, of the whole  race of flowers.
possibly he  may be innocent, and, as there is nothing but circumstantial evidence, it must  be left with his own conscience.
it would be symbolical of something.
i bathed in the cove, overhung with maples and walnuts, the water cool and  thrilling.
no fountain so small
then he made new waterfalls with mighty labor, pulling big stones out  of the earth, and flinging them into the current.
he seems to have no ambition beyond his  present duties, perhaps never had any; at any rate, he now passes his life with  a sort of gruff contentedness, grumbling and growling, yet in good humor  enough.
there were cider and beer.
thank  god, we anticipate getting rid of its treasures in the course of two or three  days!
but i do not intend to be connected with this affair.
in the afternoon there came a fresh bevy of students onward from  williamstown; but they made only a transient visit, though it was still  raining.
the man's habits were as bad as possible as long as  he had any money; but when quite ruined, he reformed.
it is something like nursing and educating another  person's children.
only imagine adam trudging out of paradise with a  bucket in each hand, to get water to drink, or for eve to bathe in!
we have muskmelons and watermelons, which promise to supply us with as  many as we can eat.
a series of strange, mysterious, dreadful events to occur, wholly  destructive of a person's happiness.
there was quite a collection of people, looking on or  taking leave of passengers,--the steam puffing,--stages arriving,  full-freighted with ladies and gentlemen.
a man getting subscriptions for a religious and abolition newspaper in new  york,--somewhat elderly and gray-haired, quick in his movements, hasty in his  walk, with an eager, earnest stare through his spectacles, hurrying about with  a pocket-book of subscriptions in his hand,--seldom speaking, and then in brief  expressions,--sitting down before the stage comes, to write a list of  subscribers obtained to his employers in new york.
i arose this morning feeling more  elastic than i have throughout the winter; for the breathing of the ocean air  has wrought a very beneficial effect, . . .
indeed, they all  have innumerable little children; and they are invariably in good health,  though always dirty of face.
the black river was all dimpled over with  little eddies and whirlpools; and the breeze, moreover, caused the billows to  beat against the bow of the boat, with a sound like the flapping of a bird's  wing.
he walks to and fro before the figures, talking of the  history of the persons, the moral lessons to be drawn therefrom, and especially  of the excellence of the wax-work.
all was pleasant  enough,--an excellent piece of work,--"would't were done!"
oliver cromwell, apparently an  old picture, half length, or one third, in an oval frame, probably painted for  some new england partisan.
yesterday, through a diffused mist,  with the sun shining on it, it had the aspect of burnished copper.
a man, perhaps with a persuasion that he shall make his fortune by some  singular means, and with an eager longing so to do, while digging or boring for  water, to strike upon a salt-spring.
this morning at sunrise, the thermometer  stood at about 18 degrees above zero.
i believe very little of this story.
but the impression of  this clearing is solitude, as of a forgotten land.
dry leaves are now plentiful everywhere, save  where there are none but pine-trees.
a lament for life's wasted sunshine.
some person to meet with it, and get possession of it in some unexpected  manner, amid homely circumstances.
i  invited them to call on me at the hotel, if they should come to the village  within two or three days.
october 27th.--fringed
we returned home in due season for dinner, . . .
destiny  itself has often been worsted in the attempt to get me out to dinner.
on our return  we boarded a large cake of ice, which was floating down the river, and were  borne by it directly to our own landing-place, with the boat towing behind.
there is so much wretchedness in the world, that we  may safely take the word of any mortal professing to need our assistance; and,  even should we be deceived, still the good to ourselves resulting from a kind  act is worth more than the trifle by which we purchase it.
his load, however, at the utmost, could not have been more than a  few bushels, whereas mine was exactly one hundred and thirty-five chaldrons and  seven tubs.
"the wind-turn," "the lightning-catch," a child's  phrases for weathercock and lightning-rod.
to my misfortune, however,  a box of mediterranean wine proved to have undergone the acetous fermentation;  so that the splendor of the festival suffered some diminution.
the pigs are fed on corn at their halts.
but we, who stood  so elevated above mortal things, and saw so wide and far, could see the  sunshine of prosperity departing from one spot and rolling towards another, so  that we could not think it much matter which spot were sunny or gloomy at any  one moment.
in the bar-room of this tavern were posted up written advertisements, the  smoked chimney-piece being thus made to serve for a newspaper: "i have rye  for sale," "i have a fine mare colt," etc.
the  process is to grasp all the stems of a hill and pull them up.
the doctors walk about the village with their saddle-bags on their arms,  one always with a pipe in his mouth.
besides what i have mentioned, we have  cucumber-vines, which to-day yielded us the first cucumber of the season, a bed  of beets, and another of carrots, and another of parsnips and turnips, none of  which promise us a very abundant harvest.
in its absence, one  doubts whether there be any truth in what poets have told about the splendor of  an american autumn; but when this charm is added, one feels that the effect is  beyond description.
saw an  elderly man laden with two dry, yellow, rustling bundles of indian  corn-stalks,--a good personification of autumn.
mr. leach's brother is a student at shelburne falls.
so there he sits in  the sea-breezes, when inland people are probably drawing their chairs to the  fire-side; and there i sit with him,--not keeping up a continual flow of talk,  but each speaking as any wisdom happens to come into his mind.
here some vagary of  mind seems to have bewildered you; for your tracks go round and round, and  interchange each other without visible reason.
at such times i almost doubt whether the  foliage has lost any of its brilliancy.
on the table, and scattered  about the room, must be symbols of warfare,--swords, pistols, plumed hats, a  drum, trumpet, and rolled-up banner in one heap.
she  sat in an old-fashioned easy-chair, in a small, low parlor,--the wainscot  painted entirely black, and the walls hung with a dark velvet paper.
this may be  doubted, however, for there is an unmistakable analogy between these wicked  weeds and the bad habits and sinful propensities which have overrun the moral  world; and we may as well imagine that there is good in one as in the other.
a heavy rain, some days ago, has melted a good deal of the snow on the  intervening descent between our house and the lake; but many drifts, depths,  and levels yet remain; and there is a frozen crust, sufficient to bear a man s  weight, and very slippery.
it was good thus to get apart from  my happiness, for the sake of contemplating it.
he  appears perfectly to understand their general character, of which he gives no  very flattering description.
sometimes one of  them will ship on a voyage to the west indies, but generally only on coast-wise  trips, or fishing or mackerel voyages.
it seemed to be a pretty  good morning for the angler,--an autumnal coolness in the air, a clear sky, but  with a fog across the lowlands and on the surface of the river, which a gentle  breeze sometimes condensed into wreaths.
the roofs of the low out-houses are black with moisture;  the gutters are full of water, and there is a little puddle where there is a  place for it in the hollow of a board.
i read during the customary hour, or more, at the  athenæum, and returned without saying a word to mortal.
she has the stars and stripes flying at the  main-mast.
there have been other alchemists of old in this town,--one who kept  his fire burning seven weeks, and then lost the elixir by letting it go out.
methinks my profession is somewhat akin to that of a  chimney-sweeper; but the latter has the advantage over me, because, after  climbing up through the darksome flue of the chimney, he emerges into the midst  of the golden air, and sings out his melodies far over the heads of the whole  tribe of weary earth-plodders.
in some trees, different  masses of the foliage show each of these hues.
is it a praiseworthy matter that i have spent five  golden months in providing food for cows and horses?
dined at mr. field's.
elsewhere, a high  acclivity, with the beach between it and the river, the ridge broken and caved  away, so that the earth looks fresh and yellow, and is penetrated by the nests  of birds.
on the shore, sprouting amongst the sand and gravel, i found samphire,  growing somewhat like asparagus.
nothin of much interest takes place.
lenox, july 14th.--the tops of the chestnut-trees have a  whitish appearance, they being, i suppose, in bloom.
perhaps a  seeker might thus recognize the man he had sought, after long intercourse  with him unknowingly.
the english are much more unscrupulous and dishonest  pirates than ourselves.
there was a party of  students from the rensselaer school at troy, who had spent the night there, a  set of rough urchins, from sixteen to twenty years old, accompanied by the  wagon-driver, a short, stubbed little fellow, who walked about with great  independence, thrusting his hands into his breeches-pockets, beneath his frock.
between the ridges of hills there are long, wide, deep valleys,  extending for miles and miles, with houses scattered along them.
we left our horse in the shed, and, entering the little unpainted  bar-room, we heard a voice, in a strange, outlandish accent, exclaiming  "diorama."
as he spoke,  the blood darkened in his cheek, and his eye looked ominous and angry, as if he  were enraged with the person to whom he was speaking; yet he had not real grit,  for he had never said a word of his grievances to those concerned.
saint augustin, at mass, charged all that were accursed to go out of the  church.
there is an old man, selling the meats of butternuts under the stoop of the  hotel.
the shade  of our departed host will never haunt it; for its aspect has been changed as  completely as the scenery of a theatre.
the drinking and smoking shop is no bad place to see  one kind of life.
these early  morning hours are very lightsome and quiet.
the dawn, i suppose, shows itself as early as two o'clock, so  that the absolute dominion of night has dwindled to almost nothing.
the  farm-houses across the river made their appearance out of the dusky cloud;  the voices of boys were heard, shouting to the cattle as they drove them to the  pastures; a man whetted his scythe, and set to work in a neighboring meadow.
i am rather sorry to receive  these strangers into the quiet life that we are leading here; for we had grown  quite to feel ourselves at home, and the two young ladies, mr. thaxter, his  wife and sister, and myself, met at meal-times like one family.
mr. george bradford will probably be here to-day, so that there will be no  danger of my being under the necessity of laboring more than i like hereafter.
thus an edifice of great solidity is constructed, which will endure  for centuries, unless needless pains are taken to tear it down.
the theatre itself is for the  middling and lower classes, and i had not taken my seat in the most  aristocratic part of the house; so that i found myself surrounded chiefly by  young sailors, hanover street shopmen, mechanics, and other people of that  class.
last evening, from the opposite shore of the north river, a view of the  town mirrored in the water, which was as smooth as glass, with no perceptible  tide or agitation, except a trifling swell and reflux on the sand, although the  shadow of the moon danced in it.
he was a gray,  bald-headed, wrinkled-visaged figure, decently dressed, with cowhide shoes, a  coat on one arm, and an umbrella on the other, and said that he was going  to see a widow in the neighborhood.
i had grown accustomed  to their presence, and rather liked them; one of them being gay and rather  noisy, and the other quiet and gentle.
all its  motions,--its tossing up and down on the small waves, and its sinking and  rising in a calm swell, its heeling to the breeze,--the whole effect, in short,  is that of a real ship at sea; while, moreover, there is something that kindles  the imagination more than the reality would do.
i looked at him,--a droll, winged, beast-insect, creeping up the man's  arm, not over-clean, and scattering dust on the man's coat from his vampire  wings.
then there was  another gray old negro, but of a different stamp, politic, sage, cautious, yet  with boldness enough, talking about the rights of his race, yet so as not to  provoke his audience; discoursing of the advantage of living under laws, and  the wonders that might ensue, in that very assemblage, if there were no laws;  in the midst of this deep wisdom, turning off the anger of a half-drunken  fellow by a merry retort, a leap in the air, and a negro's laugh.
as much as anything  else, it seems as if some of the massive materials of the world remained  superfluous, after the creator had finished, and were carelessly thrown down  here, where the millionth part of them emerge from the sea, and in the course  of thousands of years have become partially bestrewn with a little soil.
a marble hall, a wide and  easy staircase, a respectable old man-servant, evidently long at home in the  mansion, to admit us.
mr. haley had been buried at his own expense.
yet the  shakers keep their pigs very clean, and with great advantage.
they were young men, brothers, the youngest a shopkeeper in danvers, the other  a farmer, i imagine, at hamilton, and both specimens of the least polished kind  of yankee, and therefore proper to those localities.
the rain is warm, coming from some  southern region; but the willow attests that it is an autumnal spell of  weather, by scattering down no infrequent multitude of yellow leaves, which  rest upon the sloping roof of the house, and strew the gravel-path and the  grass.
after breakfast i took my fishing-rod, and went down through our orchard to  the river-side; but as three or four boys were already in possession of the  best spots along the shore, i did not fish.
they threw long reflections across the sea, like the moon.
the guns of the cyane are  medium thirty-two pounders; some of them have percussion locks.
he was one of captain kidd's men, and was slain for the protection of the  treasure.
july 18th.--this morning i gathered our first  summer-squashes.
i passed through a very pleasant wood-path yesterday, quite shut in and  sheltered by trees that had not thrown off their yellow robes.
it contained a little bit of card, signifying that dr. l.  f---- and miss c. b---- receive their friends thursday eve, june 6.
shortly afterwards he returned for another  burden, and this he repeated several times.
we had some roast veal and a baked rice-pudding on sunday,  really a fine dinner, and cooked in better style than mary can equal; and  george curtis came to dine with us.
he goes to and fro, snuffing the candles, and  now and then holding one to the face of a favorite figure.
neither will the  fruit, probably, bear comparison with the delicate productions of modern  pomology.
a multitude of these  were floating here and there along the river, many of them curling upward, so  as to form little boats, fit for fairies to voyage in.
they are among the most picturesque birds  that i am acquainted with; indeed, quite the most so, because the manner of  their flight makes them almost stationary parts of the landscape.
i,  likewise, am greedy of the summer days for my own sake; the life of man does  not contain so many of them that one can be spared without regret.
we appear mutually to be very well pleased with each other.
mr. folsom accompanied me to call upon mr. ticknor, the historian of  spanish literature.
but at last came  the sunset, with delicate clouds, and a purple light upon the islands; and i  blessed it, because it was the signal of my release.
there are handsome churches,  gothic and others, and a courthouse and an academy; the court-house having a  marble front.
to well consider the characters of a family of persons in a certain  condition,--in poverty, for instance,--and endeavor to judge how an altered  condition would affect the character of each.
the hyena was the most ugly and dangerous  looking beast, full of spite, and on ill terms with all nature, looking a good  deal like a hog with the devil in him, the ridge of hair along his back  bristling.
most of the trees seem to have abundant burdens upon them; but they  are homely russet apples, fit only for baking and cooking.
the holes are  circular.
it is a pretty sight to see the sunshine brightening the entrance of a road  which shortly becomes deeply overshadowed by trees on both sides.
a rich man left by will his mansion and estate to a poor couple.
the river, which a few days ago  was entirely imprisoned, has now broken its fetters; but a tract of ice  extended across from near the foot of the monument to the abutment of the old  bridge, and looked so solid that i supposed it would yet remain for a day or  two.
salem, august 22d.--a walk yesterday afternoon down to  the juniper and winter island.
returning by the almshouse, i stopped a good while to look at the pigs,--a  great herd,--who seemed to be just finishing their suppers.
he said that butternuts did not sell so well as walnuts,  which are not yet in season; that he might to-day have sold fifty cents' worth;  of walnuts, never less than a dollar's worth, often more; and when he went  round with a caravan, he had sold fifteen dollars' worth per day, and once as  much as twenty dollars' worth.
there was a clock without a case, the weights being visible, and  the pendulum swinging in air,--and a coffee-mill fixed against the wall.
at last some casual circumstance discloses that each is the one that the  other is waiting for.
"there need not be any disagreeable smell in making  soap," said he.
september 1st.--last evening, during a walk, graylock and  the whole of saddleback were at first imbued with a mild, half-sunshiny tinge,  then grew almost black,--a huge, dark mass lying on the back of the earth and  encumbering it.
meantime  the lion's head should have a sort of sly twist on one side of its mouth, and a  wink of one eye, in order to give the impression that, after all, the crime and  the punishment are neither of them the most serious things in the world.
"my study is man," said he.
the word "ragamuffin," which i have used above, does not  accurately express the man, because there is a sort of shadow or delusion of  respectability about him, and a sobriety too, and a kind of decency in his  groggy and red-nosed destitution.
fortune to come like a pedlar with his goods,--as wreaths of laurel,  diamonds, crowns; selling them, but asking for them the sacrifice of health, of  integrity, perhaps of life in the battle-field, and of the real pleasures of  existence.
i know  no man who seems more like a man, more indescribably human, than this sturdy  blacksmith.
on my return, i suffered the boat to float almost of its own will down the  stream, and caught fish enough for this morning's breakfast.
looking at the same booth by and by, i  find that the poor monkey has been obliged to betake himself to the top of one  of the wooden joists that stick up high above.
the same day, a colony of  wasps was discovered in my chamber, where they had remained throughout the  winter, and were now just bestirring themselves, doubtless with the intention  of stinging me from head to foot. . . .
the cheerful paper-hangings have the air of belonging to the old walls; and  such modernisms as astral lamps, card-tables, gilded cologne-bottles, silver  taper-stands, and bronze and alabaster flower-vases, do not seem at all
here you examined a long sea-weed, and trailed its  length after you for a considerable distance.
this flight has carried me a great way; so now let me come back  to our old abbey.
their houses stand  in pretty close neighborhood to one another, scattered about without the  slightest regularity or pretence of a street, there being no wheel-carriages on  the island.
our creator would never have made such weather, and  given us the deep heart to enjoy it, above and beyond all thought, if he had  not meant us to be immortal.
the fireplace has a white marble frame about it, sculptured with figures and  reliefs.
these clouds throw a shade upon large portions of the rampart of hills, and the  hills towards the west are shaded of course; the clouds also make the shades  deeper in the village, and thus the sunshine on the houses and trees, and along  the street, is a bright, rich gold.
on the other side, the bank is almost on a level with  the water; and there the quiet congregation of trees stood with feet in the  flood, and fringed with foliage down to its very surface.
saturday, august 13th.--my life, at this time, is more  like that of a boy, externally, than it has been since i was really a boy.
the other day,  since our return from salem, i found a violet; yet it was so cold that day,  that a large pool of water, under the shadow of some trees, had remained frozen  from morning till afternoon.
"though we speak nonsense, god will pick out the meaning of it," --an extempore prayer by a new england divine.
they went off very well. . . .
it is unfavorable for a trip to the mainland; but  doubtless i shall find an opportunity of getting ashore before night.
but he was no flower-shrub, but  one of those fruit-trees or timber-trees that acquire a grace with their old  age.
it was not unpleasantly cold, and mr. laighton,  mr. thaxter, and myself sat under the piazza till long after dark; the former  at a little distance, occasionally smoking his pipe, and mr. thaxter and i  talking about poets and the stage.
if we dwell here, we will make our own  wine, . . .
probably he  was put to death.
he visited the latter island, intending to be married.
there is a pervading blessing  diffused over all the world.
there were several hundreds, in pens appropriated to their use,  grunting discordantly, and apparently in no very good humor with their  companions or the world at large.
it is  odd to put a family record in a spot where it is sure to be trampled underfoot.
"very much obliged to you," cries our captain.
altogether it is a scene of stirring life, with which a person who had been  waiting long for the train to come might find it difficult at once to  amalgamate himself.
http://eldred.ne.mediaone.net/nh/pfanb01.html> (hawthorne, 44) hawthorne, nathaniel.
a  screen stands directly before the door, so as to conceal the interior from an  outside barbarian.
meantime the four newly bought pigs  are running about the cow-yard, lean, active, shrewd, investigating everything,  as their nature is.
fancy pictures of familiar places which one has never been in, as the  green-room of a theatre, etc.
a physician for the cure of moral diseases.
a tree, tall and venerable, to be said by tradition to have been the staff  of some famous man, who happened to thrust it into the ground, where it took  root.
moonlight is sculpture; sunlight is painting.
in other  respects providence has treated us pretty tolerably well; but here i shall  expect something further to be done.
they despatch him with two or three cents to  buy candy and nuts and raisins.
i cannot  too highly applaud the readiness with which these four gentlemen in black have  thrown aside all the fopperies and flummeries which have their origin in a  false state of society.
it is now  sunset, and i must meditate till dark.
his scheme is well enough, and might possibly become  popular; but it has no peculiar advantages with reference to myself, nor do the  subjects of his proposed books particularly suit my fancy as themes to write  upon.
such an one might sit in the great  chair, and be an emblem of that stern, considerate spirit which brought about  the revolution.
when i was in the custom house and  then at salem i was not half so patient. . . .
the pedlars find satisfaction for all contumelies in making good  bargains out of their customers.
the blue and indistinctive scene extended to the east and north for at least  sixty miles.
there were two  owls in a back court, visible through a window of the bar-room,--speckled gray,  with dark-blue eyes,--the queerest-looking birds that exist,--so solemn and  wise,--dozing away the day, much like the rest of the people, only that they  looked wiser than any others.
a letter, written a century or more ago, but which has never yet been  unsealed.
it is quite impossible to give an idea of these rocky shores,--how  confusedly they are tossed together, lying in all directions; what solid  ledges, what great fragments thrown out from the rest.
it was considerably swollen, and rushed fleetly on its  course between overhanging banks of snow and ice, from which depended  adamantine icicles.
or, if  so, it shall be a symbol to me that even a human breast, which may appear least  spiritual in some aspects, may still have the capability of reflecting an  infinite heaven in its depths, and therefore of enjoying it.
i never could have conceived that there was so beautiful a  river-scene in concord as this of the north branch.
mr. emerson came, with a sunbeam in his face; and we had as good a talk as  i ever remember to have had with him.
then followed childish games, in which the grown people took part with  mirth enough,--while i, whose nature it is to be a mere spectator both of sport  and serious business, lay under the trees and looked on.
[1839] extracts from his private letters.
probably the note gushed out from the midst of a dream, in which he  fancied himself in paradise with his mate; and, suddenly awakening, he found he  was on a cold, leafless bough, with a new england mist penetrating through his  feathers.
it does not ascend into a peak, but heaves  up a round ball, and has supporting ridges on each side.
against the outer points of smutty nose and star island, there is a  higher surf than here; because, the wind being from the southeast, these  islands receive it first, and form a partial barrier in respect to this.
sunday, april 9th.--. . .
one pretty well-grown buttonwood-tree aspires upward above  the roofs of the houses.
we walked to the farthest point of the island, and i have never seen a more  dismal place than it was on this sunless and east-windy day, being the farthest  point out into the melancholy sea which was in no very agreeable mood, and  roared sullenly against the wilderness of rocks.
after lamplight, finished "lenore," and  drowsed over voltaire's "candide," occasionally refreshing myself  with a tune from mr. thoreau's musical-box, which he had left in my keeping.
i must mention again the very beautiful effect produced by the masses of  berry-bushes, lying like scarlet islands in the midst of withered  pasture-ground, or crowning the tops of barren hills.
he has not a large  measure of french vivacity, never rattles, never dances, nor breaks into  ebullitions of mirth and song; on the contrary, i have never known a youth of  his age more orderly and decorous.
at present we are under the ridiculous necessity of sending to  the outer world for water.
the two girls and their cavaliers remained till nearly the close of  the play.
i have been fishing for cunners off  the rocks, but with intolerably poor success.
the withered leaves which overhanging trees shed upon its surface  contribute much to the effect.
they are trees of paradise,  and therefore not naturally subject to decay; but have lost their birthright by  being transplanted hither.
" five points of theology,--five points at new york.
would i had been here to see!
benvenuto cellini saw a salamander in the household fire.
the effect of morning sunshine on the wet grass, on sloping  and swelling land, between the spectator and the sun at some distance, as  across a lawn.
a wine-merchant,  french apparently, though he had arrived the day before in a bark from
and when they have stood around a house for many years, and held  converse with successive dynasties of occupants, and gladdened their hearts so  often in the fruitful autumn, then it would seem almost sacrilege to cut them  down.
how desolate it  is now!
he has been cultivating vegetables at  plymouth this summer, and selling them in the market.
the walls present a specimen of how nature packs the stone,  crowding huge masses, as it were, into chinks and fissures, and here we see it  in the perpendicular or horizontal layers, as nature laid it.
pepperell's only daughter married  colonel sparhawk, a fine gentleman of the day.
pretty  portly, fleshy in the face, and with somewhat of a paunch, cheerful, and his  senses, bodily and mental, in no very bad order, though he is now in his  ninetieth year.
another person to be the cause, without suspecting it.
it  was a coolish day, with clouds and intermitting sunshine, and a pretty fresh  breeze.
i have not yet been twenty yards from our house and barn; but i begin to  perceive that this is a beautiful place.
her dress, i observe, on closer observation, is a kind of  loose morning sack, with, i think, a silky gloss on it; and she seems to have a  silver comb in her hair,--no, this latter item is a mistake.
on being transported to strange scenes, we feel as if all were unreal.
it is the custom in this part of the country--and perhaps extensively in  the interior of new england--to bury the dead first in a charnel-house, or  common tomb, where they remain till decay has so far progressed as to secure  them from the resurrectionists.
if, when once washed, they would remain clean forever and ever  (which they ought in all reason to do, considering how much trouble it is),  there would be less occasion to grumble; but no sooner is it done, than it  requires to be done again.
he has  rather a precise and careful pronunciation, but yet a natural way of talking.
across the water, however, not more than half a mile off,  appeared the bunker hill monument; and, what interested me considerably more, a  church-steeple, with the dial of a clock upon it, whereby i was enabled to  measure the march of the weary hours.
this river of ours is the most  sluggish stream that i ever was acquainted with.
have you seen boston light  this morning?" "yes; it bears north-northwest, two miles distant."
thence to cow island, a solemn and  thoughtful walk.
there being  some superfluous earth at the bottom of the grave, the coffin was drawn up  again after being once lowered, and the obstacle removed with a hoe; then it  was lowered again for the last time.
it is apt to create a substance where at first  there was a mere shadow. . . .
she came  here to take passage in a stage; but putnam, a justice of the peace, examined  her and afterwards ordered her to be searched by laura and eliza, the  chambermaid and table-waiter.
probably it was neither, but an eccentricity, an  almost monomania, that has grown upon him,--perhaps the result of strong  religious excitement.
i suppose she comes thither to iron her  shroud, and perhaps, likewise, to smooth the doctor's band.
nevertheless, the lad himself  seems to feel as if he were a genius.
they grow in the forms of  urns and vases,--some shallow, others deeper, and all with a beautifully  scalloped edge.
he put into my hand a missive directed to "mr. and mrs.  hawthorne."
all sorts of ugly weeds grow most  luxuriantly out of the grave in poisonous rankness.
his patent covered, of course, the whole present town of  waldoborough, and divers other flourishing commercial and country villages, and  would have been of incalculable value could it have remained unbroken to the  present time.
he leads a bachelor's life  in his paternal mansion, only a small part of which is occupied by a family who  serve him.
rogers, there was a  portrait of that worthy, about a third of the size of life, carved in relief,  with his cloak, band, and wig, in excellent preservation, all the buttons of  his waistcoat being cut with great minuteness,--the minister's nose being on  a level with his cheeks.
i inquired if he could sell us some potatoes, and he promised to  send half a bushel for trial.
milton had evidently contemplated such a  picture with delight.
he seemed to be  hospitable, inviting those with whom he did business to take "a mouthful  of dinner" with him, and treating them with liquors; for he was not an  utter temperance man, though moderate in his potations.
twenty  minutes after the retiring of the tide suffices to restore to it its wonted  freshness.
the  burial-ground is on one of them, and there is another, on the summit of which  appears a single tombstone, as if there were something natural in making these  hills the repositories of the dead.
talking about a dead horse near his house, he said that  he could not bear the scent of it.
methinks  if anything could draw out my whole strength, it would be the motives that now  press upon me.
these red spots are the blueberry and  whortleberry bushes.
this proves  that all gloom is but a dream and a shadow, and that cheerfulness is the real  truth.
and mrs. lowell called in the  forenoon, on their way to stockbridge or lebanon, to meet miss bremer.
but it is vain to try to express this confusion.
previous to his arrival, i had kindled no fire for four entire days, and had  lived all that time on the corned beef, except one day, when ellery and i went  down the river on a fishing excursion.
her little son f. being very ill, on his recovery she  confessed a feeling of disappointment, having supposed that he would have gone  before, and welcomed her into heaven!
a person to spend all his life and splendid talents in trying to achieve  something naturally impossible,--as to make a conquest over nature.
saturday, september 4th.--another beautiful day, rather  cooler than the preceding, but not too cool.
those prospects have not yet  had their fulfilment; and we are well content to wait, because an office would  inevitably remove us from our present happy home,--at least from an outward  home; for there is an inner one that will accompany us wherever we go.
it appears  in the vicinity of lockport and niagara falls, and elsewhere in new york.
he prefers, he says,  booksellers to druggists as his agents, and inquired of me about them in this  town.
when she put  her foot on the step, the stage gave a great lurch, she joking all the while.
he  is not only a dentist, which trade he follows temporarily, but a licensed  preacher of the baptist persuasion, and is now on his way to the west to seek a  place of settlement in his spiritual vocation.
i walked this afternoon along a pleasant wood-path, gently winding, so that  but little of it could be seen at a time, and going up and down small mounds,  now plunging into a denser shadow, and now emerging from it.
that it was enough to make anybody's eyes start square  out of their head to look at such red cheeks as yours."
clouds in the vicinity of  the sun, and nearly all the rest of the sky covered with clouds in masses,  not a gray uniformity of cloud.
on the grass-plot are strewn the fallen  blossoms of the cherry-tree, and over the scene broods a parallelogram of  sombre sky.
personify the century,--talk of its present middle age, of its youth, and  its adventures and prospects.
but now its surface was not all  commoved with billows; there was only roughness enough to take off the gleam,  and give it the aspect of iron after cooling.
i went down to the river to-day to see b---- fish for salmon with a fly,--a  hopeless business; for he says that only one instance has been known in  the united states of salmon being taken otherwise than with a net.
it is  a pity that this picturesque and comparatively graceful hat should not have  been generally adopted, instead of falling to the exclusive use of a rowdy  class.
i bathed in  the pool, and then pursued my way down beside the brook, growing dark with a  pleasant gloom, as the sun sank and the water became more shadowy.
he pretends to  be religious, but drinks.
my room, a narrow crib overlooking a back court-yard,  where a young man and a lad were drawing water for the maid-servants,--their  jokes, especially those of the lad, of whose wit the elder fellow, being a  blockhead himself, was in great admiration, and declared to another that he  knew as much as them both.
he must have on a bag-wig, ruffled  sleeves, embroidered coat, and all such ornaments, because he is the  representative of aristocracy and an artificial system.
this morning, mr. f---- fried a sumptuous  dish of eels for breakfast.
also several trojan men and women, who had been to commencement.
so you will not wonder if it is not a classical piece of composition, either in  point of thought or expression.
for a considerable distance there was a causeway,  built long ago of logs, to drag lumber upon; it was now decayed and rotten, a  red decay, sometimes sunken down in the midst, here and there a knotty trunk  stretching across, apparently sound.
the line runs athwart a bridge,--a rude  bridge, which crosses a mountain stream.
ox-teams, laden with a rustling load of indian corn,  in the stalk and ear.
there have been easterly wind, continual cloudiness, and occasional  rain, for a week.
the reason  of the minute superiority of nature's work over man's is, that the former works  from the innermost germ, while the latter works merely superficially.
she called to b----,  and began to talk to him about her resolution not to give up her house: for it  is his design to get her out of it.
it was mobile with whatever sentiment chanced to be in her  mind, as quick and vivacious a face in its movements as i have ever seen;  cheerful, too, and indicative of a sunny, though i should think it might be a  hasty, temper.
it is a work of considerable labor, and would  more likely have been erected by one who supposed himself the first discoverer  of the island than by anybody afterwards for mere amusement.
the drove has some  ultimate market, and individuals are peddled out on the march.
both the flower  and the leaves look well in a vase with pond-lilies, and relieve the unvaried  whiteness of the latter; and, being all alike children of the waters, they are  perfectly in keeping with one another. . . .
wednesday, august 24th.--i left home at five o'clock this  morning to catch some fish for breakfast.
besides the summer-squashes, we have the crook-necked  winter-squash, which i always delight to look at, when it turns up its big  rotundity to ripen in the autumn sun.
afterwards it was a standing pond; then a morass, with cat-tail flags  growing in it.
there is the wash-stand at which  this exalted personage cleansed himself from the stains of earth, and rendered  his outward man a fitting exponent of the pure soul within.
orrin s----, a wanton and mirth-making middle-aged man, who would not seem  to have much domestic feeling, took a chief part on the occasion, assisting in  taking the coffin from the wagon and in lowering it into the grave.
these poor little  porkers were forthwith seized by the tails, their legs tied, and they thrown  into our wagon, where they kept up a continual grunt and squeal till we got  home.
then the dory was cast  loose, and mr. thaxter rowed ashore against a head sea.
through faith, i persist in believing that  spring and summer will come in their due season; but the unregenerated man  shivers within me, and suggests a doubt whether i may not have wandered within  the precincts of the arctic circle, and chosen my heritage among everlasting  snows, . . .
"generosity is the flower of justice.
we saw her lying at  the pier,--a black, ugly, rotten old thing, with the water half-way over her  decks.
at last he gave up  the pursuit with a croak of disappointment.
great men need to be lifted upon the shoulders of the  whole world, in order to conceive their great ideas or perform their great  deeds.
he inquired after a stage agent, named brigham, who formerly resided  here, but now has gone to the west.
the fount of tears,--a traveller to discover it,--and other similar  localities.
two of them were yellowish, or light gold-color, the other two were black  and white speckled; and all four of very piggish aspect and deportment.
one rash  mortal, on the second sunday after our arrival, obtruded himself upon us in a  gig.
the pastures and grass-fields have not yet a general effect of green; nor  have they that cheerless brown tint which they wear in later autumn, when  vegetation has entirely ceased.
trees were  thick on either hand,--oaks, pines, and others; and marble occasionally peeped  up in the road; and there was a lime-kiln by the wayside, ready for burning.
there were many watermelons for sale, and people burying their muzzles  deep in the juicy flesh of them.
this appetite may be traced in the popularity of  criminal trials.
suppose a married couple fondly attached to one another, and to think that  they lived solely for one another; then it to be found out that they were  divorced, or that they might separate if they chose.
he values himself greatly on being a frenchman, though all his  most valuable qualities come from germany.
there were a good many blacks among the crowd.
he had a  horse and a wagon, and was getting a load of dry brushwood.
then it  withers, wilts, and drops off, as most of them have already done.
in the cellar, or rather in the two cellars, grow one  or two barberry-bushes, with frost-bitten fruit; there is also yarrow with its  white flower, and yellow dandelions.
he wishes me, eight or nine weeks hence, to accompany  him on foot to quebec, and then to niagara and new york.
[1840] 1840.--a man, unknown, conscious of temptation to secret crimes, puts up a  note in church, desiring the prayers of the congregation for one so tempted.
generally, when any vessel is on the pond, there are full-grown spectators,  who look on with as much interest as the boys themselves.
it moved along lightly, and disappeared  between the woody banks.
there, in its  mahogany frame, is the dressing-glass, which often reflected that noble brow,  those hyacinthine locks, that mouth bright with smiles or tremulous with  feeling, that flashing or melting eye, that--in short, every item of the  magnanimous face of this unexampled man.
when it  was almost as dark as the moonlight would let it be, i lighted the lamp, and  went on with tieck's tale, slowly and painfully, often wishing for help in my  difficulties.
the clouds lay on  the breast of the mountain, dense, white, well-defined, and some of them were  in such close vicinity that it seemed as if i could infold myself in them;  while others, belonging to the same fleet, were floating through the blue sky  above.
then there are all  the cattle-people and butchers who supply the boston market, and dealers from  far and near; and every man who has a cow or a yoke of oxen, whether to sell or  buy, goes to brighton on monday.
the grass about the  hospital is rank, being trodden, probably, by nobody but myself.
he is a tall, thin, hard-featured man, with a sly  expression of almost hidden grave humor, as if there were some deviltry pretty  constantly in his mind,--which is probably the case.
but they both look like the very  devil.
at last i determined to learn a little about pronouns and verbs  before proceeding further, and so took up the phrasebook, with which i was  commendably busy, when, at about a quarter to nine, came a knock at my study  door, and, behold, there was molly with a letter!
generally a groom is dressing a horse at the stable door,  with a care and accuracy that leave no part of the animal unvisited by the  currycomb and brush; the horse, meanwhile, evidently enjoying it, but  sometimes, when the more sensitive parts are touched, giving a half-playful  kick with his hind legs, and a little neigh.
day before yesterday i saw a party of boys skating on a  pond of water that has overflowed a neighboring meadow.
but he must find  his own way there.
at springfield, a blind man, who came in the stage,--elderly,--sitting in  the reading-room, and, as soon as seated, feeling all around him with his cane,  so as to find out his locality, and know where he may spit with safety!
but drinks,  nevertheless."
then we talked about autumn, and about the pleasures of being lost in the  woods, and about the crows, whose voices margaret had heard; and about the  experiences of early childhood, whose influence remains upon the character  after the recollection of them has passed away; and about the sight of  mountains from a distance, and the view from their summits; and about other  matters of high and low philosophy.
the old doctor's sleeping-apartment,  which was the front room on the ground-floor, we have converted into a parlor;  and by the aid of cheerful paint and paper, a gladsome carpet, pictures  and engravings, new furniture,bijouterie, and a daily supply of flowers, it has  become one of the prettiest and pleasantest rooms in the whole world.
and then came the ghost of the old doctor, stalking through the gallery, and  down the staircase, and peeping into the parlor; and though i was wide awake,  and conscious of being so many miles from the spot, still it was quite awful to  think of the ghost having sole possession of our home; for i could not  quite separate myself from it, after all.
after my encounter with mr. flint, i returned to our  lonely old abbey, opened the door without the usual heart-spring, ascended to  my study, and began to read a tale of tieck.
in front of the hotel, being to leeward, the water near the  shore is but slightly ruffled; but farther the sea is agitated, and the surf  breaks over square rock.
all among the yet green  grass, dry stalks of weeds.
he had painted a good  picture of bryant.
the graveyard is on the slope, and at the foot of a swell, filled with  old and new gravestones, some of red freestone, some of gray granite, most of  them of white marble, and one of cast-iron with an inscription of raised  letters.
one or  two others were smoking, and looking over the papers, or glancing at a  play-bill.
i must observe, and  think, and feel, and content myself with catching glimpses of things which may  be wrought out hereafter.
to  describe it is a feat beyond my power.
this is a most  tremendously hot day.
it might shadow forth his own fate,--he having made himself one of the  personages.
wet, wet, wet,--everything was wet; the blades of the corn-stalks  moistened me; the wet grass soaked my boots quite through; the trees threw  their reserved showers upon my head; and soon the remorseless rain began anew,  and drove me into the house.
in a deep ditch we found a tall plant of the freshest and healthiest  green, which looked as if it must have grown within the last few weeks.
there is now a suspicion of verdure,--the faint  shadow of it,--but not the warm reality.
here you fronted the ocean, looking at a sail, distant in  the sunny blue.
when the last picture had been shown, he caused a country boor, who  stood gaping beside the machine, to put his head within it, and thrust out his  tongue.
from present appearances, another month may scarcely suffice to  wash away all the snow from the open country; and in the woods and hollows it  may linger yet longer.
but all at once, soon after  breakfast, the wind shifted round to the eastward; and great volumes of fog,  almost as dense as cannon-smoke, came sweeping from the eastern ocean, through  the valley, and past the house.
a perception, for a moment, of one's eventual and moral self, as if it were  another person,--the observant faculty being separated, and looking intently at  the qualities of the character.
tremont, boston, june 16th.--tremendously hot weather  to-day.
mr. kirby, author of a work on the history, habits, and instincts of  animals, questions whether there may not be an abyss of waters within the  globe, communicating with the ocean, and whether the huge animals of the  saurian tribe--great reptiles, supposed to be exclusively antediluvian, and now  extinct--may not be inhabitants of it.
august 22d.--i walked out into what is called the notch  this forenoon, between saddle mountain and another.
bats are very numerous in these parts.
then  came bellows organs, first used by louis le débonnaire.
he, and a country trader, his  wife, sister, and two children (all of whom have been here several days), are  now the only guests besides myself.
somebody else will answer his purpose just as well; and i would rather  write books of my own imagining than be hired to develop the ideas of an  engraver; especially as the pecuniary prospect is not better, nor so good, as  it might be elsewhere.
this great, old dog, unexpectedly, and of his own motion, began to run round  after his not very long tail with the utmost eagerness; and, catching hold of  it, he growled furiously at it, and still continued to circle round, growling  and snarling with increasing rage, as if one half of his body were at deadly  enmity with the other.
the sun has by this time force enough to make  sheltered nooks in the angles of woods, or on banks, warm and comfortable.
on the shore, with pebbles of  granite, there were round or oval pieces of brick, which the waves had rolled  about till they resembled a natural mineral.
to have ice in one's blood.
another in a flowered  chintz frock-coat.
the larger part of the company at the hotel returned to the mainland  to-day.
he was a prettily behaved urchin, and  kept thrusting his hairy muzzle between william and myself, apparently wishing  to be stroked and patted.
little appertains to the mansion except the tomb and the old  burial-ground, and the old fort.
one of  them snapped at william's finger most spitefully and bit it to the bone.
two officers in blue frocks, with a stripe of lace on each  shoulder.
otherwise  "knock-down money.
and i know not whether it be more a moral effect or a  physical one, operating merely on the eye; but it is a pensive gayety, which  causes a sigh often, and never a smile.
and what a wretched and rheumatic time  must they have had on their bed of wet roses!
a life, generally of a grave hue, may be said to be embroidered with occasional sports and fantasies.
few, indeed, are the mortals who venture within our sacred  precincts.
there are broad and peaceful meadows, which, i think, are among  the most satisfying objects in natural scenery.
they took their  departure--two for south adams and two across the green mountains--in the midst  of the rain.
a chickadee was calling in the  woods yesterday,--the only small bird i have taken note of yet; but crows have  been cawing in the woods for a week past, though not in very great numbers.
old barns, patched and supported  by timbers leaning against the sides, and stained with the excrement of  past ages.
that touch creates us,--then we begin  to be,--thereby we are beings of reality and inheritors of eternity. . . .
for now the  stream will be flowing through a rude forest, with the trees erect and dark, as  when the indians fished there; and it brawls and tumbles and eddies over its  rock-strewn current.
passed an orchard,  where two men were gathering the apples.
he  deceives by truth.
duck island is also seen on the  left; and, on the right, the shore of the mainland.
the view of star island or gosport from the north is picturesque,--the  village, or group of houses, being gathered pretty closely together in the  centre of the island, with some green about them; and above all the other  edifices, wholly displayed, stands the little stone church, with its tower and  belfry.
a question of old h---- led to mr.  jenkins's dissertation on this subject, to the great contentment of a large  circle round the bar-room fireside on the last rainy day.
no house in  the city could have reared its roof so high as the roots of that tree, if  indeed the church-spires did so.
he gave a descriptive and  historical account of them, and a fanciful and poetical one also.
it was a scene of life in the rough.
a little boy named joe, who haunts about the bar-room and the stoop, four  years old, in a thin, short jacket, and full-breeched trousers, and bare feet.
it talks along its storm-strewn path; it  talks beneath tall precipices and high banks,--a voice that has been the same  for innumerable ages; and yet, if you listen, you will perceive a continual  change and variety in its babble, and sometimes it seems to swell louder upon  the ear than at others,--in the same spot, i mean.
percival seems to be the very pattern of old  integrity; taking as much care of uncle sam's interests as if all the money  expended were to come out of his own pocket.
to imagine the gorges and deep hollows in among the group of  mountains,--their huge shoulders and protrusions.
they produce most abundantly, however,--the peaches being almost as numerous as  the leaves; and even the sprouts and suckers from the roots of the old trees  have fruit upon them.
he was  dressed in the ordinary fisherman's style,--red-baize shirt, trousers tucked  into large boots, which, as he had just come ashore, were wet with salt water.
on the common, at dusk, after a salute from two field-pieces, the smoke lay  long and heavily on the ground, without much spreading beyond the original  space over which it had gushed from the guns.
shifting their sails,  perhaps, or going on another tack, they almost disappear at once in the obscure  distance.
but  i really feared it might die in some kind of a fit, so hot was the theatre, so  purple with heat, yet strangely quiet, was the child.
"a story there passeth of an indian king that sent unto alexander a  fair woman, fed with aconite and other poisons, with this intent complexionally  to destroy him!"--sir t. browne.
scenes out of the rear windows,--the glistening roof of the opposite  houses; the chimneys, now and then choked with their own smoke, which a blast  drives down their throats.
to describe a boyish combat with snowballs, and the victorious leader to  have a statue of snow erected to him.
and yet the splendor both of individual clusters and of whole  scenes is unsurpassable.
"--an excursion  aboard a steamboat to thompson's island, to visit the manual labor school for  boys.
perhaps i might try to bring out  his moral and intellectual nature, and cultivate his affections.
but i was not  prepared,--among other reasons, because i do not yet see what materials i shall  have for the republications in the library; the works that he has shown me  being ill adapted for that purpose; and i wish first to see some french and  german books which he has sent for to new york.
a bright, cool afternoon.
a little dog, named snapper, the same who stands on his hind legs, appears  to be a roguish little dog, and the other day he stole one of the  servant-girl's shoes, and ran into the street with it.
at first, i could barely discern the  opposite shore of the river; but, as the sun arose, the vapors gradually  dispersed, till only a warm, smoky tint was left along the water's surface.
an evening or two since, he began singing all manner  of english songs,--such as mrs. hemans's "landing of the pilgrims,"  "auld lang syne," and some of moore's,--the singing pretty fair, but  in the oddest tone and accent.
the latter is an odd subject to be discussed  in this stern and wild scene, which has precisely the same characteristics now  as two hundred years ago.
the grass has  still considerable greenness.
then the acadians will do very well for the second sketch.
the general effect of the day and scenery is black,  black, black.
the essence-labels stated the efficacy of the stuffs for  various complaints of children and grown people.
stopped at the  temperance house.
other hens picking up the ears of indian corn.
certainly life is made much more tolerable, and man respects himself far  more, when he takes his meals with a certain degree of order and state.
sometimes the precipice rises with abruptness from the immediate side of  the river; sometimes there is a cultivated valley on either side,--cultivated  long, and with all the smoothness and antique rurality of a farm near  cities,--this gentle picture strongly set off by the wild mountain-frame around  it.
i met two old college acquaintances,--o----, who was  going to boston, and b----, with whom we afterwards drank a glass of wine at  the hotel.
here its voice resounds within the hollow crags;  there it goes onward, talking to itself, with babbling din, of its own wild  thoughts and fantasies,--the voice of solitude and the wilderness,--loud and  continual, but which yet does not seem to disturb the thoughtful wanderer, so  that he forgets there is a noise.
miss polly syllable,--a schoolmistress.
one  of the mares wished to go faster, hearing another horse tramp behind her;  "and nothing made her so mad," quoth platt, "as to be held in  when she wanted to go."
great, round-paunched country squires were there too, sitting under the porch  of the tavern, or waddling about, whip in hand, discussing the points of the  cattle.
close at hand, the figures  alone are seen, and not distinguished as letters.
this little brook has not  cleansed itself from the disarray of the past autumn and winter, and is much  embarrassed and choked up with brown leaves, twigs, and bits of branches.
many of the people  had their mouths half opened in a grin, which, more than anything else, i  think, indicates a low stage of refinement.
he spoke of his  ambition, of the obstacles which he had encountered, of the means by which he  had overcome them, imputing great efficacy to his personal intercourse with  people, and his study of their characters; then of his course as a member of the  legislature and speaker, and his style of speaking and its effects; of  the dishonorable things which had been imputed to him, and in what manner he  had repelled the charges.
millions of their leaves strew the woods and rustle underneath  the foot; but enough remain upon the boughs to make a melancholy harping when  the wind sweeps over them.
some of the country shops with the doors closed;  others still open as in summer.
it is as if the original relation between man and nature were restored  in my case, and as if i were to look exclusively to her for the support of my  eve and myself,--to trust to her for food and clothing, and all things  needful, with the full assurance that she would not fail me.
meantime he is making arrangements for publishing the library,  contracting with other booksellers, and with printers and engravers, and, with  every step, making it more difficult for himself to draw back.
we had a fire in the bar-room  almost all day,--a great, blazing
the first change of the maple-leaf is to scarlet; the next, to yellow.
laighton says it is known to have  stood upwards of a hundred years.
one of the owners of the  vessels remains on one side of the pond, and the other on the opposite side,  and so they send the little bark to and fro, like merchants of different  countries, consigning their vessels to one another.
probably the ghost gave one peep into  it, uttered a groan, and vanished forever.
the latter, however, are much the more peaceable, never quarrelling  among themselves, and seldom with their neighbors.
it was after nine before we finished our supper, which we ate  by firelight and moonshine, and then went aboard our decked boat again,--no  safe achievement in our ticklish little dory.
its summit is not  bare, like that of mount washington, but covered with forests.
one may see the  family sleigh near the door, it having stood there all through the summer  sunshine, and perhaps with weeds sprouting through the crevices of its bottom,  the growth of the months since snow departed.
the bride appeared the most absorbed and devoted, referring  her whole being to him.
this philip left daughters, one of whom married,  i believe, the son of the persecuting john, and thus all the legitimate blood  of english is in our family.
we had some tableaux last evening, the principal characters being sustained  by mr. farley and miss ellen slade.
it was a tenement and yard.
sometimes he darts straight on end out of a quiet black  spot on which your eyes happen to be fixed, and, when even his tail is clear of  the surface, he falls down on his side and disappears.
even an indian canoe, in olden  times, could not have floated onward in deeper solitude than my boat.
the little urchin may be laid across his  knee, and his arms and legs, and whole person indeed, should be flying all  abroad, in an agony of nervous excitement and corporeal smart.
some of the  squashes lay in heaps as they were gathered, presenting much variety of shape  and hue,--as golden yellow, like great lumps of gold, dark green, striped and  variegated; and some were round, and some lay curling their long necks,  nestling, as it were, and seeming as if they had life.
it was midnight when they got ashore.
a marine was  pacing the poop-deck, being the only guard that i saw stationed in the  vessel,--the more stringent regulations being relaxed while she is preparing  for sea.
at last they led her away to her chamber.
provide yourself with a good stock of furs, and, if you can obtain  the skin of a polar bear, you will find it a very suitable summer dress for  this region. . . .
we found him walking  in his fields, a short and stalwart and sturdy personage of middle age, with a  face of shrewd and kind expression, and manners of natural courtesy.
our driver was a slender, lathe-like, round-backed, rough-bearded,  thin-visaged, middle-aged yankee, who became very communicative during our  drive.
how much life has come at once into this lonely place!
the picture of the town perfect in the  water,--towers of churches, houses, with here and there a light gleaming near  the shore above, and more faintly glimmering under water,--all perfect, but  somewhat more hazy and indistinct than the reality.
it was an upright gravestone.
the cliffs are partly made verdant with green  moss, chiefly gray with oxidation; on some parts the white of the marble is  seen; in interstices grow brake and other shrubs, so that there is naked  sublimity seen through a good deal of clustering beauty.
i trust he took for his text,  "behold an israelite indeed, in whom there is no guile."
tarleton was originally bred for the law, but quitted law for the  army early in life.
the lilac-shrubs under my study window are almost in leaf.
then  there are dark closets, and strange nooks and corners, where the ghosts of  former occupants might hide themselves in the daytime, and stalk forth when  night conceals all our sacrilegious improvements.
the sun came back to  us, and brought one of the most perfect days ever made since adam was driven  out of paradise.
music in the evening,  with a song by a rather pretty, fantastic little mischief of a brunette, about  eighteen years old, who has married within a year, and spent the last summer in  a trip to the springs and elsewhere.
the cows, grazing within hearing,  expressed great interest, and some of them came galloping to the roadside  to behold the calf.
the valley is  cultivated, there being two or three farm-houses towards the northern end, and  extensive fields of grass beyond, where stand the hay-mows of last year, with  the hay cut away regularly around their bases.
it is good to be alive now.
certainly he is a strong-minded  and iron-constitutioned man; but, looking at the stump of his arm, he said that  the pain of the mind was a thousand times greater than the pain of the body.
their hue, at a distance,  is lustrous scarlet, although it does not look nearly as bright and gorgeous  when examined close at hand.
like the chest of gold that  treasure-seekers find.
faster and faster went he, round and roundabout, growing  still fiercer, till at last he ceased in a state of utter exhaustion; but no  sooner had his exhibition finished than he became the same mild, quiet,  sensible old dog as before; and no one could have suspected him of such  nonsense as getting enraged with his own tail.
when philip lay on his death-bed, he consented to  forgive his persecutor; "but if i get well," said he, "i'll be  damned if i forgive him!"
the  action looks as if they were making a most earnest, agonized petition.
the longer waves swell, overtop,  and rush upon the rocks; and, when they return, the waters pour back in a  cascade.
but this will not  be at present.
in the full verdure of summer, there will be quite a  mass or curtain of foliage between the hither and the thither row of houses.
we went to meeting this forenoon.
he was awkward in his manners, yet it was not an ungentlemanly  awkwardness,--intelligent as respects book-learning, but much deficient in  worldly tact.
there has, in times past, been great search for the treasure.
the real me was never an  associate of the community; there has been a spectral appearance there,  sounding the horn at daybreak, and milking the cows, and hoeing potatoes, and  raking hay, toiling in the sun, and doing me the honor to assume my name.
perhaps it had been quieted with a sleeping-potion.
the near leader started.
we had a very pleasant dinner at longfellow's, and i liked mrs. longfellow  very much.
one to "dr. john swinnerton,  physician," in 1688; another to his wife.
it looked as if a drop of blood were hanging from it.
i get scarcely any sound repose  just now.
the spot was entirely secluded,  there being no other house within a mile or two.
the station at  newcastle is a small wooden building, with one railroad passing on one  side, and another on another, and the two crossing each other at right angles.
this  artist is a man of thought, and with no mean idea of his art; a swedenborgian,  or, as he prefers to call it, a member of the new church; and i have generally  found something marked in men who adopt that faith.
in this sombre weather, when some mortals almost forget that there ever was  any golden sunshine, or ever will be any hereafter, others seem absolutely to  radiate it from their own hearts and minds.
while at supper, the fat old traveller was ushered through the  room into a contiguous bedroom.
the high bank covered with various trees and shrubbery, and, in one  place, two or three irish shanties.
the top branches unfortunately have been  shattered somehow or other, so that it does not cast a broad shade; probably  they were broken by their own ponderous foliage.
we looked at rope-walks, rigging-lofts,  ships in the stocks; and saw the sailors of the station laughing and sporting  with great mirth and cheerfulness, which the commodore said was much increased  at sea.
september 28th.--a picnic party in the woods, yesterday,  in honor of little frank dana's birthday, he being six years old.
the  cellar of the house was uncovered, and beside it stood the base and middle  height of the chimney.
while i was there,  i heard voices, and a small stone tumbled down; and looking up towards the  narrow strip of bright light, and the sunny verdure that peeped over the  top,--looking up thither from the deep, gloomy depth,--i saw two or three men;
these hills, surrounding the town on all sides, give it a snug and insulated  air; and, viewed from certain points, it would be difficult to tell how to get  out, without climbing the mountain ridges; but the roads wind away and  accomplish the passage without ascending very high.
the head of a  little bird, who seemed to demand admittance!
very anxious to secure his property to his  descendants by the provisions of his will, which was drawn up by judge sewall,  then a young lawyer.
in a corner of the burial-ground, close  under dr. p----'s garden fence, are the most ancient stones remaining in the  graveyard; moss-grown, deeply sunken.
its water, however, is pleasant in its immediate effect, being  as soft as milk, and always warmer than the air.
the journal of a human heart for a single day in ordinary circumstances.
there  was also a wood engraving of the declaration of independence, with fac-similes  of the autographs; a portrait of the empress josephine, and another of spring.
it was like a day-dream to look at it;  and the students ought to be day-dreamers, all of them,--when cloud-land is one  and the same thing with the substantial earth.
i suppose we must bid  farewell to indian summer now, and expect no more love and tenderness from  mother nature till next spring be well advanced.
the plash and murmur of the waves around the  island were soothingly audible.
he goes  about the streets haranguing most eloquently, and is on the point of making  many converts, when his labors are suddenly interrupted by the appearance of  the keeper of a mad-house, whence he has escaped.
this is another misty morning, ungenial in aspect, but kinder than it  looks; for it paints the hills and valleys with a richer brush than the  sunshine could.
chairs turned down  for expected guests.
these hues appeared to be thrown together  without design; and yet there was perfect harmony among them, and a softness  and a delicacy made up of a thousand different brightnesses.
play-bills,  printed on yellow paper, laid upon the table.
and yet there were some trees that seemed really made of  sunshine, and others were of a sunny red, and the whole picture was painted  with but little relief of darksome hues,--only a few evergreens.
then he talked  to me about phrenology, of which he seems a firm believer and skilful  practitioner, telling how he had hit upon the true character of many people.
that abominable gold-mine!
over our old manse, of which i  could catch but a glimpse among its embowering trees, appeared the  immensely gigantic figure of a hound, crouching down with head erect, as if  keeping watchful guard while the master of the mansion was away. . . .
there is an old blind dog, recognizing his friends by the sense of smell.
the  pastures at the foot of browne's hill were plentifully covered with  barberry-bushes, the leaves of which were reddish, and they were hung with a  prodigious quantity of berries.
follow some other object, and very possibly we may find that we have caught  happiness without dreaming of it; but likely enough it is gone the moment we  say to ourselves, "here it is!"
monday, august 22d.--i took a walk through the woods  yesterday afternoon, to mr. emerson's, with a book which margaret fuller had  left, after a call on saturday eve.
towards evening comes the  "transcript." june 15th.--the red light which the sunsets at this  season diffuse; there being showery afternoons, but the sun setting bright amid  clouds, and diffusing its radiance over those that are scattered in masses all  over the sky.
the people bought  very freely, and seemed also to enjoy the fun.
we cooked our fish on a rock named  "satan," about forty feet long and twenty broad, irregular in its  shape, and of uneven surface, with pools of water here and there, left by the  tide,--dark brown rock, or whitish; there was the excrement of sea-fowl  scattered on it, and a few feathers.
why, he is one of the best of the brotherhood, so far as cheerfulness  goes; for if he do not laugh himself, he makes the rest of us laugh  continually.
as i beheld it to-day, there was nothing dazzling; it was  gentle and mild, though brilliant and diversified, and had a most quiet and  pensive influence.
almost the whole day i have been in  the shade, reclining on a pile of sails, so that the life and spirit are not  entirely worn out of me. . . .
there are a great many dogs kept in the village, and many of the travellers  also have dogs.
the hostlers at taverns call the money given them  "pergasus,"--corrupted from "perquisites."
i have been too busy to write a long  letter by this opportunity, for i think this present life of mine gives me an  antipathy to pen and ink, even more than my custom house experience did. . . .
besides these, i gather whatever else of beautiful chances to be  growing in the moist soil by the river-side,--an amphibious tribe, yet  with more richness and grace than the wild-flowers of the deep and dry  woodlands and hedge-rows,--sometimes the white arrow-head, always the blue  spires and broad green leaves of the pickerel-flower, which contrast and  harmonize so well with the white lilies.
scarcely a single comely one in all this  collection.
it was the full  face, not the bust.
"a person to look back on a long life ill-spent, and to picture forth  a beautiful life which he would live, if he could be permitted to begin his  life over again.
i have observed that butterflies--very broad-winged and magnificent  butterflies--frequently come on board of the salt-ship, where i am at work.
started at about eight o'clock  in a wagon with mr. leach and mr. birch.
the only reptile on the island is a very vivid and beautiful green snake,  which is exceedingly abundant.
then the body would petrify; and he having died in some  characteristic act and expression, he would seem, through endless ages of  death, to repel society as in life, and no one would be buried in that tomb  forever.
my mind will not be abstracted.
so well last summer; and my views are so much confined to the interior of  our mansion, that sometimes, looking out of the window, i am surprised to catch  a glimpse of houses, at no great distance, which had quite passed out of my  recollection.
i ascended the hill, and had a wide  prospect of a swollen river, extending around me in a semicircle of three or  four miles, and rendering the view much finer than in summer, had there only  been foliage.
close by the veranda, at the end of the hotel, is drawn up a large boat, of  ten or twelve tons, which got injured in some gale, and probably will remain  there for years to decay, and be a picturesque and characteristic object.
they entered the hall dancing, the five  being fastened together, and the king in front.
above the dam  there was a broad and deep pool, one side of which was bordered by a  precipitous wall of rocks, as smooth as if hewn out and squared, and piled one  upon another, above which rose the forest.
the good deeds in an evil life,--the generous, noble, and excellent actions  done by people habitually wicked,--to ask what is to become of them.
he is,--how the little fellow takes the  whole wide world for his home, and all mankind for his family.
finally, the joyous uprising curve with which,  coming to the open part of the window, it emerges into the cheerful glow of the  outside.
doubtless the slaves here mingled their dark clay with the earth.
a bepaid clergyman prayed (the  audience remaining seated, while he stood up at the head of the coffin), read a  passage of scripture and commented upon it.
all this gives a pleasure and  an ideality, hitherto unthought of, to the business of providing sustenance for  my family.
as i entered the door of the hotel, there met me a short, corpulent, round,  and full-faced man, rather elderly, if not old.
true, it might be a sin and shame, in such a world as  ours, to spend a lifetime in this manner; but for a few summer weeks it is good  to live as if this world were heaven.
by and by the nurse, who suspected nothing of her ghostly character, went  to get a pail of water; and, when she came back, the little woman was not  there.
"i mean  to tell them of it by and by.
ascended the  mountain: that is to say, mrs. fields and miss jenny field, mr. field and mr.  fields, dr. holmes, messrs. duyckinck, matthews, melville, mr. henry sedgewick,  and i, and were caught in a shower.
never was there such transparent water as this.
he is the object of much  attention from the crowd, and played with by the boys, who toss up gingerbread  to him, while he nibbles and throws it down again.
thus things may have a  positive, a relative, and a composite meaning, according to the point of view.
he died  by a chicken-bone.
it has borne  me over stone fences; and, a few days ago, ellery channing and i passed through  two rails into the great northern road, along which we paddled for some  distance.
the union village may be seen, a manufacturing place, extending up  a gorge of the hills.
there we floated slowly with the tide till about midnight, and then, the tide  turning, we fastened our vessel to a pole, which marked a rock, so as to  prevent being carried back by the reflux.
and  it may well be so; for i suppose some of the trees may have been set out by mr.  emerson, who died in the first year of the revolutionary war.
a few sea-birds were flitting over the water, only visible at  moments, when they turned their white bosoms towards me,--as if they were then  first created.
it was a former lord of the manor, whom a curate had cursed because he refused  to pay his tithes.
for it is  one of the drawbacks upon our eden that it contains no water fit either to  drink or to bathe in; so that the showers have become, in good truth, a  godsend.
lights and shadows are continually  flitting across my inward sky, and i know neither whence they come nor whither  they go; nor do i inquire too closely into them.
e---- passed from the matters of birth,  pedigree, and ancestral pride to give vent to the most arrant democracy and  locofocoism that i ever happened to hear, saying that nobody ought to possess  wealth longer than his own life, and that then it should return to the people,  etc.
they appeared not so much disposed to  ramble and go astray from the line of march as in daylight, but kept together  in a pretty compact body.
the table very narrow, but long; the  articles of plate numerous, but of small dimensions,--the tureen not holding  more than three pints.
the bottom  is uneven, with rocks of various size, against which it is difficult to keep  from stumbling, so rapid is the stream.
all day long  we hear the water drip, drip, dripping, splash, splash, splashing, from the  eaves, and babbling and foaming into the tubs which have been set out to  receive it.
we looked though the glass orifice of his machine, while he exhibited a  succession of the very worst scratches and daubings that can be imagined,--worn  out, too, and full of cracks and wrinkles, dimmed with tobacco-smoke, and every  other wise dilapidated.
the old people of the  isles say that their fathers could remember when the sea, at high tide, flowed  quite through the valley in which the hotel stands, and that boats used to  pass.
he looked on the people as if he  had seen many such concourses.
probably, during  her lifetime, she allowed him to go to some ordination or other grand clerical  celebration with rumpled linen; and ever since, and throughout all earthly  futurity (at least, as long as the house shall stand), she is doomed to  exercise a nightly toil with a spiritual flat-iron.
monsieur s---- does not appear to be more than twenty-one years old,--a  diminutive figure, with eyes askew, and otherwise of an ungainly physiognomy;  he is ill-dressed also, in a coarse blue coat, thin cotton pantaloons, and  unbrushed boots; altogether with as little of french coxcombry as can well be  imagined, though with something of the monkey aspect inseparable from a little  frenchman.
well,--i have conquered the rebels, and proclaimed an amnesty;  so to-morrow i shall return to that paradise of measurers, the end of long  wharf,--not to my former salt-ship, she being now discharged, but to another,  which will probably employ me well-nigh a fortnight longer, . . .
here you picked up pebbles and  skipped them upon the water.
nevertheless, i  must not pride myself too much on my activity and utilitarianism.
the woods that crown  distant uplands were seen to great advantage in these last rays, for the  sunshine perfectly marked out and distinguished every shade of color,  varnishing them as it were; while the country round, both hill and plain, being  in gloomy shadow, the woods looked the brighter for it.
may 14th.--a stable opposite the house,--an old wooden  construction, low, in three distinct parts; the centre being the stable proper,  where the horses are kept, and with a chamber over it for the hay.
i saw one maple-tree, its centre yellow as  gold, set in a framework of red.
on board my salt-vessels and colliers  there are many things happening, many pictures which, in future years, when i  am again busy at the loom of fiction, i could weave in; but my fancy is  rendered so torpid by my ungenial way of life that i cannot sketch off the  scenes and portraits that interest me, and i am forced to trust them to my  memory, with the hope of recalling them at some more favorable period.
in the morning, my  breakfast being set in a corner of the same room with them, i saw their  breakfast-table, with a huge wash-bowl of milk in the centre, and a basin and  spoon placed for each guest.
it is now about sunset, and the  fanny, with the mail, is just arrived at the moorings.
"oh the little  devil," said he, "how skittish she is!"
the grass is  brown and withered, and yet, scattered all amongst it, on close inspection, one  finds a greenness;--little shrubs that have kept green under all the severity  of winter, and seem to need no change to fit them for midsummer.
while this fellow was enumerating the universalists in neighboring towns  who had turned from their errors on their death-beds, some one exclaimed,  "john hodges!
and  yet he cannot wholly have lost his self-respect; and doubtless there were  persons on the stoop more grovelling than himself.
cattle were  feeding briskly, with morning appetites.
in the deep quiet of the night  i suddenly heard the light and lively note of a bird from a neighboring  tree,--a real song, such as those which greet the purple dawn, or mingle with  the yellow sunshine.
a fierce and narrow blast of wind must have ploughed the water in  a straight line, from side to side of the lake.
and such a day is the promise  of a blissful eternity.
there are many schooners that ply to and fro on  the pond, and pilot-boats, all perfectly rigged.
mr. ripley has bought four black pigs.
he is  familiar with beast, fish, fowl, and reptile, and has strange stories to tell  of adventures and friendly passages with these lower brethren of mortality.
it was in the angle of myright eye, not my  left, that the blackest purple was collected.
every new aspect of the mountains, or view from a different position,  creates a surprise in the mind.
as far as mere pleasure is concerned,  it is hardly worth while to fish in our river, it is so much like angling in a  mud-puddle; and one does not attach the idea of freshness and purity to the  fishes, as we do to those which inhabit swift, transparent streams, or haunt  the shores of the great briny deep.
at last, when the miserable victim were utterly  trodden down, the triumpher would have become a very devil of evil  passions,--they having overgrown his whole nature; so that a far greater evil  would have come upon himself than on his victim.
it is true, nobody  intrudes into my room; but still i cannot be quiet.
these walls are truly venerable, gray, and mossy; and  you see at once that the hands that piled the stones must have been long ago  turned to dust.
the northwest-wind was high at ten o'clock,  when i came home, the tide full, and the murmur of the waves broad and deep.
the descendants are all poor, and the inheritance was merely sufficient to  make a dissipated and drunken fellow of the only one of the old general's sons  who survived to middle age.
in my walk yesterday forenoon i passed an old house which seemed to be  quite deserted.
among the cliffs, strips of earth-beach extend downward, and trees and  large shrubs root themselves in that earth, thus further contrasting the  nakedness of the stone with their green foliage.
stands on mr. ripley's study-table, at which  i am now writing.
being pursued, he would  lift the shoe in his mouth (while it almost dragged on the ground), and run a  little way, then lie down with his paws on it and wait to be pursued again.
we found some fringed gentians in the meadow, most  of them blighted and withered; but a few were quite perfect.
it is funny to think  of this poor little frenchman, a parisian too, eating our most un-french  victuals,--our beefsteaks, and roasts, and various homely puddings, and  hams, and all things most incongruent to his hereditary stomach; but  nevertheless he eats most cheerfully and uncomplainingly.
pandora's box for a child's story.
scarcely any of them will now bear a close examination; for this shows them to  be rugged, wilted, and of faded, frost-bitten hue; but at a distance, and in  the mass, and enlivened by the sun, they have still somewhat of the varied  splendor which distinguished them a week ago.
within this enclosure there is almost a clear space of  soil, which was formerly, no doubt, cultivated as a garden, but is now close  cropt by the sheep and cattle, except where it produces thistles, or the  poisonous weed called mercury, which seems to love these old walls, and to rot  itself in or near them.
one  had been a trumpeter to the major's troop.
i was looked at with considerable curiosity on my own account,  especially by the ladies, of whom there were several, agreeable and pretty  enough.
my fancy  has always found something very interesting in an orchard.
una jumped to and fro across it; julian stood beside a pool  fishing with a stick, without hook or line, and wondering that he caught  nothing.
the one-armed soap-maker, lawyer h----, wears an iron hook, which serves  him instead of a hand for the purpose of holding on.
it pleased me to think that i also had a part to  act in the material and tangible business of this life, and that a portion of  all this industry could not have gone on without my presence.
walking along one of the  valleys the other evening, while a pretty fresh breeze blew across it, the  clouds that were skimming over my head seemed to conform themselves to the  valley's shape.
they kept eating  gingerbread all along the road, and dined heartily notwithstanding.
afternoon.--at eleven, i went to give mr. thompson a sitting for my  picture.
the wind, in the early morning, was from the west, and the aspect of the  sky seemed to promise a warm and sunny day.
on shore, such a rock would be a landmark for  centuries.
then he runs up the rigging of the vessel as if he meant  to fly away through the air.
the household pots and kettles are seen at the doors; and a glance  within shows the rough benches that serve for chairs, and the bed upon the  floor.
i have  been struck to see with what careful integrity and wisdom he manages matters  among them, hitherto having known him only as a free and gay young man.
did you know what treasures of  wild grapes there are in this land?
it is not very satisfactory, and it has not taught  me much.
in charlemont (i think), after passing a bridge, we saw a very curious rock  on the shore of the river, about twenty feet from the roadside.
another time, i came suddenly on  a small canadian boy, who was in a hollow place, among the ruined logs of an  old causeway, picking raspberries,--lonely among bushes and gorges, far up the  wild valley,--and
joe caswell did not tell the latter part of the story, but mr. thaxter  did.
the rattling of wheels  heard long and far through the town.
if we were to travel a thousand miles, we  could not escape the world more completely than we can here.
to poison a person or a party of persons with the sacramental wine.
where they are covered with wood, the aspect is gray or black;  then there are bare slopes of unbroken snow, the outlines and indentations  being much more hardly and firmly defined than in summer.
the strange sensation of a person who feels himself an object of deep  interest, and close observation, and various construction of all his actions,  by another person.
a council of the passengers in a street: called by somebody to decide upon  some points important to him.
so we got into our wagon, with the fish, and drove to robinson's  tavern, almost five miles off, where we supped and passed the night in the  bar-room was a fat old countryman on a journey, and a quack doctor of the  vicinity, and an englishman with a peculiar accent.
a withered, yellow, sodden, dead-alive looking woman,--an opium-eater.
he  came down to the ground, took up a piece of a decayed bough (a heavy burden for  such a small personage), and, with this in his mouth, again climbed up and  passed from the branches of one tree to those of another, and thus onward and  onward till he went out of sight.
this browne's hill is a long ridge, lying in  the midst of a large, level plain; it looks at a distance somewhat like a  whale, with its head and tail under water, but its immense back protruding,  with steep sides, and a gradual curve along its length.
the house on the eastern corner of north and essex streets
methinks this article gives a very fair image  of his mind and character,--so true, innate, and literal in observation, yet  giving the spirit as well as letter of what he sees, even as a lake reflects  its wooded banks, showing every leaf, yet giving the wild beauty of the whole  scene.
he seems reserved, but is not ill-natured when spoken to.
for a week or two, the cider-mills have been grinding  apples.
we have but one such tree  in our orchard; but it supplies us with a daily abundance, and probably will do  so for at least a week to come.
it was as beautiful a night as ever  shone,--calm, warm, bright, the moon being at full.
in  the morning, before and soon after breakfast, gentlemen reading the morning  papers, while others wait for their chance, or try to pick out something from  the papers of yesterday or longer ago.
i had not  expected a letter; and what a comfort it was to me in my loneliness and  sombreness!
wednesday, october 13th.--a good view, from an upland  swell of our pasture, across the valley of the river charles.
at a  distance, this hue, clothing spots and patches of the earth, looks more like a  picture than anything else,--yet such a picture as i never saw painted.
december 19th.--if the world were crumbled to the finest  dust, and scattered through the universe, there would not be an atom of the  dust for each star.
sunday, july 9th.--i know not what to say, and yet cannot  be satisfied without marking with a word or two this anniversary, . . .
it looked like a descended star,--like red  mars,--and, as the water was perfectly smooth, its gleam was reflected downward  into the depths.
the fanny brought a passenger,--a thin, stiff, black-haired young man, who  enters his name as mr. tufts, from charlestown.
i asked him what his sales amounted to in  the course of a day.
the road was not the safest in the world; for often the  carriage approached within two or three feet of a precipice; but the driver, a  merry fellow, lolled on his box, with his feet protruding horizontally, and  rattled on at the rate of ten miles an hour.
where it leaves the land, it is  quite a rippling little current; but, in flowing across the sand, it grows  shallower and more shallow, and at last is quite lost, and dies in the effort  to carry its little tribute to the main.
it is the almost  invariable habit of officers, when going ashore or staying on shore, to divest  themselves of all military or naval insignia, and appear as private citizens.
i heard him laugh, with the  traditionary mirthfulness of men of that occupation.
a singular fact, that, when man is a brute, he is the most sensual and  loathsome of all brutes.
well, just at supper-time came mrs. b---- with a large covered dish,  which proved to contain a quantity of specially good flapjacks, piping hot,  prepared, i suppose, by the fair hands of miss martha or miss abby, for mrs.  p---- was not at home.
two lovers to plan the building of a pleasure-house on a certain spot of  ground, but various seeming accidents prevent it.
he is about the sincerest man i ever  knew, never pretending to feelings that are not in him,--never flattering.
i soon grew weary  of gosport, and was glad to reëmbark, although i intend to revisit the  island with mr. thaxter, and see more of its peculiarities and inhabitants.
at leith, in 1711, a glass bottle was blown of the capacity of two english  bushels.
the calf had not had his  breakfast, as his mother had preceded him to brighton, and he kept expressing  his hunger and discomfort by loud, sonorous baas, especially when we passed any  cattle in the fields or in the road.
it would be difficult to conceive beforehand how much can be added to  the enjoyment of a household by mere sunniness of temper and liveliness of  disposition; for her intellect is very ordinary, and she never says anything  worth hearing, or even laughing at, in itself.
october 2lst.--going to the village yesterday afternoon,  i saw the face of a beautiful woman, gazing at me from a cloud.
the wind, however, seems rising  somewhat, and grumbles past the angle of the house.
the water dashed down in a misty cascade, through what looked like the portal  of some infernal subterranean structure; and far within the portal we could see  the mist and the falling water; and it looked as if, but for these obstructions  of view, we might have had a deeper insight into a gloomy region.
while holding an argument at table, i heard him  mutter to himself at something that his adversary said; and though i could not  distinguish what it was, the tone did more to convince me of some degree of  earnestness than aught beside.
in old times it must have been much less customary than now to drink pure  water.
the nearest place to this, i believe, was  charlemont; the penultimate at greenfield.
he looks  like nothing of this kind, being tall and slender, with very quiet manners, not  beautiful, though pleasing from the refinement that they indicate.
some of the passengers turned in  below; some stretched themselves on deck; some walked about, smoking cigars.
it was chill and bleak on the mountain-top, and a fire was burning in the  bar-room.
in the morning it was cloudy, but did not rain, and i went with the little  clergyman to hudson's cave.
august 18th.--i am very well, only somewhat tired with  walking half a dozen miles immediately after breakfast, and raking hay ever  since.
sometimes  he would put up a heterogeny [note] [note: this is a word made by mr. hawthorne, but one that was needed.--s.  h.] of articles in a lot,--as a paper of pins, a lead-pencil, and a  shaving-box,--and knock them all down, perhaps for ninepence.
as the deepest pool occurs in  the most uneven part of the chasm, where the hollows in the sides of the crag  are deepest, so that each hollow is almost a cave by itself, i determined to  wade through it.
let us content ourselves to be  earthly creatures, and hold communion of spirit in such modes as are ordained  to us. . . .
it is very  pleasant to see such an image of earthly comfort as this.
two persons to be expecting some occurrence, and watching for the two  principal actors in it, and to find that the occurrence is even then passing,  and that they themselves are the two actors.
" the print in blood of a naked foot to be traced through the street of a  town.
his master rebuked him, but with kindness  too, and not so that the dog felt himself bound to desist, though he seemed  willing to allow his master all the time that could possibly be spared.
the day is still overcast, and the wind is from the eastward; but it does  not increase, and the sun appears occasionally on the point of shining out.
when we first arrived, there were several trees of ripe  cherries, but so sour that we allowed them to wither upon the branches.
upon the whole, i have  quite a good liking for him, and mean to go to ---- to see him.
he  dresses very simply and unpictorially in a gray frock or sack, and does not  seem to think of making a picture of himself in his own person.
this morning i have been helping to gather apples.
the oxen, with their necks bent by  the heavy yoke, had toiled in the plough-field and in haying-time for many  years, and knew their master's stall as well as the master himself knew his own  table.
at dinner soup  preliminary, in city style.
a man who has never found out what he is  fit for, who has unsettled aims or objects in life, and whose mind gnaws him,  making him the sufferer of many kinds of misery.
they still retain their verdure, though, looking  closely in among them, one perceives the broken sunshine falling on a few sere  or bright-hued tufts of shrubbery.
also, some ancient cellars, with thistles and other weeds  growing in them, and old fragmentary bricks scattered about.
when i shall be again free, i will enjoy all things with the fresh simplicity  of a child of five years old.
governor shirley's young french wife might be the subject of one of the  cuts.
he makes that his station during a part of the season.
the tide was so far down as just  to give me a passage on the hard sand, between the sea and the loose gravel.
after mr. emerson left us, hillard and i bathed in the pond, and it  does really seem as if my spirit, as well as corporeal person, were refreshed  by that bath.
for a fortnight past i have found it in the swampy meadows,  growing up to its chin in heaps of wet moss.
he got up with the same grin upon his  features,--not a grin of simplicity, but intimating knowingness.
october 14th.--the brilliancy of the foliage has passed  its acme; and indeed it has not been so magnificent this season as in some  others, owing to the gradual approaches of cooler weather, and there  having been slight frosts instead of severe ones.
now they show their great  humpbacks more plainly, as if they had drawn nearer to us.
mrs. sigourney says, after coleridge, that "poetry has been its own  exceeding great reward."
bees are sometimes drowned (or suffocated) in the honey which they collect.
yesterday and to-day i have cut off an  immense number of leaves, and have thus given the remaining blossoms a chance  to profit by the air and sunshine; but the season is too far advanced, i am  afraid, for the squashes to attain any great bulk, and grow yellow in the  sun.
it is good for me,  on many accounts, that my life has had this passage in it.
how molly employs herself, i  know not.
it  looked as if the water were contained within the rock.
a horse  feeding apart, belonging to the wagon.
quantities of chips are strewn  about, and on removing them we find the yellow stalks of grass sprouting  underneath.
mr. ticknor was most kind in his alacrity to solve the point on which mr.  folsom, in my behalf, had consulted him (as to whether there had been any  english translation of the tales of cervantes); and most liberal in his offers  of books from his library.
with this sketch might  be mingled and worked up some story that was going on within the chamber where  the spectator was situated.
they seem to be involved and buried in their own corporeal  substance, and to look dimly forth at the outer world.
the moon  made but a very small circuit in the sky, though it shone all night.
yet, dreary as the woods are in a bleak, sullen day, there is a very  peculiar sense of warmth and a sort of richness of effect in the slope of a  bank and in sheltered spots, where bright sunshine falls, and the brown oaken  foliage is gladdened by it.
mrs. b---- is a most comfortable woman to behold.
one thing is certain.
it is remarkable how much uncleanness winter brings with it, or leaves  behind it, . . .
the banks of  the river actually laughed when the sunshine fell upon them; and the river  itself was alive and cheerful, and, by way of fun and amusement, it had swept  away many wreaths of meadow-hay, and old, rotten branches of trees, and all  such trumpery.
deep tanks  among these rocks, which the sea replenishes at high tide, and then leaves  the bottom all covered with various sorts of sea-plants, as if it were some  sea-monster's private garden.
animals (except, perhaps, a pig) seem never  out of place, even in the most paradisiacal spheres.
i have written this epistle in the parlor, while farmer ripley, and farmer  farley, and farmer dismal view were talking about their agricultural concerns.
the hills about the village appear very high and steep sometimes, when the  shadows of the clouds are thrown blackly upon them, while there is sunshine  elsewhere; so that, seen in front, the effect of their gradual slope is lost.
the dinner was late and we sat long; so that c---- and i did not get  to concord till half past nine o'clock, and truly the old manse seemed somewhat  dark and desolate.
and here i sat a long, long time, waiting patiently for the  world to know me, and sometimes wondering why it did not know me sooner, or  whether it would ever know me at all,--at least, till i were in my grave.
whereupon the  soap-maker dropped his head, with a little snort, as it were, of wounded  feeling; but immediately said that he took all in good part.
" a prophecy, somewhat in the style of swift's about partridge, but embracing  various events and personages.
vines here and there  twine themselves about bushes or aspens or alder-trees, and hang their clusters  (though scanty and infrequent this season) so that i can reach them from my  boat.
the  transparency of the air at this season has the effect of a telescope in  bringing objects apparently near, while it leaves the scene all its breadth.
i went with monsieur s---- yesterday to pick raspberries.
and perhaps the wild scenery is all  around the very site of the factory, and mingles its impression strangely with  those opposite ones.
it is my opinion that  a man's soul may be buried and perish under a dung-heap, or in a furrow of the  field, just as well as under a pile of money.
we saw one house,  pretty, small, with green blinds, and much quietness in its environments on the  other side of the river, with a flat-bottomed boat for communication.
at present the river  roars through a channel which it has worn in the stone, leaping in two or three  distinct falls, and rushing downward, as from flight to flight of a broken and  irregular staircase.
it was pleasant to have this day  of bleak november weather, and cheerful fireside talk, and wet garments smoking  in the fireside heat, still in the summer-time.
he had rings on his fingers of great weight of  metal, and one of them had a seal for letters; brooches at the bosom, three in  a row, up and down; also a gold watch-guard, with a seal appended.
before dinner, sat with several other persons in the stoop of the tavern.
we went through the wood, where we found partridge-berries, half hidden among  the dry, fallen leaves; thence down to the brook.
but i had rather be on earth  than even in the seventh heaven, just now.
in sunny spots of woodland, boys in search of nuts,  looking picturesque among the scarlet and golden foliage.
july 3lst.--a visit to what is called "hudson's  cave," or "hudson's falls," the tradition being that a man by  the name of henry hudson, many years ago, chasing a deer, the deer fell over  the place, which then first became known to white men.
two silver branches for candles,--the walls ornamented with  paintings and needlework.
it  is like a heart that has been rent asunder by a torrent of passion, which has  raged and foamed, and left its ineffaceable traces; though now there is but a  little rill of feeling at the bottom.
beneath this heavy cloud, there was a fleet or flock of light, vapory mists,  flitting in middle air; and these were tinted, from the vanished sun, with the  most gorgeous and living purple that can be conceived,--a fringe upon the stern  blue.
they have lost, in a great measure, the wild nature of the forest-tree,  and have grown humanized by receiving the care of man, and by contributing to  his wants.
another, formerly commander of a revenue vessel,--a man of splendid  epaulets and very aristocratic equipment and demeanor; now out of service and  without position, and changed into a brandy-burnt and rowdyish sort of  personage.
the earth is entirely covered.
i returned home by the high-road.
it is certainly a romantic incident to  find such a young man on this lonely island; his marriage with the pretty  miranda is true romance.
the best aspect of the  concord is when there is a northwestern breeze curling its surface, in a  bright, sunshiny day.
flags and rushes grow along its shallow margin.
knox, when he first visited his  estate, arriving in a vessel, was waited upon by a deputation of the  squatters, who had resolved to resist him to the death.
he was son to a mayor of liverpool, born in 1754, of  ancient family.
since dinner, the spy has arrived from  portsmouth, with a party of half a dozen or more men and women and children,  apparently from the interior of new hampshire.
the moment the deluge leaves them nature asserts them to be her  property by covering them with verdure; or perhaps the grass had been growing  under the water.
sometimes the same vine had enveloped several shrubs,  and caused a strange, tangled confusion, converting all these poor plants to  the purpose of its own support, and hindering their growing to their own  benefit and convenience.
at many spots, there are small basins or pools of calmer and smoother  depth,--three feet, perhaps, in diameter, and a foot or two deep,--in which  little fish are already sporting about; all elsewhere is tumble and gurgle  and mimic turbulence.
is truth a fantasy  which we are to pursue forever and never grasp?
nothing worse can happen, according to  ordinary modes of thinking, than to want bread; but like most afflictions, it  is more in prospect than reality.
the crop of rye, to be  sure, is in process of being threshed, at odd intervals.
they rustle beneath the tread, and there  is nothing more autumnal than that sound.
coming within view of the river, i saw several wild ducks under the shadow of  the opposite shore, which was high, and covered with a grove of pines.
breakfast between four and  five,--newly caught trout, salmon, ham, boiled eggs, and other niceties,--truly  excellent.
i should like to see this fellow when he was perfectly sober.
it seemed that there was a sort of playful malice in those who  first saw me; for they allowed the other to keep on paddling, without warning  her of my approach.
farther down, the river becoming deeper, broader, and more placid, little  boats were seen moored along it, for the convenience of crossing.
almost any squash in our garden might be copied by a sculptor,  and would look lovely in marble, or in china; and, if i could afford it, i  would have exact imitations of the real vegetable as portions of my  dining-service.
i do not very well recollect  monsieur du miroir, but, as to mrs. bullfrog, i give her up to the severest  reprehension.
perhaps not sooner than a fortnight from  to-morrow.
some advised him  not to look after her; others recommended him to pay "the doctor"  aforesaid for guiding him to her; which finally "the doctor" did, in  consideration of a treat; and the fellow went off, having heard little but  gibes and not one word of sympathy!
since dinner, i have been to the eastern shore to look at the sea.
in two or three days  more, i may put forth my hand and pluck a green bough.
he told us that the lime had  been burning forty-eight hours, and would be finished in thirty-six more.
finding that i was not provided with a  wife, he recommended a certain maiden of forty years, who had three hundred  acres of land.
thus the classic fantasy would be  realized, of dead people transformed to flowers.
the sunset sky, amidst its splendor, has a softness and delicacy that impart  themselves to a white marble world, february, 18th.--a walk, yesterday afternoon, with the  children; a bright, and rather cold day, breezy from the north and  westward.
a great many of  the potatoes are thus pulled, clinging to the stems and to one another in  curious shapes,--long red things, and little round ones, imbedded in the earth  which clings to the roots.
it will be  good to have a longer interval between my labor of the body and that of the  mind.
smith's monument is visible.
it was very beautiful cloud-scenery.
saw by the river-side, late in the afternoon, one of the above-described  boats going into the stream with the water rippling at the prow, from the  strength of the current and of the boat's motion.
thus misfortune, physical or  moral, may be the means of educating and elevating us.
but it was dead, and stirred not when i touched it.
this would be a terrific incident  if it were a dead body that the crow scented, instead of a basket of salmon.
september 18th.--how the summer-time flits away, even  while it seems to be loitering onward, arm in arm with autumn!
there is a strong odor of fishiness, and the little cove is full of  mackerel-boats, and other small craft for fishing, in some of which little boys  of no growth at all were paddling about.
on the 2lst, i returned to  boston, and went out to cambridge to dine with longfellow, whom i had not seen  since his return from europe.
there is a  brook, so near the house that we shall be able to hear its ripple in the  summer evenings, . . .
next> | words | names | dates | places |
mr. ---- at present resides in a small  dwelling, little more than a cottage, beside the main road, not far from the  gateway which gives access to his palace.
his person in some degree accords with his  character,--thin and with a thin face, sharp features, sallow, a projecting  brow not very high, deep-set eyes, an insinuating smile and look, when he meets  you, and is about to address you.
there were six or seven men, with the mate  and captain.
and yet there is a oneness of effect likewise, when we choose to  look at a whole sweep of woodland instead of analyzing its component trees.
proceeding onward, we reached shelburne falls.
my circumstances, at least, cannot long  continue as they are and have been; and b----, too, stands between high  prosperity and utter ruin.
pigs, on a march, do not subject themselves to any leader  among themselves, but pass on, higgledy-piggledy, without regard to age or sex.
october 16th.--spent the whole afternoon in a ramble to  the sea-shore, near phillips's beach.
the  former made his escape to his native element,--the latter we ate; and truly he  had the taste of the whole river in his flesh, with a very prominent flavor of  mud.
there is a great variety of  shipping owned among the young people, and they appear to have a considerable  knowledge of the art of managing vessels.
through the opening of our shallow valley, towards the east, there  is the prospect of a tumbling sea, with hundreds of white-caps chasing one  another over it.
he disappeared on his way from the beach to his mistress's residence, and was  afterwards found dead in a cavity of the rocks.
he pointed out the house where he  was married to her, and told the name of the country squire who tied the knot.
it has formed along its course a  succession of lakes, with a current through the midst.
stumps remaining in the ground; one tall, barkless stem of a tree standing  upright, branchless, and with a shattered summit.
never did anybody sneeze  with such vehemence and frequency; and my poor brain has been in a thick fog;  or, rather, it seemed as if my head were stuffed with coarse wool. . . .
looking down a streamlet, i saw a trunk of a tree, which has been  overthrown by the wind, so as to form a bridge, yet sticking up all its  branches, as if it were unwilling to assist anybody over.
from the centre of the ceiling descended a branch with two  gas-burners, which sufficiently illuminated every corner of the room.
he is about  thirty-five years old, and married; and at this mature age he is studying for  the ministry, and will not finish his course for two or three years.
in short, we seem to have taken up our abode in a wasps' nest.
returned by another path, of the width of a wagon, passing  through a grove of hard wood, the lightsome hues of which make the walk more  cheerful than among the pines.
the lake is not yet what we may call thawed out,  although there is a large space of blue water, and the ice is separated from  the shore everywhere, and is soft, water-soaked, and crumbly.
stephen gowans supposed that the bodies of adam and eve were clothed in  robes of light, which vanished after their sin.
there is now a breeze, the blue ruffle of which seems to reach almost  across to the mainland, yet with streaks of calm; and, in one place, the glassy  surface of a lake of calmness, amidst the surrounding commotion.
last night, being awake, . . .
there was a general grunting, not violent at all, but  low and quiet, as if they were expressing their sentiments among themselves in  a companionable way.
in the duke of buckingham's comedy, "the chances," don frederic  says of don john (they are two noble spanish gentlemen), "one bed  contains us ever.
the common sailors, as soon  as they were physically comfortable, seemed to be perfectly at ease.
the intermixture of foreigners  sometimes gives rise to quarrels between them and the natives.
my cook fills his office  admirably.
he seems almost to have made up his mind never to be married,  which i wonder at; for he has strong affections, and is fond both of women and  children.
this is something like the planning of the march of an army.
and thus, even without the support of a stated occupation, i  survive these sullen days and am happy.
and what if some toper should  be seized with the freak of emptying his glass of gin or brandy into the  basin,--would the fishes die or merely get jolly?
having climbed so far that the road seemed now to go downward, i retraced  my steps.
july 16th.--the tops of the chestnut-trees are peculiarly  rich, as if a more luscious sunshine were falling on them than anywhere else.
after one of the reports  of the cannon, we heard a horn blown at no great distance, the sound coming  soon after the report.
went on board the cyane to see bridge, the purser.
saturday, april 8th.--after
i strolled  out, after dinner, with mr. bradford, and in a lonesome glade we met the  apparition of an indian chief, dressed in appropriate costume of blanket,  feathers, and paint, and armed with a musket.
they are always mysteries and objects of interest to me,  springing as they do so suddenly from no root or seed, and growing one wonders  why.
for  these three or four days i have been observing a little mediterranean boy from  malaga, not more than ten or eleven years old, but who is already a citizen of  the world, and seems to be just as gay and contented on the deck of a yankee  coal-vessel as he could be while playing beside his mother's door.
almost all the farmers  within a reasonable distance make it a point, i suppose, to attend brighton
immense heaps of apples lie piled near them, and the creaking of the  press is heard as the horse treads on.
walker emphatically mentions, among the sufferings of a clergyman's wife  and family in the great rebellion, that they were forced to drink water, with  crab-apples stamped in it to relish it.
he had three small tin measures for nuts,--one  at one cent, others at two, four, and six cents; and as fast as they were  emptied, he filled them again, and put them on the top of his box.
the chasm has perpendicular, though irregular,  sides, which the waves have chiselled out very square.
august 10th.--the natural taste of man for the original  adam's occupation is fast developing itself in me.
"i want to do you good," said he with warmth,  after becoming, apparently, moved by my communications.
or do they think, as i almost do, that  there is to be no sunshine any more?
the grass, however, was very green and beautiful around this dwelling, and, the  sunshine falling brightly on it, the whole effect was cheerful and pleasant.
"well, ask him to walk down into the cabin"; and shortly  down comes old captain percival, a white-haired, thin-visaged, weather-worn old  gentleman, in a blue, quaker-cut coat, with tarnished lace and brass buttons, a  pair of drab pantaloons, and brown waistcoat.
left north adams september 11th.
there were girls, too, but not pretty ones, nor, on the whole, such good  imitations of gentility as the young men.
afterwards, i called on colonel hall, who held me long in  talk about polities and other sweetmeats.
the pride of ancestry seems to be his great hobby.
he speaks with great bitterness  against the new license law, and vows if it be not repealed by fair means it  shall be by violence, and that he will be as ready to cock his rifle for such a  cause as for any other.
if he insists upon living by highway  robbery, it would be well to make him share his booty with us. . . .
thus the trees,  as living existences, form a peculiar link between the dead and us.
saw in a  barn a prodigious treasure of onions in their silvery coats, exhaling a  penetrating perfume.
there  is"--but i believe this will be pretty much all, so here i close the  catalogue. . . .
some of the  laborers on the mill-dam can speak nothing else.
a company of crows were holding  their sabbath on their summits.
the girls seemed to give themselves no uneasiness about the  matter.
he made a  long eulogy on his dog tiger, yesterday, insisting on his good moral character,  his not being quarrelsome, his docility, and all other excellent qualities that  a huge, strong, fierce mastiff could have.
the night  before last, i could distinguish letters by this lingering gleam between nine  and ten o'clock.
to trace out the influence of a frightful and disgraceful crime in debasing  and destroying a character naturally high and noble, the guilty person being  alone conscious of the crime.
no will could be  found.
in the interior region of the stable everything is  dim and undefined,--half-traceable outlines of stalls, sometimes the shadowy  aspect of a horse.
a well-concerted train of events to be thrown into confusion by some  misplaced circumstance, unsuspected till the catastrophe, yet exerting its  influence from beginning to end.
the stone is sunk deep into the earth, and  leans forward, and the grass grows very long around it; and, on account of the  moss, it was rather difficult to make out the date.
he is a good sort of humdrum parson enough, and well fitted to increase the  stock of manuscript sermons, of which there must be a fearful quantity already  in the world.
i love the odor of paint in  an artist's room; his palette and all his other tools have a mysterious charm  for me.
an old lady, stopping here over the sabbath, waiting for to-morrow's stage  for greenfield, having been deceived by the idea that she could proceed on her  journey without delay.
he has been seen to chase the  hens, several times, and the other day one of them was found dead.
a party of girls, playing at ball with a young man.
then he  stands at the head of the stairs and howls, as if he never expected to see me  again.
we dined at mr. emerson's the other day, in company with mr. hedge.
in  the mean time the estate had been sold to colonel whipple.
there  were views of cities and edifices in europe, of napoleon's battles and  nelson's sea-fights, in the midst of which would be seen a gigantic, brown,  hairy hand (the hand of destiny) pointing at the principal points of the  conflict, while the old dutchman explained.
there is one on  the hill-side, close to the village, wherein weeds grow at the bottom, and  grass and shrubs too are rooted in the interstices of the stones, and its low  doorway has a dungeon-like aspect, and we look down from the top as into a  roofless tower.
sir william pepperell, in english  regimentals, coat, waistcoat, and breeches, all of red broad-cloth, richly  gold-embroidered; he holds a general's truncheon in his right hand, and extends  the left towards the batteries erected against louisbourg, in the country near  which he is standing.
on the coming of the  mower, he laid it down, perhaps a little ashamed of his amusement.
there are some objections to willows.
the last page (199th ms.) of "the  blithedale romance." may 1st.--wrote preface.
in an inner pavilion an exhibition of anacondas,--four,--which the  showman took, one by one, from a large box, under some blankets, and hung round  his shoulders.
there has been a good deal of soaking rain lately, and it has, in  great measure, cleared hills and plains of snow, only it may be seen lying in  spots, and on each side of stone-walls, in a pretty broad streak.
i wasted the customary hour at  the athenæum, and returned home, if home it may now be called.
the elephant is not particularly sagacious in the wild state, but becomes  so when tamed.
i called molly to take her note (enclosed), which she received with  a face of delight as broad and bright as the kitchen fire.
the story might consist of the various alterations  in the feelings of the absent lover, caused by successive events that display  the true character of his mistress; and the catastrophe should take place  at their meeting, when he finds himself equally disappointed in her person; or  the whole spirit of the thing may here be reproduced.
in parts, trees have fallen across the fissure,--trees with large trunks.
the trees are sunshine, and, many of the golden  leaves being freshly fallen, the glen is strewn with sunshine, amid which winds  and gurgles the bright, dark little brook.
he is a friendly, easy-mannered sort of a half-genteel character,  whose talk has been moulded by the persons who most frequent such a show; an  air of superiority of information, a moral instructor, with a great deal of  real knowledge of the world.
here you wrote names and drew faces with a razor  sea-shell in the sand.
two fat  landlords, both young men, with something of a contrast in their dispositions:  one of them being a brisk, lively, active, jesting, fat man; the other more  heavy and inert, making jests sluggishly, if at all.
and he  answered, "yes, captain, here's the old dutchman," though, by the  way, he is a german, and travels the country with this diorama in a wagon, and  had recently been at south adams, and was now returning from saratoga springs.
i  found that we were expected, a man having brought the news of our intention the  day before.
yet, after all, i must keep these considerations out of my mind,  because an external pressure always disturbs instead of assisting me.
the  poop-deck is still more sacred,--the lieutenants being confined to the larboard  side, and the captain alone having a right to the starboard.
there was an assemblage of people in a  plain, homely apartment.
to picture a child's (one of four or five years old) reminiscences at  sunset of a long summer s day,--his first awakening, his studies, his sports,  his little fits of passion, perhaps a whipping, etc.
george prescott, who has not yet grown earthly enough, i suppose, to  be debarred from occasional visits to paradise, comes daily to bring three  pints of milk from some ambrosial cow; occasionally, also, he makes an offering  of mortal flowers.
it comes to the cheek  with a real kiss; it would linger fondly around us, if it might; but, since it  must be gone, it caresses us with its whole kindly heart, and passes onward, to  caress likewise the next thing that it meets.
meantime dawn broke, our faces became partially  visible, the morning air grew colder, and finally cloudy day came on.
an artist's apartment is always very interesting to me,  with its pictures, finished and unfinished; its little fancies in the pictorial  way,--as here two sketches of children among flowers and foliage, representing  spring and summer, winter and autumn being yet to come out of the artist's  mind; the portraits of his wife and children; here a clergyman, there a poet;  here a woman with the stamp of reality upon her, there a feminine conception  which we feel not to have existed.
i know not how many hours he sits there; but while i saw him  he was a pattern of diligence and unwandering thought.
the mists  rest all day long on the brows of the hills that shut in our valley.
doubtless he had been selectman, representative,  and justice, and had filled all but weighty offices.
so may it be with me in my projected  three months' seclusion from old associations.
it is noticeable that the outlines of hills, and the whole bulk  of them at the distance of several miles, become stronger, denser, and more  substantial in this autumn atmosphere and in these autumnal tints than in  summer.
to this chamber, doubtless, in all succeeding ages,  pilgrims will come to pay their tribute of reverence; they will put off their  shoes at the threshold for fear of desecrating the tattered old carpets!
human  flower-shrubs, if they will grow old on earth, should, beside their lovely  blossoms, bear some kind of fruit that will satisfy earthly appetites; else men  will not be satisfied that the moss should gather on them.
the rose-bushes have their scarlet hips.
there are three or four of these  habitations, the very rudest, i should imagine, that civilized men ever made  for themselves,--constructed of rough boards, with the protruding ends.
the scenery on the  eastern side of the green mountains is incomparably more striking than on the  western, where the long swells and ridges have a flatness of effect; and even  graylock heaves itself so gradually that it does not much strike the beholder.
he lost his cheerfulness and social qualities, and gave up intercourse with  people, except on business.
i likewise started a partridge  just within the verge of the woods, and in another place a large squirrel ran  across the wood-path from one shelter of trees to the other.
by  and by came in mr. thaxter's brother, with a young lady whose position i do not  know,--either a sister or the brother's wife.
two or three years ago, the crew of a wrecked vessel, a brigantine, wrecked  near boon island, landed on hog island of a winter night, and found shelter in  the hotel.
that was a sad exchange of imagination for reality; but if he  found his mate beside him, all was well.
to picture a virtuous family, the different members examples of virtuous  dispositions in their way; then introduce a vicious person, and trace out the  relations that arise between him and them, and the manner in which all are  affected.
c----, whom i can no more keep from smoking than i could the  kitchen chimney, has just come into the study with a cigar, which might perfume  this letter and make you think it came from my own enormity, so i may as well  stop here.
it was exhilarating to see the vessels, how they bounded over  the waves, while a sheet of foam broke out around them.
a man of pleasure in england.
i cannot believe all these stories about ----, because such a rascal never  could be sustained and countenanced by respectable men.
to  contrast the man who has thus reached the summit of ambition with the ambitious  youth.
thirteen miles about a day's journey, in the course of which the drover  has to travel about thirty.
there are creeping plants of  various sorts which clamber up the trees; and some of them have changed color  in the slight frosts which already have befallen these low grounds, so that one  sees a spiral wreath of scarlet leaves twining up to the top of a green tree,  intermingling its bright hues with their verdure, as if all were of one piece.
to-day the morning rose with rain, which has since changed to snow and  sleet; and now the landscape is as dreary as can well be imagined,--white, with  the brownness of the soil and withered grass everywhere peeping out.
prideaux, bishop of worcester, during the sway of the parliament, was  forced to support himself and his family by selling his household goods.
the foundation of a spacious porch may  be traced on either side of the central portion; some of the stones still  remain; but even where they are gone, the line of the porch is still traceable  by the greener verdure.
we must  form other plans for ourselves; for i can see few or no signs that providence  purposes to give us a home here.
in my museum, all the ducal rings that have been thrown into the adriatic.
i grow  up, i shall be two men."
nature does her best to beautify this disarray.
had i  not then been alone, i should have had a far deeper sense of beauty, for i  should have looked through the medium of another spirit.
the fields are still green, and the great masses of the woods have  not yet assumed their many-colored garments; but here and there are solitary  oaks of deep, substantial red, or maples of a more brilliant hue, or chestnuts  either yellow or of a tenderer green than in summer.
i do not believe that i should be patient here if i were not engaged in a  righteous and heaven-blessed way of life.
in the course of the forenoon i encountered mr. howes in the street.
at litchfield there is a doctor who undertakes to cure deformed  people,--and humpbacked, lame, and otherwise defective folk go there.
in a dream to wander to some place where may be heard the complaints of all  the miserable on earth.
it is strange, though, to see how these wild beasts  acknowledge and practise a degree of mutual forbearance, and of obedience to  man, with their wild nature yet in them.
i tell him all is finished, except the  hanging of the prisoners.
this is a glorious day,--bright, very warm, yet with an unspeakable  gentleness both in its warmth and brightness.
there are also one or two trees on the  island.
the woods have now taken a soberer tint than they wore at my last date.
the  brook runs through a valley, on one side bordered by a high and precipitous  bank; on the other there is an interval, and then the bank rises upward and  upward into a high hill, with gorges and ravines separating one summit from  another, and
a fancy ball, in which the prominent american writers should appear,  dressed in character.
in these huts, less than twenty feet square, he  tells me that upwards of twenty people have sometimes been lodged.
adown the slopes there are tiny rivulets, which  exist only for the winter.
lost part of his right hand in battle of  guilford court house.
our last series of green corn, planted about the 1st of july, was  good for eating two or three days ago.
i  knocked, and an elderly woman, of very pleasing and intelligent aspect,  came at the summons, and gave me directions how to get to the south village  through an orchard and "across lots," which would bring me into the  road near the quaker meeting-house, with gravestones round it.
there was the most peculiar and beautiful humor  in the point itself, and in her manner, that can be imagined.
the water of the stream has now a  thrill of autumnal coolness; yet whenever a broad gleam fell across it, through  an interstice of the foliage, multitudes of insects were darting to and fro  upon its surface.
frequently there are great cracks across it, caused, i suppose, by the  air beneath, and giving an idea of greater firmness than if there were no  cracks; round holes, which have been hewn in the marble pavement by fishermen,  and are now frozen over again, looking darker than the rest of the surface;  spaces where the snow was more imperfectly dissolved than elsewhere; little  crackling spots, where a thin surface of ice, over the real mass, crumples  beneath one's foot; the track of a line of footsteps, most of them vaguely  formed, but some quite perfectly, where a person passed across the lake while  its surface was in a state of slush, but which are now as hard as adamant, and  remind one of the traces discovered by geologists in rocks that hardened  thousands of ages ago.
but now the house is all in decay, while within a stone's-throw of it there is  a street of smart white edifices of one and two stories, occupied chiefly by  thriving mechanics, which has been laid out where knox meant to have forests  and parks.
its color was  deep brown, owing to the washing of the banks which the rain had poured into  it.
the library is in a noble hall, and looks splendidly with its vista of  alcoves.
one offers to pay another three or four cents, which the latter has overpaid.
they are little birds with gray backs and  snow-white breasts; their images may be seen in the wet sand almost or quite as  distinctly as the reality.
the night  before last, william allen was stung by a wasp on the eyelid; whereupon the  whole side of his face swelled to an enormous magnitude, so that, at the  breakfast-table, one half of him looked like a blind giant (the eye being  closed), and the other half had such a sorrowful and ludicrous aspect that i  was constrained to laugh out of sheer pity.
i suppose they used to  emigrate across the border, while new york was a slave state.
in the afternoon, while some of the new-comers were fishing off the rocks,  west of the hotel, a shark came close in shore.
his conversation is about the theatre, where he has a season ticket,--about an  amateur who lately appeared there, and about actresses, with other theatrical  scandal.--in the smoking-room, two checker and backgammon boards; the landlord  a great player, seemingly a stupid man, but with considerable shrewdness and  knowledge of the world.-- f----, the comedian, a stout, heavy-looking  englishman, of grave deportment, with no signs of wit or humor, yet aiming at  both in conversation, in order to support his character.
then he said that an idea of a  picture had occurred to him that morning while reading a chapter in the new
a person to consider himself as the prime mover of certain remarkable  events, but to discover that his actions have not contributed in the least  thereto.
we still have beans; and our tomatoes,  though backward, supply us with a dish every day or two.
the water comes over the stone-wall, and encroaches several yards on the  boundaries of our orchard.
i have a stronger sense of power to act as a man  among men.
keep the  imagination sane,--that is one of the truest conditions of communion with  heaven.
another walks the street with a quick, prying eye, and sharp face,--the most  expressive possible of one on the look-out for gain,--of the most disagreeable  class of yankees.
yet he was but a little fellow.
well, the  above-mentioned persons are nearly all that have entered into the hallowed  shade of our avenue; except, indeed, a certain sinner who came to bargain for  the grass in our orchard, and another who came with a new cistern.
he was buried, mr.  thaxter says, notwithstanding his marble monument, in a rude pine box, which he  himself helped to make.
their language is the most  copious of that of any quadruped, and, indeed, there is something deeply and  indefinably interesting in the swinish race.
walden pond was clear and beautiful as usual.
sometimes, however,  they remain till you come near enough to discern their sable gravity of aspect,  each occupying a separate bough, or perhaps the blasted tip-top of a pine.
there is the worn-out  shoe-brush with which this polished writer polished his boots.
it seems as if there were an important meaning to  them, if one could but find it out.
he had a twin-brother, also a  preacher, and the exact likeness of himself.
meantime, i keep my station in the dining-room, and read or write as  composedly as in my own study.
they appear the more a mystery the  longer one gazes at them.
huge stones tossed about, in every  variety of confusion, some shagged all over with sea-weed, others only partly  covered, others bare.
then proceed to generalize and classify the whole  world together, as none can claim utter exemption from either sorrow, sin, or  disease; and if they could, yet death, like a great parent, comes and sweeps  them all through one darksome portal,--all his children.
i have serious thoughts of inducting a new  incumbent in this part of the parsonage.
when, a married daughter was  ill, she used to go in her carriage to the door and send up to inquire how she  did.
september 11th.--the wind shifted and veered about,  towards the close of yesterday, and later it was almost calm, after blowing  gently from the northwest,--notwithstanding which it rained.
if a man  were sure of living forever here, he would not care about his offspring.
there is a groom, who seems to be a very comfortable kind of personage,--a  man of forty-five or thereabouts (r. w. emerson says he was one of his  schoolmates), but not looking so old; corpulent, not to say fat, with a white  frock, which his goodly bulk almost fills, enveloping him from neck nearly to  ankles.
he is a young man of eighteen or  thereabouts, with smooth black hair, neatly dressed; his face showing a good  disposition, but with nothing of intellect or character.
at other seasons she does not give  me this impression, or only at very rare intervals; but in these happy,  autumnal days, when she has perfected the harvests, and accomplished every  necessary thing that she had to do, she overflows with a blessed superfluity of  love.
thus we might find that worse than the tortures of the spanish  inquisition are daily suffered without exciting notice.
the gentleman seemed in a most paradisiacal mood,  smiling ineffably upon his bride, and, when she spoke, responding to her with a  benign expression of matrimonial sweetness, and, as it were, compassion  for the "weaker vessel," mingled with great love and pleasant humor.
the courtesy shown to  ladies in aiding them to alight, in a shower, under umbrellas.
she had been there the whole  afternoon, meditating or reading; for she had a book in her hand, with some  strange title, which i did not understand, and have forgotten.
it seems  as if such things, as they grow only for beauty, ought to flourish in immortal  youth, or at least to die before their decrepitude.
i saw, as the stage drove off, his comely sister  approaching with a lighted-up face to greet him, and one passenger on the front  seat beheld them meet.
a recluse, like myself, or a prisoner, to measure time by the progress of  sunshine through his chamber.
they might be  represented as just landing on the wharf; or as presenting themselves before  governor shirley, seated in the great chair.
the book is written in a very  legible hand, probably by the rev. mr. tucke.
something analogous in the world at  large.
the skipper of the wrecked sloop, yesterday, was unwilling to go to  portsmouth until he was shaved, --his beard being of several days' growth.
lastly the  siamese twins.
meanwhile her husband stood by very quiet, occasionally trying to  still her; but it is to be presumed, that, after our departure, they came  to blows, it being a custom with the irish husbands and wives to settle their  disputes with blows; and it is said the woman often proves the better man.
mr.  ripley had proposed to them to join us, no longer ago than that very morning.
who would buy, if the price were to be paid down?
a child  asleep in a young lady's arms,--a little baby, two or three months old.
it is now somewhat of a rare good fortune to find a verdant, grassy  spot, on some slope, or in a dell; and even such seldom-seen oases are bestrewn  with dried brown leaves, --which, however, methinks, make the short, fresh  grass look greener around them.
it is truly a mystery, and also a symbol.
and he is  certainly a man of intellectual and moral substance, a sturdy fact, a reality,  something to be felt and touched, whose ideas seem to be dug out of his mind as  he digs potatoes, beets, carrots, and turnips out of the ground.
we looked at the spot where the stream makes its entrance into the marble  cliff, and it was (this morning, at least) the most striking view of the cave.
the sheep bleat in their desolate pasture.
his hair,  as may be seen when he takes off his cap to wipe his brow, is black and in  perfect preservation, with not exactly a curl, yet a vivacious and elastic kind  of twist in it.
i have a liking for vagrants of all sorts,  and never, that i know of, refused my mite to a wandering beggar, when i had  anything in my own pocket.
there were many clouds  flitting about the sky; and the picture of each could be traced in the  water,--the ghost of what was itself unsubstantial.
we saw him in the barn,--a gray, heavy, round-skulled old fellow,  troubled with deafness.
our gross saxon orgies would soon be  the ruin of his french constitution.
a prophecy may be connected.
letters in the shape of figures of men, etc.
the  swollen river, of a leaden hue, drags itself sullenly along; and this may be  termed the first winter's day.
people slept on rough mats or straw pallets, with a round log for a pillow;  seldom better beds than a mattress, with a sack of chaff for a pillow.
here i am  in a polar paradise!
expanse,--and it is a stern and  lovely scene.
his head, tail, and claws were striped  yellow, black, and red.
when the sun shines brightly on the new snow, we discover ranges of hills,  miles away towards the south, which we have never seen before.
how very desolate looks a forest when seen in this way,--as
crossed the fields near brookhouse's villa, and came upon a long beach,--at  least a mile long, i should think,--terminated by craggy rocks at either end,  and backed by a high broken bank, the grassy summit of which, year by year, is  continually breaking away, and precipitated to the bottom.
the surface of the land is so varied,  with woodland mingled, that the eye cannot reach far away, except now and then  in vistas perhaps across the river, showing houses, or a church and surrounding  village, in upper beverly.
i saw a crab in one of them; five-fingers too.
nothing else, indeed, is worthy of it; and thence, perhaps, the  sense of impropriety when we see it triumphed over by time.
august 2lst.--last night i slept like a child of five  years old, and had no dreams at all,--unless just before it was time to rise,  and i have forgotten what those dreams were.
i would fain abominate the east-wind,  . . .
sometimes a black trap-rock runs through the bed of granite; sometimes the  sea has eaten this away, leaving a long, irregular fissure.
and the tomb of the p. family is right in front, and close to  the gate.
not that there would not be much evil  discovered there; but, as he was conscious of being in a state of mental and  moral improvement, working out his progress onward, he would not shrink from  such a scrutiny.
september 27th.--a ride to brighton yesterday morning, it  being the day of the weekly cattle-fair.
this would serve to impress the reader with the woful  vicissitudes of sublunary things. . . .
"--then laughing heartily, and crying, "vive la gaîté!
he is my great trouble  now, though an excellent companion too.
the governor's pew had corinthian  pillars, and crimson damask tapestry.
one would suppose,  that, conscious of his dependent condition, he would have learned a different  sort of manner; but probably he has lived where he could command attention.
on a  shelf a few books; one midshipman politely invites us to walk in; another sits  writing.
andrew pepperell, the son, was  rejected by a young lady (afterwards the mother of mrs. general knox), to whom  he was on the point of marriage, as being addicted to low company and low  pleasures.
he  looked most exceedingly depressed, and, pressing my hand with peculiar  emphasis, said that he was in great affliction, having just heard of his son  george's death in cuba.
the lights and shadows that flit across it; its internal vicissitudes.
most of the men were dressed in their ordinary  clothes, and one or two were in shirtsleeves.
i have been busy all day, from early  breakfast-time till late in the afternoon; and old father time has gone onward  somewhat less heavily than is his wont when i am imprisoned within the walls of  the custom house.
the  tavern-keeper gave us his own harness, and started in pursuit of the old man,  who was probably aware of the exchange, and well satisfied with it.
october 7th.--since saturday last (it being now  thursday), i have been in boston and salem, and there has been a violent storm  and rain during the whole time.
it is a  wild spectacle, but still, i suppose, lacks an infinite deal of being a storm.
a mortal symptom for a person being to lose his own aspect and to take the  family lineaments, which were hidden deep in the healthful visage.
in the forenoon, the southern papers are  brought in, and thrown damp and folded on the table.
moral,--that what we need for our happiness is often  close at hand, if we knew but how to seek for it.
may 27th, 1844.--. .
a breeze sprang up, but our  first use of it was to get aground on coney island about five o'clock, where we  lay till nine or thereabout, and then floated slowly up to the wharf.
but from henceforth forever i  shall be entitled to call the sons of toil my brethren, and shall know how to  sympathize with them, seeing that i likewise have risen at the dawn, and borne  the fervor of the midday sun, nor turned my heavy footsteps homeward till  eventide.
the sunlight, also, broke across in  spots, and otherwheres the shadow was deep; but still there was intermingling  enough of bright hues to keep off the gloom from the whole path.
also, in the way of future favors, a  kitten would be very acceptable.
years hence, perhaps, the experience that my heart is acquiring now  will flow out in truth and wisdom.
and, by the way, a young  colt comes up our avenue, now and then, to crop the seldom-trodden herbage; and  so does a company of cows, whose sweet breath well repays us for the food which  they obtain.
the sunsets of winter are incomparably splendid, and when the ground is  covered with snow, no brilliancy of tint expressible by words can come within  an infinite distance of the effect.
a character of a desperate young man, who employs high courage and strong  faculties in this sort of dangers, and wastes his talents in wild riot,
he was  bred a farmer, but has sold his farm, and invested the money, and supports  himself and wife by dentistry during his studies.
comfort for childless people.
utterly different  characters.
it was a framework of logs, with a covering of plank sufficient to  obstruct the onward flow of the brook; but it found its way past the side,  and came foaming and struggling along among scattered rocks.
our  own crop, however, does not promise to be very abundant; for the leaves formed  such a superfluous shade over the young blossoms, that most of them dropped off  without producing the germ of fruit.
the wonder was, how she swam so long.
in  others you observe a rustling, and see the boughs shaking and hear the apples  thumping down, without seeing the person who does it.
orrin s---- and the chance passers-by took part in the  discussion.
our road lay over the green mountains,  the long ridge of which made awful by a dark, heavy, threatening cloud,  apparently rolled and condensed along the whole summit.
finally, i threw him into a deep pool and left him.
meeting-house in danvers seen at a distance,  with the sun shining through the windows of its belfry.
the sea all about her had the black, iron  aspect which i have described; but the vessel herself was alight.
the track along which we trod is probably under water now.
over the wide scene there was a general gloom; but  there was a continual vicissitude of bright sunshine flitting over it, now  resting for a brief space on portions of the heights, now flooding the valleys  with green brightness, now making out distinctly each dwelling, and the  hotels, and then two small brick churches of the distant village, denoting its  prosperity, while all around seemed under adverse fortunes.
old acquaintances,--a gentleman whom i knew ten years ago, brisk, active,  vigorous, with a kind of fire of physical well-being and cheerful spirits  glowing through him.
several of their  prominent characteristics, as well as their black attire, lead me to  believe that they are members of the clerical profession; but i have not yet  ascertained from their own lips what has been the nature of their past lives.
i found no violets nor anemones, nor anything in the likeness of a  flower, though i looked carefully along the shelter of the stone-walls,  and in all spots apparently propitious.
perhaps with a consciousness of praiseworthy neatness!
then he proceeded to discourse  of politics, taking the opposite side to cilley, and arguing with much  pertinacity.
then at eight o'clock bothered myself till after nine  with this eternal tale of tieck.
on the whole, these fruit-trees, and the other items and  adjuncts of the place, convey a very agreeable idea of the outward comfort in  which the good old doctor must have spent his life.
while  i looked, there was moisture in the air, and occasional spats of rain.
a tombstone-maker, whom miss b---y knew, used to cut cherubs on the top of  the tombstones, and had the art of carving the cherubs' faces in the likeness  of the deceased.
so some writers are lost in their collected learning.
speaking of beans, by the way, they are a classical food, and their culture  must have been the occupation of many ancient sages and heroes.
it lies on a  level, surrounded by hills, and seems as if it lay in the hollow of a  large hand.
in truth, the soil is worn out, and,  moreover, received very little manure this season.
nevertheless, the general  impression is of life, not death.
a veil may be  needful, but never a mask.
mr. laighton found traces of old dwellings in the  vicinity of the hotel, and it is supposed that the principal part of the  population was on this island.
there was a head wind and head tide, and he would have inevitably  drifted out to sea, if mr. thaxter had not saved him.
it diffused a dim brilliancy over the whole surface of the  field.
he asked the most direct questions  of another young man; for instance, "are you married?"
by and by, the world  found me out in my lonely chamber, and called me forth,--not, indeed, with a  loud roar of acclamation, but rather with a still, small voice,--and forth i  went, but found nothing in the world that i thought preferable to my old  solitude till now, . . .
in the more open ground, the aspect of a tall,  fire-blackened stump, standing alone, high up on a swell of land, that rises  gradually from one side of the brook, like a monument.
to have one event operate in several places,--as, for example, if a man's  head were to be cut off in one town, men's heads to drop off in several towns.
was this  the virginian smith?
i alone went to salem, where i resumed all my bachelor habits for nearly  a fortnight, leading the same life in which ten years of my youth flitted away  like a dream.
just at this time he is confined to his room by indisposition, caused, it  is suspected, by a spree on sunday last.
he then  ordered the lord to go again to his grave, which he did, and fell immediately  to ashes.
it is a pity that the world cannot be made  over anew every spring.
beneath the moon and the horizon, the  commencement of its track of brightness, there was a cone of blackness, or of  very black blue.
hints for characters: nancy, a pretty, black-eyed, intelligent  servant-girl, living in captain h----'s family.
a crow, however, has no real pretensions to religion, in spite of  his gravity of mien and black attire.
he again pressed my hand, and left me. . . .
september 3d.--on the slope of bald mountain a clearing,  set in the frame of the forest on all sides,--a growth of clover upon it,  which, having been mowed once this year, is now appropriated to pasturage.
perhaps death himself might be the cook.
they served me both for supper and breakfast; and i  thanked providence and the young ladies, and compared myself to the prophet fed  by ravens,--though the simile does rather more than justice to myself, and not  enough to the generous donors of the flapjacks.
looking back, we could see a cloud on graylock; but on other parts of  saddle mountain there were spots of sunshine, some of most glorious brightness,  contrasting with the general gloom of the sky, and the deep shadow which lay on  the earth.
to show the effect of gratified revenge.
i noticed the stump of a very large elm, recently felled.
chiefly, they drink plain liquors,  gin, brandy, or whiskey, sometimes a tom and jerry, a gin cocktail (which the  bar-tender makes artistically, tossing it in a large parabola from one tumbler  to another, until fit for drinking), a brandy-smash, and numerous other  concoctions.
it must have stood  there in death many years, its own ghost.
july 10th.--a fishing excursion, last saturday afternoon,  eight or ten miles out in the harbor.
the organ was surmounted by a gilt crown in the centre,  supported by a gilt mitre on each side.
things on which so much thought and labor are bestowed should surely be  immortal. . . .
he is a bulky man,  with a large, massive face, particularly calm in its expression, and mild  enough to be pleasing.
an old garden and summer-house,  and roses, currant-bushes, and tulips, which lady ursula had brought from  grondale abbey, in old england.
they seemed almost torpid when first taken out, but gradually  began to assume life, to stretch, to contract, twine and writhe about his neck  and person, thrusting out their tongues and erecting their heads.
i would, for the joke's sake, that it had been done.
threats were  made of tearing down her house; for she is a lady of very indifferent morals,  and sells rum.
everything seems to have  fallen to his lot that could possibly be supposed to render the life of a  country clergyman easy and prosperous.
imitators of original authors might be compared to plaster casts of marble  statues, or the imitative book to a cast of the original marble.
of a bitter satirist,--of swift, for instance,--it might be said, that the  person or thing on which his satire fell shrivelled up as if the devil had spit  on it.
and at  last, having said many times that he must go and shave and dress himself,--and  as his beard had been at least a week growing, it might have seemed almost a  week's work to get rid of it,--he rose from the stoop and went his way,--a  forlorn and miserable thing in the light of the cheerful summer morning.
now for liberty tree.
at dinner, behold an immense joint  of roast veal!
the  orchard-path is still deeply covered with snow; and so is the whole  visible universe, except streaks upon the hill-sides, and spots in the sunny  hollows, where the brown earth peeps through.
if the men bestowed half as much  care on their own personal cleanliness, they would be all the better and  healthier men therefor.
from end to end of all this  tangled shade goes a pathway scarcely worn, for the leaves are not trodden  through, yet plain enough to the eye, winding gently to avoid tree-trunks and  rocks and little hillocks.
the  imagination has time to rest upon them; they have not flitted away in a moment.
first proof-sheets, may 14.
in the same  storm that overthrew minot's light, a year or two ago, a great wave passed  entirely through this valley; and laighton describes it, when it came in from  the sea, as toppling over to the height of the cupola of his hotel.
at a distance, the words  composed by the letters are alone distinguishable.
at other times he smoked, and talked sensibly enough with anybody that offered.
march 23d.--i do think that it is the doom laid upon me,  of murdering so many of the brightest hours of the day at the custom house,  that makes such havoc with my wits, for here i am again trying to write  worthily, . . .
the wind, this morning, is from the northwestward, rather brisk, but not  very strong.
a  great, coarse, red-faced dame.
"you and i," said the squire, alluding to their  respective troubles and sicknesses, "would have died long ago, if we had  not had the courage to live."
nevertheless he was desirous  of selling the boat of which he was so fit a pilot, and which was built by his  own hands; so i agreed to take it, and accordingly became possessor of the  musketaquid.
the pilot, after drinking his  brandy, gave a history of our fishing expedition, and how many and how large  fish we caught.
a tuft of shrubbery, at broken intervals, is scattered along its border;  and thus it meanders sluggishly along, without other life than what it gains  from gleaming in the sun.
he told me yesterday that one of his sisters was  a waiting-maid in the rocher de caucale.
passages from the american note-books of nathaniel hawthorne.
the grass is much more fresh and vivid than it was last month,  and trees still retain much of their verdure, though here and there is a shrub  or a bough arrayed in scarlet and gold.
but, for agricultural purposes, it has been made to flow  in a straight and rectangular fashion, which does it infinite damage as a  picturesque object. . . .
it would be easy, by a process of word-daubing, to set down a  confused group of gorgeous colors, like a bunch of tangled skeins of  bright silk; but there is nothing of the reality in the glare which would thus  be produced.
nothing within their sphere do they leave unexamined, grunting all  the time with infinite variety of expression.
the mists, slow-rising farther off, part resting on the earth, the  remainder of the column already ascending so high that you doubt whether to  call it a fog or a cloud.
how many different scenes it sheds light on?
the meeting-house steeple reaches out of their sphere.
the waters are now subsiding, but  gradually.
in a moment, it dashes along in front of the  station-house, and comes to a pause, the locomotive hissing and fuming in its  eagerness to go on.
the ceremonies of the  day concluded with a cold collation of cakes and fruit.
on such portions of the walls as are within reach, visitors have  sculptured their initials, or names at full length; and the white letters  showing plainly on the gray surface, they have more obvious effect than such  inscriptions generally have.
at the foot of  the bank, in some parts, is a vast number of pebbles and paving-stones, rolled  up thither by the sea long ago.
last evening we saw a bright light on the river, betokening that a boat's  party were engaged in spearing fish.
the dying exclamation of the emperor augustus, "has it not been well  acted?"
monsieur s---- shaving himself yesterday morning.
so still is it, that the  sounds on board (as of throwing oars into a small boat) are distinctly heard,  though a quarter of a mile off.
i do wish the weather would put off this sulky mood.
a hint of a story,--some incident which should bring on a general war; and  the chief actor in the incident to have something corresponding to the mischief  he had caused.
as for this mr. ----, i wish he would  not be so troublesome.
it is two stories high, with a third story  of attic chambers in the gable-roof.
president griffin rode up on horseback.
he told me by all means toact, in whatever way; observing that he himself would have no objection to be  a servant, if no other mode of action presented itself.
were i a  solitary prisoner, i should not doubt to find occupation of deep interest for  my whole day in watching only one of the houses.
currants are now ripe, and we  are in the full enjoyment of cherries, which turn out much more delectable than  i anticipated.
a wagon, with barrels, stood among the  trees; the men's coats flung on the fence; the apples lay in heaps, and each of  the men was up in a separate tree.
he presented her with a beautiful  trinket.
one of them, laura, attempts to  exchange a worked vandyke, which she values at two dollars and a half; eliza,  being reproached by the pedlar, "vows that she buys more of pedlars than  any other person in the house.
it seems as if water had had more power at some former period than now, to hew  and tear its passage through such an immense ledge of rock as here withstood  it.
one got into the very top of his  tree, and gave a long and mighty shake, and the big apples came down  thump, thump, bushels hitting on the ground at once.
my companions were the  two yankees, who had quite recovered from yesterday's sickness, and were in the  best of spirits and the utmost activity of mind of which they were capable.
through the house, both in the first and  second story, runs a spacious hall or entry, occupying more space than is  usually devoted to such a purpose in modern times.
the old farmer was reluctant to go  after the fowls, declaring that it would be impossible to find them in the  dark; but orrin insisting, he lighted a lamp, and we all went together, and  quickly found them, roosted about the wood-pile; whereupon orrin speedily laid  hands on five, and wrung their necks in a twinkling, they fluttering long after  they should have been dead.
mrs. hale says it must boil till it becomes  tender; and so it shall, if i can find wood to keep the fire a-going.
he seems to govern his movements by the  inclination of his wings and tail to the wind, as a ship is propelled by the  action of the wind on her sails.
but it is not easy to find food for  him, unless i give him what is fit for christians,--though, for that matter, he  appears to be as good a christian as most laymen, or even as some of the  clergy.
her own marriage was the  first one since that epoch, and her little karl, now three months old, the  first-born child in all those eighty years.
the new  building was estimated to cost about thirty thousand dollars; but twice as much  has already been expended, and a great deal more will be required to complete  it.
i wish i could acquire the aquatic skill of the original owner.
two persons might be bitter enemies through life, and mutually cause the  ruin of one another, and of all that were dear to them.
he had left his caravan at  worcester, and came from thence and over the mountain hither, to settle  stopping-places for the caravan.
graylock was hidden in clouds, and the  rest of saddle mountain had one partially wreathed about it; but it was  withdrawn before long.
but it persists in doing me kindly offices now and then.
only what is evil, and so they become as noisome as the yellow water-lily.
in short, he would seem to have opened himself very  freely as to his public life.
it apparently has not been used for many years, and the lime  and weather-stained fragments of marble are scattered about.
nothing is more annoying than a walk of this kind, where one is  tormented by an innumerable host of petty impediments.
he spoke of his children, who are proprietors of a circus  establishment, and have taken a granddaughter to bring up in their way of life;  and he gave me a message to tell them in case we should meet.
and am i not perfectly safe? .
he prepared what i must acknowledge to be the best dish of  fried fish and potatoes for dinner to-day that i ever tasted in this house.
service of plate, presented by the city of london to sir william pepperell,  together with a table of solid silver.
a few chubs  were all the fruit of his piscatory efforts.
wine and brandy produced; and bridge calls to the doctor to  drink with him, who answers affirmatively from his state-room, and shortly  after opens the door and makes his appearance.
mr. thaxter tells me that the women on the island are very timid as to  venturing on the sea,--more so than the women of the mainland,--and that they  are easily frightened about their husbands.
it is  carburetted hydrogen gas, and is cooled from a soft shale or slate, which is  sometimes bituminous, and contains more or less carbonate of lime.
then here is myself, who am likewise a queer character in my way, and have  come to spend a week or two with my friend of half a lifetime,--the longest  space, probably, that we are ever destined to spend together; for fate seems  preparing changes for both of us.
at the close of the revolution, when the pepperell and  sparhawk property was confiscated, this plate was sent to the grandson of sir  william, in london.
between the mountains there were gorges, that led the  imagination away into new scenes of wildness.
mr. laighton says that the spy (the boat which went to  the mainland this morning) is now on her return with all her colors set;  and he thinks that pierce is on board, he having sent mr. thaxter to invite him  to come in this boat.
the old dutchman bestowed on everybody the title of  "captain," perhaps because such a title has a great chance of suiting  an american.
how delightfully long the evenings are now!
yet the judge lived to see two of sir william's  grandchildren so reduced that they were to have been numbered among the town's  poor, and were only rescued from this fate by private charity.
the other window is  the one from which mr. emerson, the predecessor of dr. ripley, beheld the first  fight of the revolution,--which he might well do, as the british troops were  drawn up within a hundred yards of the house; and on looking forth just now, i  could still perceive the western abutments of the old bridge, the passage of  which was contested.
all sorts of good eating  may be had there, and a gourmand may feast at what expense he will.
here i am, in my old chamber, where i produced those  stupendous works of fiction which have since impressed the universe with  wonderment and awe!
but when the old general was dead, lady knox (as they called her)  caused them to be prostrated, as they now lie.
at the foundation, there are large  rocks, naturally imbedded in the earth.
i felt as if spirits were there,--or as if these shrubs  had a spiritual life.
he is a singular person,  shrewd, crafty, insinuating, with wonderful tact, seizing on each man by his  manageable point, and using him for his own purpose, often without the man's  suspecting that he is made a tool of; and yet, artificial as his character  would seem to be, his conversation, at least to myself, was full of natural  feeling, the expression of which can hardly be mistaken, and his revelations  with regard to himself had really a great deal of frankness.
one dog, a diminutive little beast, has been taught  to stand on his hind legs, and rub his face with his paw, which he does with an  aspect of much endurance and deprecation.
one,  very fashionable in appearance, with a handsome cane, happened to stop by me  and lift up his foot, and i noticed that the sole of his boot (which was  exquisitely polished) was all worn out.
they were buried where the  massacre took place, and a stone was erected, which (possibly) still remains.
edited by sophia hawthorne.
its refreshment is but another mode of torment.
i do detest all offices,--all, at least, that are held on a political  tenure.
but i was conscious that all this was merely a vision and a fantasy, and that,  in reality, i was not half frozen by the bitter blast, nor tormented by those  grimy coal-heavers, but that i was basking quietly in the sunshine of eternity,  . . .
how  sweet it was to draw near my own home, after having lived homeless in the world  so long! . . .
the mail arrived to-day, but nothing for me.
he might announce his projected library, with me  for the editor, in all the newspapers in the universe; but still i could not be  bound to become the editor, unless by my own act; nor should i have the  slightest scruple in refusing to be so, at the last moment, if he  persisted in treating me with injustice.
the most  curious object in this latter place was the elegant new mansion of ----.
the general character of these  autumnal colors is not gaudy, scarcely gay; there is something too deep and  rich in it: it is gorgeous and magnificent, but with a sobriety diffused.
he thinks, or suggests, that these may be the dragons of  scripture.
then would come the burst of sunshine, making  me feel as if a rainy day were henceforth an impossibility. . . .
they watch and wait a great while for that person to  pass.
he once followed our river down to the merrimack, and thence, i  believe, to newburyport in this little craft.
two or three times a day this quiet is broken by the sudden thunder  from a quarry, where the workmen are blasting rocks; and a peal of thunder  sounds strangely in such a green, sunny, and quiet landscape, with the blue sky  brightening the river.
in the morning i hear him getting up  early, at sunrise or before, humming to himself, scuffling about his chamber  with his thick boots, and at last taking his departure for a solitary ramble  till breakfast.
it was really a pity to take  it down.
in connecticut, and also sometimes in berkshire, the villages are situated  on the most elevated ground that can be found, so that they are visible for  miles around.
the  captain walked the floor, bemoaning himself for a silver watch which he had  lost; the mate, being the only married man, talked about his eunice.
the fish caught were the yellow perch,  which are not esteemed for eating; the white perch, a beautiful, silvery,  round-backed fish, which bites eagerly, runs about with the line while being  pulled up, makes good sport for the angler, and an admirable dish; a great  chub; and three horned pouts, which swallow the hook into their lowest  entrails.
then they colloquied at much length  about the various peculiarities and merits of the new invention.
there were a thousand or two of cattle in the  extensive pens belonging to the tavern-keeper, besides many that were standing  about.
they  were of red freestone, lying horizontally on piles of the granite fragments,  such as are scattered all about.
nevertheless, he made some  touching points.
it were not amiss to introduce  the armed figure of an indian chief, as taking part in the council,--or  standing apart from the english, erect and stern.
the curé of montreux in switzerland, ninety six years old, still  vigorous in mind and body, and able to preach.
the chilliness was not so great  as accompanies a change of wind on the mainland.
four sail-boats are in sight,  motionless on the sea, with the whiteness of their sails reflected in it.
[1852] west newton, april 13th, 1852.--one of the severest  snow-storms of the winter.
nobody of the house being near, he receives no  answer, and repeats impatiently, "i'll go to bed."
in the old burial ground, charter street, a slate gravestone, carved round  the borders, to the memory of "colonel john hathorne, esq.," who died  in 1717.
it is desirable, i  think, that such persons should be permitted to roam through our land of  plenty, scattering the seeds of tenderness and charity, as birds of passage  bear the seeds of precious plants from land to land, without even dreaming of  the office which they perform.
there were as many people as are  usually collected at a muster, or on similar occasions, lounging about, without  any apparent enjoyment; but the observation of this may serve me to make a  sketch of the mode of spending the sabbath by the majority of unmarried, young,  middling-class people, near a great town.
the fanny arrived this forenoon, and sailed again before dinner.
thursday, july 20th.--a drive yesterday afternoon to a  pond in the vicinity of augusta, about nine miles off, to fish for white perch.
the abyssinians, after dressing their hair, sleep with their heads in a  forked stick, in order not to discompose it.
oh  that i could run wild!--that is, that i could put myself into a true relation  with nature, and be on friendly terms with all congenial elements.
another man hoeing up potatoes.
it is said there are plenty of fish in it; but my most  important captures hitherto have been a mud-turtle and an enormous eel.
some of them are of a convenient size for cooking, which might be  practicable by putting in hot stones.
but it is in vain for me to  attempt to describe these autumnal brilliancies, or to convey the impression  which they make on me.
it had a sort of mantle on the head, and a pleasant  expression of countenance.
the farmer is of a much ruder and rougher mould than his brother,--heavier  in frame and mind, and far less cultivated.
the white sails of a ship caught it, and  gleamed brilliant as sunny snow, the hull being scarcely visible, and the sea  around dark; other smaller vessels too, so that they looked like  heavenly-winged things, just alighting on a dismal world.
it makes me shiver to think of  it.
boys gathering walnuts.
in the  second story we have at present fitted up three rooms,--one being our own  chamber, and the opposite one a guest-chamber, which contains the most  presentable of the old doctor's ante-revolutionary furniture.
now, the foliage of the trees being almost  entirely a golden yellow, instead of being full of shadow, the glen is  absolutely full of sunshine, and its depths are more brilliant than the open  plain or the mountain-tops.
against  some of them the earth is heaped up to the roof, or nearly so; and when the  grass has had time to sprout upon them, they will look like small natural  hillocks, or a species of ant-hills,--something in which nature has a  larger share than man.
at the battle of edge hill, october 23, 1642, captain john smith, a soldier  of note, captain lieutenant to lord james stuart's horse, with only a groom,  attacked a parliament officer, three cuirassiers, and three arquebusiers, and  rescued the royal standard, which they had taken and were guarding.
some most secret thing, valued and honored between lovers, to be hung up in  public places, and made the subject of remark by the city,--remarks,  sneers, and laughter.
notwithstanding the unspeakable defilement with which these strange sensualists  spice all their food, they seem to have a quick and delicate sense of smell.
our  road was much of it level; but scooped out among mountains.
anon, with a peculiarly quick  start, he would scramble along the branch, and be lost to sight in another part  of the tree, whence his shrill chatter would again be heard.
he took passage in a  fishing-vessel, the wave, of kittery, for portsmouth; and i know not why, but  there was something that made me smile in his grim and gloomy look, his rusty,  jammed hat, his rough and grisly beard, and in his mode of chewing tobacco,  with much action of the jaws, getting out the juice as largely as possible, as  men always do when disturbed in mind.
about this  time the dinner-bell rang, and i went down without much alacrity, though with a  good appetite enough. . . .
as you walk along, you are preceded by a flock of twenty or thirty beach  birds, which are seeking, i suppose, for food on the margin of the surf, yet  seem to be merely sporting, chasing the sea as it retires, and running up  before the impending wave.
i missed the nearest way, and wandered into  a very secluded portion of the forest; for forest it might justly be called, so  dense and sombre was the shade of oaks and pines.
he began to work, and we  talked in an idle and desultory way,--neither of us feeling very  conversable,--which he attributed to the atmosphere, it being a bright,  westwindy, bracing day.
mr.  laighton has seen whales off the island,--both on the eastern side and between  it and the mainland; once a great crowd of them, as many as fifty.
this vine climbs around a young  maple-tree, which has now assumed the yellow leaf.
one asked,-- "is she your daughter?" "why, a little nearer than that, i calkilate," said the poor  devil.
it is summer, and not winter, that steals away mortal life.
and  now he was in search of her, intending, doubtless, to do his best to get her  out of her troubles, and then to take her back to his home.
mother  hinted an apprehension that poor baby would be spoilt, whereupon i irreverently  observed that, having spoiled her own three children, it was natural for her to  suppose that all other parents would do the same; when she averred that it was  impossible to spoil such children as e---- and i, because she had never been  able to do anything with us. . . .
there is little  joe capering across the street to join two or three boys who are playing in a  wagon.
this morning there have been two boat-loads of visitors from rye.
occasionally, a lady's figure, either seated or appearing with a flitting grace,  or dimly manifest farther within the obscurity of the room.
i saw also a long, flat-bottomed boat go up the  river, with a brisk wind, and against a strong stream.
as for myself, i am little other than a cloud  at such seasons, but such persons contrive to make me a sunny one, shining all  through me.
usually i discern a fragrant white lily, here and there  along the shore, growing, with sweet prudishness, beyond the grasp of mortal  arm.
the difference that exists in the personal aspect and  dress, and no less in the manners, of people in this quarter of the city, as  compared with other parts of it.
here the river, in the  distance of a few hundred yards, makes a descent of about a hundred and fifty  feet over a prodigious bed of rock.
graylock, or saddleback, is quite a respectable mountain; and i  suppose the former name has been given to it because it often has a gray cloud,  or lock of gray mist, upon its head.
when i throw an apple among them, they scramble with one  another for the prize, and the successful one scampers away to eat it at  leisure.
then betook myself to the german phrase-book.
also a steward and butler.
saturday august 12th.--left augusta a week ago this  morning for ----.
continued our ringing and snorting; and by and by something was seen to mingle  with the fog that obscured everything beyond fifty yards from us.
after i was fairly awake this  morning, i felt very bright and airy, and was glad that i had been compelled to  snatch two additional hours of existence from annihilation.
i have  never elsewhere had such an opportunity to observe how much more beautiful  reflection is than what we call reality.
i was aware that it must be intensely hot in the midst of  the city; but there was only a short space of uncomfortable heat in my region,  half-way towards the centre of the harbor; and almost all the time there was a  pure and delightful breeze, fluttering and palpitating, sometimes shyly kissing  my brow, then dying away, and then rushing upon me in livelier sport, so that i  was fain to settle my straw hat more tightly upon my head.
the hills which border these meadows are wide swells of land, or  long and gradual ridges, some of them densely covered with wood.
the green is deeper in consequence of the  recent rain.
for their own sakes they ought at least to wait till the  squashes are better grown.
i could see every  object in a dim, gray light,--our chamber, the study, all in confusion; the  parlor, with the fragments of that abortive breakfast on the table, and the  precious silver forks, and the old bronze image, keeping its solitary stand  upon the mantel-piece.
one little boy bought a  shaving-box, perhaps meaning to speculate upon it.
he seems to be an honest man enough, with an intelligent face, and  sensible in his talk, but not a gentleman, wearing a somewhat shabby brown coat  and mixed pantaloons, being ill-shaven, and apparently not well acquainted with  the customs of a fashionable hotel.
yet not the lowest; for after the amputation  of his arm, being advised by divers persons to throw himself upon the public  for support, he told them that, even if he should lose his other arm, he would  still be able to support himself and a servant.
there is still a shaggy  richness on the hill-sides.
sometimes i  could see him sitting on an impending bough, with his tail over his back,  looking down pryingly upon me.
if at any time there should seem to be an  expression unintelligible from one soul to another, it is best not to strive to  interpret it in earthly language, but wait for the soul to make itself  understood; and, were we to wait a thousand years, we need deem it no more time  than we can spare. . . .
what hidden virtue is in these things, that it is  granted them to sow themselves with the wind, and to grapple the earth with  this immitigable stubbornness, and to flourish in spite of obstacles, and never  to suffer blight beneath any sun or shade, but always to mock their enemies  with the same wicked luxuriance?
if they were to undergo such a  transformation, they would surely arrange themselves in funeral procession, and  go sadly along, with their purple and scarlet and golden garments trailing  over the withering grass.
i again set to work  on tieck's tale, and worried through several pages; and then, at half past  four, threw open one of the western windows of my study, and sallied forth to  take the sunshine.
that will be a  pity.
but if he have  vivacity enough to pervade all his earthiness, and bodily force enough to move  lightly under it, and if it be not too unmeasured to have a trimness and  briskness in it, then it is good and wholesome to look at him.
well, having made up my bunch of flowers, i return home with them. . . .
a bottle of champagne  was quaffed at the bar.
this man was a pedlar in quite a small way,  making but a narrow circuit, and carrying no more than an open basket full of  essences; but some go out with wagon-loads.
i was  interested--there being a drunken negro ascending the meeting-house steps, and  near him three or four well-dressed and decent negro wenches--to see the look  of scorn and shame and sorrow and painful sympathy which one of them assumed at  this disgrace of her color.
i have been rambling over the southern part of the island, and looking at  the traces of habitations there.
we ascended into the lantern, which is eighty-seven feet high.
there is a scattering of clouds about the sky; but the atmosphere  is singularly clear, and we can see several hills of the interior, the  cloud-like white mountains, and, along the shore, the long white beaches and  the dotted dwellings, with great distinctness.
graylock had a cloud on his head this morning, the base of a heavy white  cloud.
i have not yet taken my first lesson in agriculture, except that i went to  see our cows foddered, yesterday afternoon.
platt, the  driver, a friend of mine, talked familiarly about many matters, intermixing his  talk with remarks on his team and addresses to the beasts composing it, who  were three mares, and a horse on the near wheel,--all bays.
but the clouds intercept the sun again,  and lo! old autumn appears, clad in his cloak of russet-brown.
the same kind of enclosure is prevalent on star  island,--each small proprietor fencing off his little bit of tillage or grass.
i found a good deal of  enjoyment, too, in the busy scene around me; for several vessels were  disgorging themselves (what an unseemly figure is this, "disgorge,"  quotha, as if the vessel were sick) on the wharf, and everybody seemed to be  working with might and main.
there is also a sour-looking, unwholesome boy, the son of  this man, whose voice is querulous and ill-natured, precisely suited to his  aspect.
once in a while, indeed, there is a  gleam of sky along the horizon, or a half-cheerful, half-sullen lighting up of  the atmosphere; the rain-drops cease to patter down, except when the trees  shake off a gentle shower; but soon we hear the broad, quiet, slow, and sure  recommencement of the rain.
i found a small turtle by the roadside, where he had crept to warm himself  in the genial sunshine.
as i was  walking home, an old man came down the mountain-path behind me in a wagon, and  gave me a drive to the village.
among the heaps of sea-weed there were sometimes small  pieces of painted wood, bark, and other driftage.
as the funeral passed  though the village street, a few men formed a short procession in front of the  coffin, among whom were orrin s---- and i.
birds flutter and sing among these trees.
even perfume, which otherwise is the soul and spirit of a flower,  may be spared when it arrays itself in this scarlet glory.
a woman, tempted to be false to her husband,  apparently through mere whim,--or a young man to feel an instinctive thirst for  blood, and to commit murder.
they, perhaps, to be described as working out this  knowledge by their sympathy with what they saw, and by their own feelings.
i went to them, and inquired if i were in massachusetts  or vermont, and asked for some water.
we met like old friends, and conversed almost as freely as we used  to do in college days, twelve years ago and more.
september 4th.--i made a voyage in the pond-lily all by  myself yesterday morning, and was much encouraged by my success in causing the  boat to go whither i would.
he has met with  good success in life, in spite of circumstance, having struggled upward against  bitter opposition, by the force of his own abilities, to be a member of  congress, after having been for some time the leader of his party in the state  legislature.
august 27th.--i have been stationed all day at the end of  long wharf, and i rather think that i had the most eligible situation of  anybody in boston.
i get along admirably, and am at this  moment superintending the corned beef, which has been on the fire, as it  appears to me, ever since the beginning of time, and shows no symptom of being  done before the crack of doom.
he takes a queer position sometimes,--queer for his figure  particularly,--straddling across a chair, facing the back, with his arms  resting thereon, and his chin on them, for the benefit of conversing closely  with some one.
she washes once a week, and  may be seen standing over her tub, with her handkerchief somewhat displaced  from her white neck, because it is hot.
great uprooted trees, adhering midway down a  precipice of earth, hung with their tops downward.
beneath some of the large trees we saw the remains of circular seats,  whereupon the family used to sit before the former house was burned down.
before he went,  he offered a wager of "a drink of rum or a chaw of tobacco" that he  did not succeed.
orrin s---- smokes a pipe, as do many of the guests.
and i listen and listen and listen with a patience for which, in spite of all  my sins, i firmly expect to be admitted to the mansions of the blessed.
it contained three coffins, all  with white mould on their tops: one, a small child's, rested upon another, and  the other was on the opposite side of the tomb, and the lid was considerably  displaced.; but the tomb being dark, i could see neither corpse nor skeleton.
yet b---- undoubtedly has this right; and it  is not a little striking to see how quietly these people contemplate the  probability of his exercising it,--resolving, indeed, to burrow in their holes  as long as may be, yet caring about as little for an ejectment as those who  could find a tenement anywhere, and less.
is not this consummate discretion?
graylock is properly the name for the highest  elevation.
i  brought it here rather than keep it in my chamber, because i never sit there,  and it gives me many pleasant emotions to look round and be surprised--for it  is often a surprise, though i well know that it is there--by something  connected with the idea
mine host being gone to portland, the  stranger was directed to the bar-keeper, who stood at the door.
april 11th.--i meditated accordingly, but without any  very wonderful result.
the opposite room has been  metamorphosed into a store-room.
remain here, he being one of the few persons, i think, with whom to hold  intercourse is like hearing the wind among the boughs of a forest-tree; and,  with all this wild freedom, there is high and classic cultivation in him too. .
an innate perception  and reflection of truth give the only sort of originality that does not  finally grow intolerable.
mrs. thaxter tells me that there are several burial-places on this island;  but nobody has been buried here since the revolution.
the whole landscape is now covered with this indescribable  pomp; it is discerned on the uplands afar off; and blue hill in milton, at the  distance of several miles, actually glistens with rich, dark light,--no, not  glistens, nor gleams,--but perhaps to say glows subduedly will be a truer  expression for it.
the white  village, at a distance on the left, appears to be embosomed among wooded hills.
so i arose, and began this  record in the journal, almost at the commencement of which i was interrupted by  a visit from mr. thoreau, who came to return a book, and to announce his  purpose of going to reside at staten island, as private tutor in the family of  mr. emerson's brother.
we had some conversation upon this subject, and upon the  spiritual advantages of change of place, and upon the "dial," and  upon mr. alcott, and other kindred or concatenated subjects.
at a distance it sparkled bright and blue in the breeze and sun.
it is strange how little  impertinence depends on what is actually said, but rather on the manner and  motives of saying it.
i left mr. thompson before ten, and took my way though the sloppy streets  to the athenæum, where i looked over the newspapers and periodicals, and  found two of my old stories ("peter goldthwaite" and the "shaker  bridal") published as original in the last "london  metropolitan!"
great toadstools were under the trees, and  some small ones as yellow and almost the size of a half-broiled yolk of an egg.
i told mr. ripley that i could not spend the  winter at the farm, and that it was quite uncertain whether i returned in the  spring, . . .
the indians came off on a depredating excursion, and she fled from them with a  child, and hid herself in this hole, which is formed by several great  rocks being lodged so as to cover one of the fissures which are common along  these shores.
at the foot you could spy, a little way within the darksome shade, the roots  and branches of the trees; but soon all sight was obstructed amidst the trunks.
at first it  seemed only like a denser wreath of fog; it darkened still more, till it took  the aspect of sails; then the hull of a small schooner came beating down  towards us, the wind laying her over towards us, so that her gunwale was almost  in the water, and we could see the whole of her sloping deck.
one interesting trait in them is their  perfect independence of character.
oh, labor is the  curse of the world, and nobody can meddle with it without becoming  proportionably brutified!
think of driving a stagecoach through the clouds!
the different characters  of female countenances during the day,--mirthful and mischievous, slyly  humorous, stupid, looking genteel generally, but when they speak often  betraying plebeianism by the tones of their voices.
meantime my health is perfect, and my spirits buoyant, even in the gold-mine.
landscape now wholly autumnal.
a young man to win the love of a girl, without any serious intentions, and  to find that in that love, which might have been the greatest blessing of his  life, he had conjured up a spirit of mischief which pursued him throughout his  whole career,--and this without any revengeful purposes on the part of the  deserted girl.
what have these bright strangers to do on long wharf, where there are no  flowers nor any green thing,--nothing but brick storehouses, stone piers, black  ships, and the bustle of toilsome men, who neither look up to the blue sky, nor  take note of these wandering gems of the air?
he himself contemplated a trip  westward, in which case he would send on quantities of his wares ahead to  different stations.
talks of the  comparative price of living, of clothes, etc., here and in europe.
one crag, with a narrow ridge, which  might be climbed without much difficulty, protrudes from the middle of the  rock, and divides the fall.
when i last saw them, they looked as heroically  regardless of the stains and soils incident to our profession as i did when i  emerged from the gold-mine, . . .
i am half convinced that the reflection is indeed the  reality, the real thing which nature imperfectly images to our grosser sense.
being referred to the blacksmith, who owned  one of these mills, the stranger said that he had come from vermont to learn  about the matter.
to  imagine such circumstances.
even my custom house experience was not  such a thraldom and weariness; my mind and heart were free.
"an old withered and wilted apple," quoth uncle john,  "keeps a good while."
september 8th.--last evening we could hear the roaring of  the beaches at hampton and rye, nine miles off.
the pond itself was  beautiful and refreshing to my soul, after such long and exclusive familiarity  with our tawny and sluggish river.
he was very riotous in the crowd, elbowing, thrusting, seizing  hold of people; and at last a ring was formed, and a regular wrestling-match  commenced between him and a farmer-looking man.
the spring, no doubt, comes onward with fleeter  footsteps, because winter has lingered so long that, at best, she can hardly  retrieve half the allotted term of her reign.
amid these fresh creations, we see  others that have already run their course, and have done with warmth and  sunshine,--the hoary periwigs, i mean, of dandelions gone to seed.
i  kept the deck all night.
neither is it without a degree and kind of picturesqueness, both in  its nearness and in the distance, when a blue gleam from its surface, among the  green meadows and woods, seems like an open eye in earth's countenance.
a cat, too,  and perhaps a dog, would be desirable additions to our household.
then, in the yard, there are the piles of firewood,  which i ought to have sawed and thrown into the shed long since, but which will  cumber the earth, i fear, till june, at least.
before retiring, he goes to b----'s bedside, and, if  he finds him awake, stands talking french, expressing his dislike of the  americans,--"je hais, je hais les yankees!"--thus giving vent to the  stifled bitterness of the whole day.
after our return, the little minister set off for his eighteen miles'  journey across the mountains; and i was occupied the rest of the forenoon with  an affair of stealing,--a woman of forty or upwards being accused of stealing a  needle-case and other trifles from a factory-girl at a boarding-house.
there are roses and tulips and honeysuckles, with their  sweet perfume; in short, the splendor of a more gorgeous climate than ours  might be brought into the picture.
he  told me the place where he was born, directing me to it by pointing to a wreath  of mist which lay on the side of a mountain ridge, which he termed "the  smoke yonder."
i scarcely remember a scene of more complete and lovely seclusion than  the passage of the river through this wood.
who  should it be but ben b----, with a very peculiar and mysterious grin upon his  face!
the spy came to-day, with more passengers of no particular character.
there is much exaggeration  and rattle-brain about this fellow.
some common quality or circumstance that should bring together people the  most unlike in all other respects, and make a brotherhood and sisterhood of  them,--the rich and the proud finding themselves in the same category with the  mean and the despised.
scenes and characters--a young country fellow, twenty or thereabouts,  decently dressed, pained with the toothache.
we talked of brook farm, and the singular  moral aspects which it presents, and the great desirability that its progress  and developments should be observed and its history written; also of c. n----,  who, it appears, is passing through a new moral phasis.
they appear to take much interest in  one another; but there is always a degree of caution between two strange dogs  when they meet.
i stand and look into its  depths at various points, and hear the roar of the stream reëchoing up.
there are multitudes of sheep among the hills, and they appear very tame  and gentle; though sometimes, like the wicked, they "flee when no man  pursueth."
friday, july 28th.--we had green corn for dinner  yesterday, and shall have some more to-day, not quite full grown, but  sufficiently so to be palatable.
they are much more easily driven on  rainy days than on fair ones.
august 7th.--fourier states that, in the progress of the  world, the ocean is to lose its saltness, and acquire the taste of a peculiarly  flavored lemonade.
yet words are not without their use even for purposes of  explanation,--but merely for explaining outward acts and all sorts of external  things, leaving the soul's life and action to explain itself in its own way.
tuesday, august 1st.--there having been a heavy rain  yesterday, a nest of chimney-swallows was washed down the chimney into the  fireplace of one of the front rooms.
a piece of water, extending towards the west, between high  banks, caught the reflection, and appeared like a sheet of brighter and  more glistening gold than the sky which made it bright.
rubicund faces; breaths odorous of  brandy-and-water.
beyond the hills it looked almost as if the blue ocean might be  seen.
two or three of  the trees were actually dressed in their coats of many colors,--the real  scarlet and gold which they wear before they put on mourning.
the wind sported with her gown, and blew her veil across her face, and seemed  to make game of her, though on a nearer view she looked like a sad old  creature, with a pale, thin countenance, and somewhat of a wild and wandering  expression.
the lighthouse island  would be difficult of access in a rough sea, the shore being so rocky.
at the tremont, young gentlemen with long earlocks,--straw hats, light, or  dark-mixed.--the theatre being closed, the play-bills of many nights ago are  posted up against its walls.
i don't think it can be very good. . . .
there was a methodist quarterly meeting here, and a love-feast.
[1844] salem, april 14th, 1844.--. . .
old age has a  singular aspect in lilacs, rose-bushes, and other ornamental shrubs.
the egyptian is  so of the cavern and mound; the chinese, of the tent; the gothic, of  overarching trees; the greek, of a cabin.
at about two o'clock, up rose  the morning-star, a round, red, fiery ball, very comparable to the moon at  its rising, and, getting upward, it shone marvelously bright, and threw its  long reflection into the sea, like the moon and the two light-houses.
the frogs have begun their concerts, though not as yet with a full  choir.
leo, i regret to say, has fallen under suspicion of a very great  crime,--nothing less than murder,--a fowl crime it may well be called, for it  is the slaughter of one of mr. hayward's hens.
in fact, there is  no such thing as a true portrait; they are all delusions, and i never saw  any two alike, nor hardly any two that i would recognize merely by the  portraits themselves, as being of the same man.
examination and exhibition of the boys, little tanned agriculturists.
all the miserable on earth are to be invited,--as  the drunkard, the bereaved parent, the ruined merchant, the broken-hearted  lover, the poor widow, the old man and woman who have outlived their  generation, the disappointed author, the wounded, sick, and broken soldier, the  diseased person, the infidel, the man with an evil conscience, little orphan  children or children of neglectful parents, shall be admitted to the table, and  many others.
the great accumulation, in its downward course, hit  against a tree that stood in mid-current, and caused it to quiver like a reed;
it was from the eastward.
and so many stones protruded from the  ground, that it was wonderful how space and depth enough was found between them  to cover the dead.
she was unwilling to die, because she had no friends to meet her  in the other world.
a  breeze cannot stir without thrilling me with the breath of autumn, and i behold  its pensive glory in the far, golden gleams among the long shadows of the  trees.
for the last two or three days, i have  found scattered stalks of the cardinal-flower, the gorgeous scarlet of which it  is a joy even to remember.
i am his guest, and my presence  makes no alteration in his way of life.
the time would be absolutely thrown away so far  as regards any literary labor to be performed. . . .
his way of raising money was to give a mortgage on his estate of a  hundred thousand dollars at a time, and receive that nominal amount in goods,  which he would immediately sell at auction for perhaps thirty thousand.
he has a round, jolly face,  always mirthful and humorous and shrewd, and the air of a man well to do, and  well respected, yet not caring much about the opinions of men, because his  independence is sufficient to itself.
they arrived yesterday about noon.
when we had taken our departure, orrin remarked,  "how faint-hearted these old fellows are!"
as the architecture of a country always follows the earliest structures,  american architecture should be a refinement of the log-house.
the landlord of the tavern keeping his eye on a man whom he suspected of an  intention to bolt.
mushrooms, by the way,  spring up where the roots of an old tree are hidden under the ground.
a negro  footman and a french waiting-maid might be in attendance.
the lover, two days afterwards, in the streets of portsmouth, was  sun-struck, and fell down dead.
other  oaks, here and there, have a few green leaves or boughs among their rustling  and rugged shade.
i imagine that she must have had a better dress at home, but  had come to the theatre extemporaneously, and, not going to the dress circle,  considered her ordinary gown good enough for the occasion.
and sometimes dimly shaping out scenes of a  tale.
judge upham observed that this superstition was common  in all parts of the country.
the only trees, i think, are two  that mr. laighton has been trying to raise in front of the hotel, the taller of  which looks scarcely so much as ten feet high.
on one side  is the department for chaises and carriages; on the other, the little office  where the books are kept.
he seems to have moulded and shaped himself to his own whims, till  a sort of rough affectation has become thoroughly imbued throughout a kindly  nature.
perhaps you hear the sound of an axe in the woodland; occasionally, the  report of a fowling-piece.
the drovers set out with a large number, and peddle  them along the road till they arrive at brighton with the remainder.
the  expense of converting this quantity into lime is about fifty dollars, and it  sells for twenty-five cents per bushel at the kiln.
and, when i quit this earthly cavern where i am now buried,  nothing will cling to me that ought to be left behind.
the clothes, halter, and gibbs's hair were authentic.
a ground-sparrow's nest in the slope of a bank, brought to view by mowing  the grass, but still sheltered and comfortably hidden by a blackberry-vine  trailing over it.
some people were putting up paintings in one division of the room; but i  had the other all to myself.
if a female  acquaintance happens to pass, he touches his jockey cap, and bows,  accomplishing this courtesy with a certain smartness that proves him a man of  the world.
on her return, she sat down in a  thoughtful and despondent attitude, looking very sad, but one of the loveliest  objects that ever were seen.
the house was  built in 1751.
as  you approach, one after another, with loud cawing, flaps his wings and throws  himself upon the air.
lobelia, a pink flower, growing in the woods.
near the house are the remains of a covered way, by which  the french once attempted to gain admittance into the fort; but the work caved  in and buried a good many of them, and the rest gave up the siege.
the sky, and the clustering foliage on  either hand, and the effect of sunlight as it found its way through the shade,  giving lightsome hues in contrast with the quiet depth of the prevailing  tints,--all these seemed unsurpassably beautiful when beheld in upper air.
it is not properly a  cave, but a fissure in a huge ledge of marble, through which a stream has been  for ages forcing its way, and has left marks of its gradually wearing power on  the tall crags, having made curious hollows from the summit down to the level  which it has reached at the present day.
they are allowed so many hours and minutes  to do their work, and their desire to go as fast as possible, combined with  that of keeping their horses in good order, produces about a right medium.
they  remove into it, and find there a darksome servant, whom they are forbidden by  will to turn away.
mr. thoreau has twice listened to the music of the  spheres, which, for our private convenience, we have packed into a musical-box.
and  sometimes it seemed as if i were already in the grave, with only life enough to  be chilled and benumbed.
subject for a picture,--satan's reappearance in pandemonium, shining out  from a mist with "shape star-bright.
apple-trees, and all  fruit-trees, have a domestic character which brings them into relationship with  man.
the effect is, that every tree in the wood and every bush  among the shrubbery has a separate existence, since, confusedly intermingled,  each wears its peculiar color, instead of being lost in the universal emerald  of summer.
lord chancellor clare, towards the close of his life, went to a village  church, where he might not be known, to partake of the sacrament.
october 8th.--another gloomy day, lowering with portents  of rain close at hand.
in the evening, a portly old commissioner, a cheerful man enough, was  sitting reading the newspaper in the parlor, holding the candle between the  newspaper and his eyes,--its rays glittering on his silver-bowed spectacles and  silvery hair.
and what is there to write about?
six were taken in pownall last year, and two hundred foxes.
the tavern at shelburne falls was about the worst i ever saw,--there being  hardly anything to eat, at least nothing of the meat kind.
early in the day  chambermaids are seen hanging the bedclothes out of the upper windows; at the  window of the basement of the same house, i see a woman ironing.
then, as for his printing  "grandfather's chair," i have the copyright in my own hands, and  could and would prevent the sale, or make him account to me for the profits, in  case of need.
the young girls, her sisters or cousins,  and mr. thaxter's sister, sat round her, babbling cheerfully, and singing; and  they were so merry that it did not seem as if there could be an incurably sick  one in the midst of them.
the captain characterizes percival as the roughest old  devil that ever was in his manners, but a kind, good-hearted man at bottom.
he was therefore induced to employ  women at a shilling to teach them on sundays, and thus sunday-schools were  established.
yellow butterflies flutter about in the  sunshine, singly, by pairs, or more, and are wafted on the gentle gales.
sometimes he  would endeavor to contribute his share to the general amusement,--as by  growling comically, to provoke and mystify a dog; and by some bashful and  half-apropos observations.
at  many of the country shops he would get out, and show his unwelcome visage.
september 14th.--another of the brightest of sunny  mornings.
it is extremely doubtful whether mr. ripley will succeed in locating his  community on this farm.
one knows that the  water must be cold, and one shivers a little at the sight of it; and yet the  grass about the pool may be of the deepest green, and the sun may be shining  into it.
it is like a gleam of sunlight.
he had come over the high, solitary  mountain, where for miles there could hardly be a soul to hear his music.
in the opposite quarter of the heavens, a rose-light was reflected,  whence i know not, which colored the clouds around the moon, then well above  the horizon, so that the nearly round and silver moon appeared strangely among  roseate clouds,--sometimes half obscured by them.
i intend to adhere to my former plan of writing one or  two mythological story-books, to be published under o'sullivan's auspices in  new york,--which is the only place where books can be published with a chance  of profit.
he appears quite to have given up any dreams of that  kind now.
there is also a beautiful view from the mansion, adown the kennebec.
they are respectful to gentlemen.
fellow-passenger, a boston dry-goods dealer, travelling to collect bills.
i bathed in the stream in this old, secluded spot, which i frequent for  that purpose.
the trees are  not all fruit-trees.
to symbolize moral or spiritual disease by disease of the body; as  thus,--when a person committed any sin, it might appear in some form on the  body,--this to be wrought out.
a frank,  free, mirthful daughter of the landlady, about twenty-four years old, between  whom and myself there immediately sprang up a flirtation, which made us both  feel rather melancholy when we parted on tuesday morning.
i threw down my pen, and set out on the  daily journey to the village.
he is a very singular person, with an originality in  all his notions;--not that nobody has ever had such before, but that he has  thought them out for himself.
one could hardly stir a step without running upon the horns of one  dilemma or another, in the shape of ox, cow, bull, or ram.
sometimes he would pretend  that a person had bid, either by word or wink and raised a laugh thus; never  losing his self-possession, nor getting out of humor.
it is laughable, after i have got out of the  moil, to think how miserably it affected me for the moment; but i had  better learn patience betimes, for there are many such bushy tracts in this  vicinity, on the margins of meadows, and my walks will often lead me into them.
the scenery is of a mild and placid  character, with nothing bold in its aspect; but i think its beauties will grow  upon us, and make us love it the more, the longer we live here.
but, taking the river for all in all, i can find nothing more fit to  compare it with than one of the half-torpid earthworms which i dig up for bait.
there the surf and spray break gallantly,--white-sheeted forms rising up  all at once, and hovering a moment in the air.
a missionary to the heathen in a great city, to describe his labors in the  manner of a foreign mission.
there were two men who seemed  to have some connection with these girls,--one an elderly, gray-headed  personage, well-stricken in liquor, talking loudly and foolishly, but  good-humoredly; the other a young man, sober, and doing his best to keep his  elder friend quiet.
it has not affected my whole frame, but took entire possession of my  head, as being the weakest and most vulnerable part.
it impressed me as if the bird had been a spiritual visitant, so strange  was it that this little wild thing should seem to ask our hospitality.
i, on the other  hand, do nothing which i should not do if the affair with--were at an end; for,  if i write a book, it will be just as available for some other publisher as for  him.
owing to this torpor of the stream,  it has nowhere a bright, pebbly shore, nor is there so much as a narrow strip  of glistening sand in any part of its course; but it slumbers along between  broad meadows, or kisses the tangled grass of mowing-fields and pastures, or  bathes the overhanging boughs of elder-bushes and other water-loving plants.
in some places the crust of frozen snow made a bridge  quite over the brook; so that you only knew it was there by its brawling sound  beneath.
he is certainly a man of  excellent taste and admirable behavior.
and, before concluding the  bargain, i have promised george hillard to consult him, and let him do the  business.
he is an editor, and i suppose printer, of a country paper.
there never was a more sombre aspect of all external nature.
a pear-tree,  likewise, is maturing a generous burden of small, sweet fruit, which will  require to be eaten at about the same time as the peaches.
this notch is  otherwise called the bellowspipe, being a long and narrow valley, with a steep  wall on either side.
methinks  this is characteristic of american life,--these rough, weather-beaten,  hard-handed, farmer-bred students.
i should like it well,  if my circumstances and other considerations would permit.
september 16th.--. . .
may 7th.--i did not go out yesterday afternoon, but after  tea
after a while, we are rowed ashore with them, in  the same boat.
monday, july 31st.--nothing remarkable to record.
after all, the greatest interest of these vegetables does  not seem to consist in their being articles of food.
since he kept the  light, he has lost two wives,--the first a young creature whom he used to leave  alone upon this desolate rock, and the gloom and terror of the situation were  probably the cause of her death.
the semblance of a human face to be formed on the side of a mountain, or in  the fracture of a small stone, by alusus naturæ.
the islanders stared with great curiosity at pierce.
the sunshine can scarcely  be too burning for my taste; but i am no enemy to summer showers.
what moral could be drawn from this?
last evening, after the copious showers of the preceding two  days, it was worthy of early june, or, indeed, of a world just created.
he himself was probably a horse-jockey.
our drive to augusta, six or seven miles, was very pleasant, a heavy rain  having fallen during the night, and laid the oppressive dust of the day before.
"now we are to receive a lesson," said h----,  and the remark was particularly apropos to the large wisdom of the stranger's  tone and air.
i feel as if i could run a  hundred miles at a stretch, and jump over all the houses that happen to be in  my way. . . .
"did you  hit it?" rejoined the yankee.
then i would watch every inch and hair's-breadth of  the progress of the season; and not a leaf should put itself forth, in the  vicinity of our old mansion, without my noting it.
i have, however, no  love of secrecy and darkness.
i hear the creaking of the cider-press; the patient  horse going round and round, perhaps thirsty, to make the liquor which he  never can enjoy.
saddleback often looks a huge, black  mass,--black-green, or black-blue.
in pleasant days, the chief event of the afternoon, and the  happiest one of the day, is our walk. . . .
the  visitors,--a half-bumpkin, half country-squire-like man, who has something of a  knowing air, and yet looks and listens with a good deal of simplicity and  faith, smiling between whiles; a mechanic of the town; several decent-looking  girls and women, who eye ellen herself with more interest than the other  figures,--women having much curiosity about such ladies; a gentlemanly sort of  person, who looks somewhat ashamed of himself for being there, and glances at  me knowingly, as if to intimate that he was conscious of being out of place; a  boy or two, and myself, who examine wax faces and faces of flesh with equal  interest.
here is an englishman,--a thorough-going tory and monarchist,--upholding  everything english, government, people, habits, education, manufactures, modes  of living, and expressing his dislike of all americanisms,--and this in a  quiet, calm, reasonable way, as if it were quite proper to live in a country  and draw his subsistence from it, and openly abuse it.
it is not forty years since this house was built, and knox was in his glory;
testament,--how "they parted his garments among them, and for his vesture  did cast lots."
along our road we passed villages, and often factories, the machinery  whirring, and girls looking out of the windows at the stage, with heads averted  from their tasks, but still busy.
also, dandies from the city, corseted and buckramed, who  had come to see the humors of brighton fair.
why  should they meet destruction from the radiance that proves the salvation of  other beings?
then he keeps quoting innumerable  scraps of latin, and makes classical allusions, while we are turning over the  gold-mine; and the contrast between the nature of his employment and the  character of his thoughts is irresistibly ludicrous.
the inner room is hung round with pictures and engravings of various  kinds,--a painting of a premium ox, a lithograph of a turk and of a  turkish lady, . . .
i could hardly convince them that una had  begun to smile so soon.
there is a tomb of the lyndes, with a slab of slate affixed to the brick  masonry on one side, and carved with a coat of arms.
my potato-crop  promises well; and, on the whole, my first independent experiment of  agriculture is quite a successful one.
irishmen and canadians toil at work on it, and the echoes of their  hammering and of the voices come across the river and up to this window.
a common fellow, a carpenter, who, on the strength  of political partisanship, asked b----'s assistance in cutting out great  letters from play-bills in order to print "martin van buren forever"  on a flag; but b---- refused.
i traversed most of the by-ways which offered themselves to me; and,  passing through one in which there was a double line of grass between the  wheel-tracks and that of the horses' feet, i came to where had once stood a  farmhouse, which appeared to have been recently torn down.
you hardly know whether either of them be alive or dead; but still, in  the course of time, they both manage to creep away.
when a traveller is starting  from the door, his dog often gets in front of the horse, placing his forefeet  down, looking the horse in the face, and barking loudly; then, as the horse  comes on, running a little farther, and repeating the process; and this he does  in spite of his master's remonstrances, till, the horse being fairly started,  the dog follows on quietly.
i then turned about,  and was shortly overtaken by an old yeoman in a chaise, who kindly offered me a  drive, and soon set me down in the village.
i have almost forgotten the wood-paths and shady places which i used to  know
they seem to be of some  kindred to the crimson and gold cloud-islands.
since the last  date, we have paid a visit of nine days to boston and salem, whence we returned  a week ago yesterday.
a child of rev. e. p---- was threatened with total blindness.
he imports his clothes  from england, and expatiates on the superiority of english boots, hats,  cravats, etc.
by and by a gentleman came to see him, and he talked with  him cheerfully.
"friend," says one man, "how is the  tide now?"--this being important to the onward progress.
once in a while, i hear a door slam like a thunder-clap; but she  never shows her face, nor speaks a word, unless to announce a visitor or  deliver a letter.
the aspect of the solitude at noon was peculiarly impressive,  there being a cloudless sunshine, no wind, no rustling of the forest-leaves, no  waving of the boughs, no noise but the brawling and babbling of the stream,  making its way among the stones, and pouring in a little cataract round one  side of the mouldering dam.
this morning i arose at milking-time in  good trim for work; and we have been employed partly in an augean labor of  clearing out a wood-shed, and partly in carting loads of oak.
if we consider the lives of the lower animals, we shall see in them a  close parallelism to those of mortals,--toil, struggle, danger, privation,  mingled with glimpses of peace and ease; enmity, affection, a continual hope of  bettering themselves, although their objects lie at less distance before them  than ours can do.
it was an old man, with a full, gray-bearded countenance,  and mr. leach exclaimed, "ah, here's the old dutchman again!"
i have no faith  whatever that people are raised to the seventh heaven, or to any heaven at all,  or that they gain any insight into the mysteries of life beyond death, by means  of this strange science.
november 8th.--i am sorry that our journal has fallen so  into neglect; but i see no chance of amendment.
"when he  sees a dog that's anything near his size, he's apt to growl a  little,"--tiger had the marks of a battle on him,--"yet
vessels flitting past; great  ships, with intricacy of rigging and various sails; schooners, sloops, with  their one or two broad sheets of canvas: going on different tacks, so that the  spectator might think that there was a different wind for each vessel, or that  they scudded across the sea spontaneously, whither their own wills led them.
the cattle,  brought from a hundred separate farms, or rather a thousand, seemed to agree  very well together, not quarrelling in the least.
last evening we (mr., mrs., and miss thaxter) sat and talked of ghosts and  kindred subjects; and they told me of the appearance of a little old woman in a  striped gown, that had come into that house a few months ago.
william allen had come to buy four little pigs to take the places of four  who have now grown large at our farm, and are to be fatted and killed within a  few weeks.
quiet as the prospect is, there is a continual and near thunder of wheels  proceeding from washington street.
yet it was  discovered that this man had been the mover of intrigues by which men in  business had been ruined, and their property absorbed, none knew how or by  whom; love-affairs had been broken off, and much other mischief done; and for  years he was not in the least suspected.
this happened, i think, in 1846.
some moderns to build a fire on ararat with the remnants of the ark.
it was  venus, and the brightest star i ever beheld; it was in the northeast.
now, as to the affair with ----, i  fully confide in your opinion that he intends to make an unequal bargain with  poor, simple, innocent me,--never having doubted this myself.
he did not seem old, but like a middle-aged man, who  had been preserved in some dark and cobwebby corner for a great while.
pleasant it is, too, to behold a little flat-bottomed skiff gliding over its  bosom, which yields lazily to the stroke of the paddle, and allows the boat to  go against its current almost as freely as with it.
this to be done  without caricature, perhaps with a quiet humor interfused, but the prevailing  impression to be a sad one.
the dew damped the road, and formed many-colored  drops in the grass.
it was margaret herself.
some of the dead bodies were found on malaga, others on  various parts of the next island.
everything was in keeping.
the deceased should have been a jolly  bottleman; but the epitaph indicated nothing of the kind.
i recollect  nothing so well as the aspect of some fringed gentians, which we saw growing by  the roadside, and which were so beautiful that i longed to turn back and pluck  them.
they were at first full of  questions, and greatly interested in whatever was going forward; but anon the  shopkeeper began to grow, first a little, then very sick, till he lay along the  boat, longing, as he afterwards said, for a little fresh water to be drowned  in.
it  seemed as if the world was so glad that this desolate old place, where there  was never to be any more hope and happiness, could not at all lessen the  general effect of joy.
it is worth thinking over and studying out.
i am weary, weary, thrice weary, of waiting so  many ages.
we stopped about an hour at the maverick house, in the sprouting branch  of the city, at east boston,--a stylish house, with doors painted in imitation  of oak; a large bar; bells ringing; the bar-keeper calls out, when a bell  rings, "number --- "; then a waiter replies, "number ---  answered"; and scampers up stairs.
he looks thinner than  ever.
the spy arrived before dinner, with several passengers.
mr.  bradford has been to see us two or three times, . . .
his talk was  chiefly of hotels, and such matters as a man, always travelling, without any  purpose of observation for mental improvement, would be interested in.
chaises  and wagons occasionally go over the road, the riders all giving a passing  glance at the dam, or perhaps alighting to examine it more fully, and at last  departing with ominous shakes of the head as to the result of the enterprise.
the farm boys remain insulated, looking at the passing show, within sight of  the city, yet having nothing to do with it; beholding their fellow-creatures  skimming by them in winged machines, and steamboats snorting and puffing  through the waves.
it is amusing to see all the distributed property of the  aristocracy and commonalty, the various and conflicting interests of the town,  the loves and hates, compressed into a space which the eye takes in as  completely as the arrangement of a tea-table.
and they  presently died in one another's arms.
i descended along the course of the  stream, and sometimes on the rocky path of it, and, turning off towards the  south village, followed a cattle-path till i came to a cottage.
a black dog sometimes stands at the farther  extremity of the avenue, and looks wistfully hitherward; but when i whistle to  him, he puts his tail between his legs, and trots away.
there is something very sociable  and quiet, and soothing, too, in their soliloquies and converse among  themselves; and, in an idle and half-meditative mood, it is very pleasant to  watch a party of hens picking up their daily subsistence, with a gallant  chanticleer in the midst of them.
there  was a swiss girl, an indian squaw, a negro of the jim crow order, one or two  foresters, and several people in christian attire, besides children of all  ages.
but she herself is an expression  well worth studying.
"solomon dies during the building of the temple, but his body remains  leaning on a staff, and overlooking the workmen, as if it were alive.
the first  bid was three dollars,--then there was a long silence,--then a bid of two  dollars eighty-five cents, and finally it was knocked down at two eighteen, per  rod.
fired a brass  cannon, rang bell, blew steam, like a whale snorting.
roaming along the  hudson river, he came to a precipice which had some bunches of singular  appearance embossed upon it.
there was a drunken man, annoying people with his senseless talk and  impertinences, impelled to perform eccentricities by an evil spirit in him; and  a pale little boy, with a bandaged leg, whom his father brought out of the  tavern and put into a barouche.
then i brought wood and  replenished the fires; and finally went down to breakfast, and ate up a huge  mound of buckwheat cakes.
i expressed my sympathy,  which i told him i was now the more capable of feeling in a father's suffering,  as being myself the father of a little girl,--and, indeed, the being a parent  does give one the freedom of a wider range of sorrow as well as of happiness.
anon, too, came in the  apple-toddy, a very rich and spicy compound; after which we had some glees and  negro melodies, in which mr. thaxter sang a noble bass, and mrs. thaxter sang  like a bird, and mr. weiss sang, i suppose, tenor, and the brother took some  other part, and all were very mirthful and jolly.
but there is much more honey in the world,
i find the idea  suggestive to my own mind, and i think i could make something of it.
language,--human language,--after all, is but little better than the croak  and cackle of fowls and other utterances of brute nature,--sometimes not so  adequate.
the  sunshine is peculiarly genial; and in sheltered places, as on the side of a  bank, or of a barn or house, one becomes acquainted and friendly with the  sunshine.
then he spoke of the fitting up of the cabin with expensive  woods,--of the brooch in captain scott's bosom.
my toil to-day has been cold and dull enough;  nevertheless, i was neither cold nor dull.
to-day there has been an hour or two of hot sunshine; but the sun  rose amid cloud and mist, and before he could dry up the moisture of last  night's shower upon the trees and grass, the clouds have gathered between him  and us again.
the  front windows, some of them, were shattered and open, and others were boarded  up.
in a  walk to the lake just now with the children, we found abundance of  flowers,--wild geranium, violets of all families, red columbines, and many  others known and unknown, besides innumerable blossoms of the wild strawberry,  which has been in bloom for the past fortnight.
the clouds throw their shadows upon the hill-sides as they move  slowly along,--a transitory blackness.
a ball and dance of the  inmates in the evening,--a furious lunatic dancing with the principal's wife.
there is hardly a more striking feature in the landscape nowadays than the  red patches of blueberry and whortleberry bushes, as seen on a sloping  hill-side, like islands among the grass, with trees growing in them; or  crowning the summit of a bare, brown hill with their somewhat russet  liveliness; or circling round the base of an earth-imbedded rock.
how exceeding bright looks the sunshine, casually reflected from a  looking-glass into a gloomy region of the chamber, distinctly marking out the  figures and colors of the paper-hangings, which are scarcely seen elsewhere.
thaxter rowed me this morning, in his  dory, to white island, on which is the lighthouse.
how came these little birds out of their nests at night?
it was shown him  by his father, in childhood.
and what delusion can be more lamentable and mischievous, than to  mistake the physical and material for the spiritual?
the  heat-haze sleeps along the shore, though not so as quite to hide it, and there  is the promise of another very warm day.
"see if i do  not!" said she, smiling.
frogs have been  melodious for a fortnight, and the birds sing pleasantly.
in liberty tree might be a vignette, representing the chair in a very  shattered, battered, and forlorn condition, after it had been ejected from  hutchinson's house.
pour the blue sea about these islets, and let the  surf whiten and steal up from their points, and from the reefs about them  (which latter whiten for an instant, and then are lost in the whelming and  eddying depths), the northwest-wind the while raising thousands of white-caps,  and the evening sun shining solemnly over the
he had one hundred  chestnut-trees on his own land, and last year he offered a man twenty-five  cents if he would find him a quart of good chestnuts on them.
this afternoon the thunder rumbles in the distance, and i believe  a few drops of rain have fallen; but the weight of the shower has burst  elsewhere, leaving us nothing but its sullen gloom.
he must have been eight  or ten feet long.
at the time of writing my last letter, i was without  bread.
the story was written as a mere experiment in that style; it did  not come from any depth within me,--neither my heart nor mind had anything to  do with it.
wild rose-bushes devoid of leaves, with their  deep, bright red seed-vessels.
they kept thirty cows, a hundred sheep,  and several horses.
but what a dolt am i to obtrude my counsel, . . .
here a poet might make verses with moonlight in them, and a gleam of fierce  fire-light flickering through.
and it was a good  observation; for it was the farmer's timorous age that made him doubt the  practicability of catching the chickens, and it contrasted well with the  persevering energy of the middle-aged orrin.
a line of trees seems to have been planted  along the ridge of the bill.
meanwhile mr. thompson had been  painting with more and more eagerness, casting quick, keen glances at me, and  then making hasty touches on the picture, as if to secure with his brush what  he had caught with his eye.
there have been many bright, cold  days latterly,--so cold that it has required a pretty rapid pace to keep one's  self warm a-walking.
the day has been exceedingly hot.
i set out some  tomatoes last night, also some capers.
strong  and mrs. whipple, who together murdered the husband of the latter.
the fragrance of the  arbutus is spicy and exquisite.
my appetite served me  sufficiently to eat with, but not for enjoyment.
his wife has little or no chance of recovery, and he said he would never marry  again,--this resolution being expressed in answer to a remark of mine relative  to a second marriage.
outside of this island there is a long and low one (or two in a line), looking  more like a reef of rocks than an island, and at the distance of a mile or  more.
it was a fine  morning, with a northwest-wind; cool when facing the wind, but warm and most  genially pleasant in sheltered spots; and warm enough everywhere while i was in  motion.
above the dam the brook flowed  through the forest, a glistening and babbling water-path, illuminated by the  sun, which sent its rays almost straight along its course.
a similar discovery was made in mr.  farley's room.
at  the bottom there is a doorway, large enough to admit a man in a stooping  posture.
the boys swinging, two  together, standing up, and almost causing the ropes and their bodies to stretch  out horizontally.
and even  when a fish of reputable aspect is drawn out, one feels a shyness about  touching him.
to the left of star island, and nearer hog, or  appledore, is smutty nose.
there is such a quantity of truth and kindliness  and warm affections, that a man's heart opens to him, in spite of himself.
inside passengers,--a new-married  couple taking a jaunt.
our summer commences at the latter end of june, and  terminates somewhere about the first of august.
this was in the kitchen.
addressing the audience as a snake-man,--keeping the ring while the monkey  rides the pony,--singing negro and other songs.
to-day no more than yesterday have i spoken a word to mortal. . . .
i merely see what is going on in a very general way.
the grass-fields are plenteously bestrewn with white-weed, large spaces  looking as white as a sheet of snow, at a distance, yet with an indescribably  warmer tinge than snow,--living white, intermixed with living green.
the down of thistles occasionally seen flying  through the sunny air.
he met him between the hotel and the sea, and describes  him as dressed in a sort of frock, and with a very dreadful countenance.
a sketch to be given of a modern reformer,--a type of the extreme  doctrines on the subject of slaves, cold water, and other such topics.
on their marriage day, all the men of the province were summoned to  assemble in the church to hear a proclamation.
they certainly are  types of unmitigated sensuality,--some standing in the trough, in the midst of  their own and others' victuals,--some thrusting their noses deep into the  food,--some rubbing their backs against a post,--some huddled together between  sleeping and waking, breathing hard,--all wallowing about; a great boar  swaggering round, and a big sow waddling along with her huge paunch.
the only petticoat that comes within our premises  appertains to nancy, the pretty, dark-eyed maid-servant of the man who lives in  the other part of the house.
i was elected to two high offices last night,--viz.
from the summit of the hill, looking down a  tract of woodland at a considerable distance, so that the interstices between  the trees could not be seen, their tops presented an unbroken level, and seemed  somewhat like a richly variegated carpet.
he was dressed in  a dark thin coat, ribbed velvet pantaloons, and a sort of moccasons, or shoes,  appended to the legs of woollen stockings.
it might be symbolized by the talisman with which, in  fairy tales, an adventurer was enabled to distinguish enchantments from  realities.
the gas that lights the rest of the house lights them also, in the  chandelier from the ceiling.--a shabby-looking man, quiet, with spectacles, at  first wearing an old, coarse brown frock, then appearing in a suit of elderly  black, saying nothing unless spoken to, but talking intelligently when  addressed.
other hathornes lie buried  in a range with him on either side.
self-conceit is very strongly expressed in his air; and a doctor once  told him that he owed his life to that quality; for, by keeping himself so  stiffly upright, he opens his chest, and counteracts a consumptive tendency.
he rushes out of the solitude into a village;  thence, though woods and hills, into a large inland town; beside the merrimack,  which has overflowed its banks, and eddies along, turbid as a vast mud-puddle,  sometimes almost laying the doorstep of a house, and with trees standing in the  flood half-way up their trunks.
well, we  get the value of what is taken from us.
moreover, i have one advantage over the primeval adam,  inasmuch as there is a chance of disposing of my superfluous fruits among  people who inhabit no paradise of their own.
a pound of flesh could not be spared from his abundance,  any more than from the leanest man; and he walks about briskly, without any  panting or symptom of labor or pain in his motion.
these ice-masses, when they struck the barrier  of ice above mentioned, acted upon it like a battering-ram, and were themselves  forced high out of the water, or sometimes carried beneath the main sheet of  ice.
he is rather  remarkably well-informed for a man of his age, and seems to have very just  notions on ethics, etc., though damnably perverted as to religion.
voices of people talking on the other side  of the river, the tones being so distinguishable in all their variations that  it seemed as if what was there said might be understood; but it was not so.
there were several visitors in the course of the sitting, one a gentleman,  a connection from the country, with whom the artist talked about family matters  and personal affairs,--observing on the poorness of his own business, and that  he had thoughts of returning to new york.
here you turned somewhat aside to pick up a shell that you  saw nearer the water's edge.
our body to be possessed by two different spirits; so that half of the  visage shall express one mood, and the other half another.
last spring found this house solitary for the first time since it was  built; and now again she peeps into our open windows and finds new faces here.
of late i have  walked but little over the hills and through the woods, my leisure being  chiefly occupied with my boat, which i have now learned to manage with  tolerable skill.
its prominences, projections, and roughnesses are very  evident; and it does not present a smooth and placid front, as when the grass  is green and the trees in leaf.
i went to a grapevine, which i have already visited several times,  and found some clusters of grapes still remaining, and now perfectly ripe.
the herd has rebelled against the usurpation  of miss fuller's heifer; and, whenever they are turned out of the barn, she is  compelled to take refuge under our protection.
the  island is one great ledge of rock, four hundred acres in extent, with a little  soil thrown scantily over it; but the bare rock everywhere emerging, not only  in points, but still more in flat surfaces.
blessed be god for this green tract, and the view which it affords,  whereby we poor citizens may be put in mind, sometimes, that all his earth is  not composed of blocks of brick houses, and of stone or wooden pavements.
but ice and snow too will soon  be no extraordinary matters with us.
methinks an island would be the most desirable of all landed  property, for it seems like a little world by itself; and the water may answer  instead of the atmosphere that surrounds planets.
the smoked, extempore  fire-place, where a party cooked their fish.
i have a friendlier disposition towards the farm, now that i am no  longer obliged to toil in its stubborn furrows.
a description of a young lady who had formerly been insane, and now felt  the approach of a new fit of madness.
la  belle nancy provided a basket filled with cotton-wool, into which the poor  little devils were put; and i tried to feed them with soaked bread, of which,  however, they did not eat with much relish.
there is the pine table,--there the  old flag-bottomed chair on which he sat, and at which he scribbled, during his  agonies of inspiration!
two oxen were roasted, and liquid  hospitality dispensed in proportion.
eight days thus passed, when  he was seized with a fit of frenzy which terminated in mania.
they should be contrasted with beneficent fairies, who minister to the  pleasures of the good.
the lady's family had a grant from sir ferdinando gorges of the territory  thereabout, and her brother had likewise come over and settled in the vicinity.
would it not be wiser for people to rejoice at all that they now sorrow  for, andvice versa?
the situation of a man in the midst of a crowd, yet as completely in the  power of another, life and all, as if they two were in the deepest solitude.
being as much discomposed as it was possible for him to be, his  feelings individualized the man and magnetized the observer.
it was a small, dingy shop, dimly lighted by a single inch of  candle, faintly disclosing various boxes, barrels standing on end, articles  hanging from the ceiling; the proprietor at the counter, whereon appear gin and  brandy, respectively contained in a tin pint-measure and an earthenware jug,  with two or three tumblers beside them, out of which nearly all the party  drank; some coming up to the counter frankly, others lingering in the  background, waiting to be pressed, two paying for their own liquor and  withdrawing.
the students, from year to year, have been in search of a particular rock,  somewhere on the mountains in the vicinity of shelburne falls, which is  supposed to contain some valuable ore; but they cannot find it.
this happy breeze, too, shakes  them down, as if it flung fruit to us out of the sky; and often, when the air  is perfectly still, i hear the quiet fall of a great apple.
but oftener i was happy,--at least, as happy as i then  knew how to be, or was aware of the possibility of being.
very few accidents happen to the  boats or men,--none, i think, since mr. thaxter has been here.
at about ten o'clock mr.  titcomb and myself took leave, and emerging into the open air, out of that room  of song, and pretty youthfulness of woman, and gay young men, there was the  sky, and the three-quarters waning moon, and the old sea moaning all round
there was a pedlar there from new york state, who sold his wares  by auction, and i could have stood and listened to him all day long.
on the concord rail is the train of cars, with the locomotive puffing,  and blowing off its steam, and making a great bluster in that lonely place,  while along the other railroad stretches the desolate track, with the withered  weeds growing up betwixt the two lines of iron, all so desolate.
then he put them into the box again, their heads emerging and  writhing forth, which the showman thrust back again.
once  in a while i see a caterpillar,--this afternoon, for instance, a red, hairy  one, with black head and tail.
we turned  aside a little from our way, to visit mr. ----, a yeoman, of whose homely and  self-acquired wisdom mr. emerson has a very high opinion.
he  addressed me in a hearty, hospitable tone, and, judging that it must be my  landlord, i delivered a letter of introduction from pierce.
it had been the beautifullest of  weather all day, very hot on the mainland, but a delicious climate under our  veranda.
anon, up came the  sun, without any bustle, but quietly, his antecedent splendors having gilded  the sea for some time before.
there seems to be a sort of  illuminating quality in new snow, which it loses after being exposed for a day  or two to the sun and atmosphere.
large spaces of meadow are  overflowed.
the marble is coarse-grained, but of a very  brilliant whiteness.
after or about sunset there was a heavy shower, the thunder rumbling round  and round the mountain wall, and the clouds stretching from rampart to rampart.
i never saw more splendid peaches in appearance,--great,  round, crimson-checked beauties, clustering all over the tree.
at  a distance, it looked like a strip of sky set into the earth, which it so  etherealized and idealized that it seemed akin to the upper regions.
i had a view of williamstown at the distance of a few miles,--two or  three, perhaps,--a white village and steeple in a gradual hollow, with high  mountainous swells heaving themselves up, like immense, subsiding waves, far  and wide around it.
to represent the different departments of the united states government by  village functionaries.
the isles of shoals, monday, august 30th.--left concord  at a quarter of nine a.m. friday, september 3, set sail at about half past ten  to the isles of shoals.
i was invited to dine at mr. bancroft's yesterday, with miss margaret  fuller; but providence had given me some business to do, for which i was very  thankful.
returning home, i  held a colloquy with a young girl about the right road.
the  chief result of the walk was the bringing home of an immense burden of the  trailing clematis-vine, now just in blossom, and with which all our  flower-stands and vases are this morning decorated.
as you tread, a dry spot flashes around your step, and grows  moist as you lift your foot again.
i  look beneath the stone-walls, where the verdure is richest, in hopes that  a little company of violets, or some solitary bud, prophetic of the summer, may  be there. . . .
he will be easily brought within  the old regulations after your return.
the description must be rapid.
the oaks are now beginning to look sere, and their leaves have withered  borders.
some  of the guests he meets in the streets, some he knocks for at the doors of their  houses.
it had a triangular floor and a top, and was just the place to hold the rudest  statue that ever a savage made.
in the interstices grow brake and broad-leaved forest-grass.
a balcony,  with a wrought-iron fence running along under the row of drawing-room windows,  above the basement.
he is a man who has  been in decent circumstances at some former period of his life, but, falling  into decay (perhaps by dint of too frequent visits at parker's bar), he now  haunts about the place, as a ghost haunts the spot where he was murdered,  "to collect his rents," as parker says,--that is, to catch an  occasional nine-pence from some charitable acquaintances, or a glass of liquor  at the bar.
the prospect from the hill is wide  and interesting; but methinks it is pleasanter in the more immediate vicinity  of the hill than miles away.
the verdure of the country is much more perfect than is usual at this season of  the year, when the autumnal hue has generally made considerable progress over  trees and grass.
never comes any bird of paradise into that dismal  region.
september.--the elm-trees have golden branches intermingled with  their green already, and so they had on the first of the month.
and apart, with a shrewd, yankee observation of the scene,  stands our friend orange, a thick-set, sturdy figure, enjoying the fun well  enough, yet, rather laughing with a perception of its nonsensicalness than at  all entering into the spirit of the thing.
but  this spectre was not myself.
mr. thoreau managed the boat so perfectly, either with two  paddles or with one, that it seemed instinct with his own will, and to require  no physical effort to guide it.
he seems to reverence his art, and to aim at truth  in it, as i said before; a man of gentle disposition too, and simplicity  of life and character.
a table, stationary ever since the house was built, extending the whole  length of a room.
but the willow is almost the earliest to put forth its leaves, and  the last to scatter them on the ground; and during the whole winter its yellow  twigs give it a sunny aspect, which is not without a cheering influence in a  proper point of view.
[salem] on the 23d instant.
cologne-water is among the essences manufactured,  though the bottles have foreign labels on them.
"there," they will exclaim, "is the very bed in which he  slumbered, and where he was visited by those ethereal visions which he  afterwards fixed forever in glowing words!
mankind are earthen jugs with spirits in them.
the river, this season, has encroached farther on the land than it has been  known to do for twenty years past.
the two  young women were not negligent of it; but passed it to and fro between them,  each willingly putting herself to inconvenience for the sake of tending it.
(but we are yet to  have practical experience of our fruit.)
the new hampshire trader said not a word, or hardly  one, all the way.
it is a shame to use this brilliant, white,  almost transparent marble in this way.
a man said of it, the other day, that  into some pieces of it, when polished, one could see a good distance; and he  instanced a certain gravestone.
mr. thoreau had assured me that it was only necessary to will the boat to go in  any particular direction, and she would immediately take that course, as if  imbued with the spirit of the steersman.
immediately  the whole conclave replies, and you behold them rising above the trees,  flapping darkly, and winging their way to deeper solitudes.
there are vague traditions of trees on these islands.
it is dangerous to look too  minutely into such phenomena.
the willow-tree opposite my study window is ready to put forth its  leaves.
now, after a course, i presume, of rather free living,  pale, thin, oldish, with a grave and care or pain worn brow,--yet still lively  and cheerful in his accost, though with something invincibly saddened in his  tones.
during the last week we have had three stoves put up, and henceforth no  light of a cheerful fire will gladden us at eventide.
the window is open, and there is  a fire in the stove.
query, in relation to the man's missing wife, how much desire and  resolution of doing her duty by her husband can a wife retain, while  injuring him in what is deemed the most essential point?
monument mountain stands out in great  prominence, with its dark forest-covered sides, and here and there a large,  white patch, indicating tillage or pasture land; but making a generally dark  contrast with the white expanse of the frozen and snow-covered lake at its  base, and the more undulating white of the surrounding country.
anon, molly, the cook, rang the bell for dinner,--a sumptuous banquet of stewed  veal and macaroni, to which i sat down in solitary state.
yesterday, while catching grasshoppers for  fish-bait, i nearly griped one in my hand; indeed, i rather think i did gripe  it.
the man asked  where he should find one mary ann russell,--a question which excited general  and hardly suppressed mirth; for the said mary ann is one of a knot of women  who were routed on sunday evening by barker and a constable.
it is probable  that during a part of the stage the mists around us looked like sky clouds to  those in the lower regions.
his implement an  axe, most keenly ground and sharpened, which i had noticed standing in a  corner, and thought it would almost serve as a razor.
they  were so far above my head that their loud clamor added to the quiet of the  scene, instead of disturbing it.
looking from the veranda, you have the ocean opening towards  the east, and the bay towards rye beach and portsmouth on the west.
it roared  and whitened though, from sea to sea, twenty feet abreast, rolling along huge  rocks in its passage.
on the road to northampton, we passed a tame crow, which was sitting on the  peak of a barn.
probably there is no place in new england where the character of  an agricultural population may be so well studied.
and not only is he crafty, but, when occasion demands, bold  and fierce as a tiger, determined, and even straightforward and undisguised in  his measures,--a daring fellow as well as a sly one.
one of the passengers was a young man who had been in pennsylvania, keeping  a school,--a genteel enough young man, but not a gentleman.
i taught them how to discover the hidden sentiments of letters  by suspending a gold ring over them.
the distribution of the sunshine amid mountain scenery is very striking;  one does not see exactly why one spot should be in deep obscurity while others  are all bright.
the travellers in the early part of the afternoon  look warm and comfortable as if taking a summer drive; but as eve draws nearer,  you meet them well wrapped in topcoats or cloaks, or rough, great surtouts, and  red-nosed withal, seeming to take no great comfort, but pressing homeward.
my own  judgment is that they are so.
in short, the world was not weary with a long, sultry day,  but in a fresh, recruited state, fit to carry it through such a day.
on saturday of the same week, my friend d. r---- came to see us,  and stayed till tuesday morning.
there  is a whole chest of them in the garret; but he need have no apprehensions of  our disturbing them.
half a dozen or more family portraits of the olivers, some in plain  dresses, brown, crimson, or claret; others with gorgeous gold-embroidered  waistcoats, descending almost to the knees, so as to form the most conspicuous  article of dress.
there came in the afternoon a respectable man in gray homespun cloth, who  arrived in a wagon, i believe, and began to inquire, after supper, about a  certain new kind of mill machinery.
the streams are all as turbid as mud-puddles.
he took little freedoms with her, tapping her with his  cane,--love-pats; and she seemed to see nothing amiss.
the little streams are most interesting objects  at this time; some that have an existence only at this season,--mississippis of  the moment,--yet glide and tumble along as if they were perennial.
there was no other sound, except the song of  the cricket, which is but an audible stillness; for, though it be very loud and  heard afar, yet the mind does not take note of it as a sound, so entirely  does it mingle and lose its individuality among the other characteristics of  coming autumn.
she seems to be a sociable body, probably  laughter-loving.
all  night we had heard the marblehead clocks telling the hour.
in stopping at such a village as  this, they do not expect much profit, if any; but would be content with enough  to pay their travelling expenses, while they look to gather gain at larger  places.
the day of my wife's  departure, she came to me, talking with the greatest earnestness; but whether  it was to condole with me on my loss, or to demand my redoubled care for  herself, i could not well make out.
i observed in some  places, towards the base, that the lichens had grown from one stone to another;  and there is nothing in the appearance of the monument that controverts the  supposition of its antiquity.
their hearts wither  away and die out of their bodies.
take this boy as the germ of a tavern-haunter, a countryroué, to  spend a wild and brutal youth, ten years of his prime in the state prison, and  his old age in the poor-house.
in the evening there was a strange fellow in the bar-room,--a sort of mock  methodist,--a cattle-drover, who had stopped here for the night with two cows  and a durham bull.
finally it is discovered that the dream-character is the true one.
the man had a pleasant, but sly, dark  face; he carried his whole establishment on his shoulder, it being fastened to  a staff which he rested on the ground when he performed.
i have eaten a great  library of excellent books.
but these clouds to-day were real rain-clouds.
few of the stones, except at the base, are bigger than a man  could easily lift,--many of them are not more than a foot across.
i confess that i have strong hopes of good from  this arrangement with m----; but when i look at the scanty avails of my past  literary efforts, i do not feel authorized to expect much from the future.
there have been, however, several  incidents which amused me, though scarcely worth telling.
all the scene of the fair was very characteristic and peculiar,--cheerful  and lively, too, in the bright, warm sun.
these  snakes are quite harmless.
a man was one moment too late; but  running along the gunwale of a mud-scow, and jumping into a skiff, he was put  on board by a black fellow.
at some critical juncture, the  resemblance is found to be perfect.
it has  left a fantastic impression on my memory, this intermingling of wild and  fabulous characters with real and homely ones, in the secluded nook of the  woods.
peter oliver, who was crazy, used to fight  with these family pictures in the old mansion house; and the face and breast of  one lady bear cuts and stabs inflicted by him.
he is, nevertheless, an intelligent and well-informed man,  apparently of extensive reading in his own language,--a philosopher, b----  tells me, and an infidel.
the sea  roughly rushing against the shore, and dashing against the rocks, and grating  back over the sands.
the stage agent demanding the names of  those who are going on,--some to lebanon springs, some to albany.
they have a very strong local  attachment, and return to die.
later in the  day, they are wholly covered with sunshine, and continue so through the  afternoon; and at evening the sunshine slowly withdraws upward, gleams aslant  upon the windows, perches on the chimneys, and so disappears.
persons who can only be graceful and ornamental--who can give the world  nothing but flowers--should die young, and never be seen with gray hairs and  wrinkles, any more than the flower-shrubs with mossy bark and scanty  foliage, like the lilacs under my window.
he had a good  many old papers in his desk at the custom house, which he produced and  dissertated upon, and afterwards went with me to his sister's, and showed me an  old book, with a record of the children of the first emigrant (who came over  two hundred years ago), in his own handwriting.
they are frugal, and often  go back to canada with considerable sums of money.
shows: a mammoth rat; a  collection of pirates, murderers, and the like, in wax.
we live very  comfortably in our bachelor establishment on a cold shoulder of mutton, with  ham and smoked beef and boiled eggs; and as to drinkables, we had both claret  and brown sherry on the dinner-table to-day.
thursday, april 27th.--i took a walk into the fields, and  round our opposite hill, yesterday noon, but made no very remarkable  observation.
we talked about the pictures of christ, and how  inadequate and untrue they are.
in the evening the caravan people were at the tavern, talking of their  troubles in coming over the mountain,--the overturn of a cage containing two  leopards and a hyena.
we went southward  across the lake, directly towards monument mountain, which reposes, as i said,  like a headless sphinx.
at gardiner, on the wharf, i witnessed the starting of the steamboat new  england for boston.
she was small, with a particularly  intelligent and pleasant face, not handsome, perhaps, but as good or better  than if it were.
meantime, i continued to stand on the oozy margin of the stream, beguiling the  little fish; and though the scaly inhabitants of our river partake somewhat of  the character of their native element, and are but sluggish biters, still i  contrived to pull out not far from two dozen.
it seemed a sin,--a murder of the joyful young day,--a quenching of the  sunshine.
four hundred bushels of marble were then in a state of combustion.
it  rushes along merrily and rapidly, gurgling cheerfully, and tumbling over the  impediments of stones with which the children and i made little waterfalls last  year.
nothing here is settled;  everything is but beginning to arrange itself, and though i would seem to have  little to do with aught beside my own thoughts, still i cannot but partake of  the ferment around me.
they  do not appear to be very communicative, however,--or perhaps it may be merely  an external reserve, like my own, to shield their delicacy.
one end was raised two steps higher than the rest.
we have watermelons in good  advancement, and muskmelons also within three or four days.
to-day, if i had  been on the wharves, the slight chill of an east-wind would have been a  blessing, like the chill of death to a world-weary man.
occasionally he breaks out with scraps from  french tragedies, which he spouts with corresponding action.
anon they fall asleep, drawing short and heavy breaths,  which heave their huge sides up and down; but at the slightest noise they  sluggishly unclose their eyes, and give another gentle grunt.
few  men, without some eccentricity of character, would have the moral strength to  do this; and it is very striking to find such strength combined with the utmost  gentleness, and an uncommon regularity of nature.
turkeys, queer, solemn objects, in black attire, grazing about, and  trying to peck the fallen apples, which slip away from their bills.
october 27th.--the ground this morning is white with a  thin covering of snow.
however, there is no pain, though, i think, a very slight affection of the  eyes.
tuesday, august 30th.--i was promised, in the midst of  sunday's rain, that monday should be fair, and, behold!
one, whom mr. s---- saluted as "uncle  john," went into the bar-room, walking pretty stoutly by the aid of a  long, oaken staff,--with an old, creased, broken and ashen bell-crowned hat on  his head, and wearing a brown, old-fashioned suit of clothes.
it was so valuable, that sheriff moulton, of old york, with  six well-armed men, accompanied it to boston.
if cities were built by the sound of music, then some edifices would appear  to be constructed by grave, solemn tones,--others to have danced forth to  light, fantastic airs.
water is contained in most of these pot-holes,  sometimes so deep that a man might drown himself therein, and lie undetected at  the bottom.
at two doors we saw very pretty and  modest-looking young women,--one with a child in her arms.
the mode of living of lady ursula's brother in kittery.
"schooner ahoy!" say we.
while we were standing in his garden-patch, i heard a woman's voice inside  the dwelling, but know not whose it was.
he says that they sell and exchange these small  houses among themselves continually.
as to any rascality, i rather believe that he has  thought out for himself a much higher system of morality than any natural  integrity would have prompted him to adopt; that he has seen the thorough  advantage of morality and honesty; and the sentiment of these qualities has now  got into his mind and spirit, and pretty well impregnated them.
the spray flew  before her bows, and doubtless gave the passengers all a thorough wetting  within the first half-hour.
the chaise got the better of him, and, rushing  downward as if it were possessed, compelled him to run at full speed, and drove  him up to his chin into the water.
a shell, in falling, buries itself in the earth, and, when it explodes, a  large pit is made by the earth being blown about in all directions,--large  enough, sometimes, to hold three or four cart-loads of earth.
very large trees overhung them, and the sun was so nearly gone down  that a pleasant gloom made the spot sombre, in contrast with these light and  laughing little figures.
she is not now, i believe, more than  eighteen years old, very pretty, and with the manners of a lady,--not prim and  precise, but with enough of freedom and case.
then he would turn,  flourishing his razor and grimacing joyously, enacting droll antics, breaking  out into scraps and verses of drinking-songs, "a boire!
there is a marble-quarry close in the rear, above the  cave, and in process of time the whole of the crags will be quarried into  tombstones, doorsteps, fronts of edifices, fireplaces, etc.
a man with the right perception of things,--a feeling within him of what is  true and what is false.
moonlight, also,  gives it beauty, as it does to all scenery of earth or water.
boston: houghton, mifflin, 1868, 1883.
colonel b----, the engineer of the mill-dam, is now here, after about a  fortnight's absence.
sometimes it bears along branches and  strips of bark,--sometimes a green leaf, or perchance a dry one,--occasionally  overwhelmed by the eddies and borne deep under water, then rushing atop the  waves.
along the road, where it runs beneath a steep, there are high ridges,  covered with trees,--the dew of midnight damping the earth, far towards  midnoon.
monday, august 8th.--i wish i could give a description of  our house, for it really has a character of its own, which is more than can be  said of most edifices in these days.
on one side  there is a high bank, forming the side of a hill, the indian name of which i  have forgotten, though mr. thoreau told it to me; and here, in some instances,  the trees stand leaning over the river, stretching out their arms as if about  to plunge in headlong.
two were burned to death on the spot, two afterwards  died; one fled to the buttery, and jumped into a vessel of water.
the old ten-gun battery, at the outer angle of the  juniper, very verdant, and besprinkled with white-weed, clover, and buttercups.
dressed in a brown,  bright-buttoned coat, smartly cut.
we took a walk to sleepy hollow  yesterday, and beheld scarcely a green thing, except the everlasting verdure of  the family of pines, which, indeed, are trees to thank god for at this season.
the  explanation would be--the soul's instinctive perception.
one house seems to be quite  shut up; all the blinds in the three windows of each of the four stories being  closed, although in the roof-windows of the attic story the curtains are  hung carelessly upward, instead of being drawn.
it would be a good idea for a painter to paint a picture of a great actor,  representing him in several different characters of one scene,--iago and  othello, for instance.
the sun shone directly upon them; and  sunlight is like the breath of life to the pomp of autumn.
there were other graves, marked by the rudest  shapes of stones at head and foot.
there was a fat woman, a stage-passenger to-day,--a wonder how she could  possibly get through the door, which seemed not so wide as she.
the influence of a peculiar mind, in close communion with another, to drive  the latter to insanity.
a blind man to set forth on a walk through ways unknown to him, and to  trust to the guidance of anybody who will take the trouble; the different  characters who would undertake it: some mischievous, some well-meaning, but  incapable; perhaps one blind man undertakes to lead another.
two  long rows of currant-bushes supplied us abundantly for nearly four weeks.
in the rear of the  house is the little room which i call my study, and which, in its day, has  witnessed the intellectual labors of better students than myself.
the dresses, embroidery, laces of the oliver family are  generally better done than the faces.
the evening clear, but with an autumnal chill.
there was one  fellow,--named randall, i think,--a round-shouldered, bulky, ill-hung devil,  with a pale, sallow skin, black beard, and a sort of grin upon his face,--a  species of laugh, yet not so much mirthful as indicating a strange mental and  moral twist.
sometimes a long raft of boards comes along, requiring the nicest  skill in navigating it through the narrow passage left by the mill-dam.
sometimes, instead of scarlet, the spiral wreath is of a golden yellow.
an article might be made respecting various kinds of ruin,--ruin as regards  property,--ruin of health,--ruin of habits, as drunkenness and all kinds of  debauchery,--ruin of character, while prosperous in other respects,--ruin of  the soul.
but it appeared to suffer very much, vociferating loudly when  disturbed, and panting, in a sluggish agony, with eyes closed, or half opened,  when let alone.
brook farm, october 9th.--a walk this afternoon to cow  island.
september 5th.--a large part of the guests took their  departure after an early breakfast this morning, including mr. titcomb, mr.  weiss, the two yankees, and mr. thaxter,--who, however, went as skipper or  supercargo, and will return with the boat.
a satirical article might be made out of the idea of an imaginary museum,  containing such articles as aaron's rod, the petticoat of general hawion,  the pistol with which benton shot jackson,--and then a diorama, consisting of  political or other scenes, or done in wax-work.
often the mouth of the pot is the narrowest part, the inner space  being deeply scooped out.
but not a wild-flower have i yet found: one of the boys  gathered some yellow cowslips last sunday; but i am well content not to have  found them, for they are not precisely what i should like to send to you,  though they deserve honor and praise, because they come to us when no others  will.
i look at the matter with perfect composure, and see all round my own position,  and know that it is impregnable.
in nine cases out of ten they are incapable  of any effectual cultivation; for men of ripe years, if they have any pith in  them, will have long ago got beyond academy or even college instruction.
relatively to the general style of domestic architecture in our  country, it well deserves the name of castle or palace.
i have made no exploration to-day,  except a walk with the guests in the morning, but have lounged about the piazza  and veranda.
if a word is spoken, the whole business is a failure.
with her other merits,  she is an excellent daughter, and supports her mother by the labor of her  hands.
ever since our  return, however, until to-day, there has been a succession of genuine  indian-summer days, with gentle winds, or none at all, and a misty atmosphere,  which idealizes all nature, and a mild, beneficent sunshine, inviting one to  lie down in a nook and forget all earthly care.
this feature contributes to  give the whole house an airy, roomy, and convenient appearance; we can breathe  the freer by the aid of the broad passageway.
one mass of rock, more than  twelve feet square, was thrown up out of the sea in a storm, not many years  since, and now lies athwart-wise, never to be moved unless another omnipotent  wave shall give it another toss.
the whole scenery  and personages acquire, methinks, a passionate character.
when he has spent as much time in the bar-room or under the  stoop as he chooses to spare, he gets up at once, and goes off with a brisk,  vigorous pace.
the young greenlander talked politics, or rather discussed the personal  character of pierce.
yet she was plump, and looked comfortable  in body and mind.
he looks more like a german--or, as he says,  like a swiss--than a frenchman, having very light hair and a light complexion,  and not a french expression.
when more  depth or force of expression was required, he could put on the most strangely  ludicrous and ugly aspect (suiting his gesture and attitude to it) that can be  imagined.
the  characteristic conversation among teamsters and country squires, where the  ascent of a hill causes the chaise to go at the same pace as an  ox-team,--perhaps discussing the qualities of a yoke of oxen.
children must be hard to kill, however injudicious the  treatment.
most or many of these pigs had been imported  from the state of new york.
among the eatables, a silver tub of the capacity of four gallons, holding a  pyramid of pancakes powdered with white sugar.
he sits at a table, at the entrance of one of the  alcoves, with his books and papers before him, as quiet and absorbed as he  would be in the loneliest study; now consulting an authority; now penning  a sentence or paragraph, without seeming conscious of anything but his subject.
i saw, for a wonder, a man pretty drunk at parker's the other evening,--a  well-dressed man, of not ungentlemanly aspect.
i  scarcely recognized the fish of our own river.
it is really  touching to see how free and happy
he had on a straw hat, and his hair  was gray, with a long, thin visage.
how instantaneously did all dreariness and heaviness of the  earth's spirit flit away before one smile of the beneficent sun!
cold supper from nine to eleven  p.m. great, round, mahogany table, in the sitting-room, covered with papers.
this is chiefly owing, doubtless, to a satisfied heart, in  aid of which comes the exercise above mentioned, and about a fair proportion of  intellectual labor.
for their friends to condole with them when they attained riches and  honor, as only so much care added?
a day or two since, una found a few  purple violets, and yesterday a dandelion in bloom.
it is a delightful place, where the  breezes stir, if any are in motion.
a phantom of the old royal governors, or some such shadowy pageant, on the  night of the evacuation of boston by the british.
a whirlwind, whirling the dried leaves round in a circle, not very  violently.
his  baggage a bundle, a handkerchief, and a pair of coarse boots.
there was something strangely interesting in this  simple circumstance.
i have eaten a great deal of linen, much of my  brass, some of my pewter, and now i am come to eat iron; and what will come  next i know not."
the man stared at him, and let the spectators stare for a minute, and  then shook him gently off; and the poor devil took a flight across the green to  the meeting-house, and then, i believe, alighted on somebody else.
on our way back we landed at another island called londoner's rock, or some  such name.
took boat from the  end of long wharf, with two boatmen who had just landed a man.
crows visited us long before the snow was off.
he is always in  trouble, yet will not keep away.
yet he  seems to keep his spirits up, and still preserves himself a man among men,  asking nothing from them; nor is it clearly perceptible what right they have to  scorn him, though he seems to acquiesce, in a manner, in their doing so.
the wind not being favorable, we had to make several tacks before reaching  the islands, where we arrived at about two o'clock.
here followed much talk.
he also  takes his turn in washing the dishes.
it would look like old dr. ripley in a brown wig.
she was seen by  nobody but an irish nurse, who spoke to her, but received no answer.
instances of people who wear masks in all classes of  society, and never take them off even in the most familiar moments, though  sometimes they may chance to slip aside.
row round to the  starboard side of the sloop, where we pass up the steps, and are received by  bridge, who introduces us to one of the lieutenants,--hazard.
there were seldom chimneys; and they cooked their  meats by a fire made against an iron back in the great hall.
the floors were daily rubbed with wax, and shone  like a mahogany table.
there is the closet in  which was reposited his threadbare suit of black!
it was a brown owl, but mr. thaxter says that there are beautiful  white owls, which spend the winter here, and feed upon rats.
as to the poor cardinals which glowed upon the  bank a few days since, i could see only a few of their scarlet hats, peeping  above the tide.
as fast as it went on, the foam  subsided behind it, so that it looked somewhat like a sea-serpent, or other  monster, swimming very rapidly.
i know not how to describe it.
the skipper, a man of about  thirty-five or forty, in a blue pilot-cloth overcoat, and a rusty, high-crowned  hat jammed down over his brow, looked very forlorn; while the islanders were  grouped about, indolently enjoying the matter.
hudson's cave is formed by hudson's brook.
in size the room is just what it ought to be;  for i never could compress my thoughts sufficiently to write in a very spacious  room.
how much mud and mire, how many pools  of unclean water, how many slippery footsteps, and perchance heavy tumbles,  might be avoided, if we could tread but six inches above the crust of this  world.
i suppose adam, in paradise, did not like to  see his fruits decaying on the ground, after he had watched them through the  sunny days of the world's first summer.
the leafy boughs  and twigs of the underbrush enlace themselves before you, so that you must  stoop your head to pass under, or thrust yourself through amain, while they  sweep against your face, and perhaps knock off your hat.
after leaving the book at mr. emerson's i returned through the woods, and,  entering sleepy hollow, i perceived a lady reclining near the path which bends  along its verge.
there was a pretty spacious raised  cabin in the after part of the boat.
just now, there came a very important rap at the  front door, and i threw down a smoked herring which i had begun to eat, as  there is no hope of the corned beef to-day, and went to admit the visitor.
i am afraid, too, that he is an incorrigible thief.
two lovers, or other persons, on the most private business, to appoint a  meeting in what they supposed to be a place of the utmost solitude, and to find  it thronged with people.
the vines had caught hold of maples and alders, and climbed to the  summit, curling round about and interwreathing their twisted folds in so  intimate a manner that it was not easy to tell the parasite from the  supporting tree or shrub.
i  saw one old witch-looking woman creeping about with a cane, and stooping down,  seemingly to gather herbs.
when it is warm, as  yesterday, he takes off his coat, and, not minding whether or no his  shirt-sleeves be soiled, goes in this guise to meals or wherever else,--not  resuming his coat as long as he is more comfortable without it.
as we ascended the  zigzag road, we looked behind, at every opening in the forest, and beheld a  wide landscape of mountain-swells and valleys intermixed, and old graylock and  the whole of saddleback.
and thus passes her life, cheerfully,  usefully, virtuously, with hopes, doubtless, of a husband and children.--mrs.
then we discoursed of ellery channing, a volume of  whose poems is to be immediately published, with revisions by mr. emerson  himself and mr. sam g. ward. . . .
close by the enclosure is the hollow of an old cellar, with  rocks tumbled into it, but the layers of stone at the side still to be traced,  and bricks, broken or with rounded edges, scattered about, and perhaps pieces  of lime; and weeds and grass growing about the whole.
stoves are detestable in  every respect, except that they keep us perfectly comfortable.
we mean to  make a voyage on the river this afternoon.
a partially insane man to believe himself the provincial governor or other  great official of massachusetts.
they  are quick to notice any one's approach, and utter a low grunt thereupon,--not  drawing a breath for that particular purpose, but grunting with their ordinary  breath,--at the same time turning an observant, though dull and sluggish eye  upon the visitor.
john's boat, the regular passenger-boat, is now coming in, and probably  brings the mail.
bright sunshine and autumnal warmth, giving a sensation quite unlike the same  degree of warmth in summer.
a  hero cannot be a hero unless in an heroic world.
the war department by watchmen, the law by constables,  the merchants by a variety store, etc.
i have milked a cow!!! . . .
thus here are three characters, each with something out of the common way,  living together somewhat like monks.
this might be  thought out at great length.
it looked like a milder sunshine,--a dreamy  sunshine,--the sunshine of a world not quite so real and material as this.
all this toping goes forward with little or no apparent  exhilaration of spirits; nor does this seem to be the object sought,--it being  rather, i imagine, to create a titillation of the coats of the stomach and a  general sense of invigoration, without affecting the brain.
the general aspect of the country was as green as  summer,--greener indeed than mid or latter summer, and there were occasional  interminglings of the brilliant hues of autumn, which made the scenery more  beautiful, both visibly and in sentiment.
but she is in very bad condition, full of water, and, doubtless,  as leaky as a sieve.
four  or five long cars, each, perhaps, with fifty people in it, reading newspapers,  reading pamphlet novels, chattering, sleeping; all this vision of passing life!
"passing along the street, all muddy with puddles, and suddenly  seeing the sky reflected in these puddles in such a way as quite to conceal the  foulness of the street.
farther within its depths, you perceive a bottom of pure white sand, sparkling  through the transparent water, which, methought, was the very purest liquid in  the world.
after the passage of the stream through the cliffs of marble, the  cliffs separate on either side, and leave it to flow onward; intercepting its  passage, however, by fragments of marble, some of them huge ones, which the  cliffs have flung down, thundering into the bed of the stream through  numberless ages.
i met occasional wayfarers; once two women in a cart,--decent,  brown-visaged, country matrons,--and then an apparent doctor, of whom there are  seven or thereabouts in north adams; for though this vicinity is very healthy,  yet the physicians are obliged to ride considerable distances among the  mountain towns, and their practice is very laborious.
on continued observation, one discovers that she is not a little girl,  but really a little woman, with all the prerogatives and liabilities of a  woman.
red raspberries are just  through the season.
mr.---- was married to miss ---- last wednesday.
but on the eastern part, peaks one or two thousand feet high rash up on either  bank of the river in ranges, thrusting out their shoulders side by side.
his bodily health seems perfect; so,  indeed, does his moral and intellectual.
it serves as a landmark for an amazing extent of country.
i looked at him earnestly, and was  conscious of something that marked him out from among the careless islanders  around him.
m. p---- has trained flowers over this tomb, on account of her  friendly relations with colonel p----.
he spoke  of his life as a hard one.
many of the ledges on the island have yellow moss or lichens spread on them  in large patches.
people washing themselves at a common basin in the bar-room!
his little patch of  garden seemed to be a strange kind of soil, as like marine mud as anything; but  he had a fair crop of marrow squashes, though injured, as he said, by the last  storm; and there were cabbages and a few turnips.
here i sit in my old accustomed chamber, where i used to sit in days gone by. .
fair pretty frequently, if not on business, yet as amateurs.
sitting  down, and taking in hand a glass of champagne, he began a lecture on economy,  and how well it was that uncle sam had a broad back, being compelled to bear so  many burdens as were laid on it,--alluding to the table covered with  wine-bottles.
after all, the  moderns have invented nothing better, as chamber furniture, than these chests  of drawers, which stand on four slender legs, and rear an absolute tower of  mahogany to the ceiling, the whole terminating in a fantastically carved  summit.
he stood awhile, looking at the workmen, and then went to  oversee the laborers at the mill-dam.
the wind had now entirely died away, leaving  the sea smooth as glass, except a quiet swell, and we could only float along,  as the tide bore us, almost imperceptibly.
it is not, perhaps, a wind to be loved, even in its  benignest moods; but there are seasons when i delight to feel its breath upon  my cheek, though it be never advisable to throw open my bosom and take it into  my heart, as i would its gentle sisters of the south and west.
she tells him that on  sundays, when they were not employed, they were a great deal worse, making the  streets like hell; playing at church, etc.
how he  came by it is best known to leo himself.
from  different points of view, it should appear to change,--now an old man, now an  old woman,--a gunner, a farmer, or the old nick.
with thoughts like these, i descended the hill, and clambered  over the stone-wall, and crossed the road, and passed up our avenue, while the  quaint old house put on an aspect of welcome.
afternoon, drove with them to pittsfield and called on dr. holmes.
sometimes, it is said, while laboring up the mountain-side, they suddenly  burst, and pour down their moisture in a cataract, sweeping all before it.
next> | passages from the american note-books of nathaniel hawthorne,  edited by sophia hawthorne.
an essay on the misery of being always under a mask.
yesterday,  under the sunshine of mid-day, and with many voluminous clouds hanging over  it, and a mist of wintry warmth in the air, it had a kind of visionary  aspect, although still it was brought out in striking relief.
looking up the brook, there was a long vista,--now  ripples, now smooth and glassy spaces, now large rocks, almost blocking up the  channel; while the trees stood upon either side, mostly straight, but here and  there a branch thrusting itself out irregularly, and one tree, a pine, leaning  over,--not bending,--but leaning at an angle over the brook, rough and ragged;  birches, alders; the tallest of all the trees an old, dead, leafless pine,  rising white and lonely, though closely surrounded by others.
madam cutts, at the last of these entertainments, wore a black damask gown,  and cuffs with double lace ruffles, velvet shoes, blue silk stockings, white  and silver stomacher.
they make fast to  a tree, in order to wait for the tide to rise a little higher.
a man in a pea-green frock-coat, with velvet collar.
she leaks, but not more than she did in the autumn.
august 9th.--our orchard in its day has been a very  productive and profitable one; and we were told that in one year it returned  dr. ripley a hundred dollars, besides defraying the expense of repairing  the house.
country loafers  were among the throng,--men who looked wistfully at the liquors in the bar, and  waited for some friend to invite them to drink,-- poor, shabby,  out-at-elbowed devils.
i shall be too busy washing my dishes to pay many visits.
this morning opened with a great snow-storm from the  northeast, one of the most earnest snow-storms of the year, though rather more  moist than in midwinter.
advice of lady pepperell's father on her marriage,--never to work one  moment after saturday sunset,--never to lay down her knitting except in the  middle of the needle,--always to rise with the sun,--to pass an hour daily with  the housekeeper,--to visit every room daily from garret to cellar,--to attend  herself to the brewing of beer and the baking of bread,--and to instruct every  member of the family in their religious duties.
i seated myself in the pictorial chair, with the only  light in the room descending upon me from a high opening, almost at the  ceiling, the rest of the sole window being shuttered.
golden pumpkins and squashes, heaped in the angle of a house till they  reach the lower windows.
the wooded  hill, about a mile distant, whither we went to gather whortleberries, has a  mist upon its summit, as if the demon of the rain were enthroned there; and if  we look to the sky, it seems as if all the water that had been poured down upon  us were as nothing to what is to come.
long afterwards, at about the commencement  of the revolution, a descendant of fowler came from england, and applied to the  judge of probate to search the records for a will, supposed to have been made  by lady ursula in favor of her lover as soon as she heard of his existence.
as puss now constitutes a third part of the  family, this mention of her will not appear amiss.
he seemed to enjoy the intercourse and seeing of the world.
august 12th.--seven chickens hatched.
the skipper of the boat is a norwegian,  a good-natured fellow, not particularly intelligent, and speaking in a dialect  somewhat like irish.
by degrees all these clouds  flitted away, and the sultry summer sun burned on hill and valley.
the inhabitants are all, i presume, fishermen.
there was an aged barn near at hand, so ruinous that it had been  necessary to prop it up.
there was a considerable gathering of people,  chiefly arriving in wagons or buggies, some in barouches, and very few in  chaises.
at fredonia, the whole village is lighted by it.
an eating-house, where all the dishes served out, even to the bread and  salt, shall be poisoned with the adulterations that are said to be practised.
a short time  since, a lady gave him a bouquet of roses and pinks; he capered and danced and  sang, put it in water, and carried it to his own chamber; but he brought it out  for us to see and admire two or three times a day, bestowing on it all the  epithets of admiration in the french language,--"superbe! magnifique! " when some of the flowers began to fade, he made the rest, with others,  into a new nosegay, and consulted us whether it would be fit to give to another  lady.
that  beautiful little flower-vase . .
the object was to inquire whether this note was obligatory.
the vessel lying deep between two wharves, there was no more  delightful prospect, on the right hand and on the left, than the posts and  timbers, half immersed in the water, and covered with ice, which the rising and  falling of successive tides had left upon them, so that they looked like  immense icicles.
captain h---- himself has commanded a steamboat, and has a  certain knowledge of life.
started for northampton at half past nine in the morning.
to make a story from robert raikes seeing dirty children at play, in the  streets of london, and inquiring of a woman about them.
afternoon, under  guidance of j. t. headley, the party scrambled though the ice-glen.
the man seemed too simple and obtuse to comprehend the ridicule of his  situation, or to be rendered very miserable by it.
one or two old salts, rather the worse for liquor: in  general the people are very temperate.
he sees what  she is about, and contrives matters so that she throws herself completely into  his power, and is ruined,--all in jest.
mrs. prescott has an ox whose visage bears a strong resemblance to daniel  webster,--a majestic brute.
a street, or other location,  might be presented, where there would be opportunity to bring forward all  objects of worldly interest, and thus much pleasant satire might be the result.
every few minutes a sturgeon leaps forth, sometimes behind you, so  that you merely hear the splash, and, turning hastily around, see nothing but  the disturbed water.
all their interests extend over the earth's surface in a layer of that  thickness.
b---- treated them twice round.
but thanks be to the beautiful flower for growing at any rate.
the other i tried to feed, and  sometimes, when a morsel of bread was thrust into its open mouth, it would  swallow it.
of course it was  fully efficient in obtaining the best accommodations that were to be had.
the sunlight  gradually spreads, and the whole sombre scene is changed to a motley  picture,--the sun bringing out many shades of color, and converting its gloom  to an almost laughing cheerfulness.
they come to the door while their mothers are  talking with the visitors, standing straight up on their bare legs, with their  little plump bodies protruding, in one hand a small tin saucepan, and in the  other an iron spoon, with unwashed mouths, looking as independent as any child  or grown person in the land.
a change from a gay young girl to an old woman; the melancholy events, the  effects of which have clustered around her character, and gradually imbued it  with their influence, till she becomes a lover of sick-chambers, taking  pleasure in receiving dying breaths and in laying out the dead; also having her  mind full of funeral reminiscences, and possessing more acquaintances beneath  the burial turf than above it.
she now lies on the  foot-stool between my feet, purring most obstreperously.
as we approached it, a large bird flew away.
when the tide is part way down, there is a margin  of several yards from the water's edge, along the whole mile length of the  beach, which glistens like a mirror, and reflects objects, and shines bright in  the sunshine, the sand being wet to that distance from the water.
we have had turnips and carrots several times.
walking along the track of the railroad, i observed a place where the  workmen had bored a hole through the solid rock, in order to blast it; but,  striking a spring of water beneath the rock, it gushed up through the hole.
by the by, was there ever any rain in paradise?
october 13th.--how pleasant it is to see a human  countenance which cannot be insincere,--in reference to baby's smile.
he knocked off one of the bunches, and carrying it  home, or to a camp, or wherever he lived, he put it on the fire, and melted it  down into clear lead.
she looks  as if her ample person were stuffed full of tenderness,--indeed, as if she were  all one great, kind heart.
he is a plain country squire, with a good figure, but with  rather a heavy brow; a rough complexion; a gait stiff, and a general rigidity  of manner, something like that of a schoolmaster.
it soon covered the whole sea, and the whole  island, beyond a verge of a few hundred yards.
the ship's main-mast  comes down through the middle of the room, and bridge's chair, at dinner, is  planted against it.
a stove possessed by a devil.
some of them, however, were sweet and pleasant.
the surface of the island is plentifully overgrown with whortleberry and  bayberry bushes.
the ice was so thick as not to be broken by some  sticks and small stones which i threw upon it.
i thought it very noble thus to  protest against anything discreditable in himself personally being used against  the honor of his country.
i rather think that b---- and i will be remembered by  him with more pleasure than anybody else in the country; for we have  sympathized with him, and treated him kindly, and like a gentleman and an  equal; and he comes to us at night as to home and friends.
as, for instance, to muse over  a child's cradle, and foresee all the persons in different parts of the world  with whom he would have relations.
my  breath had never belonged to anybody but me.
i saw  one old negro, a genuine specimen of the slave negro, without any of the  foppery of the race in our part of the state,--an old fellow, with a bag, i  suppose, of broken victuals, on his shoulder, and his pockets stuffed out at  his hips with the like provender; full of grimaces and ridiculous antics,  laughing laughably, yet without affectation; then talking with a strange kind  of pathos about the whippings he used to get while he was a slave;--a singular  creature, of mere feeling, with some glimmering of sense.
it would be  pleasant enough to float down the kennebec on one of these rafts, letting the  river conduct you onward at its own pace, leisurely displaying to you all the  wild or ordered beauties along its banks, and perhaps running you aground in  some peculiarly picturesque spot, for your longer enjoyment of it.
his motions were devoid of grace, but yet had a rough  freedom, appropriate enough to such a figure.
it was a small patch near the summit of bald mountain, just on the  upper verge of a grove of trees.
bare, brown spaces of grass here and there, but  still so infrequent as only to diversify the scene a little.
july 29th.--remarkable characters:--a disagreeable  figure, waning from middle age, clad in a pair of tow homespun pantaloons, and  a very soiled shirt, barefoot, and with one of his feet maimed by an axe; also  an arm amputated two or three inches below the elbow.
this sudden development would be scarcely  more wonderful than the gleam of verdure which often brightens, in a moment, as  it were, along the slope of a bank or roadside.
we left lenox friday morning, november 21, 1851, in a storm of snow and  sleet, and took the cars at pittsfield, and arrived at west newton that evening.
an article on cemeteries, with fantastic ideas of monuments; for instance,  a sundial;--a large, wide carved stone chair, with some such motto as  "rest and think," and others, facetious or serious.
a love-scene  should be laid on such an evening.
may 29th.--c---- is leaving me, to my unspeakable relief;  for he has had a bad cold, which caused him to be much more troublesome and  less amusing than might otherwise have been the case.
each tree now within sight stands out in its own individuality of hue.
physically we cannot do this; our bodies cannot; but it seems to me that  our hearts and minds may keep themselves above moral mud-puddles and other  discomforts of the soul's pathway.
coming out of the caravansary, there were the mountains, in the quiet  sunset, and many men drunk, swearing, and fighting.
my chief anxiety consists in watching the prosperity of my  vegetables, in observing how they are affected by the rain or sunshine, in  lamenting the blight of one squash and rejoicing at the luxurious growth of  another.
then i would see  him rapidly descending the trunk, and running along the ground; and a moment  afterwards, casting my eye upward, i beheld him flitting like a bird among the  high limbs at the summit, directly above me.
in  the tavern, prints from scripture, varnished and on rollers,--such as the  judgment of christ; also a droll set of colored engravings of the story of the  prodigal son, the figures being clad in modern costume,--or, at least, that of  not more than half a century ago.
he withdrew himself as far as he possibly could into  his shell, and absolutely refused to peep out, even when i put him into the  water.
it is like a bird,  hopping from twig to twig, and chirping merrily all the time.
there was an accumulation of soft stuff on the bottom, so that  the water did not look more than knee-deep; but, finding that my feet sunk in  it, i took off my trousers, and waded through up to my middle.
"whitish," as above, don't express it.
the old dutchman's exhibition being over, a great dog, apparently an  elderly dog, suddenly made himself the object of notice, evidently in rivalship  of the dutchman.
he is kind-hearted and grateful, and evinces  his gratitude to the mother of the family and to his benefactress by occasional  presents, not trifling when measured by his small emolument of five dollars per  week.
an idle man's pleasures and occupations and thoughts during a day spent by  the seashore: among them, that of sitting on the top of a cliff, and throwing  stones at his own shadow, far below.
he had come across the hoosic, or green  mountains, about eighteen miles, on foot, from charlemont, where he is  preaching, and had been to commencement.
this talk was introduced by his mentioning the  "minister's black veil," which he said he had seen translated into  french, as an exercise, by a miss appleton of bangor.
it was not like the moonshine, brightening as the evening  twilight deepens; for now it threw its radiance over the landscape, the green  and other tints of which were displayed by the daylight, whereas at evening all  those tints are obscured.
he was  in his slippers; a volume of his book was open on a table, and apparently he  had been engaged in revising or annotating it.
on my way home, i paused to inspect the squash-field.
and  beyond, and far away, rises a long, gradual swell of country, covered with an  apparently dense growth of foliage for miles, till the horizon terminates it;  and here and there is a house, or perhaps two, among the contiguity of trees.
there is a fellow hereabout who refuses to pay six dollars for the coffin  in which his wife was buried.
i gathered from  some conversation that i heard, that a son of adam is to be buried this  afternoon from the meeting-house; but the name of the deceased escaped me.
yesterday i found two mushrooms in the woods, probably of the preceding  night's growth.
several had come from  a distance to bid for the job.
they  searched, and found nothing that they sought, though she gave up a pair of  pantalets, which she pretended to have taken by mistake.
i  had some conversation with them in the afternoon, and was glad to hear them  express much satisfaction with their new abode and all the arrangements.
the moon beautifully dark-bright, not  giving so white a light as sometimes.
to put on bridal garments at funerals, and mourning at  weddings?
h---- is a particularly plump, soft-fleshed, fair-complexioned, comely woman  enough, with rather a simple countenance, not nearly so piquant as nancy's.
but at a proper distance it is a beautiful fringe  on autumn's petticoat.
man's finest workmanship, the closer you observe it, the more imperfections  it shows; as in a piece of polished steel a microscope will discover a rough  surface.
in the netherlands, to form hedges, young trees are interwoven into a sort  of lattice-work; and, in time, they grow together at the point of junction, so  that the fence is all of one piece.
in the mean time, dogs are continually plunging into the pond,  and swimming about, with noses pointed upward, and snatching at floating chips;  then emerging, they shake themselves, scattering a horizontal shower on the  clean gowns of ladies and trousers of gentlemen; then scamper to and fro on the  grass, with joyous barks.
it appeared to better advantage the higher the point from which i  viewed it.
[1841] april 1841.--. . .
on  landing, we found the keeper peeling his harvest of onions, which he had  gathered prematurely, because the insects were eating them.
clambering down  the bank, we found it a complete arch, hollowed out of the solid rock, and as  high as the arched entrance of an ancient church, which it might be taken to  be, though considerably dilapidated and weather-worn.
he spoke of bainbridge as a sot and a poltroon,  who wanted to run from the macedonian, pretending to take her for a  line-of-battle ship; of commodore elliot as a liar; but praised commodore  downes in the highest terms.
last evening we had a long  literary and philosophical conversation with monsieur s----.
there was a strong west-wind blowing dead against me, which,  together with the current, increased by the height of the water, made the first  part of the passage pretty toilsome.
april 28th.--for a week we have found the trailing  arbutus pretty abundant in the woods.
of all hateful places that is the worst, and i shall never comfort myself  for having spent so many days of blessed sunshine there.
this morning an underwitted old man met  me on a walk, and held a pretty long conversation, insisting upon shaking hands  (to which i was averse, lest his hand should not be clean), and insisting on  his right to do so, as being "a friend of mankind."
i saw them, the last green thing, in the autumn; and here they  are again, the first in the spring.
the days are cold now, the air  eager and nipping, yet it suits my health amazingly.
their  residence, a great brick building, painted green, and standing on the summit of  a rising ground, exposed to the winds of the bay.
there were jelly-fish swimming about, and several left to melt away on the  shore.
whereupon they showed great hospitality,  and the master-workman went to the spring, and brought delicious water in a tin  basin, and produced another jug containing "new rum, and very good; and  rum does nobody any harm if they make a good use of it," quoth he.
miniatures in oil, with the  paint peeling off, of stern, old, yellow faces.
happiness in this world, when it comes, comes incidentally.
i know not how to interpret this aspect of  nature,--whether it be of good or evil omen to our enterprise.
many of the academy students  are men grown, and some, they say, well towards forty years old.
she is very fractious, i believe, and apt to kick over the milk-pail. .
i shall not remain here through the winter,  unless with an absolute certainty that there will be a house ready for us in  the spring.
one or two had crept to a stone-wall that  traverses smutty nose, but were unable to get over it.
wild china  asters are scattered about, but beginning to wither.
he evidently  has not forgotten that he once had the faculty of sight; for he turns his eyes  with earnestness towards those who attract his attention, though the orbs are  plainly sightless.
e---- h---- , who is much more at home among spirits than among fleshly bodies,  came hither a few times merely to welcome us to the ethereal world; but  latterly she has vanished into some other region of infinite space.
she had a singular gait, reeling, as it were, and yet not quite  reeling, from one side of the path to the other; going onward as if it were not  much matter whether she went straight or crooked.
saturday, august 27th.--a peach-tree, which grows beside  our house and brushes against the window, is so burdened with fruit that i have  had to prop it up.
entering the burial-ground, where some masons were building a tomb, we  found a good many old monuments, and several covered with slabs of red  freestone or slate, and with arms sculptured on the slab, or an inlaid circle  of slate.
i know much  more than i did a year ago.
when man arrives at his  highest perfection, he will again be dumb!
i saw him exhibiting patterns of fashions to randall, the  village tailor.
locusts, crickets, and other insects were making music.
i observed the shadows of water-insects, as they swam in the pools of  a stream.
july 11th, tuesday.--a drive with b---- to  hallowell, yesterday, where we dined, and afterwards to gardiner.
as we were going  to the village yesterday afternoon, we witnessed the beginning of a quarrel  between a canadian and a yankee,--the latter accusing the former of striking  his oxen.
[1840] february 7th, 1840.--what beautiful weather this  is!--beautiful, at least, so far as sun, sky, and atmosphere are concerned,  though a poor, wingless biped is sometimes constrained to wish that he could  raise himself a little above the earth.
we went round the navy  yard with percival and commodore downes, the latter a sailor and a  gentleman too, with rather more of the ocean than the drawing-room about him,  but courteous, frank, and good-natured.
apple-trees, on the  other hand, grow old without reproach.
the grass-plots appertaining to each of  the houses whose rears are opposite ours (standing in temple place) are perhaps  ten or twelve feet broad, and three times as long.
the audience was more noteworthy than the play.
a stranger, dying, is buried; and after many years two strangers come in  search of his grave, and open it.
the sunshine, thus falling across the dark river, has a most  beautiful effect.
from the edge of the rocks, you may look off into deep, deep water, even at low  tide.
in 1727 it was lined with china, probably  tiles.
there is a small mall in the centre of the town, and in the  centre of the mall rises an elm of the loftiest and straightest stem that ever
sunday, october 10th.--i visited my grapevine this  afternoon, and ate the last of its clusters.
it tempted me to bathe; and,  though the water was thrillingly cold, it was like the thrill of a happy death.
if shaken to bring down the fruit, they will discharge a shower  upon the head of him who stands beneath.
its situation, too, is  fine, far retired from the public road, and attainable by a winding  carriage-drive; standing amid fertile fields, and with large trees in the  vicinity.
the path to it is a  very secluded one, threading a wood of pines, and just wide enough to admit the  loads of meadow hay which are drawn from the splashy shore of the river.
there were four or five gentlemen, most of whom had not much that was  noteworthy.
september 9th.--a walk yesterday forenoon through the  notch, formed between saddle mountain and another adjacent one.
concord, mass., august 20th.--a piece of land contiguous  to and connected with a handsome estate, to the adornment and good appearance  of which it was essential.
half past five o'clock.--after writing the above, . . .
it is a sunny forenoon, with a cool breeze from the south-west.
in the  evening he sits under the stoop, silent and observant from under the brim of  his hat; but, occasion calling, he holds an argument about the benefit or  otherwise of manufactories or other things.
a pensive mood of age had come upon him, and sometimes he heaved  a long sigh, while he turned and returned the paper, and folded it for  convenient reading.
i walked with mr. thaxter over the island, and saw first the graves of the  spaniards.
he related a singular story of an attempt of his to become acquainted  with me years ago, when he mistook my kinsman eben for me.
in this dismal chamber fame was won.
often it would seem a wonder how our road was to continue, the mountains  rose so abruptly on either side, and stood, so direct a wall, across our onward  course; while, looking behind, it would be an equal mystery how we had gotten  thither, through the huge base of the mountain, that seemed to have reared  itself erect after our passage.
i believe i did not have any  fantasies about the ghostly kitchen-maid; but i trust mary left the flat-irons  within her reach, so that she may do all her ironing while we are away, and  never disturb us more at midnight.
there are some strong yellow hues, and some deep red;  there are innumerable shades of green, some few having the depth of summer;  others, partially changed towards yellow, look freshly verdant with the  delicate tinge of early summer or of may.
also it is the air of a man not in a  subordinate station, though vulgar and coarse.
few of these people are connected with the mill-dam,--or, at  least, many are not so, but have intruded themselves into the vacant huts which  were occupied by the mill-dam people last year.
it gives an  admirable view of the city, being almost as high as the steeples and the dome  of the state house, and overlooking the whole mass of brick buildings and  slated roofs, with glimpses of streets far below.
he criticises the road over the mountain,  having come in the greenfleld stage; perhaps an engineer.
there remained behind, however, a mr. t---- from newburyport,--a man of  natural refinement, and a taste for reading that seems to point towards the  writings of emerson, thoreau, and men of that class.
others were  of a light, fresh green, resembling the hues of spring, though this, likewise,  is a token of decay.
the  cautious and scientific air with which he measures his distances.
the first house, after reaching the summit, is a small, homely  tavern.
then i stepped into a book auction,  not to buy, but merely to observe, and, after a few moments, who should come  in, with a smile as sweet as sugar (though savoring rather of molasses), but,  to my horror and petrifaction, ----!
i saw nothing remarkable, unless a little  girl in the next pew to us, three or four years old, who fell asleep, with her  head in the lap of her maid, and looked very pretty: a picture of sleeping  innocence.
she is a  yellow, thin, and battered old thing, yet rather country-lady-like in aspect  and manners.
at mr. fields's, soon after  entering the house, i heard the brisk and cheerful notes of a canary-bird,  singing with great vivacity, and making its voice echo through the large rooms.
[1850] passages from note-books.
they set him down in a niche of the door,  and tell him to remain there a day and a half: he sits down very demurely, as  if he meant to fulfil his penance; but a moment after, behold!
the child, or  children, began to cry; and betty, fearful of discovery, murdered them to save  herself.
once there was a little cat's-paw of a breeze,  whereupon we untied ourselves from the pole; but it almost immediately died  away, and we were compelled to make fast again.
but i must mention the great companies of blackbirds--more  than the famous "four-and-twenty" who were baked in a pie--that  congregate on the tops of contiguous trees, and vociferate with all the clamor  of a turbulent political meeting.
there was a trace of the gentleman and man of intellect  through his deep degradation; and a pleasure in intellectual pursuits, and an  acuteness and trained judgment, which bespoke a mind once strong and  cultivated.
they  showed me some of the remarkable features of the island, such as a deep chasm  in the cliffs of the shore, towards the southwest; also a monument of rude  stones, on the highest point of the island, said to have been erected by  captain john smith before the settlement at plymouth.
but it so  chances that he never falls in love, and although he gives up the expectation  of so doing, and marries calmly, yet it is somewhat sadly, with sentiments  merely of esteem for his bride.
j. t. headley and  brother called.
a new classification of society to be instituted.
"mamma, i see a part of your smile,"--a child to her mother,  whose mouth was partly covered by her hand.
the sun being now low towards the west, a  pleasant gloom and brightness were diffused through the forest, spots of  brightness scattered upon the branches, or thrown down in gold upon the last  year's leaves among the trees.
this annoyance has made me endure the bad weather with even less than  ordinary patience; and my faith was so far exhausted that, when they told me  yesterday that the sun was setting clear, i would not even turn my eyes towards  the west.
to reach it, i cross one branch of the stream on stones, and then  pass to the other side of a little island, overgrown with trees and underbrush.
i have likewise found a hoard of crackers in  one of the covered dishes; so that the old castle is sufficiently provisioned  to stand a long siege.
a horse was standing saddled near the door, but i did not see the rider.
he had probably followed the small fish into the bay, and got  bewildered, and, at one time, he was almost aground.
and it swept quite over the shrubbery that bordered what, in summer-time, is  the river's bank, but which is now nearly the centre of the stream.
at twilight mr.  edwin p. whipple and wife called.
"that hand could make the pen go fast," said he.
they nickname him  "black hawk."
it has not an infinite soul.
it is strange how few good faces there are in the world,  comparatively to the ugly ones.
the field, with slight undulations,  slopes pretty directly down.
there is a surprise when this happens,--this  getting out of one's self,--and then the observer sees how queer a fellow he is.
some of the islands lay in the shade, dark and gloomy,  while others were bright and favored spots.
he was in excellent  spirits, and could not keep his tongue or body still more than long enough to  make two or three consecutive strokes at his beard.
it requires many clouds, long brooding over us, to make us sad, but  one gleam of sunshine always suffices to cheer up the landscape.
they breathe not easily,  and yet not with difficulty nor discomfort; for the very unreadiness and  oppression with which their breath comes appears to make them sensible of the  deep sensual satisfaction which they feel.
what a perverse  wind it is!
the history of a small lake from the first, till it was drained, an autumnal feature,--boys had swept together the fallen leaves from the  elms along the street in one huge pile, and had made a hollow, nest-shaped, in  this pile, in which three or four of them lay curled, like young birds.
insects have mostly vanished in the fields and woods.
two little boats of cork, with a magnet in one and steel in the other.
all my scribbling propensities  will be far more than gratified in writing nonsense for the press; so that any  gratuitous labor of the pen becomes peculiarly distasteful.
the trees  overshadowed it deeply; but on one side there was some brilliant shrubbery  which seemed to light up the whole picture with the effect of a sweet and  melancholy smile.
the descent from the notch southward is much more abrupt than on the  other side.
the devil take the stick of wood!
the best of us being unfit to die, what an inexpressible absurdity to put  the worst to death!
i am  commanded to take pen in hand, and i am therefore banished to the little  ten-foot-square apartment misnamed my study; but perhaps the dismalness of the  day and the dulness of my solitude will be the prominent characteristics of  what i write.
it seems a part of nature.
at first we had three meals a day,  but now only two. . . .
his  clerical air was quite distinguishable, and it was rather curious to see it,  when everybody else wore red-baize shirts and fishing-boots, and looked of the  scaly genus.
march 31st.--a walk with the children yesterday forenoon.
we  rowed to the foot of the hill which borders the north branch, and there landed,  and climbed the moist and snowy hill-side for the sake of the prospect.
some treasure or other thing to be buried, and a tree planted directly over  the spot, so as to embrace it with its roots.
one of the  little hamlets stands on both sides of a deep dell, wooded and hush-grown, with  a vista, as it were, into the heart of a wood in one direction, and to the  broad, sunny river in the other: there was a little rivulet, crossed by a  plank, at the bottom of the dell.
in old country-houses in england, instead of glass for windows, they used  wicker, or fine strips of oak disposed checkerwise.
it is my purpose to plant some more corn  at the end of the month, or sooner.
passing a rock near the centre of the island, which rose from the soil  about breast-high, and appeared to have been split asunder, with an  incalculably aged and moss-grown fissure, the surfaces of which, however,  precisely suited each other, mr. hatch mentioned that there was an idea among  the people, with regard to rocks thus split, that they were rent asunder at the  time of the crucifixion.
there is an engraving of that famous vegetable in  snow's history of boston.
the church is ancient and small, and has a  prodigiously high tower of more modern date, being erected in the time of  edward iv.
i have recently been both lectured about and preached about here in my  native city; the preacher was rev. mr. fox, of newburyport; but how he  contrived to put me into a sermon i know not.
meantime, the passenger,  stepping from the solitary station into the train, finds himself in the midst  of a new world all in a moment.
september 4th.--this day an exhibition of animals in the  vicinity of the village, under a pavilion of sail-cloth,--the floor being the  natural grass, with here and there a rock partially protruding.
the highest point of our journey was at windsor, where we could see leagues  around over the mountain, a terribly bare, bleak spot, fit for nothing but  sheep, and without shelter of woods.
alas, what a difference between the ideal and the  real!
i suspect that the company were about on a par in each; for at the maverick  house, though well dressed, they seemed to be merely sunday gentlemen,--mostly  young fellows,--clerks in dry-goods stores being the aristocracy of them.
he reciprocates notice, of  some kind or other, with all who notice him.
i hardly  know why it is that our cheerful and lightsome repairs and improvements in the  interior of the house seem to be in perfectly good taste, though the heavy old  beams and high wainscoting of the walls speak of ages gone by.
if a contest arises between two  dogs, a number of others come with huge barking to join the fray, though i  believe that they do not really take any active part in the contest, but swell  the uproar by way of encouraging the combatants.
brown brocade gown, with a  nice lawn handkerchief and apron,--short sleeves, with a little ruffle, just  below the elbow,--black mittens,--a lawn cap, with rich lace border,--a black  velvet hood on the back of the head, tied with black ribbon under the chin.
to-day she has been there until  late in the decline of the afternoon.
such a protracted winter has not been known for twenty years, at  least.
we parted, he exhorting me not to  forget his message to his sons, and i shouting after him a request to be  remembered to the widow.
but i have been chopping wood, and turning a grindstone all the forenoon; and  such occupations are likely to disturb the equilibrium of the muscles and  sinews.
once, the person who told  him the story reached the lid of the chest, so that the spades plainly scraped  upon it, when one of the men spoke, and the chest immediately moved sideways  into the earth.
i observe that the fanny ellsler,  our passenger and mail boat, has arrived from portsmouth, and now lies in a  little cove, moored to the rocky shore, with a flag flying at her main-mast.
in the afternoon i walked round a portion of the island that i had not  previously visited, and in the evening went with mr. titcomb to mr. thaxter's  to drink apple-toddy.
the volumes of which it was composed were  perceptible by translucent lines and fissures; but the mass, as a whole, seemed  as solid, bulky, and ponderous in the cloud-world as the mountain was on earth.
we have as many as fifty hills, i should  think, which will give us an abundant supply.
perhaps there is a precipice, hundreds of feet high,  beside it, down which, by heavy rains, or the melting of snows, great  pine-trees have slid or fallen headlong, and lie at the bottom, or  half-way down, while their brethren seem to be gazing at their fall from the  summit, and anticipating a like fate.
he  insists upon being in the room with me all the time, except at night, when he  sleeps in the shed, and i do not find myself severe enough to drive him out.
so it is with many people in  this world; the same soil and circumstances may produce the good and beautiful,  and the wicked and ugly.
in the midst of our talk, we heard  footsteps above us, on the high bank; and while the person was still hidden  among the tree, he called to margaret, of whom he had gotten a glimpse.
well, we are rich  in blessings, though poor in money. . . .
all the dead that had ever been drowned in a certain lake to arise.
ellen jewett and r. p. robinson, she dressed richly, in extreme  fashion, and very pretty; he awkward and stiff, it being difficult to stuff a  figure to look like a gentleman.
the caravan men were so sleepy, orrin s---- says, that he could hardly wake  them in the morning.
hereupon the smaller of the two girls, after a  little inefficacious dandling, at once settled the question of maternity by  nursing her baby.
the foregoing are the chief outward events of our life.
most of the people had smart canes  and bosom-pins.
the woods on the hill-sides look almost black, and  the cleared spaces a kind of gray brown.
this giant was not ill-looking, but of a rather  intelligent aspect.
this must have been old dr. ripley with one of his sermons.
it has been raining more or less all the forenoon, and now, at twelve  o'clock, blows, as mr. laighton says, "half a gale" from the  southeast.
taconic, this morning (4th), was a black purple, as dense and distinct as  monument mountain itself.
i went round and across the common, and  stood on the highest point of it, where i could see miles and miles into the  country.
chestnuts have been scarce for two or three years.
the hotel is kept by a prussian, an old soldier, who fought at the battle  of waterloo.
one pretty young woman  appeared inclined to engross him entirely to herself.
this office being concluded,  and i having purified myself, i sit down to finish this letter. . . .
here there are respectable farmers, though it is a rough, and must be a  bleak place.
and there were clouds floating all  about,--great clouds and small, of all glorious and lovely hues (save that  imperial crimson which was revealed to our united gaze),--so glorious, indeed,  and so lovely, that i had a fantasy of heaven's being broken into fleecy  fragments and dispersed through space, with its blest inhabitants dwelling  blissfully upon those scattered islands.
my fancy was almost afraid to be there alone.
the driver said, perhaps correctly,  that the crow had scented some salmon which was in a basket under the seat, and  that this was the secret of his pursuing us.
when the sun was almost below the  horizon, his rays, gilding the upper branches of a yellow walnut-tree, had an  airy and beautiful effect,--the gentle contrast between the tint of the yellow  in the shade and its ethereal gold in the fading sunshine.
my  spirit rebelled against being confined in my darksome dungeon at the custom  house.
the furniture consisted of  high-backed, short-legged, rheumatic chairs, small, old tables, bedsteads with  lofty posts, stately chests of drawers, looking-glasses in antique black  frames, all of which were probably fashionable in the days of dr. ripley's  predecessor.
if he were a dog of fair character, it  would be no more than charity to conclude that he had either bought it, or had  it given to him; but with the other charges against him, it inclines me to  great distrust of his moral principles.
then would she  wheedle and laugh and blarney, beginning in a rage, and ending as if she had  been in jest.
but i am becoming more and more convinced  that we must not lean upon this community.
the next morning george prescott came with una's lion, who  greeted me very affectionately, but whined and moaned as if he missed somebody  who should have been here.
i went to george  hillard's office, and he spoke with immitigable resolution of the necessity of  my going to dine with longfellow before returning to concord; but i have an  almost miraculous power of escaping from necessities of this kind.
then there is the solemn and dark  green of the pines.
a walk this forenoon up the mountain ridge that walls in the town towards  the east.
the commissioners sat together in  attitudes of some dignity, with one leg laid across another; and the people, to  the number of twenty or thirty, sat round about with their hats on, in their  shirtsleeves, with but little, yet with some, formality.
above this point  there were various excellent views of mountain scenery, far off and near, and  one village lying below in the hollow vale.
in all these rites orrin s---- bore the chief part with real feeling and  sadly decorous demeanor.
the governor in black velvet, and his lady in crimson tabby trimmed with  silver, the ladies wore bell-hoops, high-heeled shoes, paste buckles, silk  stockings, and enormously high head-dresses, with lappets of brussels lace  hanging thence to the waist.
december 6th.--a fairy tale about chasing echo to her  hiding-place.
it is  impossible not to feel angry with these unconscionable insects, who scruple not  to do such excessive mischief to me, with only the profit of a meal or two to  themselves.
it stands  towards the southern part of the island; and all the other islands are  visible from it, smutty nose, star island, and white island,--on which is the  light-house,--much of laighton's island (the proper name of which is hog,  though latterly called appledore), and duck island, which looks like a mere  reef of rocks, and about a mile farther into the ocean, easterly of hog island.
"they were just beginning to pitch over the mountains, as i came  along,"--stage-driver's expression about the caravan.
apples scattered by the  wayside, some with pieces bitten out, others entire, which you pick up  and taste, and find them harsh, crabbed cider-apples, though they have a  pretty, waxen appearance.
in front, beyond the lower spread of forest, saddle mountain rises,  and the valleys, and long, swelling hills sweep away.
once in a while the  maid-servants would come to the door, and hear and respond to their jokes, with  a kind of restraint, yet both permitting and enjoying them.
it is pleasant to notice the wide circle of greener grass beneath the  circumference of an overshadowing oak.
an old, shining tree-trunk, half in and half out of the water.
there are rocks mossy  and slippery; sometimes you stagger, with a great rustling of branches, against  a clump of bushes, and into the midst of it.
he is fastened by a cord, which, getting tangled with the flag over  the booth, he takes hold and tries to free it.
it makes one  shiver to think how dripping with wet are those deep, umbrageous nooks, those  overshadowed banks, where we find such enjoyment during sultry afternoons.
i saw only two dwelling-houses  besides the hotel.
then the boy heedfully placed shawls and  cushions about his leg to support it, his face expressive of pain and  care,--not transitory, but settled pain, of long and forcedly patient  endurance; and this painful look, perhaps, gave his face more intelligence than  it might otherwise have had, though it was naturally a sensitive face.
in some places, large tracts of ground were covered as with a scarlet  cloth,--the underbrush being thus colored.
a range of young birches had retained a pretty liberal coloring of yellow or  tawny leaves, which became very cheerful in the sunshine.
the day when the window is first thrown open should be an  epoch in the year; but i have forgotten to record it.
the family has been dismal and dolorous throughout the storm.
i believe him  to be about as honest as the great run of the world, with something even  approaching to high-mindedness.
it was the tomb of rev. thomas allen,  first minister of pittsfield, deceased in 1810.
the old unpainted shingles and boards of the mansion and out-houses  are black with the moisture which they have imbibed.
there was an eccentric expression  in his face, which seemed partly wilful, partly natural.
they have become a part of the family; and their individual  characters are as well understood and appreciated as those of the human  members.
july 13th.--a show of wax-figures, consisting almost  wholly of murderers and their victims,--gibbs and hansley, the pirates, and the  dutch girl whom gibbs murdered.
his nuts were contained in a square tin  box, having two compartments, one for the nuts, and another for maple sugar,  which he sells in small cakes.
a little boy  returning from the city, several miles, with a basket of empty custard-cups,  the contents of which he had probably sold at the depot.
it will continue to swell, i suppose, and in the winter and spring it  will flood all the broad meadows through which it flows.
however,  it has been successfully accomplished.
august 4th.--dined at hotel with j. t. fields and wife.
a pedlar, with girls' neckerchiefs,--or gauze,--men's silk  pocket-handkerchiefs, red bandannas, and a variety of horn combs, trying to  trade with the servant-girls of the house.
barouches at the doors, and gentlemen and ladies  going to drive, and gentlemen smoking round the piazza.
both these girls appeared to enjoy  themselves very much,--the large and heavy one in her own duller mode; the  smaller manifesting her interest by gestures, pointing at the stage, and with  so vivid a talk of countenance that it was precisely as if she had spoken.
i have taken a long walk this forenoon along the needham road, and across  the bridge, thence pursuing a cross-road through the woods, parallel with the  river, which i crossed again at dedham.
there, too, is the grave of  nathaniel mather, the younger brother of cotton, and mentioned in the magnalia  as a hard student, and of great promise.
after dinner some of the gentlemen crossed over to gosport, where we visited  the old graveyard, in which were monuments to rev. mr. tucke (died 1773, after  forty years' settlement) and to another and later minister of the island.
near the lower verge, a rude sort of barn, or  rather haystack roofed over, and with hay protruding and hanging out.
amongst these the stream brawls, only that this word  does not express its good-natured voice, and "murmur" is too  quiet.
a good many people were the better or the worse for liquor.
"a man generally places some little dependence on his wife," said  he, "whether she's good or not."
and now i begin to understand why i was imprisoned so  many years in this lonely chamber, and why i could never break through the  viewless bolts and bars; for if i had sooner made my escape into the world, i  should have grown hard and rough, and been covered with earthly dust, and my  heart might have become callous by rude encounters with the multitude. . . .
if the sails had been crimson or yellow, the  resemblance would have been much closer.
i heard eliza telling another girl about it, under my window; and  she seemed to think that the poor woman's reluctance to be searched arose from  the poorness of her wardrobe and of the contents of her bandbox.
"the pomegranate seeds."
generally it is  but a dark blue unvaried mountain-top.
the number of voters is variously represented as from eighteen to  twenty-eight.
they appear to be busy men, these stablers, yet have a  lounging way with them, as if indolence were somehow diffused through their  natures.
[there rings the tea-bell.]
how  inhospitable nature is during a rain!
oh, how blest should i be  were there nothing to do!
the roots of oaks emerged from the soil, and  contorted themselves across the path.
i was not at the end of long wharf to-day, but in a distant region,--my  authority having been put in requisition to quell a rebellion of the captain  and "gang" of shovelers aboard a coal-vessel.
september 5th.--i took a walk of three miles from the  village, which brought me into vermont.
at last it comes in such profusion as to be the great pest of  their lives.
the device of a sundial for a monument over a grave, with some suitable  motto.
after a time, galliard, a  merchant of guernsey, paid his addresses to the young lady; but she always felt  a strong, unaccountable antipathy to him.
on my right, separated from the road by a  level field, perhaps fifty yards across, was a range of young forest-trees,  dressed in their garb of autumnal glory.
a judge, a  stout, hearty country squire, looking elderly; a hale and rugged man, in a  black coat, and thin, light pantaloons.
art | notes | ^top please send your own contributions or corrections:mailto:ericeldred@usa.net url: http://eldred.ne.mediaone.net/nh/pfanb01.html last updated: 1999-10-23 21:27:31
some of  their roofs are covered with sods, and appear almost subterranean.
afterwards, he apparently  became accustomed to my society, and set about some business of his own.
nevertheless, if no overwhelming discovery of rascality be made, he will  always possess influence; though i should hardly think that he would take any  prominent part in congress.
after the funeral, i took a walk on the williamstown  road, towards the west.
if the middle of the day prove warm and pleasant, i promise myself to take  a walk, . . .
pleasant, too, to watch an  angler, as he strays along the brink, sometimes sheltering himself behind a  tuft of bushes, and trailing his line along the water, in hopes to catch a  pickerel.
frequently we  passed people with cows, oxen, sheep, or pigs for brighton fair.
he was not bred a stage-driver, but had undertaken the business  temporarily, as a favor to his brother-in-law.
by  and by comes in the steward.
" remarkable character:--a travelling surgeon-dentist, who has taken a room  in the north adams house, and sticks up his advertising bills on the pillars of  the piazza, and all about the town.
poor sinner!--and doubtless  satan heats the irons for her.
nobody will use other people's experience, nor have any of his own till it  is too late to use it.
i am ashamed to eat alone; it becomes the mere  gratification of animal appetite,--the tribute which we are compelled to pay to  our grosser nature; whereas, in the company of another it is refined and  moralized and spiritualized; and over our earthly victuals (or rather vittles, for the former is a very foolish mode of spelling),--over our  earthly vittles is diffused a sauce of lofty and gentle thoughts, and tough  meat is mollified with tender feelings.
at canaan, connecticut, before the tavern, there is a doorstep, two or  three paces large in each of its dimensions; and on this is inscribed the date  when the builder of the house came to the town,--namely, 1731.
the secret of working them thus is now lost.
then i ascend to my study, and generally read, or perchance scribble in this  journal, and otherwise suffer time to loiter onward at his own pleasure, till  the dinner-hour.
it will be a long time, however, before i shall  know how to make a good use of leisure, either as regards enjoyment or literary  occupation. . . .
it incenses and  depresses me at the same time.
methinks there is a sort of  coolness amid all the heat, and a mildness in the brightest of the sunshine.
master cheever is a very  good subject for a sketch, especially if he be portrayed in the very act of  executing judgment on an evil-doer.
the  uneven places in the rocks were full of the fallen rain.
this should be one of many modes of petty torment.
when he walks, he puts the thumb of each hand into the armhole of his  waistcoat, and moves along stiffly, with a knock-kneed gait.
thus, no argument for the imperfect character of our  existence and its delusory promises, and its apparent injustice, can be drawn  in reference to our immortality, without, in a degree, being applicable to our  brute brethren.
the clouds above added to the  black appearance.
opposite this principal hotel there was  another, called "the mechanics," which seemed to be equally thronged.
he wears a pair of silver-rimmed  spectacles.
one day, when the wind was high, and the surf raging against the rocks, a great  wave struck her, as she sat on the edge, and seemed to deprive her of sense;  another wave, or the reflex of the same one, carried her off into the sea, and  she was seen no more.
on arriving at brighton, we found the village thronged with people, horses,  and vehicles.
12 o'clock, m.--just now i heard a sharp tapping at the window of my study,  and, looking up from my book (a volume of rabelais), behold!
the other girl  seemed as young or younger than herself.
the love of posterity is a consequence of the necessity of death.
two girls are very  tired,--one a pale, thin, languid-looking creature; the other plump, rosy,  rather overburdened with her own little body.
a father confessor,--his reflections on character, and the contrast of  the inward man with the outward, as he looks around on his congregation, all  whose secret sins are known to him.
whereupon the girl  turned off the compliment with a laugh, and took her leave.
the  stream winds through the midst of the flat space, without any banks at all; for  it fills its bed almost to the brim, and bathes the meadow grass on either  side.
we are a community of sabbath-breakers!
the little  woman drew her chair up towards the fire, and stretched out her feet to warm  them.
a simplicity about him that is likable,  though, i believe, he comes from philadelphia.--naval officers, strolling  about town, bargaining for swords and belts, and other military articles; with  the tailor, to have naval buttons put on their shore-going coats, and for their  pantaloons, suited to the climate of the mediterranean.
some very humble persons in a town may be said to possess it,--as,  the penny-post, the town-crier, the constable,--and they are known to  everybody; while many richer, more intellectual, worthier persons are unknown  by the majority of their fellow-citizens.
he was a native of these  berkshire mountains, but had formerly emigrated to ohio, and had returned for a  time to try the benefit of her native air on his wife's declining health,--she  having complaints of a consumptive nature.
his voice  is gentle and sweet, and such as comes out from amidst refined feelings.
my boat has lain at the  bottom of the orchard, in very convenient proximity to the house.
the shock was so great that it killed her likewise.
it affected me deeply, when i had cleared  away the grass from the half-buried stone, and read the name.
crossing the ferry into boston, we went to the city tavern, where the  bar-room presented a sabbath scene of repose,--stage-folk lounging in chairs  half asleep, smoking cigars, generally with clean linen and other niceties of  apparel, to mark the day.
it has been a brisk, breezy day, an effervescent  atmosphere, and i have enjoyed it in all its freshness,--breathing air which  had not been breathed in advance by the hundred thousand pairs of lungs which  have common and invisible property in the atmosphere of this great city.
it is customary here to toll the bell at the death of a person, at the hour  of his death, whether a.m. or p.m. not, however, i suppose, if it happen in  deep night.
the trees, in a  large part of the space through which i passed, appeared to be in their fullest  glory, bright red, yellow, some of a tender green, appearing at a distance as  if bedecked with new foliage, though this emerald tint was likewise the effect  of frost.
i have never had the good luck to profit much, or indeed any, by attending  lectures, so that i think the ticket had better be bestowed on somebody who can  listen to mr. ---- more worthily.
it is our duty to support a pig, even  if we have no design of feasting upon him; and, for my own part, i have a great  sympathy and interest for the whole race of porkers, and should have much  amusement in studying the character of a pig.
dialogues of the unborn, like dialogues of the dead,--or between two young  children.
ducks came in great numbers, and many  sportsmen went in pursuit of them along the river; but they also have  disappeared.
we are seated under an awning.
the scene of a story or sketch to be laid within the light of a  street-lantern; the time, when the lamp is near going out; and the catastrophe  to be simultaneous with the last flickering gleam.
i have  sold my share of the potato-field for twenty dollars and ten bushels of  potatoes for my own use.
and we live in great harmony and brotherhood, as queer a life as  anybody leads, and as queer a set as may be found anywhere.
[in corroboration of the truth of this, see lord bacon, century iv.
the sunshine had a singular effect.
there was a stumpy clearing beyond the bridge, where some men  were building a house.
take no part, i beseech you, in these magnetic miracles.
he has latterly, i think, been in the  russian service, and would very probably turn pirate on fair occasion.
the grapes were sour, being not yet fully  ripe.
the strangeness, if they could be foreseen and forethought, of events which  do not seem so strange after they have happened.
b---- seems to be considerably of a favorite with  the lower orders, especially with the irishmen and french canadians,--the  latter accosting him in the street, and asking his assistance as an interpreter  in making their bargains for work.
the landlord of the tavern, a decent, active, grave, attentive personage,  giving me several cards of his house to distribute on my departure.
the strange incident in the court of charles ix. of france: he and five  other maskers being attired in coats of linen covered with pitch and bestuck  with flax to represent hairy savages.
sometimes we passed a house, or  rumbled through a village, stopping perhaps to arouse some drowsy postmaster,  who appeared at the door in shirt and pantaloons, yawning, received the mail,  returned it again, and was yawning when last seen.
guests: the court people; briggs, member of  congress, attending a trial here; horse-dealers, country squires, store-keepers  in the village, etc.
the story of a man, cold and hard-hearted, and acknowledging no brotherhood  with mankind.
elsewhere, a farm-house was lighted by it, and no other fuel used in the  coldest weather.
some  assimilate none but good influences, and their emblem is the fragrant and  spotless pond-lily, whose very breath is a blessing to all the region round  about. . . .
i do not understand that i was quite such a miracle of precocity,  but should think it not impossible, inasmuch as precocious boys are said to  make stupid men.
it might be stated, as the closing circumstance of a tale, that the body of  one of the characters had been petrified, and still existed in that state.
various other matters were considered or glanced at, and finally,  between five and six o'clock, mr. emerson took his leave.
having before  ascertained that point with regard to myself.
some boys cast off lines of twine with pin-hooks, and perhaps pull out a  horned-pout,--that being, i think, the only kind of fish that inhabits the frog  pond.
decaying trunks are heaped in various  parts of the gorge.
we  have seen on a small scale the process of the deluge, and can now witness that  of the reappearance of the earth.
as an instance, merely, suppose a  woman sues her lover for breach of promise, and gets the money by instalments,  through a long series of years.
scattered about are barrels to contain the gathered apples; and perhaps a great  heap of golden or scarlet apples is collected in one place.
stages in abundance were  passing the road, burdened with passengers inside and out; also chaises and  barouches, horsemen and footmen.
mr. s---- says his grandfather lived to be a  hundred, and that his legs became covered with moss, like the trunk of an old  tree.
b---- says  that there was formerly a tradition that the indians used to go up this brook,  and return, after a brief absence, with large masses of lead, which they sold  at the trading-stations in augusta; whence there has always been an idea that  there is a lead-mine hereabouts.
a moment passes, while the luggage-men are putting on the trunks and packages;  then the bell strikes a few times, and away goes the train again, quickly out  of sight of those who remain behind, while a solitude of hours again broods  over the station-house, which, for an instant, has thus been put in  communication with far-off cities, and then remains by itself, with the old,  black, ruinous church, and the black old farm-house, both built years and years  ago, before railroads were ever dreamed of.
i had an indispensable engagement in  the bean-field, whither, indeed, i was glad to betake myself, in order to  escape a parting scene with ----.
among the rocks, i found a great bird, whether a wild-goose, a loon, or  an albatross, i scarcely know.
old  general atkinson in scarlet velvet, and his wife and daughters in white damask.
this gold ore is a pure  and wholesome substance, else our mother nature would not devour it so readily,  and derive so much nourishment from it, and return such a rich abundance of  good grain and roots in requital of it.
often she stands with her bare arms in  the water, talking with mrs h----, or looks through the window, perhaps, at  b----, or somebody else crossing the yard,--rather thoughtfully, but soon  smiling or laughing.
to make one's own reflection in a mirror the subject of a story.
september 2d.--"when i grow up," quoth j----,  in illustration of the might to which he means to attain,--"when
still, it was a very pleasant moment when i gathered the  first string-beans, which were the earliest esculent that the garden  contributed to our table.
it is an edifice with a centre and two wings, the central part upwards of  seventy feet.
she romps with the boys, runs  races with them in the yard, and up and down the stairs, and is heard scolding  laughingly at their rough play.
september 3d.--foliage of maples begins to change.
the mountain and cloud together had an indescribably stern and majestic aspect.
friday, october 6th.--yesterday afternoon i took a  solitary walk to walden pond.
seeing b----'s jointed and  brass-mounted fishing-pole, he took it for a theodolite, and supposed that we  had been on a surveying expedition.
laighton's hotel, together with the house in which his son-in-law resides,  which was likewise built by laighton, and stands about fifty yards from the  hotel, occupies the middle of a shallow valley, which passes though the island  from east to west.
men were playing checkers in  the parlor.
hither  coasters and fishing-smacks run in when a storm is anticipated.
the house consisted of two wings, each perhaps sixty  feet in length, united by a middle part, in which was the entrance-hall, and  which looked lengthwise along the hill.
whatever may be my gifts, i have not hitherto shown a single one  that may avail to gather gold.
there are good farms in  this notch, although the ground is considerably elevated,--this morning,  indeed, above the clouds; for i penetrated through one in reaching the higher  region, although i found sunshine there.
wretched were we, indeed, if we had no better means of communicating ourselves,  no fairer garb in which to array our essential being, than these poor rags and  tatters of babel.
whatever is to be done must be done  by my own undivided strength.
it  might be made emblematical of something.
descending,  we by and by got a view of the deerfield river, which makes a bend in its  course from about north and south to about east and west, coming out from one  defile among the mountains, and flowing through another.
there is also, within a small enclosure of rough  pine boards, a white marble gravestone, in memory of a young man named bekker,  son of the person who now keeps the hotel on smutty nose.
they all  told their dreams of the preceding night, and saw in them prognostics of the  misfortune.
monadnock was visible, like a sapphire cloud against the sky.
the passengers were an old master of a vessel; a young,  rather genteel man from greenland, n. h.; two yankees from hamilton and  danvers; and a country trader (i should judge) from some inland town of new  hampshire.
he was  apprehended, and carried gratis to a jail in the town whither he desired to go.
of his  "sylva sylvarum," or natural history, in ten centuries, paragraph  400.] on saturday, i called to see e. h----, having previously appointed a  meeting for the purpose of inquiring about our name.
at sir william's death, his mansion was hung with black, while the body lay  in state for a week.
the walls are very high, and the fallen timbers lie  strewed adown the precipitous descent.
a steam-engine in a factory to be supposed to possess a malignant spirit.
to be sure, it is a torment to see the great, high, ugly  embankment of the railroad, which is here thrusting itself into the lake, or  along its margin, in close vicinity to this picturesque little hamlet.
this may suffice for the economical history of our  recent life.
his views were sensible and  characteristic, and had grown in the soil where we found them; . . .
a passionate  tavern-keeper, quick as a flash of gunpowder, a nervous man, and showing in his  demeanor, it seems, a consciousness of his infirmity of temper.
a part of  the road along which i walked was on the edge of a precipice, falling down  straight towards the stream; and in one place the passage of heavy loads had  sunk it, so that soon, probably, there will be an avalanche, perhaps carrying a  stage-coach or heavy wagon down into the bed of the river.
we have another with indian blood in him, and the straight, black  hair,--something of the tawny skin and the quick, shining eye of the  indian.
by and by man makes a dam  for it, and it pours over it, still making its voice heard, while it labors.
then the baptist  minister, having first whispered to the father, removed his hat, the spectators  all doing the same, and thanked them "in the name of these mourners, for  this last act of kindness to them."
there was a new and livelier sense, i  think, that we have at last found a home, and that a new family has been  gathered since the last thanksgiving day.
there is a bowling-alley on smutty nose, at which some of the  star-islanders were playing, when we were there.
an old lady from boston, with her three daughters,  one of whom was teaching music, and the other two schoolmistresses.
she said that  nobody had broken her solitude, and was just giving utterance to a theory  that no inhabitant of concord ever visited sleepy hollow, when we saw a group  of people entering the sacred precincts.
some chimneys of ancient halls used to be swept by having a culverin fired  up them.
shoutings and hallooings, laughter, oaths,--generally a good-natured tumult;  and the constables use no severity, but interfere, if at all, in a friendly  sort of way.
a satire on ambition and fame to be made  out of this idea.
then follows the age and death of the patriarch (at over ninety)  and his wife, and the births of, i think, eleven sons and daughters.
meat and drink were  provided at the bonfires.
i know not which way the wind  is; but the aspect of things seems to portend a calm drizzle as much as  anything else.
the fortune-teller and goddess were in fine contrast,  diana being a blonde, fair, quiet, with a moderate composure; and the  gypsy (o. g.) a bright, vivacious, dark-haired, rich-complexioned damsel,--both  of them very pretty, at least pretty enough to make fifteen years enchanting.
a  boat--the fanny, i suppose, from portsmouth--has just come to her moorings in  front of the hotel.
after  examination, a stroll round the island, examining the products, as wheat in  sheaves on the stubble-field; oats, somewhat blighted and spoiled; great  pumpkins elsewhere; pastures; mowing ground;--all cultivated by the boys.
they were all bream, a broad,  flat, almost circular fish, shaped a good deal like a flounder, but swimming on  their edges, instead of on their sides.
[1838] may 11, 1838.--at boston last week.
over a lion, who  brandishes a sword; on alternate pages the crown, and beneath it the letters g.  r.
eel-grass, rolled and bundled up, and entangled with it,--large marine  vegetables, of an olive-color, with round, slender, snake-like stalks, four or  five feet long, and nearly two feet broad: these are the herbage of the deep  sea.
if ever i should have a  biographer, he ought to make great mention of this chamber in my memoirs,  because so much of my lonely youth was wasted here, and
i entered the boat with him, in order to have the benefit of a lesson in  rowing and paddling, . . .
they appear to be very good young men,  however, well-meaning, and with manners not disagreeable, because their hearts  are not amiss.
they stare unabashed, but make no answer when  spoken to.
there is a sort of sacredness about them.
an association of literary men in the other world,--or dialogues of the  dead, or something of that kind.
like enoch, we seem to have been  translated to the other state of being without having passed through death.
salem, october 14th.--a walk through beverly to browne's  hill, and home by the iron-factory.
the yard, garden, and avenue, which should be my department,  require a great amount of labor.
it  is usually supposed that the cares of life come with matrimony; but i seem to  have cast off all care, and live on with as much easy trust in providence as  adam could possibly have felt before he had learned that there was a world  beyond paradise.
i retired soon after nine, and felt some apprehension that the old doctor's  ghost would take this opportunity to visit me; but i rather think his former  visitations have not been intended for me, and that i am not sufficiently  spiritual for ghostly communication.
elsewhere, the impression is imperfect, and even when you stamp, you cannot  imprint the whole.
remarkables: the steering of the boat through the crooked, labyrinthine brook,  into the open pond,--the man who acted as pilot,--his talking with b----  about politics, the bank, the iron money of "a king who came to reign, in  greece, over a city called sparta,"--his advice to b---- to come amongst  the laborers on the mill-dam, because it stimulated them "to see a man  grinning amongst them."
many of the shrubs which looked brightest a little while ago are now wholly  bare of leaves.
according to my invariable custom, i mistook my way, and, emerging upon the  road, i turned my back instead of my face towards concord, and walked on very  diligently till a guide-board informed me of my mistake.
lake,--this being in a sort of bay,--in the slightly agitated mirror, the  variegated trees were reflected dreamily and indistinctly; a broad belt of  bright and diversified colors shining in the water beneath.
our  spirits must have flitted away unconsciously, and we can only perceive that we  have cast off our mortal part by the more real and earnest life of our souls.
there had been a heavy shower in the afternoon, and  clouds were brilliant all over the sky, around graylock and everywhere else.
as, for instance,  a farmer desires a brisk breeze to winnow his grain; and mariners, to blow them  out of the reach of pirates.
the showman is careful to call his exhibition the  "statuary."
in the tenth century, mechanism of organs so clumsy, that one in  westminster abbey, with four hundred pipes, required twenty-six bellows and  seventy stout men.
nearly in the centre of this insular  metropolis is a two-story house, with a flag-staff in the yard.
dined at the hotel or mansion house to-day.
nevertheless, he is really a crafty man,  concealing, like a murder-secret, anything that it is not good for him to have  known.
there should be some story connected with it,--as  of a person commencing with boarding at a great hotel, and gradually, as his  means grew less, descending in life, till he got below ground into a cellar.
august 18th.--there has come one of the proprietors, or  superintendents of a caravan of animals,--a large, portly-paunched,  dark-complexioned, brandy-burnt, heavy-faced man of about fifty; with a  diminutive nose in proportion to the size of his face,--thick lips;  nevertheless he has the air of a man who has seen much, and derived such  experience as was for his purpose.
character of a man who, in himself and his external circumstances, shall be  equally and totally false: his fortune resting on baseless credit,--his  patriotism assumed,--his domestic affections, his honor and honesty, all a  sham.
water-weeds on the edge of the lake, of a deep green, with roots that  seem to have nothing to do with earth, but with water only.
i suspect he would turn  out a pattern character of the upper class of new england yeomen, if i had an  opportunity of studying him.
here and there sail-boats sleeping on  the water, or moving almost imperceptibly over it.
i meant to dine at the hotel with b---- to-day; but having returned to the  house, leaving him to do some business in the village, i found myself unwilling  to move when the dinner-hour approached, and therefore dined very well on  bread, cheese, and eggs.
he by no means feigns the good-feeling that he professes, nor is there  anything affected in the frankness of his conversation; and it is this that  makes him so very fascinating.
nothing can exceed the exquisite self-conceit which characterizes  these confidences, and which is expressed inimitably in his face, his upturned  nose, and mouth, so as to be truly a caricature; and he seems strangely to find  as much food for his passion in having been jilted once or twice as in his  conquests.
general knox once owned a square of thirty miles in this part of the country,  and he wished to settle it in with a tenantry, after the fashion of english  gentlemen.
when she was sent to the king,  every one contributing something to adorn her in the richest manner, her father  gave her a perfumed handkerchief, at that time a universal decoration, richly  wrought.
gordier, a young man of the island of jersey, was paying his addresses to a  young lady of guernsey.
september 7th.--. . .
quiet, making herself comfortable, taken into the  society of the women of the house.
indeed, we are but shadows; we are not endowed with  real life, and all that seems most real about us is but the thinnest substance  of a dream,--till the heart be touched.
looking at the river, we  perceive that its usually smooth and mirrored surface is blurred by the  infinity of rain-drops; the whole landscape--grass, trees, and houses--has a  completely water-soaked aspect, as if the earth were wet through.
after  dinner, i lay down on the couch, with the "dial" in my hand as a  soporific, and had a short nap; then began to journalize.
he had a sable back, and underneath his shell was  yellow, and at the edges bright scarlet.
by and by they  partially dispersed, giving glimpses of the mountain ramparts through their  obscurity, the separate clouds lying heavily upon the mountain's breast.
i am forced, however, to carry on a  continual warfare with the squash-bugs, who, were i to let them alone for a  day, would perhaps quite destroy the prospects of the whole summer.
this morning, at seven, our friends left us.
he is very active and assiduous in his  duties, currycombing and rubbing down the horses with alacrity and skill; and,  when not otherwise occupied, you may see him talking jovially with chance  acquaintances, or observing what is going forward in the street.
it distressed me a good deal; and i felt relieved, though  somewhat shocked, when b---- put an end to its misery by squeezing its head and  throwing it out of the window.
remote from houses, far  up on the hill-side, we found a lime-kiln, burning near the road; and,  approaching it, a watcher started from the ground, where he had been lying at  his length.
about eleven o'clock, mr. thaxter took me over to smutty nose in his dory.
a story, the hero of which is to be represented as naturally capable of  deep and strong passion, and looking forward to the time when he shall feel  passionate love, which is to be the great event of his existence.
on our drive home we passed through charlestown.
once they find a group of  miserable children there; once it is the scene where crime is plotted; at last  the dead body of one of the lovers or of a dear friend is found there; and,  instead of a pleasure-house, they build a marble tomb.
s---- when b---- was saying  something against the character of the french people,--"you ought not to  form an unfavorable judgment of a great nation from mean fellows like me,  strolling about in a foreign country."
a disposition to bid was evidenced in one man by his joking on the bid of  another.
"an aged man at nineteen  years," saith the gravestone.
late in the  afternoon, there was a sunny shower, which came down so like a benediction that  it seemed ungrateful to take shelter in the cabin or to put up an umbrella.
the sabbath wore away lazily, and therefore wickedly.
she  gathers flowers of everlasting to wear in her bonnet, arranging them with the  skill of a dressmaker.
the water-weeds, where they were discernible through the tawny  water, were straight outstretched by the force of the current, looking as if  they were forced to hold on to their roots with all their might.
once i wandered into a tract  so overgrown with bushes and underbrush that i could scarcely force a passage  through.
his house  stands close by the garden,--a small stone building, with peaked roof, and  whitewashed.
sheltered as the  space is between the two rows of houses, a puff of the eastwind finds its way  in, and shakes off some of the withering blossoms from the cherry-trees.
appended to the  certificate there was a list of names of people who had bestowed charity on  her, with the amounts of the several donations,--none, as i recollect, higher  than twenty-five cents.
thirdly, all  who are guilty of the same sins, whether the world knows them or not; whether  they languish in prison, looking forward to the gallows, or walk honored among  men, they also form a class.
(in reference to a claim by the guests of the bar-room  on the man amasa richardson for a treat.)
the whole is  tangled and wild and thick-set, so that it is necessary to part the nestling  stems and branches, and go crashing through.
the cave makes a fresh impression upon me every time i visit it,--so deep,  so irregular, so gloomy, so stern,--part of its walls the pure white of the  marble,--others covered with a gray decomposition and with spots of moss, and  with brake growing where there is a handful of earth.
it is rather that we love  to see something born into the world; and when a great squash or melon is  produced, it is a large and tangible existence, which the imagination can seize  hold of and rejoice in.
august 19th.--i drove with orrin s---- last evening to an  old farmer's house to get some chickens.
among other  languages spoken hereabouts must be reckoned the wild irish.
here my mind and  character were formed; and here i have been glad and hopeful, and here i have  been despondent.
sketch of a personage with the malignity of a witch, and doing the mischief  attributed to one,--but by natural means; breaking off love-affairs, teaching  children vices, ruining men of wealth, etc. ladislaus, king of naples, besieging the city of florence, agreed to show  mercy, provided the inhabitants would deliver to him a certain virgin of famous  beauty, the daughter of a physician of the city.
september 16th.--on tuesday, the 14th, there was no  opportunity to get to the mainland.
it is this  involuntary reserve, i suppose, that has given the objectivity to my writings;  and when people think that i am pouring myself out in a tale or an essay, i am  merely telling what is common to human nature, not what is peculiar to myself.
she is very vivacious and smart, laughing  and singing and talking all the time,--talking sensibly; but still, taking the  view of matters that a city girl naturally would.
articulate words are a harsh clamor and dissonance.
i cannot and  will not spend the winter here.
i should as  soon think of seeking revelations of the future state in the rottenness of the  grave,--where so many do seek it, . . .
the upper part of  the spire and the weathercock of the park street church appear over one of the  houses, looking as if it were close behind.
why, he isn't dead,--he's alive and well."
even the young steers and the little calves had something of domestic  sacredness about them; for children had watched their growth, and petted them,  and played with them.
when the sunshine falls on a very  distant island, nearer ones being in shade, it seems greatly to extend the  bounds of visible space, and put the horizon to a farther distance.
it lies embosomed among wooded hills,--it is  not very extensive, but large enough for waves to dance upon its surface, and  to look like a piece of blue firmament, earth-encircled.
there is an  irksomeness, a restlessness, a pervading dissatisfaction, together with an  absolute incapacity to bend the mind to any serious effort.
last evening there was the most beautiful moonlight that ever hallowed this  earthly world; and when i went to bathe in the river, which was as calm as  death, it seemed like plunging down into the sky.
old  manuscript sermons, some written in short-hand, others in a hand that seems  learnt from print.
it was broken, but  still it went round whenever the wind stirred.
i must go and see what news she  has brought.
crows are certainly thieves, and probably  infidels.
it was snow-covered for a  considerable time; but the rain overspread it with a surface of water, or  imperfectly melted snow, which is now hard frozen again; and
wednesday, 26th.--left pittsfield at about eight o'clock in the bennington  stage, intending to go to williamstown.
it is very curious thus to have a glimpse of a book in process of creation  under one's eye.
coming to the stoop, where several  persons were sitting, "good morning, gentlemen," said the wretch.
the general was personally very popular; but his wife ruled him.
i doubt not that she will soon perceive the  expediency of being on good terms with the rest of the sisterhood.
this morning, nevertheless, there were no further signs of it; it is  sunny and calm, or only the slightest breeze from the westward; a haze sleeping  along the shore, betokening a warm day; the surface of the sea streaked with  smoothness, and gentle ruffles of wind.
yesterday glowed like molten  brass.
it is inconceivable how a sufficient mass of water could be  brought to bear on this ponderous mass; but, not improbably, all the fragments  piled upon one another round these islands have thus been flung to and fro at  one time or another.
two ladies,  rather good-looking.
there is a natural arch of  marble still in one part of it.
copenhagen: a somewhat corpulent gentleman, without so good manners as an  american would have in the same line of life, but good-natured, sociable, and  civil, complaining of the heat.
it seems  strange that a man should have the right, unarmed with any legal instrument, of  tearing down the dwelling-houses of a score of families, and driving the  inmates forth without a shelter.
whole ranges of bushes are there painted with many variegated hues, not of the  brightest tint, but of a sober cheerfulness.
she  poured out our tea, came in when we rang the table-bell to refill our cups, and  again retired.
his essences were of  aniseseed, cloves, red-cedar, wormwood, together with opodeldoc, and an oil for  the hair.
the  curtailment of their trunks quite destroys the proportions of the whole tree;  and we become conscious of a regularity and propriety in the forms of nature,  by the effect of this abbreviation.
sometimes, in a happy exposure,--there  is one such tract across the river, the carefully cultivated mowing-field, in  front of an old red homestead,--such patches of land wear a beautiful and  tender green, which no other season will equal; because, let the grass be green  as it may hereafter, it will not be so set off by surrounding barrenness.
at  another window, at some depth within the apartment, a gentleman in a  dressing-gown, reading, and rocking in an easy-chair, etc., etc., etc.
after dinner, came  the fanny, bringing, among other freight, a large basket of delicious pears to  me, together with a note from mr. b. b. titcomb.
he had a  very free flow of talk; for, with a little induction from mr. emerson, he began  to discourse about the state of the nation, agriculture, and business in  general, uttering thoughts that had come to him at the plough, and which had a  sort of flavor of the fresh earth about them.
then i took up the phrase-book again; but could not  study, and so bathed and retired, it being now not far from ten o'clock.
sometimes the trees met across it; sometimes it was bordered on  one side by an old rail-fence of moss-grown cedar, with bushes sprouting  beneath it, and thrusting their branches through it; sometimes by a stone-wall  of unknown antiquity, older than the wood it closed in.
mr. laighton said that, before he built his house, nothing would  have induced the inhabitant of another island to come to this after nightfall.
the new hampshire  legislature.
this is a very windy day, and the light shifts with magical alternation.
we were that night at the village of harvard,  and the next morning walked three miles farther, to the shaker village, where  we breakfasted.
journalizing yesterday  afternoon, i went out and sawed and split wood till teatime, then studied  german (translating "lenore"), with an occasional glance at a  beautiful sunset, which i could not enjoy sufficiently by myself to induce  me to lay aside the book.
there is no  other feeling like that caused by this faint, doubtful, yet real perception, or  rather prophecy, of the year's decay, so deliciously sweet and sad at the same  time.
i shall grow young again, made all over anew.
i have read of a river somewhere (whether it be in classic regions or  among our western indians i know not) which seemed to dissolve and steal away  the vigor of those who bathed in it.
i suppose his state is  that of a drowsy man but partly conscious of life,--walking as through a dim  dream, but brighter at some seasons than at others.
october 24th.--view from a chamber of the tremont of the  brick edifice opposite, on the other side of beacon street.
let us remember this, when we feel inclined  to deny all spiritual life to some people, in whom, nevertheless, our father  may perhaps see the image of his face.
they grew close to the huge pulpit rock, so that portions of their trunks  appeared to grasp the rough surface; and they were rooted beneath it, and,  ascending high into the air, overshadowed the gray crag with verdure.
a singular instance, that a chaise may run  away with a man without a horse!
the spy has been lying in the broad track of golden light, thrown by the  sun, far down towards the horizon, over the rippling water, her sails throwing  distinct, dark shadows over the brightness.
some authorities, however, have represented him as ungainly in person and rough  in manners.
there are two swings beneath it,  and here one may sit or walk, and enjoy life, while all other mortals are  suffering.
i  mean to have a regular supply from the same source. . . .
some have the faculty of assimilating to themselves
then he rubbed his head,  alternately, with each hind leg.
he told us that  she had behaved well, till committed to jail for striking a child; and i  believe he was absent from home at the time, and had not seen her since.
in the space betwixt the opposite row of dwellings and that  in which i am situated are the low out-houses of the above-described houses,  with flat roofs; or solid brick walls, with walks on them, and high railings,  for the convenience of the washerwomen in hanging out their clothes.
we never fancy, for instance, that  these gayly clad trees might be changed into young damsels in holiday attire,  and betake themselves to dancing on the plain.
a fresh breeze blowing from land seaward.
there was a great deal of sense and acuteness in his talk, and something of  elevation in his expressions,--perhaps a studied elevation, and a sort of  courtesy in his manner; but his sense had something out of the way in it; there  was something wild and ruined and desperate in his talk, though i can hardly  say what it was.
i read no newspapers, and hardly remember who is president, and feel as if  i had no more concern with what other people trouble themselves about than if i  dwelt in another planet.
it was pleasant to observe his consciousness of this deficiency,  and how he strove to remedy it by mixing as much as possible with people, and  sitting almost all day in the bar-room to study character.
curious to imagine what murmurings and discontent would be excited, if any  of the great so-called calamities of human beings were to be abolished,--as,  for instance, death.
the top of this hoosic mountain is a long ridge, marked on the county map  as two thousand one hundred and sixty feet above the sea; on this summit is a  valley, not very deep, but one or two miles wide, in which is the town of  l----.
my attention was drawn to them by a most  obstreperous twittering; and looking behind the fire-board, there were three  young birds, clinging with their feet against one of the jambs, looking at me,  open-mouthed, and all clamoring together, so as quite to fill the room with the  short, eager, frightened sound.
with all this he has more than a tincture of literature,--a deep and true  taste for poetry, especially for the elder poets, and he is a good writer,--at  least he has written a good article, a rambling disquisition on natural  history, in the last "dial," which, he says, was chiefly made up from  journals of his own observations.
while she  talked, a young woman came into the pantry from the kitchen, with a dirty  little brat, whose squalls i had heard all along; the reason of his outcry  being that his mother was washing him,--a very unusual process, if i may judge  by his looks.
the house  and its vicinity, and the whole tract covered by knox's patent, may be taken as  an illustration of what must be the result of american schemes of aristocracy.
a little while ago,  mushrooms or toadstools were very numerous along the wood-paths and by the  roadsides, especially after rain.
in an old house, a mysterious knocking might be heard on the wall, where  had formerly been a door-way, now bricked up.
he is silent,  inexpressive, talks little or none, and listens without response, except a  sardonic laugh and some of his friends think that he is passing into permanent  eclipse.
the corned beef is exquisitely done, and as tender as a  young lady's heart, all owing to my skilful cookery; for i consulted mrs. hale  at every step, and precisely followed her directions.
on the 9th of this month, we left home again on a visit to boston and  salem.
it is the most  populous island of the group,--has been, for three or four years, an  incorporated township, and sends a representative to
the yellow water-lily spreads  its broad flat leaves upon its surface; and the fragrant white pond-lily occurs  in many favored spots,--generally selecting a situation just so far from the  river's brink that it cannot be grasped except at the hazard of plunging  in.
in our talk we have glanced over many matters, and,  among the rest, that of the stage, to prepare himself for which was his first  motive in coming hither.
but of one story, but with large  barns; and it was a good sign, that, while we saw no houses unfinished nor out  of repair, one man at least had found it expedient to make an addition to his  dwelling.
the road  over which i walk every day to and from the village is in the worst state of  mud and mire, soft, slippery, nasty to tread upon; while the grass beside it is  scarcely better, being so oozy and so overflowed with little streams, and  sometimes an absolute bog.
the rock, shagged with sea-weed,--in some places, a thick carpet of  seaweed laid over the pebbles, into which your foot would sink.
mountain, in the early sunshine;  its base enveloped in mist, parts of which are floating in the sky, so that the  great hill looks really as if it were founded on a cloud.
he is so single-minded  that he cannot understand badinage, but takes it all as if meant in earnest,--a  german trait.
he calls them "poetry for poets."
forthwith a young man paddled it across,  and mr. thoreau and i voyaged farther up the stream, which soon became more  beautiful than any picture, with its dark and quiet sheet of water, half  shaded, half sunny, between high and wooded banks.
thursday, november 24th.--this is thanksgiving day, a  good old festival, and we have kept it with our hearts, and, besides, have made  good cheer upon our turkey and pudding, and pies and custards, although none  sat at our board but our two selves.
it burnishes it, as it were, and yet leaves it as dark as  ever.
oscar, mr. laighton's son, ran down with a gun, and fired at the shark,  which was then not more than ten yards from the shore.
he took a glass of wine with the brother-in-law,--a grave, thin, frosty-haired,  shrewd-looking yeoman, in his shirt-sleeves,--then ordered his horses, paid his  bill, and drove off, accompanied still by the same yeoman, perhaps to get the  permission of the other two selectmen.
the night flitted over us all, and passed  away, and up rose a gray and sullen morning, . . .
one of them, cedar  island, is said to have been named from the trees that grew on it.
"is it an affectionate greeting?" inquired i.
they lie among  the clean rye straw in the sty, nestling close together; for they seem to be  beasts sensitive to the cold, and this is a clear, bright, crystal morning,
friday, july 28th.--saw my classmate and formerly  intimate friend, ----, for the first time since we graduated.
ix of the riverside  edition, boston: houghton, mifflin and company, 1883] [1835] salem, june 15, 1835.--a walk down to the juniper.
lawyer h---- took notice of this manner; for the talk being  about the nature of soap, and the evil odor arising from that process, the  stranger joined in.
since i last wrote, there has been an  addition to our community of four gentlemen in sables, who promise to be among  our most useful and respectable members.
this promises to be an excellent year for  walnuts.
dr. johnson's penance in uttoxeter market.
there have since been three or four callers, who preposterously think that  the courtesies of the lower world are to be responded to by people whose home  is in paradise.
the race of mankind to be swept away, leaving all their cities and works.
sunday, september 5th.--to-day i have done little or  nothing except to roam along the shore of the island, and to sit under the  piazza, talking with mr. laighton or some of his half-dozen guests; and about  an hour before dinner i came up to my room, and took a brief nap.
he used to have a  vessel running to philadelphia, i think, and bringing him all sorts of  delicacies.
so we emptied the water out of her, and set  forth on our voyage.
he aimed, according to  his father's directions, just below the junction of the dorsal fin with the  body; but the gun was loaded only with shot, and seemed to produce no effect.
yet i have never heard him  speak harshly of them.
never,  surely, was such food heard of on earth,--at least, not by me.
nevertheless, in a walk this  afternoon, i have seen two oaks which retained almost the greenness of summer.
the snow has disappeared, except in spots which  are the ruins of high drifts, and patches far up on the hill-sides.
there are several enclosures,--the largest,  perhaps, thirty yards square,--surrounded with a rough stone-wall of very mossy  antiquity, built originally broad and strong, two or three large stones in  width, and piled up breast-high or more, and taking advantage of the extending  ledge to make it higher.
"i believe i  have heard of you," said the stranger.
there is a kind of ludicrous unfitness in the idea  of a venerable rose-bush; and there is something analogous to this in human  life.
i saw another  wood-chopper sitting down on the ascent of bald mountain, with his axe on one  side and a jug and provisions on the other, on the way to his day's toil.
in the deep valleys of the neighborhood, where the shadows at sunset are  thrown from mountain to mountain, the clouds have a beautiful effect, flitting  high over them, bright with heavenly gold.
she should sit in the great chair,--perhaps with a dressing-glass before  her,--and arrayed in all manner of fantastic finery, and with anoutré  french air, while the old governor is leaning fondly over her, and a puritanic  councillor or two are manifesting their disgust in the background.
they have sunshine on them a good part of the day, though the shadow must come  early, and i suppose there is a rich soil about the roots.
the case quoted in combe's "physiology" of a young man of great  talents and profound knowledge of chemistry, who had in view some new discovery  of importance.
they seem mostly to have  departed now, or else to have betaken themselves to remote depths of the woods,  which they haunt all summer long.
here is a strange life, and a character fit for romance  and poetry.
he drinks sometimes more than enough, and is guilty of peccadilloes  with the fair sex; yet speaks most affectionately of his wife, and is a fond  and careful father.
passing a little way down along the river-side, i threw in my line, and  soon drew out one of the smallest possible of fishes.
it being now nearly six  o'clock, we separated,--margaret and mr. emerson towards his home, and i  towards mine. . . .
a portrait of a person in new england to be recognized as of the same  person represented by a portrait in old england.
by the by, a pretty riddle or  fable might be made out of the changes in apparel of the familiar trees round a  house adapted for children.
there was also the high sheriff of berkshire, mr.  twining, with a bundle of writs under his arm, and some of them peeping out of  his pockets.
the arms and crest of the pepperell family were displayed over the door of  every room in sir william's house.
in another place, a frame is erected for a  grapevine, and probably it will produce as rich clusters as the vines of  madeira here in the heart of the city, in this little spot of fructifying  earth, while the thunder of wheels rolls about it on every side.
on the hither side, at first the bank was bare, then fringed with alder-bushes,  bending and dipping into the stream, which, farther on, flowed through the  midst of a forest of maple, beech, and other trees, its course growing wilder  and wilder as we proceeded.
she sews, not like a lady, but with an  occupational air.
every day for the last week has been tremendously  hot; and our garden flourishes like eden itself, only adam could hardly have  been doomed to contend with such a ferocious banditti of weeds.
we talk together very freely; and he has given me an account,  among other matters, of all his love-affairs, which are rather curious, as  illustrative of the life of a smart young country fellow in relation to the  gentle sex.
there is the old chest of drawers in which he kept what  shirts a poor author may he supposed to have possessed!
[note] [note: a word meaning in worcester, i find, "to spring out with speed  and suddenness.
s-- displays many comical qualities, and manages to insure us several hearty  laughs every morning and evening,--those being the seasons when we meet.
towards sunset, this  is especially the case: for then are seen young girls and their lovers;  mothers, with their little boys in hand; school-girls, beating hoops round  about, and occasionally running to the side of the pond; rough tars, or perhaps  masters or young mates of vessels, who make remarks about the miniature  shipping, and occasionally give professional advice to the navigators; visitors  from the country; gloved and caned young gentlemen,--in short, everybody stops  to take a look.
in the afternoon mr. emerson called, bringing mr. ----.
dandelions and blue flowers are still growing in sunny places.
i  passed on quietly, but soon heard an immense baa-ing up the hill, and all the  sheep came galloping and scrambling after me, baa-ing with all their might in  innumerable voices, running in a compact body, expressing the utmost eagerness,  as if they sought the greatest imaginable favor from me; and so they  accompanied me down the hill-side,--a most ridiculouscortége.
it looks not unlike a gorgeous sunset, throwing its  splendor over the heaven of my countenance.
with a cool northwest-wind.
nay, if i mistake not (for i was half asleep), there was a  sound as of some person crumpling paper in his hand in our very  bedchamber.
any sort of bodily and earthly torment may serve to make us sensible that  we have a soul that is not within the jurisdiction of such shadowy demons,--it  separates the immortal within us from the mortal.
from the picture-gallery i went to the reading-rooms of the athenæum,  and there read the magazines till nearly twelve; thence to the custom house,  and soon afterwards to dinner with colonel hall; then back to the custom house,  but only for a little while.
yesterday afternoon i made a voyage alone up the north branch  of concord river.
a rainy  day, and people passing with umbrellas disconsolately between the spectator and  these various scenes of indoor occupation and comfort.
these are but dreary  evenings.
shanties with liquor for  sale.
in two or three places  hereabouts there is quite a village of these dwellings, with a clay and board  chimney, or oftener an old barrel, smoked and charred with the fire.
the cellars are still deep enough to  shelter a person, all but his head at least, from the wind on the summit of the  hill; but they are all grass-grown.
notwithstanding all we have done to modernize the old place, we seem  scarcely to have disturbed its air of antiquity.
it sounds strangely to  hear children bargaining in french on the borders of yankee-land.
a french artillery-man being buried in his military cloak on the ramparts,  a shell exploded, and unburied him.
the poor devil kept talking to me long after  everybody else had left the stoop, giving vent to much practical philosophy,  and just observation on the ways of men, mingled with rather more assumption of  literature and cultivation than belonged to the present condition of his mind.
i went down through the orchard to the river-side.
he talked loudly and foolishly,  but in good phrases, with a great flow of language, and he was no otherwise  impertinent than in addressing his talk to strangers.
were it a sunny day, i should  consider myself quite fit for labors out of doors; but as the ground is so  damp, and the atmosphere so chill, and the sky so sullen, i intend to keep  myself on the sick-list this one day longer, more especially as i wish to read  carlyle on heroes.
none but angels  should bathe in it; but blessed babies might be dipped into its bosom.
her manner of walking is by jerks, with a  quiver, as if she were made of calves-feet jelly.
a person conscious that he was soon to die, the humor in which he would pay  his last visit to familiar persons and things.
the skipper and  his three men got into smutty nose in the boat; and the sloop was afterwards  boarded by the smutty noses and brought into that island.
the trees and the grass have now the  brightest possible green, there having been so many showers alternating with  such powerful sunshine.
and then, taking a turn in the road,  behold these factories and their range of boarding-houses, with the girls  looking out of the windows, as aforesaid!
the swell of the waves against our shore makes a snowy depth, tinged  with green, for many feet back from the shore.
it was  hope that painted them so bright.
there is a luminous appearance about  him as he walks, and his face is pale and very dreadful.
they are now generally temperate, formerly very  much the contrary.
monday, august 15th.--george
"it's of no consequence, sir," says his friend, with a tone of  conscious liberality, "that's near enough."
yet the women, amid all the trials of  their situation, appear to have kept up the distinction between virtue and  vice; those who can claim the former will not associate with the latter.
monday, august 27th.--went to boston last wednesday.
our orchard is fast ripening; and the apples and great  thumping pears strew the grass in such abundance that it becomes almost a  trouble--though a pleasant one--to gather them.
he talks  spanish,--at least that is his native tongue; but he is also very intelligible  in english, and perhaps he likewise has smatterings of the speech of other  countries, whither the winds may have wafted this little sea-bird.
this morning we read the sermon on the mount.
it is now long past its prime: many of the trees are moss-grown, and  have dead and rotten branches intermixed among the green and fruitful ones.
since i last wrote, we have done haying, and the remainder of my  bondage will probably be light.
it was a pretty picture,  and would have been prettier, if they had shown bare little legs, instead of  pantalets.
an old looking-glass.
some of the younger  sort chase pigeons, wheeling as they wheel.
its hue has a slight tinge of  gold, and my limbs, when i behold them through its medium, look tawny.
the stranger  continued here two or three days, making his researches, and forming  acquaintance with several millwrights and others.
if in a village it were a custom to hang a funeral garland or other token  of death on a house where some one had died, and there to let it remain till a  death occurred elsewhere, and then to hang that same garland over the other  house, it would have, methinks, a strong effect.
even out  of the midst of happiness i have sometimes sighed and groaned; for i love the  sunshine and the green woods, and the sparkling blue water; and it seems as if  the picture of our inward bliss should be set in a beautiful frame of outward  nature. . . .
a  black glass bottle, stamped with the name of philip english, with a broad  bottom.
in the fervid heat of sunny days, she  still retains some degree of mercy for us; she has shady spots, whither the sun  cannot come; but she provides no shelter against her storms.
if he had  more faith, he should have bones enough.
h. l. c---- heard from a french canadian a story of a young couple in  acadie.
thursday, september 1st.--mr.
last wednesday, i  think, i harvested our winter-squashes, sixty-three in number, and mostly of  fine size.
[1851] lenox, february 12th, 1851.--a walk across the lake with  una.
then they looked blue, misty, and dim.
also i have neglected to mention the birth of a little  white dove.
he seems to me to possess truth in himself, and to aim at it  in his artistic endeavors.
the valley gradually descends from the  narrowest part of the notch, and a stream of water flows through the  midst of it, which, farther onward in its course, turns a mill.
the tavern-keeper, after they were  separated, raved like a madman, and in a tone of voice having a drolly pathetic  or lamentable sound mingled with its rage, as if he were lifting up his voice  to weep.
stretching up from behind the black mountain, over a third or  more of the sky, there was a heavy, sombre blue heap or ledge of clouds,  looking almost as solid as rocks.
but this morning i have done wonders.
he was highly pleased with  the new mill contrivance, and expressed his opinion that, when his neighbors  saw the success of his, it would be extensively introduced into that vicinity.
there are  marble-quarries in and near pittsfield, which accounts for the fact that there  are none but marble gravestones in the burial-grounds; some of the monuments  well carved; but the marble does not withstand the wear and tear of time and  weather so well as the imported marble, and the sculpture soon loses its sharp  outline.
it began to  clear up in the decline of the day; the sun shot forth some golden arrows a  little before his setting and the sky was perfectly clear when i went to bed,  after spending the evening at mr. thaxter's.
there is nothing so dispiriting  as poor fishing, and i spend most of the time with my head on my hands, looking  at the sea breaking against the rocks, shagged around the bases with seaweed.
in some places, along the borders of low and moist land, a whole range  of trees were clothed in the perfect gorgeousness of autumn, of all shades of  brilliant color, looking like the palette on which nature was arranging the  tints wherewith to paint a picture.
in a building not far off, there is a hall  for exhibitions; and sometimes, in the evenings, loud music is heard from it;
the elephant lodged in the barn.
on the other side there was still a  gently shelving bank, and the shore was covered with tall trees, among which i  particularly remarked a stately pine, wholly devoid of bark, rising white in  aged and majestic ruin, thrusting out its barkless arms.
the family spoke to her, but she made no answer,  nor took the least notice; but still sat like a statue in her chair,--a statue  of melancholy and beauty.
that particular spot, which she happens to plant with some  peculiar variety of flowers, produces them of admirable splendor, beauty, and  perfume; and she delights, with an indescribable impulse, to wear them in her  bosom, and scent her chamber with them.
somebody finds out the secret of making all the  images that have been reflected in it pass back again across its surface.
my life only is a burden in  the same way that it is to every toilsome man; and mine is a healthy weariness,  such as needs only a night's sleep to remove it.
his shoulders  have a stoop, and altogether his air is that of a farmer in repose.
the roar  of distant surf, the rolling of porpoises, the passing of shoals of fish, a  steamboat smoking along at a distance, were the scene on my watch.
the doctor produces a rusty pair of iron forceps; a man  holds the patient's head; the doctor perceives that, it being a difficult tooth  to get at, wedged between the two largest in his jaws, he must pull very hard;  and the instrument is introduced.
he fell through  an old log bridge thrown over a hollow; looking back, only his head and  shoulders appeared through the rotten logs and among the bushes.--a shower  coming on, the rapid running of a little barefooted boy, coming up unheard, and  dashing swiftly past us, and showing the soles of his naked feet as he ran  adown the path, and up the opposite rise.
george p---- has just come to say that mrs. p---- has no bread at present,  and is gone away this afternoon, but that she will send me some to-morrow.
a boy pulls his long tail, whereat he gives a slight squeak, and for the  future elevates it as much as possible.
so there lie these four black swine, as deep among  the straw as they can burrow, the very symbols of slothful ease and sensuous  comfort.
on the banks of the river, where he intended to have only one wharf  for his own west indian vessels and yacht, there are two wharves, with stores  and a lime-kiln.
but such people do  not know a reality from a shadow.
i have felt this influence earlier in some years than in others.
"there are three times in a man's life when he is talked about,--when  he is born, when he is married, and when he dies."
a few  years after the peace, it was blown down by a violent tempest, and finally no  vestige of it was left, but there remained only a summer-house and the family  tomb.
the woods present a very diversified appearance just  now, with perhaps more varieties of tint than they are destined to wear at a  somewhat later period.
her companion, on the other hand, was so dark, that i rather  suspected her to have a tinge of african blood.
the church-spire has a mist about it.
then another human pair to be placed in the world, with native intelligence  like adam and eve, but knowing nothing of their predecessors or of their own  nature and destiny.
yesterday morning opened with a southeast  rain, which continued all day.
a domestic chaplain, who said prayers every morning and  evening in a small apartment called the chapel.
so  we welcomed them cordially at the door, and ushered them into our parlor, and  soon into the supper-room. . . .
all his talk turned upon religion, and he would ever and  anon burst out in some strain of scriptural-styled eloquence, chanted through  his nose, like an exhortation at a camp-meeting.
then we could  hear them within the hut, gabbling merrily, and could see them moving about  briskly in the candlelight, through the window and open door.
what an abominable hand do i scribble!
i doubt whether i shall succeed in writing another volume of grandfather's  library while i remain here.
the wind, at that time, was strong enough to  raise white-caps to the eastward of the island, and there was good hope of a  storm.
they have a dog, who runs to and fro indefatigably, barking at those who  straggle on the flanks of the line of march, then scampering to the other side  and barking there, and sometimes having quite an affair of barking and surly  grunting with some refractory pig, who has found something to munch, and  refuses to quit it.
aboard, an old one-eyed sailor, who had lost one of  his feet, and had walked on the stump from eastport to bangor, thereby making a  shocking ulcer.
at the time specified, however, all but one of his  sons were dead; and he was in such poor circumstances that he obtained the  benefit of the charity for himself, as one of the four.
once he offered  to magnetize me in the manner of monsieur p----.
at last, down the stream came an immense mass of ice, and, striking the  barrier about at its centre, it gave way, and the whole was swept onward  together, leaving the river entirely free, with only here and there a cake of  ice floating quietly along.
after passing in  one direction, it is pleasant then to retrace your footsteps.
[1842] 1842.--some man of powerful character to command a person, morally  subjected to him, to perform some act.
an article on newspaper advertisements,--a country newspaper, methinks,  rather than a city one.
friday, october lst.--i have been looking at our four  swine,--not of the last lot, but those in process of fattening.
and i observed, along the roadside, that the green blades of grass had  sometimes sprouted on the very edge of the snowdrift the moment that the earth  was uncovered.
oaks,--some brown, some reddish, some still green;  walnuts, yellow,--fallen leaves and acorns lying beneath; the footsteps crumple  them in walking.
if we would know what heaven is before we  come thither, let us retire into the depths of our own spirits, and we  shall find it there among holy thoughts and feelings; but let us not degrade  high heaven and its inhabitants into any such symbols and forms as miss l----  describes; do not let an earthly effluence from mrs. p----'s corporeal system  bewilder and perhaps contaminate, something spiritual and sacred.
brooks and pools have a peculiar aspect at this season.
nevertheless, we  ate our dinner with a good appetite, and afterwards went universally to take  our several siestas.
the fat old traveller had gone off with the  harness of our wagon, which the hostler had put on to his horse by mistake.
what a beautiful, most beautiful  afternoon this has been!
i meet a wood-sawyer, with his horse and saw on  his shoulders, returning from work.
randall brandished his legs  about in the most ridiculous style, but proved himself a good wrestler, and  finally threw his antagonist.
the scene might be the province house.
on the outside of this are the gravestones, and  large, flat tombstones of the ancient burial-ground,--the tombstones being of  red freestone, with vacant spaces, formerly inlaid with slate, on which were  the inscriptions, and perhaps coats of arms.
possibly,  however, i may go.
the book, according to a latin memorandum,  was sold to daniel bliss by daniel bremer, who, i suppose, was another student  of divinity.
to have the north pole for a fishing-pole, and the equinoctial line for a  fishing-line.
a perfect pond-lily is the most satisfactory of  flowers.
at a distance, the  vessel looked like, or at least i compared it to, a monstrous water-insect  skimming along the river.
the horse he  pronounced "a dreadful nice horse to go; but if he could shirk off the  work upon the others, he would,"--which unfairness platt corrected by  timely strokes of the whip whenever the horse's traces were not tightened.
i worked a little at it.
i wrote that word "blush" almost unconsciously;  so we will let it go as an inspired utterance.
i love, also, to see my own works contributing to the  life and well-being of animate nature.
boys, with newspapers to sell, or apples and  lozenges; many passengers departing and entering, at each new station; the more  permanent passenger, with his cheek or ticket stuck in his hat-band, where the  conductor may see it.
i must see it again; for it ought to  be studied.
the visitor's nose takes note of the fragrance of a pipe.
she had been in love with an  officer named fowler, who was supposed to have been slain in battle.
a person with an ice-cold hand,--his right hand, which people ever  afterwards remember when once they have grasped it.
they were  husband and wife; and b---- says that an irishman and his wife, on their  journeys, do not usually walk side by side, but that the man gives the woman  the heaviest burden to carry, and walks on lightly ahead!
they had come from the salt water.
at last, possibly,  he rejects all guidance, and blunders on by himself.
at last a middle-aged  woman showed herself, half dressed, and completing her toilet.
i must remember this little boy, and perhaps i may  make something more beautiful of him than these rough and imperfect touches  would promise.
women are washing in open spaces, and long  lines of whitened clothes are extended from tree to tree, fluttering and  gambolling in the breeze.
i make him get all the dinners,  while i confine myself to the much lighter task of breakfast and tea.
the sharp tones of a woman s voice appear to pierce his dull organs  much better than a masculine voice.
a stream flows down through it; and along much of its course it has  washed away all the earth from a ledge of rock, and then formed a descending  pavement, smooth and regular, which the scanty flow of water scarcely suffices  to moisten at this period, though a heavy rain, probably, would send down a  torrent, raging, roaring, and foaming.
the old man made an  estimate, though evidently in jest, and then reckoned his box, measures, meats,  and what little maple sugar he had, at four dollars.
the aspect of the village is peculiarly beautiful towards sunset, when  there are masses of cloud about the sky,--the remnants of a thunder-storm.
these mailed  gentlemen, from the size of a foot or more down to an inch, were very numerous  in the spring; and now the smaller kind appear again.
there was one  quaintly expressed advertisement of a horse that had strayed or been stolen  from a pasture.
glazed caps and palo alto hats were much worn.
6 p.m.--i went out to walk about an hour ago, and found it very pleasant,  though there was a somewhat cool wind.
the buff and blue of the union were adopted by fox and the whig party in  england.
mr. f---- arrived yesterday,  and appeared to be in most excellent health, and as happy as the sunshine.
the more  you consider them, the more they seem to have one element among them all, which  is the reason that the most brilliant display of them soothes the observer,  instead of exciting him.
we  have been watching her for some hours, but she stopped to fish, and then went  to some other island, before putting in here.
we found  ourselves driving through quite a romantic country, with hills or mountains on  all sides, a stream on one side, bordered by a high, precipitous bank, up which  would have grown pines, only that, losing their footholds, many of them had  slipped downward.
i have had a good deal of  talk with him, and at first doubted whether he might not be a clergyman; but  mr. thaxter tells me that he has made his own way in the world,--was once  a sailor before the mast, and is now engaged in mercantile pursuits.
reached home september 24th, 1838.
in short, the impression was indefinable; and, after  gazing and musing a good while, i retraced my steps through the irish hamlet,  and plodded on along a wood-path.
nothing gives a stronger idea of old worm-eaten aristocracy--of a family  being crazy with age, and of its being time that it was extinct--than these  black, dusty, faded, antique-dressed portraits, such as those of the  oliver family; the identical old white wig of an ancient minister producing  somewhat the impression that his very scalp, or some other portion of his  personal self, would do.
always when i flounder into the midst of bushes,  which cross and intertwine themselves about my legs, and brush my face, and  seize hold of my clothes, with their multitudinous grip,--always, in such a  difficulty, i feel as if it were almost as well to lie down and die in rage and  despair as to go one step farther.
saturday, july 15th.--went with b---- yesterday  to visit several irish shanties, endeavoring to find out who had stolen some  rails of a fence.
it was very pleasant at the close of the rainy, east-windy day, and seemed to  fling sunshine though the dwelling.
asked one of the yankees just now of a  boy who had been firing a gun.
it is a  revolving light, with several great illuminators of copper silvered, and  colored lamp-glasses.
pig-drover, with two hundred pigs.
i like him well enough, however; but,  after all, these originals in a small way, after one has seen a few of them,  become more dull and commonplace than even those who keep the ordinary pathway  of life.
however, insects, at the worst, will  hold a festival upon them, so that they will not be thrown away, in the great  scheme of nature.
i might  write pages and pages, and only obscure the impression which this brief  sentence conveys.
houstonias are abundant, blue-whitening some of the pastures.
hearing their outcries, i  looked out of my chamber window, and saw the dorsal fin and the fluke of his  tail stuck up out of the water, as he moved to and fro.
in the way of  exercise i saw and split wood, and, physically, i never was in a better  condition than now.
very seldom does a  man grow wild and unruly.
his children, his friends in the village, and the clerical  guests who came to preach in his pulpit, were all wont to eat and be filled  from these trees.
in sunny spots beneath the trees, where greening grass is  overstrewn by the dry, fallen foliage, as i passed, i disturbed multitudes of  grasshoppers basking in the warm sunshine; and they began to hop, hop, hop,  pattering on the dry leaves like big and heavy drops of a thunder-shower.
moss grows on spots of the roof; there are little boxes of earth  here and there, with plants in them.
thanksgiving in an almshouse might make a better sketch.
"shrieking fish," a strange idea of leigh hunt.
friday, april 7th.--my wife has gone to boston to see her  sister m----, who is to be married in two or three weeks, and then immediately  to visit europe for six months, . . .
tomatoes, too, we shall have by and by.
through the whole of  this space, ward-room and all, there is barely room to stand upright, without  the hat on.
he to impute them to various persons and  causes, but ultimately finds that he is himself the sole agent.
there were warm and comfortable  farm-houses, ancient, with the porch, the sloping roof, the antique peak, the  clustered chimney, of old times; and modern cottages, smart and tasteful; and  villas, with terraces before them, and dense shade, and wooden urns on pillars,  and other such tokens of gentility.
make it the  object of pursuit, and it leads us a wild-goose chase, and is never attained.
the house built for sir william's son  was occupied as barracks during the revolution, and much injured.
then he  emerged from the green shade, and, behold!
we had a thunder-storm last evening; and to-day has been a cool, breezy,  autumnal day, such as my soul and body love.
he has black hair, not thick, a beard under his chin, a small head,  but well-developed forehead, black eyebrows, eyes keen, but kindly, and a dark  face, not indicating robust health, but agreeable in its expression.
in the morning, soon after breakfast, i went to the athenæum  gallery, and, during the hour or two that i stayed, not a single visitor came  in.
monsieur du pont, myself m. de  l'aubépine, and himself m. le berger, and all, knights of the  round-table.
and the same trees offer their fruit to me as freely as they did to  him,--their old branches, like withered hands and arms, holding out apples of  the same flavor as they held out to dr. ripley in his lifetime.
the fissure is very irregular,
crowded,--row above row of women, on an amphitheatre of seats, on one  side.
looking downward, we had the island displayed as on a  chart, with its little bays, its isthmus of shingly beach connecting two parts  of the island, and overflowed at high tide; its sunken rocks about it,  indicated by the swell, or slightly breaking surf.
on the road from hallowell to augusta we saw little booths, in two places,  erected on the roadside, where boys offered beer, apples, etc., for sale.
when he dies, the owner of the estate, who has rejoiced at the approach of the  event all through his enemy's illness, hopes at last to buy it; but, to his  infinite discomfiture, the enemy enjoined in his will that his body should be  buried in the centre of this strip of land.
a few words exchanged among  the passengers, as they roused themselves from their half-slumbers, or dreamy,  slumber-like abstraction.
a cannon-shot came through the ship's side, and a man's head was  struck off, probably by a splinter, for it was done without bruising the head  or body, as clean as by a razor.
but in her decline she has wandered away from all these, and  from her native country itself, and is a vagrant, yet with something of  the homeliness and decency of aspect belonging to one who has been a wife and  mother, and has had a roof of her own above her head,--and, with all this, a  wildness proper to her present life.
he was thin and lank.
one of these spaces was in the  shape of a heart.
we found mrs. thaxter sitting in a neat little parlor,  very simply furnished, but in good taste.
it was in such a position that i almost fancied  it might be asleep, and therefore drew near softly, lest it should take flight;
it seems as if the person passed when the lake was in an  intermediate state between ice and water.
in domestic life, the same; in politics, a  seeming patriot; but still he is sincere, and all seems like a theatre.
on this side we have a  view into the orchard, and, beyond, a glimpse of the river.
sometimes i have a dim sense of the continent  beyond, but no more distinct than the thought of the other world to the  unenlightened soul.
well, it seemed as if the world was newly created yesterday morning, and i  beheld its birth; for i had risen before the sun was over the hill, and had  gone forth to fish.
my thoughts travelled back to the lonely  old manse; and it seemed as if i were wandering up stairs and down stairs all  by myself.
the people here show out their character much more strongly than they do  with us; there was not the quiet, silent, dull decency of our public  assemblages, but mirth, anger, eccentricity,--all manifesting themselves  freely.
she is a true virago, and, though somewhat  restrained by respect for him, she evinced a sturdy design to remain here  through the winter, or at least for a considerable time longer.
, he remains long gazing, and  finally betakes himself to feeding again.
all these, and other varieties of  mankind, either thronged the spacious bar-room of the hotel, drinking, smoking,  talking, bargaining, or walked about among the cattle-pens, looking with  knowing eyes at the horned people.
there are boys going about with  molasses candy, almost melted down in the sun.
this character could not  possibly be overdrawn; and he was really excellent, with his allusions to  what was passing, intermingled, doubtless, with a good deal that was studied.
beyond the road  rolls the kennebec, here two or three hundred yards wide.
walnuts in their green rinds are falling from the trees, and so are  chestnut-burrs.
that is, there must be an atmosphere of greatness round about them.
they could moor their boats in the road, between smutty nose and hog,  but could not draw them up.
whereupon the caravan-man and the  brother-in-law (who, being a tavern-keeper, was to divide the custom of the  caravan people with this house) went to make the attempt,--the caravan-man  stalking along with stiff, awkward bulk and stature, yet preserving a  respectability withal though with somewhat of the blackguard.
it made a very handsome one.
"he said, sir, 'what does he send me this damned stuff for?'
a bonfire to be made of the gallows and of all symbols of evil.
hereupon was much fun and some sympathy.
a mad girl leaped from the top of a tremendous precipice in pownall,  hundreds of feet high, if the tale be true, and, being buoyed up by her  clothes, came safely to the bottom.
it is the more singular that these should  be so published, inasmuch as the whole book was republished in london, only a  few months ago.
memorials of the family of hawthorne in the church of the village of  dundry, somersetshire, england.
yesterday and to-day, however,  the weather has been intolerable,--cold, chill, sullen, so that it is  impossible to be on kindly terms with mother nature. . . .
at one end, too, we are sensible of  precipitous descents, black and shaggy with the forest that is likely always to  grow there; and, in one streak, a headlong sweep downward of snow.
it was a two-story, wooden house, dark and weather-beaten.
then he gave an account of the process in his domestic establishment,  saying that he threw away the whole offals of the hog, as not producing any  soap, and preserved the skins of the intestines for sausages.
in this village, it seems, the selectmen had resolved not to license  any public exhibition of the kind; and it was interesting to attend to the  consultations whether it were feasible to overcome the objections, and what  might be the best means.
mr. thoreau tells me that these  noisy assemblages consist of three different species of blackbirds; but i  forget the other two.
the brook is bestrewn with stones, some bare, some partially  moss-grown, and sometimes so huge as--once at least--to occupy almost the whole  breadth of the current.
but how much changed was i!
besides the  bleak, unkindly air, i have been plagued by two sets of coal-shovelers at the  same time, and have been obliged to keep two separate tallies simultaneously.
the barberry-bushes have some red fruit  on them, but they are frost-bitten.
pray heaven that we may be able  to eat it all!
as usual when i have anything to sell, apples are very  low indeed in price, and will not fetch me more than a dollar a barrel.
a description of the various classes of hotels and taverns, and the  prominent personages in each.
on one slate gravestone, of the rev. nathl.
i  believe it indicates coal.
then he told of floundering through  snow-drifts in winter, and carrying the mail on his back four miles from  bennington.
the whole is excellently cut or engraved.
i  trust to have much pleasure in their society, and, sooner or later, that we  shall all of us derive great strength from our intercourse with them.
as i approached, two little eels,  about as long as my finger, and slender in proportion, wriggled out of the  basin.
the thermometer  having been frequently below zero, i suppose the ice may be four or five feet  thick.
a  friend asked him, "how doth your lordship?"
the  two pirates were represented with halters round their necks, just ready to be  turned off; and the sheriff stood behind them, with his watch, waiting for  the moment.
the  glen is deep and narrow, and filled with trees; so that, in the summer, it is  all a dense shadow of obscurity.
may 29th.--rejoice with me, for i am free from a load of  coal which has been pressing upon my shoulders throughout all the hot  weather.
it opens the gates of heaven and gives us glimpses  far inward.
well, the man was walking pretty briskly at  the time of the accident; and scott seriously affirmed that he kept walking  onward at the same pace, with two jets of blood gushing from his headless  trunk, till, after going about twenty feet without a head, he sunk down at  once, with his legs under him.
what would be its effect?
thursday, july 13th.--two small canadian boys  came to our house yesterday, with strawberries to sell.
salem, september 3d.--. . .
about midway on the beach, a  fresh-water brooklet flows towards the sea.
his insignificant personal appearance stands in the  way of his success, and prevents him from receiving the respect which is really  due to his talents and acquirements, wherefore he is bitterly dissatisfied with  the country and its inhabitants, and often expresses his feelings to b----  (who has gained his confidence to a certain degree) in very strong terms.
the walnut-husks mark the place where the boys, after nutting, sat down  to clear the walnuts of their outer shell.
living in retirement in  boston,--esteemed a man of nicest honor, and his seclusion attributed to  wounded feelings on account of the failure of his firm in business.
in the garden are the old cabbages which we did not think  worth gathering last autumn, and the dry bean-vines, and the withered stalks of  the asparagus-bed; in short, all the wrecks of the departed year,--its  mouldering relics, its dry bones.
i wonder why providence does not cause a clear, cold fountain to  bubble up at our doorstep; methinks it would not be unreasonable to pray for  such a favor.
stage-drivers, etc., asked to drink with the aristocracy,  and my host treating and being treated.
"--then resuming his task, looking into the glass with grave face, on  which, however, a grin would soon break out anew, and all his pranks would be  repeated with variations.
saturday, october 9th.--still dismal weather.
found at mr. field's dr. holmes and mr. duyckinck of  new york; also mr. cornelius matthews and herman melville.
late in the evening, during the fire-works, people are consulting  how they are to get home,--many having long miles to walk: a father, with wife  and children, saying it will be twelve o'clock before they reach home, the  children being already tired to death.
"why i thought i spoke to you all at once," replied the  figure, laughing.
mr. leach has much tact in finding out the professions of  people.
thank god for breath,--yes, for mere breath!
uncle john would smile and cackle at a little jest, and what life there  was in him seemed a good-natured and comfortable one enough.
an old, gray man, seemingly astray and abandoned in this wide world,  sitting in the bar-room, speaking to none, nor addressed by any one.
monument mountain and its brethren are green, and  the lightness of the tint takes away something from their massiveness and  ponderosity, and they respond with livelier effect to the shine and shade of  the sky.
it was a moment or two before i could think whom you meant by mr. dismal  view.
the adjacent meadow being overflowed by the rise of the stream,  he had rowed directly to the foot of the orchard, and landed at the bars, after  floating over forty or fifty yards of water where people were lately making  hay.
the dark cabin, wherein, descending from the  sunshiny deck, it was difficult to discern the furniture, looking-glasses, and  mahogany wainscoting.
among  the guests, he holds intercourse with gentlemen of much more respectable  appearance than himself, from the same part of the country.--bill of fare;  wines printed on the back, but nobody calls for a bottle.
i wish he would meet with better  success.
yet he was not very witty.
e. k. avery  and cornell,--the former a figure in black, leaning on the back of a chair, in  the attitude of a clergyman about to pray; an ugly devil, said to be a good  likeness.
there being a  mistiness in the air, we could see the gleam of the light-house upon the mist  above it, although the light-house itself was hidden by the highest point  of this island, or by our being in a valley.
e----'s manners are  gentlemanly, and he seems to be very well informed.
and thus we jogged on, and got to "mine inn" just as the  dinner-bell was ringing.
in the forenoon, i took passage for star island, in  a boat that crosses daily whenever there are passengers.
a thanksgiving dinner.
it  is no great matter, so it be but written in the book of life.
these colors, infinitely  varied by the progress which different trees have made in their decay,  constitute almost the whole glory of autumnal woods; but it is impossible to  conceive how much is done with such scanty materials.
after breakfast, mr. ripley put a four-pronged  instrument into my hands, which he gave me to understand was called a  pitchfork; and he and mr. farley being armed with similar weapons, we all three  commenced a gallant attack upon a heap of manure.
it is a very picturesque sight.
salem, march 12th.--. . .
herb and flower, likewise, wherever they grow, whether in garden or wildwood,  are his familiar friends.
afterwards, she being  in the parlor, i went in; and she immediately began to talk to me, giving  me an account of the affair, speaking with the bitterness of a wronged person,  with a sparkling eye, yet with great fluency and self-possession.
meanwhile, mr. emerson  and miss fuller, who arrived an hour or two before, came forth into the little  glade where we were assembled.
but it was my impression at the  time, that they had sat still and silent on the tops of the trees all through  the sabbath day, and i felt like one who should unawares disturb an assembly of  worshippers.
it might be three friends who plan it, instead of two  lovers; and the dearest one dies.
the family seat of the hawthornes is wigcastle, wigton, wiltshire.
in some warm spots, a pleasant buzz of many insects.
the passengers brought by the spy, yesterday, still remain with us.
the water was deep around the rock, and  swelling up and downward, waving the seaweed.
it seems as if the soul might rise  up from the gloom, and alight upon them and soar away.
there were none in a later fashion than thirty years  since, except some figures that had been cut from tailors' show-bills.
in the  intervals are grass-plots, already green, because so sheltered; and  fruit-trees, now beginning to put forth their leaves, and one of them, a  cherry-tree, almost in full blossom.
tom, the irish boy, gave it as his  opinion that they were not old enough to be weaned.
afterwards we found her to be the wife of mine host.
one would think that oak hall should give a common garb and air to the  great mass of the boston population; but it seems not to be so; and perhaps  what is most singular is, that the natural make of the men has a conformity and  suitableness to the dress.
as you draw near, they take a  flight of a score of yards or more, and then recommence their dalliance with  the surf-wave.
it is agreeable to look down at the square patches  of cornfield, or of potato-ground, or of cabbages still green, or of beets  looking red,--all a man's farm, in short,--each portion of which he considers  separately so important, while you take in the whole at a glance.
but  on gazing downward, there they were, the same even to the minutest particular,  yet arrayed in ideal beauty, which satisfied the spirit incomparably more than  the actual scene.
there was a moral picturesqueness in the contrasts of the scene,--a man  moved as deeply as his nature would admit, in the midst of hardened, gibing  spectators, heartless towards him.
the lamp would not brighten my spirits, though it was duly filled, .
however, he called for a glass of brandy.
may 8th.--i went last evening to the national theatre to  see a pantomime.
it was a  pleasant idea that the world was kept off by the river.
october 25th.--a walk yesterday through dark lane, and  home through the village of danvers.
the ground had been completely freed  of snow, there has been a snow-storm for the two days preceding yesterday,  which made the earth all white again.
sunday, august 28th.--still another rainy day,--the  heaviest rain, i believe, that has fallen since we came to concord (not two  months ago).
a tendency to obesity is more common in this part of the country than i  have noticed it elsewhere.
"my name is hodge," replied the latter.
he had a singing-girl, he drank spirits, smelled penetrating odors,  sprinkled cologne-water round the room, etc., etc.
probably it was the love of management, of having an influence  on affairs, that produced these phenomena.
the boys appear to be well acquainted with all the ropes and sails,  and can call them by their nautical names.
the yeomen appeared  to be more in their element than i have ever seen them anywhere else, except,  indeed, at labor,--more so than at musterings and such gatherings of amusement.
and so it is, and so it shall be,  although, in a little while, a flitting shadow of earthly care and toil will  mingle itself with our realities.
endicott, pyncheon, and others, in scarlet robes, bands,  etc.
i shall,  doubtless, soon bewail myself at being compelled to earn my bread by taking  some little share in the toils of mortal men, . . .
hatch  says that there are a hundred people now resident in portsmouth, who, at one  time or another, have dug for treasure.
their hooked beaks looked like hooked noses.
a ticket is given by the hostler, on  taking the horse and chaise, which is returned to the bar-keeper when the  chaise is wanted.
occasionally he returns for a  day or two to resume his place among scholars and idle people, as, for  instance, the present week, when he has thrown aside his spade and hoe to  attend the commencement at cambridge.
yes," said he, "i should like to share it"; whereby i  concluded that there was a kiss exchanged.
he immediately becomes familiar, and begins  to talk of the license law, and other similar topics, making himself at home,  as one who, being much of his time upon the road, finds himself at ease at any  tavern.
their consciences are turned to india-rubber,  or to some substance as black as that, and which will stretch as much.
after finishing my record in  the journal, i sat a long time in grandmother's chair, thinking of many things.
winter and spring are now struggling for the mastery in my study; and i  yield somewhat to each, and wholly to neither.
others are of a bright sunny yellow.
it will behoove me to show myself  as little as possible, else people will think i have fought a pitched battle, .
last night, however, there was another, which has nipped the leaves  of the winter-squashes and cucumbers, but seems to have done no other damage.
but the wind has blown my  brains into such confusion that i cannot philosophize now.
it would  seem as if they were buried underneath; and many people take that idea.
it was a  pleasant sensation, when the coach rumbled up our avenue, and wheeled round at  the door; for i felt that i was regarded as a man with a household,--a man  having a tangible existence and locality in the world,--when friends came to  avail themselves of our hospitality.
the decanters and  wine-bottles on the move, and the beer and soda founts pouring out continual  streams, with a whiz.
many times i wound and  re-wound mr. thoreau's little musical-box; but certainly its peculiar sweetness  had evaporated, and i am pretty sure that i should throw it out of the window  were i doomed to hear it long and often.
the shore of  the coves strewn with bunches of sea-weed, driven in by recent winds.
he is not insensible of this.
the more distant  then disappeared behind the nearer ones, and finally graylock itself was lost  behind the hill which immediately shuts in the village.
a  young frenchwoman, with a baby in her arms, came to the door of one of them,  smiling, and looking pretty and happy.
he had seemed to be a good-natured, quiet kind of dog,  offering his head to be patted by those who were kindly disposed towards him.
a coroner's inquest on a murdered man,--the gathering of the jury to be  described, and the characters of the members,--some with secret guilt upon  their souls.
the highest part of appledore is about eighty feet above the sea.
the next day after commencement was bleak and rainy from midnight till  midnight, and a good many guests were added to our table in consequence.
in  warm mornings, after rain, the mist breaks forth from the forests on the ascent  of the mountains, like smoke,--the smoke of a volcano; then it soars up,  and becomes a cloud in heaven.
i have walked up into the pastures this morning, and  looked about me a little.
swill, the remnant of their last  meal, remains in the trough, denoting that their food is more abundant than  even a hog can demand.
we have our parlor here dressed in evergreen as at christmas.
it was a real happiness to live.
the oaks have generally a russet-brown shade, although some of  them are still green, as are likewise other scattered trees in the  forests.
then to cast  your eye over so many different establishments at once and rapidly compare  them,--here a house of gentility, with shady old yellow-leaved elms hanging  around it; there a new little white dwelling; there an old farm-house; to see  the barns and sheds and all the out-houses clustered together; to comprehend  the oneness and exclusiveness and what constitutes the peculiarity of each of  so many establishments, and to have in your mind a multitude of them, each of  which is the most important part of the world to those who live in it,--this  really enlarges the mind, and you come down the hill somewhat wiser than you go  up.
then i was introduced, and received  with great distinction, but yet without any ostentatious flourish of courtesy.
the spring is situated so far down  the chasm, that, at half or two thirds tide, it is covered by the sea.
somebody say about you?
these are very  abundant, and live amidst the rocks,--probably having been brought hither by  vessels.
nevertheless, it  pleases me to think of the good minister, walking in the shadows of these old,  fantastically shaped apple-trees, here plucking some of the fruit to taste,  there pruning away a too luxuriant branch, and all the while computing how many  barrels may be filled, and how large a sum will be added to his stipend by  their sale.
here ensued great inquiries after the general, and wherefore  he had not come.
by and by he will fall  quite asleep, without any trouble.
along  the margin, sometimes sticks of timber made fast, either separately or several  together; stones of some size, varying the pebbles and sand; a clayey spot,  where a shallow brook runs into the river, not with a deep outlet, but finding  its way across the bank in two or three single runlets.
he looked me in the  face, and i tried to startle him, so as to make him gallop; but he stretched  his long legs, one after another, walked quietly to his mother, and began to  suck,--just wetting his lips, not being very hungry.
spring is advancing, sometimes with sunny  days, and sometimes, as is the case now, with chill, moist, sullen ones.
i won't bear it more than three or four times  more," said he.
his  feelings do not seem to be warm, though they are kindly.
a modern jewish adage,--"let a man clothe himself beneath his ability,  his children according to his ability, and his wife above his ability."
at his death they might try to dig him a grave, but, at a little  space beneath the ground, strike upon a rock, as if the earth refused to  receive the unnatural son into her bosom.
it has been a calm, warm, sunny day, the sea slumbering  against the shores, and now and then breaking into white foam.
we had frosts, sufficient to kill the bean and squash  vines, more than a fortnight ago; but there has since been some of the most  delicious indian-summer weather that i ever experienced,--mild, sweet, perfect  days, in which the warm sunshine seemed to embrace the earth and all earth's  children with love and tenderness.
this is so unlike his deportment in times past, that i suspect "the  celestial railroad" must have given him a pique; and, if so, i shall feel  as if providence had sufficiently rewarded me for that pious labor .
on the right is white island, with the light-house; to the right of  that, and a little to the northward, londoner's rock, where, perhaps, of old,  some london ship was wrecked.
what could the little bird mean by pouring it forth at  midnight?
he is a  catholic; and yesterday being friday he caught some fish and fried them for his  dinner in sweet-oil, and really they looked so delicate that i almost wished he  would invite me to partake.
there  was no one now in the vicinity of the place, save a man a yoke of oxen; and  what he was about, i did not ascertain.
the lady might be one who had loved him early  in life, but whom then, in his expectation of passionate love, he had scorned.
all dogs, of whatever different sizes and dissimilar  varieties, acknowledge the common bond of species among themselves, and  the largest one does not disdain to suffer his tail to be smelt of, nor to  reciprocate that courtesy to the smallest.
it is a singular thing, that, at the distance, say, of five feet, the work  of the greatest dunce looks just as well as that of the greatest genius,--that  little space being all the distance between genius and stupidity.
well-dressed ladies were in the meeting-house in silks and cambrics,--the  sunburnt necks in contiguity with the delicate fabrics of the dresses showing  the yeoman's daughters.
there is considerable land that would serve tolerably for pasture on smutty  nose, and here and there a little enclosure of richer grass, built round with a  strong stone-wall.
the queer gestures and sounds of a hen looking about for a place to deposit  her egg; her self-important gait; the sideway turn of her head and cock of her  eye, as she pries into one and another nook, croaking all the while,--evidently  with the idea that the egg in question is the most important thing that has  been brought to pass since the world began.
much may be made of this idea.
punishment of a miser,--to pay the drafts of his heir in his tomb.
is hope and an  instinctive faith so mixed up with their nature that they can be cheered by the  thought that the sunshine will return?
this is a beautiful morning, and promises to be one of those heavenly days that  render autumn, after all, the most delightful season of the year.
and various showily engraved tailors' advertisements, and  other shop-bills; among them all, a small painting of a drunken toper, sleeping  on a bench beside the grog-shop,--a ragged, half-hatless, bloated, red-nosed,  jolly, miserable-looking devil, very well done, and strangely suitable to the  room in which it hangs.
meantime i shall see these people and their enterprise under a new point of  view, and perhaps be able to determine whether we have any call to cast in our  lot among them.
they seemed in rather better moral habits than students used to be, but  wild-spirited, rude, and unpolished, somewhat like german students, which  resemblance one or two of them increased by smoking pipes.
as we sat under the piazza in the  evening, we saw the light from on board some vessel move slowly through the  distant obscurity,--so slowly that we were only sensible of its progress by  forgetting it and looking again.
many of  the stage-folk sitting in chairs on the pavement, in front of the door.
may 5th, 1850.--i left portsmouth last wednesday, at the  quarter past twelve, by the concord rail-road, which at newcastle unites with  the boston and maine railroad about ten miles from portsmouth.
but orrin inquired, somewhat  dolefully, whether i should suppose that he himself bewailed the advances of  age.
litchfield is a remarkable instance, occupying a high plain,  without the least shelter from the winds, and with almost as wide an expanse of  view as from a mountain-top.
on these high mountain-waves rested the white summer  clouds, or they rested as still in the air above; and they were formed into  such fantastic shapes that they gave the strongest possible impression of being  confounded or intermixed with the sky.
pleasant to look over an orchard far below, and see the trees, each casting  its own shadow; the white spires of meeting-houses; a sheet of water, partly  seen among swelling lands.
the black  fellow asked,-- "do you want to see her?" others of the by-standers or by-sitters put various questions as to the  nature of the man's business with mary ann.
the british have lately imprisoned a man who was  sent to take the census; and the mainiacs are much excited on the subject.
one vine had ascended almost to the tip of a large white-pine, spreading  its leaves and hanging its purple clusters among all its boughs,--still  climbing and clambering, as if it would not be content till it had crowned the  very summit with a wreath of its own foliage and bunches of grapes.
in a remote part of the graveyard,--remote from the main body of dead  people,--i noticed a humble, mossy stone, on which i traced out "to the  memory of julia africa, servant of rev." somebody.
he had taken himself out  of the age, and put himself, i suppose, into that about which he was writing.
here the mirth was increased, it being evident that the woman was his wife.
all around the horizon, landward as well as seaward,  the view is shut in by a mist.
morning and evening, she goes a-milking.
the house spacious,--one room large enough to contain forty  or fifty guests.
standing on the weedy margin, and throwing  the line over the elder-bushes that dip into the water, it seems as if we could  catch nothing but frogs and mud-turtles, or reptiles akin to them.
the most remarkable sight, however, was mr. hildreth, writing his  history of the united states.
singular character of a gentleman (h. h---- esq.)
nevertheless, unconsciously perhaps, he lent a hand to whatever was going  on, and yet had a kind of strangeness about him.
of female  society i see nothing.
in the village graveyard, which lies contiguous to the street, i saw a man  digging a grave, and one inhabitant after another turned aside from his way to  look into the grave and talk with the digger.
the sun shone  before it set; and the mist, which all day has overhung the land, now takes the  aspect of a cloud,--drawing a thin veil between us and the shore, and rising  above it.
sunday, august 7th.--at sunset last evening i ascended  the hill-top opposite our house; and, looking downward at the long extent of  the river, it struck me that i had done it some injustice in my remarks.
we built two fires, which, as the  dusk deepened, cast a red gleam over the rock and the waves, and made the sea,  on the side away from the sunset, look dismal; but by and by up came the  moon, red as a house afire, and, as it rose, it grew silvery bright, and threw  a line of silver across the calm sea.
i ate the last morsel of bread yesterday, and congratulate myself on being  now reduced to the fag-end of necessity.
the wind is not nearly so high as last night, but it is apparently  still from the north-west, and serves to make the sea look very blue and  cold.
the motto of the former device pro patria.
but this has been one of the idlest days that i ever spent in boston,  . . .
he  accompanies me likewise in all my walks to the village and elsewhere; and, in  short, keeps at my heels, all the time, except when i go down cellar.
being deaf, he finds it much the easier to abstract himself.
the mackerel  craft are in the offing.
the ideas of people in general are not raised higher than the roofs of the  houses.
and mrs. whipple took tea with us.
rows of white cabbages lay ripening.
it is a sombre, brooding day, and begins to rain as the cars pass onward.
a doctor, passing on horseback,  with his black leather saddle-bags behind him, a thin, frosty-haired man.
the drivers carry a "time-watch"  enclosed in a small wooden case, with a lock, so that it may be known in what  time they perform their stages.
it shows the wind to be east now.
all the more distant portion of  the valley is lonesome in the extreme; and on the hither side of the narrowest  part the land is uncultivated, partly overgrown with forest, partly used as  sheep-pastures, for which purpose it is not nearly so barren as sheep-pastures  usually are.
conversing with him in the evening, he affirmed, with evident  belief in the truth of what he said, that he would have no objection, except  that it would be a very foolish thing, to expose his whole heart, his whole  inner man, to the view of the world.
the forest, bordering the stream, produces its effect by a complexity of  causes,--the old and stern trees, with stately trunks and dark foliage,--as the  almost black pines,--the young trees, with lightsome green foliage,--as  sapling oaks, maples, and poplars,--then the old, decayed trunks, that are seen  lying here and there, all mouldered, so that the foot would sink into them.
the principal farm  labors at this time are ploughing for winter rye, and breaking up the  greensward for next year's crop of potatoes, gathering squashes, and not much  else, except such year-round employments as milking.
as we walked, he kept telling stories of the family, which seemed to  have comprised many oddities, eccentric men and women, recluses and other  kinds,--one of old philip english (a jersey man, the name originally  l'anglais), who had been persecuted by john hawthorne, of witch-time memory,  and a violent quarrel ensued.
for i suppose he was dumb at the  creation, and must go round an entire circle in order to return to that blessed  state, brook farm, oak hill, april 13th, 1841.--. . .
there is a barn, which probably used to  be filled annually with his hay and other agricultural products.
the parson in his silk cassock, and his helpmate in brown damask.
by accident the five were set  on fire with a torch.
if, should you  venture one step within its wild, tangled, many-stemmed, and dark-shadowed  verge, you would inevitably be lost forever.
the white light-house was sometimes  very cheerfully marked.
he is a man of sense, though not quick, and seems to be a fair man.
but hens we must certainly keep.
pure, fresh,  almost sparkling, exhilarating,--such water as adam and eve drank.
the water rakes to and fro over the pebbles at the  bottom of the chasm, drawing back, and leaving much of it bare, then rushing  up, with more or less of foam and fury, according to the force and direction of  the wind; though, owing to the protection of the adjacent islands, it can never  have a gale blowing right into its mouth.
near this spot,  yet somewhat removed, so as not to be confounded with it, are other individual  graves, chiefly of the haley family, who were once possessors of the island.
he is, i apprehend, a man of  great cultivation and refinement, and with quite substance enough to be  polished and refined, without being worn too thin in the process,--a man of  society.
the breeze is still very moderate; but the boat, moored  near the shore, rides with a considerable motion, as if the sea were getting up.
a turn of the doctor's hand; the patient  begins to utter a cry, but the tooth comes out first, with four prongs .
bears still inhabit saddleback and the neighboring mountains and forests.
in the woods  we see stones covered with moss that retains likewise a most lively green.
the farther we went up the brook, the wilder it grew.
robins have been long among us, and swallows have more  recently arrived.
i can bear this coolness better  than that of the interior.
the  squirrel seemed not to approve of my presence, for he frequently uttered a  sharp, quick, angry noise, like that of a scissors-grinder's wheel.
it catches one man's arm, and pulls it off; seizes another by the coat-tails,  and almost grapples him bodily; catches a girl by the hair, and scalps her; and  finally draws in a man and crushes him to death.
william allen and myself went in a  wagon, carrying a calf to be sold at the fair.
there were a good many people walking on the mall,--mechanics  apparently, and shopkeepers' clerks, with their wives; and boys were rolling on  the grass, and i would have liked to lie down and roll too.
a fantastic figure of a village coxcomb, striding through the bar-room, and  standing with folded arms to survey the caravan men.
i take an interest in all the nooks and crannies and every development of  cities; so here i try to make a description of the view from the back windows  of a house in the centre of boston, at which i now glance in the intervals of  writing.
leaving the tavern, we drove a mile or two farther to the eastern brow of  the mountain, whence we had a view, over the tops of a multitude of heights,  into the intersecting valleys down which we were to plunge,--and beyond them
august 26th.--a funeral last evening, nearly at  sunset,--a coffin of a boy about ten years old laid on a one-horse wagon among  some straw,--two or three barouches and wagons following.
had he not  been aware of it till after the child's death, it would probably have been a  consolation.
as it was not ready to be  put upon paper, however, i took up the "dial," and finished reading  the article on mr. alcott.
very steady and  regular in his life, and parsimonious in his disposition,--worth $50,000, made  by his profession.--a clergyman, elderly, with a white neck-cloth, very  unbecoming, an unworldly manner, unacquaintance with the customs of the house,  and learning them in a childlike way.
he gave a most forlorn description of his life; how, when he came to  salem, there was nobody except mr. ---- whom he cared about seeing; how his  position prevented him from accepting of civilities, because he had no home  where he could return them; in short, he seemed about as miserable a being as  is to be found anywhere,--lonely, and with sensitiveness to feel his  loneliness, and capacities, now withered, to have enjoyed the sweets of life.
a note  on colored paper is brought her; and she reads it, and puts it in her bosom.
the man  spoke of the pain of cutting the muscles, and the particular agony at one  moment, while the bone was being sawed asunder; and there was a strange  expression of remembered anguish, as he shrugged his half-limb, and described  the matter.
another  object, perhaps, is a solitary man paddling himself down the river in a small  canoe, the light, lonely touch of his paddle in the water making the silence  seem deeper.
the queerness was, such a figure being associated with classic youth.
on the river-bank, an irishwoman washing some clothes, surrounded by her  children, whose babbling sounds pleasantly along the edge of the shore; and she  also answers in a sweet, kindly, and cheerful voice, though an immoral woman,  and without the certainty of bread or shelter from day to day.
on mentioning her to mr. thaxter, after my return,  he said that it was probably "the bearded woman."
under the nut-trees are scattered some of the nuts of last  year; the walnuts have lost their virtue, the chestnuts do not seem to have  much taste, but the butternuts are in no manner deteriorated.
the wind being ahead, and pretty strong, she will  have to beat up, and the voyage will be anything but agreeable.
now  it has taken a flight, and alighted on the roof of this house, directly over  the window at which i sit, so that i can look up and see its head and beak, and  the tips of its claws.
this weather, i think, affects the spirits very unfavorably.
at the bottom of the broad chamber of the cave, standing in its  shadow, the effect of the morning sunshine on the dark or bright foliage of the  pines and other trees that cluster on the summits of the crags was particularly  beautiful; and it was strange how such great trees had rooted themselves in  solid marble, for so it seemed.
a tailor is detected by mr. leach, because his coat had not a single  wrinkle in it.
i managed, indeed, to propel the boat by rowing with  two oars, but the use of the single paddle is quite beyond my present skill.
sometimes i descended into the dirty  little cabin of the schooner, and warmed myself by a red-hot stove, among  biscuit-barrels, pots and kettles, sea-chests, and innumerable lumber of all  sorts,--my olfactories, meanwhile, being greatly refreshed by the odor of a  pipe, which the captain, or some one of his crew, was smoking.
a married couple with ten children have been  the means of bringing about ten funerals.
what is the price of a day's labor in lapland, where the sun never sets for  six months?
[1837] maine, july 5, 1837.--here i am, settled since night  before last with b----, and living very singularly.
the visible side of the whole row of houses is now in  the shade,--they looking towards, i should say, the southwest.
the edifice must have made quite a magnificent  appearance.
he can walk two or  three miles, he says, "taking it moderate."
he is conscious of his peculiarities; for when i asked him whether it  would be well to make a naval officer secretary of the navy, he said, "god  forbid, for that an old sailor was always full of prejudices and stubborn  whim-whams," instancing himself; whereto i agreed.
on wednesday there was a cattle-show in the  village, of which i would give a description, if it had possessed any  picturesque points.
the driver said,  that several years since the students of williams college erected a building  for an observatory on the top of the mountain, and employed him to haul the  materials for constructing it; and he was the only man who had driven an  ox-team up graylock.
had it not been for  the warmth and brightness of monday, when i arrived here, i should have  supposed that all sunshine had left brook farm forever.
and i want nothing to do with politicians.
mr. weiss was there, and i do not know
the grass springs  up most industriously, especially in sheltered and sunny angles of the  buildings, or round the doorsteps,--a locality which seems particularly  favorable to its growth; for it is already high enough to bend over and wave  the wind.
methinks these early apples, which  come as a golden promise before the treasures of autumnal fruit, are almost  more delicious than anything that comes afterwards.
the date of these  habitations is not known; but they may well be the remains of the settlement  that cotton mather speaks about; or perhaps one of them was the house where sir  william pepperell was born, and where he went when he and somebody else set up  a stick, and travelled to seek their fortunes in the direction in which it fell.
ladurlad, in "the curse of kehama," on visiting a certain  celestial region, the fire in his heart and brain died away for a season, but  was rekindled again on returning to earth.
the tradition is just as  good as truth.
and  there is really a contentment in being able to make this poor, world-worn,  hopeless, half-crazy man so entirely comfortable as he seems to be here.
i know what is its fitting destiny better  than the silly flower knows for itself; so i wade in, heedless of wet trousers,  and seize the shy lily by its slender stem.
i have gained worldly wisdom, and wisdom also that is not altogether  of this world.
however, i intend to  have all my copyrights taken out in my own name; and, if he cheat me once, i  will have nothing more to do with him, but will straightway be cheated by some  other publisher,--that being, of course, the only alternative.
at the first door at which we knocked (a shanty with an  earthen mound heaped against the wall, two or three feet thick), the  inmates were not up, though it was past eight o'clock.
he talked very  sensibly with us, being doubtless glad to have two visitors to vary his  solitary night-watch; for it would not do for him to fall asleep, since the  fire should be refreshed as often as every twenty minutes.
trees and shrubbery were growing neglected, so as quite to block up the  lower part.
at the accession of bloody mary, a man, coming into a house, sounded three  times with his mouth, as with a trumpet, and then made proclamation to the  family.
the last thing one hears of her, she is  tripping up stairs to bed, talking lightsomely or warbling; and one meets her  in the morning, the very image of bright morn itself, smiling briskly at you,  so that one takes her for a promise of cheerfulness through the day.
here i am again,  slowly adapting myself to the life of this queer community, whence i seem  to have been absent half a lifetime,--so utterly have i grown apart from the  spirit and manners of the place. . . .
the fight with the  world,--the struggle of a man among men,--the agony of the universal effort to  wrench the means of living from a host of greedy competitors,--all this seems  like a dream to me.
speaking of the widow, he said: "my wife has been dead  these seven years, and why should i not enjoy myself a little?"
it is not a dry and cleanly tree;  it impresses me with an association of sliminess; and no trees, i think, are  perfectly satisfactory, which have not a firm and hard texture of trunk and  branches.
the orange hue of the western horizon remains  till ten o'clock, at least, and how much later i am unable to say.
i find that i am a good deal  interested in our garden, although, as it was planted before we came here, i do  not feel the same affection for the plants that i should if the seed had been  sown by my own hands.
this gives a new aspect to her, while the girlish impression still  remains, and is strangely combined with the sense that this frolicsome maiden  has the material for the sober bearing of a wife.
i am glad, on mr.  thoreau's own account, that he is going away, as he is out of health, and may  be benefited by his removal; but, on my account, i should like to have him
there is a little  vase of flowers on one of the bookcases, and a larger bronze vase of graceful  ferns that surmounts the bureau.
the brilliant  scarlet and the brilliant yellow are different hues of the maple-leaves, and  the first changes into the last.
he came so near the shore that he might have been touched with a  boat-hook.
"i should not think you could smell  carrion inthat house," said a stage agent.
the prince of wales wore them.
it is  strange to hear philosophy of any sort from such a boyish figure.
there are two pictures there by our friend sarah  clarke,--scenes in kentucky.
in summer or spring, nature is farther from one's sympathies.
wednesday, july 26th.--dined at barker's yesterday.
by and by, when we are better acquainted, she will grow more  tractable. . . .
my cold no longer troubles me, and all  the morning i have been at work under the clear, blue sky, on a hill-side.
friday, june 23d.--summer has come at last,--the longest  days, with blazing sunshine, and fervid heat.
the scruple is that the factory-girls, having ready money by them,  spend it for these nonsenses, quitting their work; whereas, were it a mere  farming-town, the caravan would take little in proportion to their spendings.
there has been but one flower found in this vicinity,--and that was an  anemone, a poor, pale, shivering little flower, that had crept under a  stone-wall for shelter.
when assembled, they were all  seized and shipped off to be distributed through new england,--among them the  new bridegroom.
men will not perceive, i  trust, by my look, or the tenor of my thoughts and feelings, that i have been a  custom house officer.
the houses in this vicinity are, many of them, quite antique, with long,  sloping roofs, commencing at a few feet from the ground, and ending in a lofty  peak.
the revolutionary pensioners come out into the sunshine to make oath that  they are still above ground.
at the  cold spring, three little girls, from six to nine, were seated on the stones in  which the fountain is set, and paddling in the water.
this book of the church records of gosport is a small folio, well bound in  dark calf, and about an inch thick; the paper very stout, with a water-mark of  an armed man in a sitting posture, holding a spear . . .
justice shallow's orchard, with its  choice pippins and leather-coats, was doubtless much superior.
her husband, a dark, black-haired,  lively little fellow, caressed the child, laughing and singing to it; and there  was a red-bearded irishman, who likewise fondled the little brat.
he is an odd and clever young man, with nothing very  peculiar about him,--some originality and self-inspiration in his character,  but none, or, very little, in his intellect.
the front apartment is for drinking.
and, with such materials as these, i do think and  feel and learn things that are worth knowing, and which i should not know  unless i had learned them there, so that the present portion of my life shall  not be quite left out of the sum of my real existence. . . .
at a little distance, i  think, one would take him to be not much over thirty; but nearer at hand one  finds him to look rather venerable,--perhaps fifty or more.
people at just this stage of manners are more disagreeable  than at any other stage.
we just set  our feet on the farther shore, and then immediately returned, facing the  northwest-wind, which blew very sharply against us.
a salt or even a coal ship is ten million times preferable; for there  the sky is above me, and the fresh breeze around me, and my thoughts, having  hardly anything to do with my occupation, are as free as air.
there is a basis of good sense and of moral truth, too, throughout the article,  which also is a reflection of his character; for he is not unwise to think and  feel, and i find him a healthy and wholesome man to know.
i went on with the journal for a few minutes before  tea, and have finished the present record in the setting sunshine and gathering  dusk. . . .
a barouche with driver returned from beyond greenfield or troy empty, the  passengers being left at the former place.
then he comes in, cheerful and vivacious enough, eats pretty  heartily, and is off again, singing frenchchansons as he goes down the  gravel-walk.
(salem, union street.) those who are very difficult in choosing wives seem as if they would take  none of nature's ready-made works, but want a woman manufactured particularly  to their order.
through the  white curtains may be seen the gleam of an astral-lamp, like a fixed star.
it proved to be a gold ring, with the motto,  "god speed thee, friend."
this is the reason that  translations are never satisfactory,--and less so, i should think, to one who  cannot than to one who can pronounce the language.
he should meet some pious,  old, sorrowful person, with more outward calamities than any other, and invite  him, with a reflection that piety would make all that miserable company truly  thankful.
i have not the sense of perfect seclusion which  has always been essential to my power of producing anything.
i am not  aware that the inhabitants of concord resemble their native river in any  of their moral characteristics.
north adams, august 23d.--the county commissioners held a  court in the bar-room yesterday afternoon, for the purpose of letting out the  making of the new road over the mountain.
union street [family mansion].--. .
we  were both pleased with the visit, and so, i think, were our guests.
e---- could walk and talk at nine  months old.
extracts from letters.
it is a grievous point with him.
never afterwards distinguished in arms.
after the siege of antwerp, the children played marbles in the streets with  grape and cannon shot.
they may be built in three or four days,  and are valued at four or five dollars.
the leaves of the trees  are not yet out, but are so apparent that the woods are getting a very decided  shadow.
an old irishwoman  sat in the door of another hut, under the influence of an extra dose of  rum,--she being an old lady of somewhat dissipated habits.
i was caught by a cold during my visit  to boston.
beautiful now, while the general landscape lies in shadow, looks the summit  of a distant hill (say a mile off), with the sunshine brightening the trees  that cover it.
when not otherwise occupied, h reads, without much  notice of what is going on around him.
three other  passengers, whose faces were not visible for some hours; so we went on  through unknown space, saying nothing, glancing forth sometimes to see the  gleam of the lanterns on wayside objects.
you cannot imagine  how much the presence of leo relieves the feeling of perfect loneliness.
what so miserable as to  lose the soul's true, though hidden, knowledge and consciousness of heaven in  the mist of an earth-born vision?
it seemed like the formation of a new world; for islands were  everywhere emerging, and capes extending forth into the flood; and these  tracts, which were thus won from the watery empire, were among the greenest in  the landscape.
in the woods,  rocks emerging, and, where there is a slope immediately towards the lake, the  snow is pretty much gone, and we see partridge-berries frozen, and outer shells  of walnuts, and chestnut-burrs, heaped or scattered among the roots of the  trees.
besides the apple-trees, there are various other kinds of fruit in close  vicinity to the house.
he died suddenly, soon after suspicion  fell upon him.
indian corn, in the prime and glory of its verdure, is a  very beautiful vegetable, both considered in the separate plant, and in a mass  in a broad field, rustling and waving, and surging up and down in the breeze  and sunshine of a summer afternoon.
then i took my way back through the forest, for this  is a by-road, and is, much of its course, a sequestrated and wild one, with an  unseen torrent roaring at an unseen depth, along the roadside.
a man tries to be happy in love; he cannot sincerely give his heart, and  the affair seems all a dream.
it is not very likely that i shall make such long voyages in her as mr. thoreau  has made.
old lady's dress seventy or eighty years ago.
in 1621, a mr. copinger left a certain charity, an almhouse, of which four  poor persons were to partake, after the death of his eldest son and his wife.
i recollect no other garden  vegetables.
is not this a beautiful morning?
we ascended the  hillock to the top of the kiln, and the marble was red-hot, and burning with a  bluish, lambent flame, quivering up, sometimes nearly a yard high, and  resembling the flame of anthracite coal, only, the marble being in large  fragments, the flame was higher.
the shore has a  narrow, pebbly strand, which it was worth a day's journey to look at, for the  sake of the contrast between it and the weedy, oozy margin of the river.
i have never driven through such  romantic scenery, where there was such a variety and boldness of mountain  shapes as this; and though it was a broad sunny day, the mountains diversified  the view with sunshine and shadow, and glory and gloom.
hull, masts,  and spars were all gilded, and the rigging was made of golden threads.
nobody would take him for other than a  man of some importance in the community, though his summer dress is a tow-cloth  pair of pantaloons, a shirt not of the cleanest, open at the breast, and the  sleeves rolled up at the elbows, and a straw hat.
here and there is a large,  painted garden-pot, half buried in earth.
---- taking my likeness, i said that such changes would come over my face  that she would not know me when we met again in heaven.
meantime, the magazine people do not pay their debts; so that we taste some of  the inconveniences of poverty.
displayed along the walls, and suspended from the pillars of the original  king's chapel, were coats of arms of the king, the successive governors, and  other distinguished men.
for the  future, i shall endeavor to be so diligent nine months of the year that i may  allow myself a full and free vacation of the other three.
yeomen,  too, in their black or blue sunday suits, cut by country tailors, and awkwardly  worn.
the appetite might be observed first in a child, and then  traced upwards, manifesting itself in crimes suited to every stage of life.
i lay  awake a good deal in the night, but saw no ghost.
my chirography always was abominable, but now it is outrageous.
what were the contents of the burden of christian in the "pilgrim's  progress"?
it required some energy of imagination to conceive the idea of  transforming this ancient edifice into a comfortable modern residence.
at all events, i met with no disturbance  of the kind, and slept soundly enough till six o'clock or thereabouts.
such a venerable structure adorns our guest-chamber.
on her return, she has swept the islands of all the  non-residents except myself.
no  attempt was made to take the whales.
generally, however, the bright days have  been vexed with winds from the northwest, somewhat too keen and high for  comfort.
(lady ursula was old mrs. cutts, widow of president cutts.)
also i saw a mosquito, frost-pinched, and so wretched that i  felt avenged for all the injuries which his tribe inflicted upon me last  summer, and so did not molest this lone survivor.
i  crossed the beach for home about sunset.
gentians,--i found the last,  probably, that will be seen this year, growing on the margin of the brook.
my own chamber, apparently the best in the  house, had its walls ornamented with a small, gilt-framed, foot-square  looking-glass, with a hair-brush hanging beneath it; a record of the deaths of  the family written on a black tomb, in an engraving, where a father, mother,  and child were represented in a graveyard, weeping over said tomb; the mourners  dressed in black, country-cut clothes; the engraving executed in vermont.
september 27th.--. . .
the various guises under which ruin makes his approaches to his victims: to  the merchant, in the guise of a merchant offering speculations; to the young  heir, a jolly companion; to the maiden, a sighing, sentimentalist lover.
the pedlar was good-natured and  communicative, and spoke very frankly about his trade, which he seemed to like  better than farming, though his experience of it is yet brief.
one  thing, if no more, i have gained by my custom house experience,--to know a  politician.
the rules of the quarterdeck (which extends aft from the main-mast)  are, that the midshipmen shall not presume to walk on the starboard side of it,  nor the men to come upon it at all, unless to speak to an officer.
slow work, and dull work too!
i have taken one walk with mr. farley; and i could not have  believed that there was such seclusion at so short a distance from a great  city.
b---- has gained much  influence both with the irish and the french,--with the latter, by dint of  speaking to them in their own language.
there was  recently an old inhabitant living who remembered when the people used to reside  in the fort.
there was one of the date of about 1776, on which was represented the  third-length, bas-relief portrait of a gentleman in a wig and other costume of  that day; and as a framework about this portrait was wreathed a garland of  vine-leaves and heavy clusters of grapes.
this man's  deafness seemed to have made his mind and feelings uncommonly coarse; for,  after the opium-eater had renewed an old acquaintance with him, almost the  first question he asked, in his raised voice, was, "do you eat opium  now?"
how  comfortless must eve's bower have been!
it was as lovely and  wild and peaceful as it could possibly have been a hundred years ago; and the  traces of labors of men long departed added a deeper peace to it.
it seems to be a natural posture with him, to  sit on his hind legs, holding up his fore paws.
this afternoon i  hope to have something to do in the field, for these jobs about the house are  not at all to my taste.
pierce arrived before dinner in the spy, accompanied by judge upham and his  brother and their wives, his own wife, mr. furness, and three young ladies.
he is full of antique prejudices against the modern fashions of the  younger officers, their mustaches and such fripperies, and prophesies little  better than disgrace in case of another war; owning that the boys would  fight for their country, and die for her, but denying that there are any  officers now like hull and stuart, whose exploits, nevertheless, he greatly  depreciated, saying that the boxer and enterprise fought the only equal battle  which we won during the war; and that, in that action, an officer had proposed  to haul down the stars and stripes, and a common sailor threatened to cut him  to pieces if he should do so.
a  religious newspaper lay on the mantel-piece.
all round the site of the house was a pleasant, sunny, green space, with old  fruit-trees in pretty fair condition, though aged.
it makes me contrast their present gross substance of fleshly  life with the nothingness speedily to come.
these matters came floating downwards, whirling round and round  in the eddies, or hastening onward in the main current; and many of them,  before this time, have probably been carried into the merrimack, and will be  borne onward to the sea.
the opposite bank  was covered with pines and hemlocks, ascending high upwards, black and solemn.
nothing can be neater than the churches and  houses.
brobdingnag lay on the northwest coast of the american continent.
a simplicity characterizes him more  than appertains to most yankees.
judging by the pother which this "half a  gale "makes with the sea, it must have been a terrific time, indeed, when  that great wave rushed and roared across the islands.
the peculiar weariness and depression of spirits which is felt after a day  wasted in turning over a magazine or other light miscellany, different from the  state of the mind after severe study; because there has been no excitement, no  difficulties to be overcome, but the spirits have evaporated insensibly.
some four or five years ago there was a  young woman residing at gosport in the capacity of school-teacher.
nothing in our box at the  post-office.
these being plucked off, the rest of the potatoes  are dug out of the hill with a hoe, the tops being flung into a heap for the  cow-yard.
i think the house is empty,  perhaps for the summer.
the  sun-gleams on the hills are peculiarly magnificent just in these days.
the ink is not much faded.
a small  white streak of foam breaking around the bows, which ware towards the wind.
february 12th.--all day long again have i been engaged in  a very black business,--as black as a coal; and, though my face and hands have  undergone a thorough purification, i feel not altogether fit to hold communion  with doves.
little f. h---- used to look into e----'s mouth to see where her smiles  came from.
there ought to be a record of the  flower-garden, and of the procession of the wild-flowers, as minute, at least,  as of the kitchen vegetables and pot-herbs.
he was a graceful little beast.
in the evening, ---- ----called to see us, wishing to talk with me about a  boston periodical, of which he had heard that i was to be editor, and to which  he desired to contribute.
a nod is always exchanged  between strangers meeting on the road.
as the wave set sail, we were  just starting in our dory, and a young fellow, an acquaintance of mr. thaxter,  proposed to take us in tow; so we were dragged along at her stern very rapidly,  and with a whitening wake, until we came off hog island.
we went to the top of the hill which formed part of gardiner greene's  estate, and which is now in the process of levelling, and pretty much taken  away, except the highest point, and a narrow path to ascend to it.
you may behold their multitudinous little tracks all along your  way.
standing in the cross-road that leads by the mineral spring, and looking  towards an opposite shore of the lake, an ascending bank, with a dense border  of trees, green, yellow, red, russet, all bright colors, brightened by the mild  brilliancy of the descending sun; it was strange to recognize the sober old  friends of spring and summer in this new dress.
this  is but the perception of the true unreality of earthly things, made evident by  the want of congruity between ourselves and them.
he originated in a country  town, and is a self-educated man.
monday, april 10th.--i sat till eight o'clock, meditating  upon this world and the next, . . .
william  selected four, and bought them at five cents per pound.
at the counter stand, at almost all hours,--certainly at all  hours when i have chanced to observe,--tipplers, either taking a solitary  glass, or treating all round, veteran topers, flashy young men, visitors from  the country, the various petty officers connected with the law, whom the  vicinity of the court-house brings hither.
constables in  considerable number, parading about with their staves, sometimes conversing  with each other, producing an effect by their presence, without having to  interfere actively.
the fanny arrived in the forenoon, with some  coal for mr. laighton, and sailed again before dinner, taking two of the maids  of the house; but as it rained pouring, and as i could not, at any rate, have  got home to-night, there would have been no sense in my going.
but, perchance, a gleam of sun falls on a  certain spot of distant shrubbery or woodland, and we see it brighten with many  hues, standing forth prominently from the dimness around it.
items:--a young man, with a  small mustache, dyed brown, reddish from its original light color.
the beans have come up ill, and i planted a  fresh supply only the day before yesterday.
this antique house--for it looks antique, though it was created by  providence expressly for our use, and at the precise time when we wanted  it--stands behind a noble avenue of balm-of-gilead trees; and when we chance to  observe a passing traveller through the sunshine and the shadow of this long  avenue, his figure appears too dim and remote to disturb the sense of blissful  seclusion.
there are likewise a few hens, whose quiet cluck is heard  pleasantly about the house.
for the most part, they were gone  again in a moment; but sometimes the shadow remained long enough to make me  dread a return of sulky weather.
the sun not a great way above the horizon, yet so far as  to give a very golden brightness, when it shone out.
sailors and  midshipmen scattered about,--the middies having a foul anchor, that is, an  anchor with a cable twisted round it, embroidered on the collars of their  jackets.
she never walks, but bounds and dances along, and this motion, in her  diminutive person, does not give the idea of violence.
he  seemed to take interest and pride in his exhibition; yet when the utter and  ludicrous miserabiity thereof made us laugh, he joined in the joke very  readily.
my evenings are very precious to me, and some  of them are unavoidably thrown away in paying or receiving visits, or in  writing letters of business, and therefore i prize the rest as if the sands of  the hour-glass were gold or diamond dust.
this was the witch-judge.
we asked the man whether he  would run across the top of the intensely burning kiln, barefooted, for a  thousand dollars; and he said he would for ten.
there is also some kind of a bird  flying.
many spots seem hardly to have been visited for ages,--not since john  eliot preached to the indians here.
the saffron became intermixed with splendor, kindling and  kindling, baker's island lights being in the centre of the brightness, so that  they were extinguished by it, or at least grew invisible.
thus i reached  the most interesting part of the cave, where the whirlings of the stream had  left the marks of its eddies in the solid marble, all up and down the two sides  of the chasm.
with me, as regards  literary production, the summer has been unprofitable; and i only hope  that my forces are recruiting themselves for the autumn and winter.
it seems a greater pity that an accomplished worker with the hand should  perish prematurely, than a person of great intellect; because intellectual arts  may be cultivated in the next world, but not physical ones.
the worm is sluggish, and so is the river,--the river is muddy, and so is the  worm.
he is  an admirable cook.
august 24th.--in the afternoons, nowadays, this valley in  which i dwell seems like a vast basin filled with golden sunshine as with wine.
after breakfast, i go forth into my  garden, and gather whatever the bountiful mother has made fit for our present  sustenance; and of late days she generally gives me two squashes and a  cucumber, and promises me green corn and shell-beans very soon.
among people in  general, he does not seem to have any greater consideration in his ruin because  of his former standing in society.
the grass grows pretty luxuriantly, and looked very green where  there was any soil; but he kept no cow, nor even a pig nor a hen.
an old gentleman, mr. phillips, of boston, got into  conversation with me, and inquired very freely as to my character, tastes,  habits, and circumstances,--a freedom sanctioned by his age, his kindly and  beneficent spirit, and the wisdom of his advice.
he is engaged as assistant teacher of the  academy at shelburne falls.
along  the hither shore a row of trees stand up to their knees, and the smaller ones  to their middles, in the water; and afar off, on the surface of the stream, we  see tufts of bushes emerging, thrusting up their heads, as it were, to breathe.
between eleven  amid twelve i went to the post-office, but found no letter; then spent above an  hour reading at the athenæum.
betimes in the morning, on the descent of a mountain, we  arrived at a house where dwelt the married sister of the young man, whom he was  going to visit.
he was a man evidently of  influence in his neighborhood, and the tone of his conversation was in the  style of one accustomed to be heard with deference, though all in a plain  and homely way.
i  suppose he is comfortable enough when busied in his duties at the custom house;  for when i spoke to him at my entrance, he was too much absorbed to hear me at  first.
when the body of lord mohun (killed in a duel) was carried home, bleeding,  to his house, lady mohun was very angry because it was "flung upon the  best bed.
there  should be a sacred law in these matters; and, as consecrating the whole  business, the preliminary prayer is a good and real ordinance.
to-day i must be in portsmouth; to-morrow, at home.
one of the little girls seemed to have suffered some wrong from her companions,  for she was weeping and complaining violently.
at a distance, mountain summits look close together, almost as if forming  one mountain, though in reality a village lies in the depths between them.
she was of a  romantic turn, and used to go and sit on this point of rock to view the waves.
mr. fields tells me that two publishers in london had  advertised the "scarlet letter" as in press, each book at a shilling.
in an old london newspaper, 1678, there is an advertisement, among other  goods at auction, of a black girl, about fifteen years old, to be sold.
i mounted  high into the tree, and ate the fruit there, while the vine wreathed still  higher into the depths above my head.
one feels that a new season has begun.
by and by comes down a raft,  perhaps twenty yards long, guided by two men, one at each end,--the raft itself  of boards sawed at waterville, and laden with square bundles of shingles and  round bundles of clapboards.
in another chasm, very much like the one here described, i saw a niche in  the rock, about tall enough for a person of moderate stature to stand upright.
this day, on my part, will have been spent without exchanging  a syllable with any human being, unless something unforeseen should yet call  for the exercise of speech before bedtime.
and, not liking to be to them the most curious part of the spectacle, i waded  back, and put on my clothes.
a steam-engine across the river, which almost continually  during the day, and sometimes all night, may be heard puffing and panting, as  if it uttered groans for being compelled to labor in the heat and sunshine, and  when the world is asleep also.
an indian-corn field, as yet  unharvested,--huge, golden pumpkins scattered among the hills of corn,--a  noble-looking fruit.
sentiments in a foreign language, which merely convey the sentiment without  retaining to the reader any graces of style or harmony of sound, have somewhat  of the charm of thoughts in one's own mind that have not yet been put into  words.
every day, i trudge through snow and slosh to the village, look into the  post-office, and spend an hour at the reading-room; and then return home,  generally without having spoken a word to a human being. . . .
i had rather a pleasant walk to a distant meadow a day or two ago, and we  found white and purple grapes in great abundance, ripe, and gushing with rich,  pure juice when the hand pressed the clusters.
conceive something tragical to be talked about, and  much might be made of this interview in a wild road among the hills, with  graylock, at a great distance, looking sombre and angry, by reason of the gray,  heavy mist upon his head.
we talked  of physiognomy and impressions of character,--first impressions,--and how apt  they are to come aright in the face of the closest subsequent observation.
he would fly at the  circular light over the door, clinging to the casement, sometimes alighting on  one of the two glass lamps, or on the cords that suspended them, uttering an  affrighted and melancholy cry whenever i came near and flapped my handkerchief,  and appearing quite tired and sinking into despair.
instead of rich and  poor, high and low, they are to be classed,--first, by their sorrows: for  instance, whenever there are any, whether in fair mansion or hovel, who are  mourning the loss of relations and friends, and who wear black, whether the  cloth be coarse or superfine, they are to make one class.
several ladies and gentlemen on horseback were cantering and galloping  before and behind me.
from the  nature of my office, i shall have the chief direction of all the money  affairs of the community, the making of bargains, the supervision of receipts  and expenditures, etc., etc., etc. . . .
yesterday, we boiled some lamb, which we  shall have cold for dinner to-day.
"what did you fire at?"
there is a young lady staying at the hotel, afflicted with what her friends  call erysipelas, but which is probably scrofula.
there was an infant christ, or rather a  child christ, not unbeautiful, but scarcely divine.
at one of the windows of the third story sits a woman in a colored dress,  diligently sewing on something white.
they seem to be actually oppressed and overburdened with comfort.
the lady, with a clear, pale complexion, and a rather  pensive cast of countenance, slender, and with a genteel figure; the  bridegroom, a shopkeeper in new york probably, a young man with a stout black  beard, black eyebrows, which formed one line across his forehead.
the trees have a singular appearance in the midst of waters.
governor leverett's gloves,--the glove  part of coarse leather, but round the wrist a deep, three or four inch border  of spangles and silver embroidery.
everything goes  on well with me.
in the centre of the  lake, we see the surrounding hills in a new attitude, this being a basin in the  midst of them.
these new-comers are people of uncouth  voices and loud laughter, and behave themselves as if they were trying to turn  their expedition to as much account as possible in the way of enjoyment.
wild-flowers are abundant and various on these islands; the bayberry-bush is  plentiful on smutty nose, and makes the hand that crushes it fragrant.
nevertheless, he knows how to behave and to talk like a gentleman.
a farm-house of the old style, with a long  sloping roof, and as black as the church, stands on the opposite side of the  road, with its barns; and these are all the buildings in sight of the railroad  station.
she had been out to ride, had exerted  herself much, and had been very vivacious.
if not this, then the military council, holden at boston by the earl of  loudon and other captains and governors, might be taken,--his lordship in the  great chair, an old-fashioned, military figure, with a star on his breast.
these factories have two, three, or more  boarding-houses near them, two stories high, and of double length,--often with  bean-vines running up round the doors, and with altogether a domestic look.
december 1st.--i saw a dandelion in bloom near the lake.
after a time, a letter arrived from her  lover, who was not killed, but merely a prisoner to the french.
[thus far i had written, when mr. emerson called.]
the dome  of taconic looks dark, and seems to have no snow on it, though i don't  understand how that can be.
whereas, what may look coarse and rough in nature's workmanship will  show an infinitely minute perfection, the closer you look into it.
the road lay parallel with the kennebec, of which we occasionally had near  glimpses.
at frequent  intervals, the scene is suddenly broken by a loud report like thunder, rolling  along the banks, echoing and reverberating afar.
a singular smile broke out upon his face on slight  provocation.
his aspect is very spirited, trotting  massively along, with his tail elevated and his head likewise.
also the visit of two friends, who may  fitly enough be mentioned among flowers, ought to have been described.
she  was not a brunette, and this made the vivacity of her expression the more  agreeable.
after passing through this romantic and most picturesque spot, the stream  goes onward to turn factories.
if the earth fails  me, i can die, and go to god," said ----.
yet with a sense as if all the noblest part of man had been  left out of my composition, or had decayed out of it since my nature was given  to my own keeping. . . .
we shall quite finish haying this week, and then there will be no more  very hard or constant labor during the one other week that i shall remain a  slave.
it is not that i have any love of mystery, but because  i abhor it, and because i have often felt that words may be a thick and  darksome veil of mystery between the soul and the truth which it seeks.
all these  signs are given by a figure in various garbs and actions, but he does not  recognize that this is the sought-for person till too late.
as to new-comers, i feel rather a  distaste to them; and so, i find, does mr. laighton,--a rather singular  sentiment for a hotel-keeper to entertain towards his guests.
the farm is growing very beautiful now,--not that we yet see anything of  the peas and potatoes which we have planted; but the grass blushes green on the  slopes and hollows.
sometimes the notes of a  horn or bugle may be heard sounding afar among these passes of the mountains,  announcing the coming of the stage-coach from bennington or troy or greenfield  or pittsfield.
one of his oddities is, that, while steadfastly  maintaining an opinion that he is a very small and slow eater, and that we, in  common with other yankees, eat immensely and fast, he actually eats both faster  and longer than we do, and devours, as b---- avers, more victuals than both of  us together.
g. b----, my old fellow-laborer at the community at brook farm, called on  me last evening, and dined here to-day.
it seemed as if the pure  air were beneath them, as well as above.
what ridiculous-looking animals!
here and there are bare places, where the rain-streams have washed  away the grass.
salem, september 14th.--. . .
so  as not to be describable in words, and scarcely to be painted,--jutting  buttresses, moss-grown, impending crags, with tall trees growing on their  verge, nodding over the head of the observer at the bottom of the chasm, and  rooted, as it were, in air.
not merely the flowers,  but the various shrubs which one sees,--seated, for instance, on the  decayed trunk of a tree,--are well worth looking at, such a variety and such  enjoyment they have of their new growth.
they are aware of some decencies, but not so  deeply aware as to make them a matter of conscience.
remarkables:--an author at the american stationers' company, slapping his hand  on his manuscript, and crying, "i'm going to publish.
they cease grazing when an intruder appears,  and look at him with long and wary observation, then bend their heads to the  pasture again.
spots which, in calm times, are  not discernible from the rest of the ocean, now are converted into white, foamy  breakers.
mr. emerson had a theological discussion with two of the shaker  brethren; but the particulars of it have faded from my memory; and all the  other adventures of the tour have now so lost their freshness that i cannot  adequately recall them.
the vision lasted while i took a few steps, and then  vanished.
june 1st, 1842.--one of my chief amusements is to see the  boys sail their miniature vessels on the frog pond.
on the top of one of the booths a monkey, with a tail two or three  feet long.
this morning is clear and bright;
a woman to sympathize with all emotions, but to have none of her own.
he said that there was a minister here,  who was also the schoolmaster; but that he did not keep school just now,  because his wife was very much out of health.
it being fitted in its place,  orrin s---- strewed some straw upon it,--this being the custom here, because  "the clods on the coffin-lid have an ugly sound."
it might  be represented as the fate of a squad of dissolute men.
we entered the library, mr. folsom considerably in  advance, as being familiar with the house; and i heard mr. ticknor greet him in  friendly tones, their scholar-like and bibliographical pursuits, i suppose,  bringing them into frequent conjunction.
the most characteristic part of the scene was where the pedlars,  gingerbread-sellers, etc., were collected, a few hundred yards from the  meeting-house.
observable matters along the road were the stage,--all the dust of  yesterday brushed off, and no new dust contracted,--full of passengers, inside  and out; among them some gentlemanly people and pretty girls, all looking fresh  and unsullied, rosy, cheerful, and curious as to the face of the country, the  faces of passing travellers, and the incidents of their journey; not yet  damped, in the morning sunshine, by long miles of jolting over rough and hilly  roads,--to compare this with their appearance at midday, and as they drive into  bangor at dusk; two women dashing along in a wagon, and with a child,  rattling pretty speedily down hill;--people looking at us from the open doors  and windows;--the children staring from the wayside;--the mowers stopping, for  a moment, the sway of their scythes;--the matron of a family, indistinctly seen  at some distance within the house her head and shoulders appearing through the  window, drawing her handkerchief over her bosom, which had been uncovered to  give the baby its breakfast,--the said baby, or its immediate predecessor,  sitting at the door, turning round to creep away on all fours;--a man building  a flat-bottomed boat by the roadside: he talked with b---- about the boundary  question, and swore fervently in favor of driving the british "into hell's  kitchen" by main force.
monday, july 31st.--we had our first cucumber yesterday.
"captain percival is coming aboard of you,  sir."
for there is something more awful in  happiness than in sorrow,--the latter being earthly and finite, the former  composed of the substance and texture of eternity, so that spirits still  embodied may well tremble at it.
i passed a doctor high up the road in a sulky, with his black leather  saddle-bags.
i would willingly have had some assistance in the discussion of  this great piece of calf.
mr. s----, unbidden, gave him a glass of  gin, which the old man imbibed by the warm fireside, and grew the younger for  it.
may 23d.--i think the face of nature can never look more  beautiful than now, with this so fresh and youthful green,--the trees not being  fully in leaf, yet enough so to give airy shade to the woods.
the stumps and trunks  fire-blackened, yet nothing about them that indicates a recent clearing, but  the roughness of an old clearing, that, being removed from convenient labor,  has none of the polish of the homestead.
four ears on a stalk (good ones) are considered a heavy  harvest.
also, we have cabbages in  superfluous abundance, inasmuch as we neither of us have the least affection  for them; and it would be unreasonable to expect sarah, the cook, to eat fifty  head of cabbages.
what a beautiful day was yesterday!
some of them gleam brightly in their golden armor;  others have a dull white aspect, going through some process of transformation.
the beach is of a brown sand, with hardly any  pebbles intermixed upon it.
when it is made up of such a heavenly breeze as this.
there was scarcely a breath  of air, and a perfectly calm sea; an intensely hot sunshine, with a little  haze, so that the horizon was indistinct.
the driver peeped into the coach once, and said that he had  his arm round her waist.
i am a very dull person just at this time.
there was formerly, i believe, a complete arch of  marble, forming a natural bridge over the top of the cave; but this is no  longer so.
but the idea  of the infinite generosity and exhaustless bounty of our mother nature is well  worth attaining; and i never had it so vividly as now, when i find myself, with  the few mouths which i am to feed, the sole inheritor of the old clergyman's  wealth of fruits.
the land is good, the farms look neat, and the  houses comfortable.
the two portsmouth young ladies returned in the spy.
at last he happened to fly  low enough to pass through the door, and immediately vanished into the gladsome  sunshine.--ludicrous situation of a man, drawing his chaise down a sloping  bank, to wash in the river.
a fellow without money, having a hundred and seventy miles to go, fastened  a chain and padlock to his legs, and lay down to sleep in a field.
april 7th.--it appears to me to have been the most  uncomfortable day that ever was inflicted on poor mortals. . . .
the water is now dammed for the construction of two marble  saw-mills, else it would have been impossible to effect the passage; and i  presume that, for years after the cave was discovered, the waters roared and  tore their way in a torrent through this part of the chasm.
they were  drawn in by pursuing their food,--a small fish called herring-bait, which came  ashore in such abundance that mr. laighton dipped up basketfuls of them.
the  patient gets up, half amazed, pays the doctor ninepence, pockets the tooth, and  the spectators are in glee and admiration.
the  different families also have battles, and occasionally the irish fight with the  canadians.
the sea was calm and smooth, with only the surf-waves whitening along the  beach.
the current,  likewise, lingered along so gently that it was merely a pleasure to propel the  boat against it.
gibbs and hansley were admirably done, as  natural as life; and many people who had known gibbs would not, according to  the showman, be convinced that this wax-figure was not his skin stuffed.
the opinion generally was that the license could not be obtained; and the  portly man's face grew darker and downcast at the prospect; and he took out a  travelling-map and looked it carefully over, to discover some other station.
when i reëntered the  house, it was with somewhat of a desolate feeling; yet not without an  intermingled pleasure, as being the more conscious that all separation was  temporary, and scarcely real, even for the little time that it may last.
they sat with whips in their hands.
now, however, the wind has subsided, and the weather-seers know not what  to forebode.
but he is an inmate of mr. thaxter's.
its hue is a delicate pink, of  various depths of shade, and somewhat in the form of a grecian helmet.
one man plods along, looking always on the ground, without ever lifting his  eyes to the mountain scenery, and forest, and clouds, above and around him.
we propose to change her name from musketaquid (the indian  name of the concord river, meaning the river of meadows) to the pond-lily,  which will be very beautiful and appropriate, as, during the summer season, she  will bring home many a cargo of pond-lilies from along the river s weedy shore.
a cloud in the shape of an old woman kneeling, with arms extended towards  the moon.
this has been  a gray day, with now and then a sprinkling of snow-flakes through the air. . .
the dresses of the new-comers are old-fashioned, making  them look aged before their time.
aboard the steamboat,  professor stuart of andover, sitting on a sofa in the saloon, generally in  conversation with some person, resolving their doubts on one point or another,  speaking in a very audible voice; and strangers standing or sitting around to  hear him, as if he were an ancient apostle or philosopher.
pleasant groves of oak and walnut, also,  there were, sometimes stretching along valleys, sometimes ascending a hill and  clothing it all round, so as to make it a great clump of verdure.
and a glance at them would be sufficient to mark the difference.
i shall make an excellent  husbandman,--i feel the original adam reviving within me.
but  life now swells and heaves beneath me like a brim-full ocean; and the endeavor  to comprise any portion of it in words is like trying to dip up the ocean in a  goblet. . . .
the crow flew down from its perch, and followed us a great  distance, hopping along the road, and flying with its large, black, flapping  wings, from post to post of the fence, or from tree to tree.
and  what becomes of the birds in such a soaking rain as this?
fortunately there is no need of such a record, for  nature renews the picture year after year; and even when we shall have passed  away from the world, we can spiritually create these scenes, so that we may  dispense with all efforts to put them into words.
the daughter, the only  survivor among knox's children (herself childless), is a mild, amiable woman,  therein totally different from her mother.
and yet, with  all these homely items, the repose and sanctity of the old wood do not seem to  be destroyed or profaned.
about nine o'clock, hillard and i set out for a walk to  walden pond, calling by the way at mr. emerson's, to obtain his guidance or  directions, and he accompanied us in his own illustrious person.
the site has smutty nose and star opposite, with a road (that is, a water-road)  between, varying from half a mile to a mile.
secondly, all who  have the same maladies, whether they lie under damask canopies or on straw  pallets or in the wards of hospitals, they are to form one class.
this, without opening  its eyes.--a constable, a homely, good-natured, business-looking man, with a  warrant against an irishman's wife for throwing a brick-bat at a fellow.
it has but little soil.
the sails were colored brown, and  appeared like leather or skins, but were really cloth.
there were one or two  oak-trees whose foliage still retained a deep, dusky red, which looked rich and  warm; but most of the oaks had reached the last stage of autumnal decay,--the  dusky brown hue.
other officers emerge from the  side of the vessel, or disappear into it, in the same way.
the surf likewise swelled  against the rocky shores of the island, though there was little or no wind,  and, except for the swell, the surface was smooth.
politics must certainly be the subject of  such a tumultuous debate; but still there is a melody in each individual  utterance, and a harmony in the general effect.
distrust to be thus exemplified: various good and desirable things to be  presented to a young man, and offered to his acceptance,--as a friend, a wife,  a fortune; but he to refuse them all, suspecting that it is merely a delusion.
it is fit for baptisms; but one would  not wish it to be polluted by having sins washed into it.
for the writing, perhaps; but would it be so for  the reading?
i intend to convert myself into a milkmaid this evening, but i pray heaven  that mr. ripley may be moved to assign me the kindliest cow in the herd,  otherwise i shall perform my duty with fear and trembling.
entering among the thickets, i find the soil strewn  with old leaves of preceding seasons, through which may be seen a black or dark  mould; the roots of trees stretch frequently across the path; often a  moss-grown brown log lies athwart, and when you set your foot down, it sinks  into the decaying substance,--into the heart of oak or pine.
then i read margaret's article on canova, which is good.
she had come out to  feed a pig, and was a little suspicious that we were making fun of her, yet  answered us with a shy laugh and good-nature,--the pig all the time squealing  for his dinner.
to  boston by stage, and took the afternoon cars for worcester.
houses, often of  gentry, were built of a heavy timber frame, filled up with lath and plaster.
the  present head of the family, now residing there, is hugh hawthorne.
what a waste of sweet smells on  the desert air!
the fireplace was close at hand.
on the whole, concord river is no great favorite of mine; but i am glad to  have any river at all so near at hand, it being just at the bottom of our  orchard.
i have  seldom seen anything more beautiful than the cove on the border of which the  huts are situated; and the more i looked, the lovelier it grew.
monday, july 24th.--i bathed in the river on thursday  evening, and in the brook at the old dam on saturday and sunday,--the former  time at noon.
putting my head out  of the window, i can see it flowing steadily along straightway between wooded  banks; but arriving nearly opposite the house, there is a large and level sand  island in the middle of the stream; and just below the island the current is  further interrupted by the works of the mill-dam, which is perhaps half  finished, yet still in so rude a state that it looks as much like the ruins of  a dam destroyed by the spring freshets as like the foundations of a dam yet to  be.
several such sites of  former human homes may be seen there, none of which can possibly be later than  the revolution, and probably they are as old as the settlement of the island.
underground, beneath the drinking and smoking rooms, is parker's  eating-hall, extending all the way to court street.
i apprehend that some such minor  deficiencies might have been detected in the general showiness of most of them.
a ledge of rocks, with a beacon upon it, looking like a monument  erected to those who have perished by shipwreck.
we saw no absolutely mean nor  poor-looking abodes along the road.
both the men wore palo alto hats.
two travellers, eating bread and cheese of their own in the bar-room at  stockbridge, and drinking water out of a tumbler borrowed from the landlord.
i took a long walk this morning, going first nearly to newton, thence  nearly to brighton, thence to jamaica plain, and thence home.
in a little more than two hours we find ourselves in boston surrounded by eager  hack-men.
the central square of  pittsfield presents all the bustle of a thriving village,--the farmers of the  vicinity in light wagons, sulkies, or on horseback; stages at the door of the  berkshire hotel, under the stoop of which sit or lounge the guests,  stage-people, and idlers, observing or assisting in the arrivals and  departures.
if it  had been blowing from the sea, it would have raised it in heavy billows, and  caused it to dash high against the rocks.
it seems as if, by  one magic touch, they might instantaneously put forth all their foliage, and  the wind, which now sighs through their naked branches, might all at once find  itself impeded by innumerable leaves.
nothing  is so remarkable in these bar-rooms and drinking-places, as the perfect order  that prevails: if a man gets drunk, it is no otherwise perceptible than by his  going to sleep, or his inability to walk.
after  my solitary dinner, i lay down, with the "dial" in my hand, and  attempted to sleep; but sleep would not come. . . .
"old bab," the ghost, has a ring round his neck, and is supposed  either to have been hung or to have had his throat cut, but he steadfastly  declines telling the mode of his death.
marble also occurs here in north adams, and thus some very ordinary houses  have marble doorsteps, and even the stone walls are built of fragments of  marble.
the gloom cannot pervade them; they  conquer it, and drive it quite out of their sphere, and create a moral rainbow  of hope upon the blackest cloud.
a long island shuts out the prospect of the sea.
the aurora  borealis shot upwards to the zenith, and between two and three o'clock the  first streak of dawn appeared, stretching far along the edge of the eastern  horizon,--a faint streak of light; then it gradually broadened and deepened,  and became a rich saffron tint, with violet above, and then an ethereal and  transparent blue.
oh the beauty of  grassy slopes, and the hollow ways of paths winding between hills, and the  intervals between the road and wood-lots, where summer lingers and sits down,  strewing dandelions of gold, and blue asters, as her parting gifts and  memorials!
in the forenoon i walked along the edge of the meadow towards cow island.
as to the daily course of our life, i have written with pretty  commendable diligence, averaging from two to four hours a day; and the result  is seen in various magazines.
caswell, being  very drunk, immediately put in a petition to pierce to build a sea-mole for the  protection of the navigation of the island when he should be president.
as the play went on, the house became crowded and oppressively warm, and  the poor little baby grew dark red, or purple almost, with the uncomfortable  heat in its small body.
i did not milk the cows  last night, because mr. ripley was afraid to trust them to my hands, or me to  their horns, i know not which.
"well, sir,"  replied i, "i wish you could, for both our sakes; for i have no doubt it  would be a great satisfaction to you."
sometimes the image  of a tree might be almost traced; then nothing but this sweep of broken  rainbow.
doubtless some of these immense fragments had trees growing on  them, which have now mouldered away.
but really i should judge it  to be twenty years since i left brook farm; and i take this to be one proof  that my life there was an unnatural and unsuitable, and therefore an unreal,  one.
parting with mr. thoreau, i spent half an hour in chopping wood, when molly  informed me that mr. emerson wished to see me.
likewise a young clergyman, graduate of brown college, and student of the  divinity school at cambridge.
not far from the spot there is a point of rocks extending out farther into  the ocean than the rest of the island.
the showman seemed very proud of ellen jewett,  and spoke of her somewhat as if this wax-figure were a real creation.
some  of louis xv.'s commanders will give the costume.
sea-weed, besides what grows upon and shags the submerged rocks, is  tossed into the harbor, together with stray pieces of wood, chips,  barrel-staves, or (as to-day) an entire barrel, or whatever else the sea  happens to have on hand.
now, into the broad, smooth meadow, as into a lake,  capes and headlands put themselves forth, and shores of firm woodland border  it, covered with variegated foliage, making the contrast so much the stronger  of their height and rough outline with the even spread of the plain.
his beard of a week's  growth, grim and grisly, with a general effect of black; altogether a  disgusting object.
otherwise, i shall return to boston,--still, however, considering  myself an associate of the community, so that we may take advantage of any more  favorable aspect of affairs.
the skipper of the wrecked sloop had, apparently, just  been taking a drop of comfort, but still seemed downcast.
i cannot account for them, unless  they are the lovely fantasies of the mind.
it is a flower of  thought and feeling, too; it seems to have its roots deep down in the hearts of  those who gaze at it.
the part where the water works its way down is very  narrow; but the chasm widens, after the descent, so as to form a spacious  chamber between the crags, open to the sky, and its floor is strewn with fallen  fragments of marble, and trees that have been precipitated long ago, and are  heaped with drift-wood, left there by the freshets, when the scanty stream  becomes a considerable waterfall.
my variegated face looks somewhat more human to-day; though i was  unaffectedly ashamed to meet anybody's gaze, and therefore turned my back or my  shoulder as much as possible upon the world.
withal, a city and business  air about him, as of one accustomed to hurry through narrow alleys, and dart  across thronged streets, and speak hastily to one man and another at jostling  corners, though now transacting his affairs in the solitude of mountains.
apparently they felt themselves injured or  insulted by my presence; for, with one consent, they began to caw! caw! caw!
on such days it is impossible not  to love nature, for she evidently loves us.
"what may i call your name?" said he to the  blacksmith.
they almost all had a  history, no doubt, if they could but have told it.
the great mass of the foliage, however, appears unchanged;  but ever and anon down came a yellow leaf, half flitting upon the air, half  falling through it, and finally settling upon the water.
it may be so with him, but it is  certainly not so with me.
nevertheless, being very quick-tempered, he would face the devil if at all  irritated.
i passed the south village on a by-road, without entering it, and was taken  up by the stage from pittsfield a mile or two this side of it.
in the evening, she sits singing by the hour, with the  musical part of the establishment, often breaking into laughter, whereto she is  incited by the tricks of the boys.
at our first arrival,  we found green peas ready for gathering, and these, instead of the  string-beans, were the first offering of the garden to our board.
another springs at people whom his  master points out to him, barking and pretending to bite.
most of the time i paced the deck to keep myself warm; for the wind  (northeast, i believe) blew up through the dock, as if it had been the pipe of  a pair of bellows.
nevertheless, you are not to fancy that the above paragraph gives a correct  idea of my mental and spiritual state. . . .
she died about six months since, and i believe he  is already engaged to another.
this was the second sitting.
on my way home, i encountered mr. flint,  for the first time these many weeks, although he is our next neighbor in one  direction.
over it hung a portrait of sir walter scott, a copy, i think, of the  one that represents him in melrose abbey.
the juniper-trees are very aged and decayed and moss-grown.
her manuscript contained a certificate, stating that the old woman was a  widow from a foreign land, who had recently lost her son, and was now utterly  destitute of friends and kindred, and without means of support.
these boats have the two parallel sails attached to  the same yard, and some have two sails, one surmounting the other.
doubtless  they had taken it into their heads that i brought them salt.
it is a characteristic trait, that he has a great  regard for the memory of the indian tribes, whose wild life would have suited  him so well; and, strange to say, he seldom walks over a ploughed field  without picking up an arrow-point, spear-head, or other relic of the red man,  as if their spirits willed him to be the inheritor of their simple wealth.
then they would put him into an old  sepulchre, where the coffins and corpses were all turned to dust, and so he  would be alone.
a brisk  west or northwest-wind, making the sea so blue, gives a very distinct outline  in its junction with the sky.
and  the incident of judge tyler as related by e---- might be introduced.
the island has a growth of stately pines, with tall and ponderous stems,  standing at distance enough to admit the eye to travel far among them; and, as  there is no underbrush, the effect is somewhat like looking among the pillars  of a church.
a waste of shrubbery and small trees, such as overruns the borders of the  meadows for miles together, looks much more rugged, wild, and savage in its  present brown color than when clad in green.
there was something indescribable in their aspect, that  showed them to be the owners, though they mixed among the crowd.
sometimes a dead fish was  cast up.
september 2d.--yesterday afternoon mr. thoreau arrived  with the boat.
a man to swallow a small snake,--and it to be a symbol of a cherished sin.
the wind has changed to southwest, and blows pretty freshly.
however, i moralize deeply on this and  other matters, and have discovered that all the trouble and affliction in the  world come from the necessity of cleansing away our earthly stains.
the valleys that intersect, or partially intersect, the island are a  remarkable feature.
this morning i walked a little way along the mountain road, and stood  awhile in the shadow of some oak and chestnut-trees,--it being a warm, bright,  sunshiny morning.
flesh and blood,--a firm of butchers.
it is rather a pity that the cave is not formed of some  worthless stone.
to represent the process by which sober truth gradually strips off all the  beautiful draperies with which imagination has enveloped a beloved object, till  from an angel she turns out to be a merely ordinary woman.
some of the walnut-trees have a  yet more delicate green.
thoreau dined with us  yesterday. . . .
he did not approach me, and i saw him no nearer.
the pursuit has always interested my imagination more than any  other, and i remember, before having my first portrait taken, there was a great  bewitchery in the idea, as if it were a magic process.
the girls all look beautiful and  fairy-like in it, not exactly distinct, nor yet dim.
the great lion lay with his fore paws extended,  and a calm, majestic, but awful countenance.
further sitting was therefore postponed  till to-morrow at eleven.
he seemed encompassed and overwhelmed by this  misfortune, and walks the street as in a heavy cloud of his own grief, forth  from which he extended his hand to meet my grasp.
whether it be his greater readiness to talk, or the wisdom of what  he says, he seems usually to be the centre talker of the group.
he made some remark about  the beauty of the afternoon, and withdrew himself into the shadow of the wood.
this forenoon i began to write, and caught an idea by the skirts, which i  intend to hold fast, though it struggles to get free.
however, if they are poor enough to perk themselves in  such false feathers as these, heaven help them!
he took neither  supper nor breakfast, excusing himself from one as being weary with riding all  day, and from the other because it was so early.
she answered us with great kindness.
eric eldred - see license fromeldritch press's nathaniel hawthorne home page - http://eldred.ne.mediaone.net/nh/hawthorne.html
but living in solitude till the fulness of time was come, i still kept the dew  of my youth and the freshness of my heart. . . .
there was a warm,  autumnal haze, which, i think, seemed to throw the mountains farther off, and  both to enlarge and soften them.
he seemed rather hurt and pricked by the jests thrown at him, yet bore it  patiently, and sometimes almost joined in the laugh, being of an easy,  unenergetic temper.
inquiries about the coming of the caravan, and whether the elephant had got  to town, and reports that he had.
where the firm ground of the pasture ceases, the meadow  begins,--loose, spongy, yielding to the tread, sometimes permitting the foot to  sink into black mud, or perhaps over ankles in water.
mr. thaxter carried him the wings of the white owl that winters here  at the shoals, together with those of some other bird; and the artist gave his  cherubim the wings of an owl.
i talk with one about the way in which the day has passed, and he  bears testimony to the orderliness of the crowd, but suspects one booth of  selling liquor, and relates one scuffle.
sometimes strangers have beheld a  white-haired, venerable, clerical personage, nearly a century old; and, upon  riding a few miles farther, have been astonished to meet again this  white-haired, venerable, century-old personage.
there seems  to be also a diminished necessity, or, at all events, a much less possibility,  of sleep than at other periods of the year.
however, i toiled onward stoutly, and,  entering the north branch, soon found myself floating quietly along a tranquil  stream, sheltered from the breeze by the woods and a lofty hill.
i fried some pouts and eels yesterday, on purpose for him, for he does  not like raw fish.
at a little distance stands a black, large, old, wooden church, with a square  tower, and broken windows, and a great rift though the middle of the roof, all  in a stage of dismal ruin and decay.
it is an annoyance, not a trouble.
there was a british army-captain at the  mansion house; and an idea was thrown out that it would be as well to seize  upon him as a hostage.
mr. farley found it, while taking a walk with me.
"there is no measure for measure to my affections.
gingerbread figures, in the shape  of jim crow and other popularities.
thought he was not sufficiently  honored among more modern heroes.
he had a very quiet  manner, and expressed an intention of going to the commencement at williamstown  to-morrow; his name, i believe, is captain gavett.
the commanding person suddenly to die;  and, for all the rest of his life, the subjected one continues to perform that  act.
some are large, with portions of forest and portions of  cleared land; some are mere rocks, with a little green or none, and inhabited  by sea-birds, which fly and flap about hoarsely.
there were the children, too, laughing and sporting about,  as if they were at home among such strange shapes,--and anon bursting into loud  uproar of lamentation, when the rude gambols of the merry archers chanced to  overturn them.
it contains,  with some additions and alterations, the furniture of my bachelor-room in  boston; but there is a happier disposal of things now.
i must not forget to mention that the butcher conies twice or  thrice a week; and we have so far improved upon the custom of adam and eve,  that we generally furnish forth our feasts with portions of some delicate calf  or lamb, whose unspotted innocence entitles them to the happiness of becoming  our sustenance.
he smoked a  pipe, and talked with one man about whether it would be worth while to grow  young again, and the duty of being contented with old age; about predestination  and freewill and other metaphysics.
the farm is pleasanter  now that he is gone; for his unappeasable wretchedness threw a gloom over  everything.
wednesday, september 13th.--there was a frost the night  before last, according to george prescott; but no effects of it were visible in  our garden.
men who founded families, and grew  rich, a century or so ago, were probably the first.
a decent man, at table the other day, took the only remaining potato out of  the dish, on the end of his knife, and offered his friend half of it!
after the sun was down, the sky was deeply dyed with a  broad sweep of gold, high towards the zenith; not flaming brightly, but of a  somewhat dusky gold.
darkness descending, and, looking down at  the broad wake left by the wheels of the steamboat, we may see sparkles of  sea-fire glittering through the gloom.
the old inhabitants lived in the centre or towards the south of the island,  and avoided the north and east because the latter were so much bleaker in  winter.
a blind man on a dark night carried a torch, in order that people might see  him, and not run against him, and direct him how to avoid dangers.
all the morning we have seen boats picking up her deck-load, which was  scattered over the sea, and along the shores of the islands.
he has great variety of conversation, commensurate with  his experiences in life, and sometimes will talk spanish,ore rotundo,--  sometimes imitate the catholic priests, chanting latin songs for the dead, in  deep, gruff, awful tones, producing really a very strong impression,--then he  will break out into a light, french song, perhaps of love, perhaps of war,  acting it out, as if on the stage of a theatre: all this intermingled with  continual fun, excited by the incidents of the passing moment.
concord, june 6th.--. . .
some few coppers did  the man obtain, as well as much praise.
the front door of the hall looks  up the stately avenue, which i have already mentioned; and the opposite door  opens into the orchard, through which a path descends to the river.
the morning was cloudy, and all the near landscape lay unsunned; but there  was sunshine on distant tracts, in the valleys, and in specks upon the  mountain-tops.
i sympathize with them, not they with me. . . .
i should think that he would do away with  this peculiar expression, for it reveals more of himself than can be detected  in any other way, in personal intercourse with him.
a great space,  indeed, to miss the smile of nature, in a single year of human life.
he meant, probably, that he rests some affection on her.
the heavy caravan-man  inquired for some book oflight reading, and, having obtained an old  volume of a literary paper, betook himself to the seat of his wagon, to read.
they would be very appropriate dishes for holding  garden-vegetables.
as to the other  vegetables, there is little mischief done,--the potatoes not being yet above  ground, except two or three; and the peas and corn are of a hardier nature.
sometimes the peak is bald, while the forest wraps the  body of the hill, and the baldness gives it an indescribably stern effect.
at evening the effect of things rather  more picturesque; some of the booth-keepers knocking down the temporary  structures, and putting the materials in wagons to carry away; other booths  lighted up, and the lights gleaming through rents in the sail-cloth tops.
march 15th.--i pray that in one year more i may find some  way of escaping from this unblest custom house; for it is a very grievous  thraldom.
he  saw the motion of the jaws, but heard no sound of champing.
august 11th.--this morning, it being cloudy and boding of  rain, the clouds had settled upon the mountains, both on the summits and  ridges, all round the town, so that there seemed to be no way of gaining access  to the rest of the world, unless by climbing above the clouds.
the view which i take of this matter is caused by no want of faith in  mysteries; but from a deep reverence of the soul, and of the mysteries which it  knows within itself, but never transmits to the earthly eye and ear.
and using the  common hair-brushes!
at half past four, i went to mr. thompson's, the artist who has requested  to paint my picture.
[1843] friday, march 31st, 1843.--the first month of spring is  already gone; and still the snow lies deep on hill and valley, and the river is  still frozen from bank to bank, although a late rain has caused pools of  water to stand on the surface of the ice, and the meadows are overflowed into  broad lakes.
among  them were some of the williamstown students, gentlemanly young fellows, with a  brotherly feeling for each other, a freedom about money concerns, a  half-boyish, half-manly character; and my heart warmed to them.
his brother attended him in a very kindly way, but became sick himself  before he reached the end of the voyage.
then there are pear-trees of various kinds, and one or  two quince-trees.
i found a maple-leaf to-day, yellow all over, except its extremest point,  which was bright scarlet.
but the general lived in grand style, and received throngs of  visitors from foreign parts, and was obliged to part with large tracts of his  possessions, till now there is little left but the ruinous mansion and the  ground immediately around it.
august 31st.--a drive to nahant yesterday afternoon.
the footsteps of may can be traced  upon the islands in the harbor, and i have been watching the tints of green  upon them gradually deepening, till now they are almost as beautiful as they  ever can be.
august 5th.--drove with fields and his wife to  stockbridge, being thereto invited by mr. field of stockbridge, in order to  ascend monument mountain.
on his head he wears a cloth cap of a jockey shape; his pantaloons are  turned up an inch or two at bottom, and he wears brogans on his feet.
a stranger, here and there, poring over a newspaper.
the winter will not have been a day less than five  months long; and it would not be unfair to call it seven.
we had been watching a large  ship that was slowly making her way between us and the land towards portsmouth.
it is a blast of rocks.
no possible words that we might adapt to them could realize the  unshaped beauty that they appear to possess.
among the productions of the river's margin, i must not forget the  pickerel-weed, which grows just on the edge of the water, and shoots up a long  stalk crowned with a blue spire, from among large green leaves.
william  threatens to rivet two horseshoes round her neck, for having clambered, with  the other girls and boys, upon a load of hay, whereby the said load lost its  balance and slid off the cart.
strawberries were scattered along the brookside.
she asks william allen to place her "on  top of that horse," whereupon he puts his large brown hands about her  waist, and, swinging her to and fro, lifts her on horseback.
the school-house stood but a  little way from the meeting-house, and near it was the minister's dwelling; and  by and by i had a glimpse of the good man himself, in his suit of black, which  looked in very decent condition at the distance from which i viewed it.
salt is white  and pure,--there is something holy in salt. . . .
mr. ----, however, is probably one of the best and most useful of  his class, because no suspicion of the necessity of his profession, constituted  as it now is, to mankind, and of his own usefulness and success in it, has  hitherto disturbed him; and therefore, he labors with faith and  confidence, as ministers did a hundred years ago.
i never before saw nearly so distinct a cloud-picture, or rather  sculpture; for it came out in alto-rilievo on the body of the cloud.
printed at boston "for thomas hancock, and sold at his shop  in ann st. near the draw bridge, 1726."
an oak-tree, with almost all its brown foliage still rustling on it.
externally the house presents the same appearance as in the doctor's day.
i sat on the withered leaves at the foot of a tree, while  the children played, a little brook being the most fascinating plaything that a  child can have.
questions as to unsettled points of history, and mysteries of nature, to be  asked of a mesmerized person.
friday, june 2d.--last night there came a frost, which  has done great damage to my garden.
we got lost in a fog the morning after leaving owl's head.
it will be a good picture; but i see no assurance, as  yet, of the likeness.
the warmth of  these days has a mistiness, and in many respects resembles the indian summer,  and is not at all provocative of physical exertion.
for it is not pleasant to think that anything which nature has  been at the pains to produce should be thrown away.
you go up among the clouds, and lay hold of these soaring gulls, and repose  with them upon the sustaining atmosphere.
september 25th.--. . .
often the rocks are  broken, square and angular, so as to form a kind of staircase; though, for the  most part, such as would require a giant stride to ascend them.
april 26th.--here is another misty day, muffling the sun.
some pictures that had been partly obliterated by  scrubbing with sand.
there was nothing in the world to do, and so at  two o'clock i came home and lay down, with the "faerie queene"
another subject might be old  cotton mather, venerable in a three-cornered hat and other antique attire,  walking the streets of boston, and lifting up his hands to bless the people,  while they all revile him.
the avenue is strewed with withered  leaves,--the whole crop, apparently, of last year,--some of which are now raked  into heaps; and we intend to make a bonfire of them. . .
he says s. i---- has a great fund of traditions about the family, which  she learned from her mother or grandmother (i forget which), one of them being  a hawthorne.
the oaks are now far advanced in their change of hue;  and, in certain positions relatively to the sun, they light up and gleam with a  most magnificent deep gold, varying according as portions of the foliage are in  shadow or sunlight.
connected with smutty nose, by a stone-wall there is another  little bit of island, called malaga.
he is evidently impressed with the present solitude of our old abbey,  both on his own account and mine, and feels that he may assume a greater degree  of intimacy than would be otherwise allowable.
i wonder  where mr. hosmer got it; perhaps from tantalus, under the eaves of whose palace  it must formerly have stood; for, like his drinking-cup in hades, it has the  property of filling itself forever, and never being full.
their forefathers, certainly, seem to have had  the energy and impetus of a mountain torrent, rather than the torpor of this  listless stream,--as it was proved by the blood with which they stained their  river of peace.
every once in a while he undresses himself and leaps  over-board, plunging down beneath the waves as if the sea were as native  to him as the earth.
the giver of the feast goes out to deliver his invitations.
the trees  that spring from the top of this wall have their roots pressing close to the  rock, so that there is no soil between; they cling powerfully, and grasp the  crag tightly with their knotty fingers.
perhaps, like other gentle and quiet characters, it will be better appreciated  the longer i am acquainted with it.
he was a little lame.
so the schooner vanishes into the mist behind.
i am unwilling  that a power should be exercised on you of which we know neither the origin nor  consequence, and the phenomena of which seem rather calculated to bewilder us  than to teach us any truths about the present or future state of being. . . .
i have had my dreams of splendor; but never expected to  arrive at the dignity of keeping a man-cook.
(though our stout handmaiden really fetches our water.)
tells of the  prices of wines by the cask and pipe.
it might be a child's story.
there are still patches of snow on the hills; also in the woods, especially  on the northern margins.
there have been no violent rains  to carry it off: it has diminished gradually, inch by inch, and day after day;
to think, as the sun goes down, what events have happened in the course of  the day,--events of ordinary occurrence: as, the clocks have struck, the dead  have been buried.
the great white bear seemed in  distress from the heat, moving his head and body in a peculiar, fantastic way,  and eagerly drinking water when given it.
then i pass  down through our orchard to the river-side, and ramble along its margin in  search of flowers.
he would permit no edifice to be erected within a certain distance  of his mansion.
what would a man do, if he were compelled to live always in the sultry  heat of society, and could never bathe himself in cool solitude?
miss asphyxia davis!
they. are imperfect, the township  having been broken up, probably at the time of the revolution.
here you looked at some plant on the bank.
an irishman  sitting angling on the brink with an alder pole and a clothes-line.
she has just gone away, and the last i saw of her was her vivacious  face peeping through the curtain of the cariole, and nodding a gay farewell to  the family, who were shouting their adieus at the door.
september 10th.--here is another beautiful morning, with  the sun dimpling in the early sunshine.
they conversed together in loud voices,  which the air caused to ring still louder, jeering each other, boasting of  their own feats in shaking down the apples.
the marshal of maine, a corpulent, jolly fellow, famed for humor.
the other trees do not yet shed their leaves, though in some of them a  lighter tint of verdure, tending towards yellow, is perceptible.
every individual has a place to fill in the world, and is important, in  some respects, whether he chooses to be so or not.
its width varies from  ten to twenty feet, widest towards the sea; and on the shelves, up and down the  sides, some soil has been here and there accumulated, on which grow grass and  wild-flowers,--such as goldenrod, now in bloom, and raspberry-bushes, the fruit  of which i found ripe,--the whole making large parts of the sides of the chasm  green, its verdure overhanging the strip of sea that dashes and foams into the  hollow.
he attacked me for a  subscription for "building up a destitute church," of which he had  taken an agency, and had collected two or three hundred dollars, but wanted as  many thousands.
the daughter and granddaughters in rich brocades and  yellow satin.
nevertheless, there i was kept a prisoner till it was too late to  fling myself on a gentle wind, and be blown away into the country. . . .
a man of the most open  nature might well have been more reserved to a friend, after twelve years'  separation, than--was to me.
this  driver was a little, dark ragamuffin, apparently of irascible temper, speaking  with great disapprobation of his way-bill not being timed accurately, but so as  to make it appear as if he were longer upon the road than he was.
they are  dreams. . . .
after supper, she walks to the village.
the boat seemed to be bewitched, and turned its head  to every point of the compass except the right one.
it  stands on the site of his former dwelling, which was destroyed by fire.
[salem],  supposed to have been built about 1640, had, say sixty years later, a brick  turret erected, wherein one of the ancestors of the present occupants used to  practise alchemy.
ascended a  mountain with my wife; a beautiful, mellow, autumnal sunshine.
in the hollow of the woods, yesterday afternoon, i lay a long while  watching a squirrel, who was capering about among the trees over my head (oaks  and white-pines, so close together that their branches intermingled).
this island is said to be haunted by a spectre called "old bab."
perhaps it will be quite as well that i find myself  unable to set seriously about literary occupation for the present.
"never better in my  life," said the bishop, "only i have too great a stomach; for i have  eaten that little plate which the sequestrators left me.
those over the hills of the west were the most splendid in purple and gold,  and, there being a haze, it added immensely to their majesty and dusky  magnificence.
s---- is the simple and childlike enjoyment he finds in trifles, and the  joy with which he speaks of going back to his own country, away from the dull  yankees, who here misunderstand and despise him.
i threw sticks into it, and saw  them float suspended on an almost invisible medium.
they are not an  enterprising set of people, never liking to make long voyages.
she was dressed in a dark gown (chintz, i suppose, the  women call it), a good, homely dress, proper enough for the fireside, but a  strange one to appear in at a theatre.
after supper, as the sun was setting, a man passed by the door with a  hand-organ, connected with which was a row of figures, such as dancers,  pirouetting and turning, a lady playing on a piano, soldiers, a negro wench  dancing, and opening and shutting a huge red mouth,--all these keeping time to  the lively or slow tunes of the organ.
that was impressive,--its effect  on a thousand persons,--more so than the thing itself.
in a little more  than a fortnight i shall be free from my bondage,--. . .
running water has not  yet frozen.
the water to-day was not so transparent as sometimes, but had a slight haze  diffused though it, somewhat like that of the atmosphere.
on sunday, i think,  there was a fall of snow, which, however, did not lie on the ground a moment.
along the horizon  there were masses of those deep clouds in which the fancy may see images of all  things that ever existed or were dreamed of.
it is wonderful what a difference  the sunshine makes; it is like varnish, bringing out the hidden veins in a  piece of rich wood.
there  is an influence in the season that makes it almost impossible for me to bring  my mind down to literary employment; perhaps because several months' pretty  constant work has exhausted that species of energy,--perhaps because in spring  it is more natural to labor actively than to think.
i have tried a thousand times, and always without the  slightest self-satisfaction.
several dozen fish were taken in an hour or two, and then we returned  to the shop where we had left our horse and wagon, the pilot very eccentric  behind us.
the face is an object of  curiosity for years or centuries, and by and by a boy is born, whose features  gradually assume the aspect of that portrait.
to represent a man as spending life and the intensest labor in the  accomplishment of some mechanical trifle,--as in making a miniature coach to be  drawn by fleas, or a dinner-service to be put into a cherry-stone.
above, the birch,  poplars, and pines grow on the utmost verge of the cliffs, which jut far over,  so that they are suspended in air; and whenever the sunshine finds its way into  the depths of the chasm, the branches wave across it.
he has  frenchified all our names, calling b----
whatever education he possesses,  he has acquired by his own exertions since the age of twenty-one,--he being now  twenty-four.
he was returning home, after having been  out on a tour two or three weeks, and nearly exhausted his stock.
the head becoming gigantic, a singular effect was produced.
a woman of about thirty came to the door, with rather a confused smile,  and a disorder about the bosom of her dress, as if she had been disturbed while  nursing her child.
this being read and  discussed, together with a few other matters, he took his leave, since  which i have been attending to my journalizing duty; and thus this record is  brought down to the present moment.
sunday evening, going by the jail, the setting sun kindled up the windows  most cheerfully; as if there were a bright, comfortable light within its  darksome stone wall.
last night was the most uncomfortably and unsleepably sultry that we  have experienced since our residence in concord; and to-day it scorches again.
the clouds had broken away towards noon, and let forth a few sunbeams,  and more and more blue sky ventured to appear, till at last it was really  warm and sunny,--indeed, rather too warm in the sheltered hollows, though it is  delightful to be too warm now, after so much stormy chillness.
it is certainly a splendid structure; the material, granite from the  vicinity.
so comes the night; and i look back  upon a day spent in what the world would call idleness, and for which i myself  can suggest no more appropriate epithet, but which, nevertheless, i cannot feel  to have been spent amiss.
he continued to paint in  this rapid way, up to the moment of closing the sitting; when he took the  canvas from the easel, without giving me time to mark what progress he had  made, as he did the last time.
then, as to his private affairs, he spoke of his  marriage, of his wife, his children, and told me, with tears in his eyes, of  the death of a dear little girl, and how it affected him, and how impossible it  had been for him to believe that she was really to die.
it is more in the character of the  rich yellow sunlight than in aught else.
where the trees are dense, the snow still lies under them.
yesterday mr. brazer,  preaching on the comet, observed that not one, probably, of all who heard him,  would witness its reappearance.
the driver stops here for the night,  and, while washing, enters into talk with an old man about the different roads  over the mountain.
august 31st.--j. r. lowell called in the evening.
he found out a backsmith, because his right hand was much larger than  the other.
the man took hearty tugs at a bottle of good  scotch whiskey, and became pretty merry.
i sent a plateful of pears to the room  of each guest now in the hotel, kept a dozen for myself, and gave the balance  to mr. laighton.
there is a talkative and witty seller  of gingerbread holding forth to the people from his cart, making himself quite  a noted character by his readiness of remark and humor, and disposing of all  his wares.
he was quite out of his wits the night  before, and i sat up with him till long past midnight.
trifles to one are matters of life and death to another.
he is a tall, slim young man, six feet two,  dressed in a country-made coat of light blue (taken, as he tells me, in  exchange for dental operations), black pantaloons, and clumsy, cowhide  boots.
their  presence did not shock me any more than if i had merely discovered a squirrel's  nest in a tree.
we  passed an irishwoman with a child in her arms, and a heavy bundle, and  afterwards an irishman with a light bundle, sitting by the highway.
how much depends on these little books!
so i have spent almost all the daylight hours  in the open air.
yesterday, i passed a  group of children in this solitary valley,--two boys, i think, and two girls.
the snow, which, two or  three weeks ago, covered hill and valley, is now diminished to one or two  solitary specks in the visible landscape; though doubtless there are still  heaps of it in the shady places in the woods.
however, he  treats them very hospitably when once within his doors.
they were  very loving; and while the stage stopped, i watched them, quite entranced in  each other, both leaning sideways against the back of the coach, and perusing  their mutual comeliness, and apparently making complimentary observations upon  it to one another.
after breakfast (it being the  sabbath) he drove his two cows and bull past the stoop, raising his staff, and  running after them with strange, uncouth gestures; and the last word i heard  from him was an exhortation: "gentlemen, now all of you take your bibles,  and meditate on divine things,"--this being uttered with raised hands, and  a methodistical tone, intermingled, as was his expression, with something  humorous; so that, to the last, the puzzle was still kept up, whether he was an  enthusiast or a jester.
thus the day wore on with a  sort of heavy, lazy pleasantness; and night set in, still stormy.
bunches of  lead-pencils, steel-pens, pound-cakes of shaving-soap, gilt finger-rings,  bracelets, clasps, and other jewelry, cards of pearl buttons, or steel  ("there is some steel about them, gentlemen, for my brother stole 'em, and  i bore him out in it"), bundles of wooden combs, boxes of matches,  suspenders, and, in short, everything,--dipping his hand down into his wares,  with the promise of a wonderful lot, and producing, perhaps, a bottle of  opodeldoc, and joining it with a lead-pencil,--and when he had sold several  things of the same kind, pretending huge surprise at finding "just one  more," if the lads lingered; saying, "i could not afford to steal  them for the price; for the remorse of conscience would be worth  more,"--all the time keeping an eye upon those who bought, calling for the  pay, making change with silver or bills, and deciding on the goodness of banks;  and saying to the boys, who climbed upon his cart, "fall down, roll down,  tumble down, only get down"; and uttering everything in the queer,  humorous recitative in which he sold his articles.
nevertheless, it is somewhat remarkable that my  hands have, during the past summer, grown very brown and rough, insomuch that  many people persist in believing that i, after all, was the aforesaid spectral  horn-sounder, cow-milker, potato-hoer, and hay-raker.
the washing of dishes  does seem to me the most absurd and unsatisfactory business that i ever  undertook.
southward there is a most extensive view of the valley, in which saddleback and  its companion mountains are crouched,--wide and far,--a broad, misty valley,  fenced in by a mountain wall, and with villages scattered along it, and miles  of forest, which appear but as patches scattered here and there upon the  landscape.
--there are  quantities of decayed branches, which one tempest after another has flung down,  black and rotten.
i sit in my study, with the windows open,  the occasional incident of the visit of some winged creature,--wasp, hornet, or  bee,--entering out of the warm, sunny atmosphere, soaring round the room in  large sweeps, then buzzing against the glass, as not satisfied with the place,  and desirous of getting out.
the evening was but a dull one.
a  passenger left by the stage, hiring an express onward.
visitors being few in the notch, the women and  girls looked from the windows after me; the men nodded and greeted me with a  look of curiosity; and two little girls whom i met, bearing tin pails,  whispered one another and smiled.
our apples, too, have been falling, falling, falling; and  we have picked the fairest of them from the dewy grass, and put them in our  storeroom and elsewhere.
my spirits were at a lower ebb than they ever descend to when i am not  alone; nevertheless, neither was i absolutely sad.
there was a barn, also aged,  but in decent repair; and a ruinous shed, on the corner of which was nailed a  boy's windmill, where it had probably been turning and clattering for years  together, till now it was black with time and weather-stain.
instead of getting me into his power by this delay, he has trusted to my  ignorance and simplicity, and has puthimself in my power.
he seems to avoid the within-doors whenever he can.
it would not be strange to see  phantoms peeping forth from their recesses.
a sentinel is aware of your approach a great way off, and  gives the alarm to his comrades loudly and eagerly,--caw, caw, caw!
moral, that our  welfare depends on ourselves.
it has three windows, two of which are shaded by a large and beautiful  willow-tree, which sweeps against the overhanging eaves.
as yet, however, the air is cool and  refreshing.
eating immensely, and, when satisfied, putting the relics in their trunk, and  rubbing down the table.
in  the basement rooms, the work of the kitchen going forward; in the upper  chambers, here and there a light.
about a year ago he attempted to row out alone from  portsmouth.
oscar had another shot at him afterwards; the shark floundered a little in the  water, but finally got off and disappeared, probably without very serious  damage.
polished, yet natural, frank, open, and straightforward,  yet with a delicate feeling for the sensitiveness of his companions; of  excellent temper and warm heart; well acquainted with the world, with a keen  faculty of observation, which he has had many opportunities of exercising, and  never varying from a code of honor and principle which is really nice and rigid  in its way.
he  liked the business of watching it better by night than by day; because the days  were often hot, but such a mild and beautiful night as the last was just right.
they appear to be of the same formation as the fissures in  the rocks, but, as they extend farther from the sea, they accumulate a little  soil along the irregular sides, and so become green and shagged with bushes,  though with the rock everywhere thrusting itself through.
the bar-keeper had one  of benton's mint-drops for a bosom-brooch!
he invites his departing guests to call again and  bring their friends, desiring to know whether they are pleased; telling that he  had a thousand people on the 4th of july, and that they were all perfectly  satisfied.
in his more serious  intervals, he talks philosophy and deism, and preaches obedience to the law of  reason and morality; which law he says (and i believe him) he has so well  observed, that, notwithstanding his residence in dissolute countries, he has  never yet been sinful.
another character:--a blacksmith of fifty or upwards, a corpulent figure,  big in the paunch and enormous in the rear; yet there is such an appearance of  strength and robustness in his frame, that his corpulence appears very proper  and necessary to him.
then i read, and  re-read, and re-re-read, and quadruply, quintuply, and sextuply reread my  epistle, until i had it all by heart, and then continued to re-read it for the  sake of the penmanship.
the heart reposes on them with  a feeling that few things else can give, because almost all other objects are  abrupt and clearly defined; but a meadow stretches out like a small infinity,  yet with a secure homeliness which we do not find either in an expanse of water  or of air.
at the angles it has small, circular towers; the portal is lofty and  imposing.
happiness has no succession of  events, because it is a part of eternity; and we have been living in eternity  ever since we came to this old manse.
i have a sort of enjoyment in these seven-times-heated furnaces of midsummer,  even though they make me droop like a thirsty plant.
people at work, harvesting, without their coats.
the clouds  throw shadows of varied darkness upon the sea.
thus it will be all day as it was yesterday; and, in the evening,  one window after another will be lighted up in the drawing-rooms.
william  hawthorne, who came over in 1635-36, was a younger brother of the family.
owl's head,--a watering-place, terminating a point of land, six or seven  miles from thomaston.
two or three ladies also looked in.
pleasant to pass along this extensive walk,  watching the surf-wave;--how sometimes it seems to make a feint of breaking,  but dies away ineffectually, merely kissing the strand; then, after many such  abortive efforts, it gathers itself, and forms a high wall, and rolls onward,  heightening and heightening without foam at the summit of the green line, and  at last throws itself fiercely on the beach, with a loud roar, the spray flying  above.
gnomes, or other mischievous little fiends, to be represented as burrowing  in the hollow teeth of some person who has subjected himself to their power.
since dinner  i have been writing the foregoing journal.
i spent the evening at mr. thaxter's, and we  drank a glass of his 1820 scheidam.
october 17th.--some of the oaks are now a deep brown red;  others are changed to a light green, which, at a little distance, especially in  the sunshine, looks like the green of early spring.
to-day the sky is dark and  lowering, and occasionally lets fall a few sullen tears.
in order to put his mind into the highest possible activity, he  shut himself up for several successive days, and used various methods of  excitement.
selfishness is one of the qualities apt to inspire love.
it is an admirable point of  view; but, it being an overcast and misty day, i did not get the full advantage  of it.
there is a  representation of a vessel under sail, cut with a penknife, on the corner of  the house.
monday, october 18th--there has been a succession of days  which were cold and bright in the forenoon, and gray, sullen, and chill towards  night.
i crept into the hole, which is somewhat difficult of access,  long, low, and narrow, and might well enough be a hiding-place.
it gives a rich tinge to all objects, even to those of sombre  hues, yet without changing the hues.
when  the women travel with young children, they carry the baby slung at their backs,  and sleeping quietly.
september 13th.--i spent last evening, as well as part of  the evening before, at mr. thaxter's.
a spendthrift,--in one sense he has his money's worth by the purchase of  large lots of repentance and other dolorous commodities.
seasonably in the forenoon we arrived at pittsfield.
october 13th.--a windy day, with wind north-west, cool,  with a prevalence of dull gray clouds over the sky, but with brief, quick  glimpses of sunshine, the foliage having its autumn hues, monument mountain looks like a headless  sphinx, wrapped in a rich persian shawl.
but though one  could see all its bulgings, round swells, and precipitous abruptnesses, it  looked as much akin to the clouds as to solid earth and rock substance.
it was a beautiful morning, clear as crystal, with an invigorating, but not  disagreeable coolness.
the mother of gordier, chancing to see this trinket, recognized it as  having been bought by her dead son as a present for his mistress.
along the road, in the midst of a  beaten track, i saw mushrooms or toad-stools which had sprung up probably  during the night.
the road is cut zigzag, the mountain being generally as steep as the  roof of a house; yet the stage to greenfield passes over this road two or  three times a week.
he quotes a passage from revelation,  where the creatures under the earth are spoken of as distinct from those of the  sea, and speaks of a saurian fossil that has been found deep in the  subterranean regions.
i should like well to know who they are,--of what condition in life,  and whether reputable as members of the class to which they belong.
at first i supposed that there would be no  inhabitants in such a dilapidated place; but, passing on, i looked back, and  saw a decrepit and infirm old man at the angle of the house, its fit occupant.
an old dame should be seen, flinging water, or  emptying some vials of medicine, on his head from the latticed window of an  old-fashioned house; and all around must be tokens of pestilence and  mourning,--as a coffin borne along,--a woman or children weeping on a doorstep.
one tree is harsh and crabbed, another mild; one is churlish and  illiberal, another exhausts itself with its free-hearted bounties.
i had a purpose, if circumstances would permit, of passing the whole term  of my wife's absence without speaking a word to any human being; but now my  pythagorean vow has been broken, within three or four hours after her departure.
it is said of the eagle, that, in however long a flight, he is never seen  to clap his wings to his sides.
i fished  during the night, and, feeling something on the line, i drew up with great  eagerness and vigor.
a thought comes into my mind: which sort of house excites the most  contemptuous feelings in the beholder,--such a house as mr. ----'s, all  circumstances considered, or the board-built and turf-buttressed hovels of  these wild irish, scattered about as if they had sprung up like mushrooms, in  the dells and gorges, and along the banks of the river?
leach and i took a walk by moonlight  last evening, on the road that leads over the mountain.
the latter are generally
but, partly from a  qualm of conscience, i finally put them all into the water again, and saw them  swim away as if nothing had happened.
the next morning, mrs. p----  herself brought two big loaves of bread, which will last me a week, unless i  have some guests to provide for.
a speckled black and white and  tufted hen of ours does it to most ludicrous perfection; and there is something  laughably womanish in it too.
mr. thaxter had once a man living with him who had seen "old  bab," the ghost.
concord, august 5th.--a
it then assumes a vivacity not its own.
he is the umpire in their disputes, and  their adviser, and they look up to him as a protector and patron-friend.
february 22d.--for the last two or three days there has  been a warm, soaking, southeasterly rain, with a spongy moisture diffused  through the atmosphere.
a  deaf man, with a great fancy for conversation, so that his interlocutor is  compelled to halloo and bawl over the rumbling of the coach, amid which he  hears best.
then he jumped into a chaise which was standing by, whipped up the  horse, and drove off rapidly, as if to give his fury vent in that way.
along the brook,  now the grass and herbage extended close to the water; now a small, sandy  beach.
a respectable  sort of man and his son on their way to niagara,--grocers, i believe, and  calculating how to perform the tour, subtracting as few days as possible from  the shop.
i suppose it is the knowledge that these four grunters are  doomed to die within two or three weeks that gives them a sort of awfulness in  my conception.
however,  yesterday there were showers enough to supply us well with their beneficent  out-pouring.
it is an endless surprise to me how much work there is to be done in  the world; but, thank god, i am able to do my share of it,--and my ability  increases daily.
he seemed as if he might still be a gentleman if he would; but his  manners show a desperate state of mind by their familiarity, recklessness, the  lack of any hedge of reserve about himself, while still he is evidently a man  of the world, accustomed to good society.
the whole thing had something awful and mysterious in it.
the slender curve of the new moon was also visible, brightening  amidst the fading brightness of the sunny part of the sky.
they also grunt  among themselves, without any external cause; but merely to express their  swinish sympathy.
i drove him into the entry and chased him from end to end,  endeavoring to make him fly through one of the open doors.
a virtuous but giddy girl to attempt to play a trick on a man.
there  were b----, j. a. chandler, clerk of the court, a man of middle age or beyond,  two or three stage people, and, near by, a negro, whom they call "the  doctor," a crafty-looking fellow, one of whose occupations is nameless.
i meet a girl in a chintz gown, with a small  shawl on her shoulders, white stockings, and summer morocco shoes,--it looks  observable.
our  household, being composed in great measure of children and young people, is  generally a cheerful one enough, even in gloomy weather.
the clouds would interpose  in such a manner that some objects were shaded from it, while others were  strongly illuminated.
february 11th.--i have been measuring coal all day, on  board of a black little british schooner, in a dismal dock at the north end of  the city.
i enjoyed somewhat more  than mere vegetable happiness. . . .
it  is sad that nature will so sport with us poor mortals, inviting us with sunny  smiles to confide in her; and then, when we are entirely in her power, striking  us to the heart.
may 16th.--in our walks now, the children and i find  blue, white, and golden violets, the former, especially, of great size and  richness.
on friday, a visit to the navy yard at charlestown, in company with the  naval officer of boston, and cilley.
thus you see a rural life is not one of unbroken quiet and serenity.
i think, too, that some varieties are pretty objects, little fairy tables,  centre-tables, standing on one leg.
penobscot bay is full of islands, close to which the steamboat is  continually passing.
when you have climbed  it on one side, and gaze from the summit at the other, you feel as if you had  made a discovery,--the landscape being quite different on the two sides.
the driver was an acquaintance  of the pedlar, and so gave him his drive for nothing, though the pedlar  pretended to wish to force some silver into his hand; and afterwards he got  down to water the horses, while the driver was busied with other matters.
we  wander among the wood-paths, which are very pleasant in the sunshine of the  afternoons, the trees looking rich and warm,--such of them, i mean, as have  retained their russet leaves; and where the leaves are strewn along the paths,  or heaped plentifully in some hollow of the hills, the effect is not without a  charm.
a young man from wisconsin said, "i wish i  had a thousand such fellows in alabama."
i would you could have  beheld the awful sternness of my visage and demeanor in the execution of this  momentous duty.
our southern view at that time, with the  clouds and atmospherical hues, is quite indescribable and unimaginable; and the  various distances of the hills which lie between us and the remote dome of
the wind has been east this afternoon,--perhaps  in the forenoon, too,--and i could not help feeling refreshed, when the gentle  chill of its breath stole over my cheek.
i attended  a child's funeral yesterday afternoon.
he said that, when some indians visited concord  a few years ago, he found that he had acquired, without a teacher, their  precise method of propelling and steering a canoe.
he wished to take a row in the boat, for the last time,  perhaps, before he leaves concord.
no language can give an idea of the beauty and glory of the trees, just at  this moment.
the country swells back from the river in hills and ridges, without  any interval of level ground; and there were frequent woods, filling up the  valleys or crowning the summits.
and, launching themselves sullenly on the air, took flight to some securer  solitude.
imagine the long-dead woodman, and his long-dead wife and  family, and the old man who was a little child when the wood was cut, coming  back from their graves, and trying to make a fire with this mossy fuel.
and anon you  hear a low thunder running along these iron rails; it grows louder; an object  is seen afar off; it approaches rapidly, and comes down upon you like fate,  swift and inevitable.
there are inscriptions to the memory of several of his  family; for he had many children, all of whom are now dead, except one  daughter, a widow of fifty, recently married to hon.
i see no reason to disbelieve that a  part of this monument may have been erected by captain smith, although  subsequent visitors may have added to it.
the young  ladies gathered shells, arranged them, laughed gently, sang, and did other  pretty things in a young-lady-like way.
it is curious to notice his revengeful feeling against the false  ones,--hidden from himself, however, under the guise of religious interest, and  desire that they may be cured of their follies.
it seems to be the impulse of people under misfortune to put on their best  clothes, and attend to the decencies of life.
islands become annexed to the mainland, and other islands emerge  from the flood, and will soon, likewise, be connected with the continent.
there is a high northwest-wind ruffling the lake's surface, and  making it blue, lead-colored, or bright, in stripes or at intervals; but what i  saw was a boiling up of foam, which began at the right bank of the lake, and  passed quite across it; and the mist flew before it, like the cloud out of a  steam-engine.
then, each morning, i watch the swelling of the pods and calculate how  soon they will be ready to yield their treasures.
it was a sort of acknowledgment and  reception of us into the corps of married people,--a sanction by no means  essential to our peace and well-being, but yet agreeable enough to receive.
i suppose, to help his  natural foolishness, he had been drinking.
seventy or eighty springs  have visited this old house; and sixty of them found old dr. ripley here,--not  always old, it is true, but gradually getting wrinkles and gray hairs, and  looking more and more the picture of winter.
he is a thin, middle-aged man, in black, with an intelligent  face, rather sensible than scholar-like.
and this, i suppose, is the reason  that, while nature seems to scatter them so carelessly, they still never shock  the beholder by their contrasts, nor disturb, but only soothe.
cattle-paths, somewhat  firmer than the general surface, traverse the dense shrubbery which has  overgrown the meadow.
at last julian tumbled into the  brook, and was wetted through and through, so that we were obliged to come  home; he squelching along all the way, with his india-rubber shoes full of  water.
spirits forbidden, but probably sold  stealthily.
the utmost that i can hope to do will be to portray some of the  characteristics of the life which i am now living, and of the people with whom  i am brought into contact, for future use. . . .
certainly, he is a fine example of a  generous-principled scholar, anxious to assist the human intellect in its  efforts and researches.
august 7th.--messrs.
behind, the rising ground  intercepts the view.
the man was told  that the black fellow would give him all the information he wanted.
by and by we become mutually  adapted, and the perception is lost.
the landlord was fashionably dressed, with the whitest of  linen, neatly plaited, and as courteous as a lord chamberlain.
i  could draw the sketch myself, if i had but the use of ----'s magic fingers.
the water flows  through it, though the rock afforded standing room, beside the pillars.
in  another egg, as in a coffin, i could discern the quiet, death-like form of the  little bird.
these lilacs appear to  be very aged, and have lost the luxuriant foliage of their prime.
there is a great diversity of hues in garments.
farmers are repairing cider-barrels; and  the wayside brook is made to pour itself into the bunghole of a barrel, in  order to cleanse it for the new cider.
finally, after sitting a  long time staring steadfastly across the room in silence, he arose, and  staggered away as best he might, only showing his very drunken state when he  attempted to walk.
june 18th.--a walk in north salem in the decline of  yesterday afternoon,--beautiful weather, bright, sunny, with a western or  northwestern wind just cool enough, and a slight superfluity of heat.
it is pleasant to have the bees come and  suck honey out of my squash-blossoms, though, when they have laden themselves,  they fly away to some unknown hive, which will give me back nothing in return  for what my garden has given them.
but this morning i am made all over anew, and have no greater remnant  of my cold than will serve as an excuse for doing no work to-day.
not that beauty is not worthy of  immortality.
the lighthouse stands on a ledge of rock, with a gulley between,  and there is a long covered way, triangular in shape, connecting his residence  with it.
there were  several shelves of books on one side of the room, and engravings on the walls.
did you ever  hear anything like that?" cried he.
and the green grass,  strewn with a few withered leaves, looks the more green and beautiful for them.
i find that i have not given a very complete idea of our garden, although  it certainly deserves an ample record in this chronicle, since my labors in it  are the only present labors of my life.
but he  probably needs no fire now.
i  gaze from the open window of my study somewhat disconsolately, and observe  the great willow-tree which shades the house, and which has caught and retained  a whole cataract of rain among its leaves and boughs; and all the fruit-trees,  too, are dripping continually, even in the brief intervals when the clouds give  us a respite.
in the two closets of this chamber were mine hostess's cloak, best bonnet, and  go-to-meeting apparel.
these stood on  low, marshy spots, where a frost has probably touched them already.
i bathed in a pool of the stream that was out of sight, and where its  brawling waters were deep enough to cover me, when i lay at length.
at dinner to-day there was a young frenchman, whom ---- befriended a year  or so ago, when he had not another friend in america, and obtained employment  for him in a large dry-goods establishment.
it passed beneath his veranda, which stands on posts, and  probably filled the valley completely.
duyckinck, matthews, melville, and  melville, junior, called in the forenoon.
it made a strange impression on  me,--the negro was really so human!--and to talk of owning a thousand like him!
he is young and rather comely, but has not a  straightforward look.
never was  there such an active, cheerful, choleric, continually-in-motion fellow as this  little red squirrel, talking to himself, chattering at me, and as sociable in  his own person as if he had half a dozen companions, instead of being alone in  the lonesome wood.
the date assigned to all this about 1690.
vegetation has quite come to a stand, except in a few sheltered  spots.
this curiosity occurs in a wild part of the river's course, and in  a solitude of mountains.
i have always liked to be afloat, but i think i  have never adequately conceived of the enjoyment till now, when i begin to feel  a power over that which supports me.
could i only  have the freedom to be perfectly idle now,--no duty to fulfil, no mental or  physical labor to perform,--i should be as happy as a squash, and much in the  same mode; but the necessity of keeping my brain at work eats into my comfort,  as the squash-bugs do into the heart of the vines.
north adams still.--the village, viewed from the top of a hill to the  westward at sunset, has a peculiarly happy and peaceful look.
the aromatic odor of peat-smoke in the sunny autumnal air is very pleasant.
a smart, plump, crimson-faced gentleman, with a travelling-portmanteau of  peculiar neatness and convenience.
where i bathe, the stream has partially dammed itself up by sweeping together  tree-trunks and slabs and branches, and a thousand things that have come down  its current for years perhaps; so that there is a deep pool, full of eddies and  little whirlpools, which would carry me away, did i not take hold of the stem  of a small tree that lies opportunely transversely across the water.
ever and anon,  hearing steps upon the staircase, he goes to admit a new visitor.
it was necessary to drive the team round and round, in  ascending.
but the hens will be glad  of our superfluity, and so will the pigs, though we have neither hens nor pigs  of our own.
objects seen by a magic-lantern reversed.
a good deal of mud and river slime had accumulated on my soul;  but these bright waters washed them all away.
the oven, in which household bread had been baked for  daily food, and puddings and cake and jolly pumpkin-pies for festivals, opened  its mouth, being deprived of its iron door.
the trees on both sides are so thick,  that the sight and the thoughts are almost immediately lost among confused  stems, branches, and clustering green leaves,--a narrow strip of bright  blue sky above, the sunshine falling lustrously down, and making the pathway of  the brook luminous below.
their eggs may be gathered by  the bushel, and are good to eat.
it was almost dusk--just candle-lighting time--when we visited them.
diseases of the mind and soul,--even more  common than bodily diseases.
before  breakfast, i went out to the barn and began to chop hay for the cattle, and  with such "righteous vehemence," as mr. ripley says, did i labor,  that in the space of ten minutes i broke the machine.
the  forenoon was spent with the pen in my hand, and sometimes i had the glimmering  of an idea, and endeavored to materialize it in words; but on the whole my mind  was idly vagrant, and refused to work to any systematic purpose.
the apparent head of the establishment is a sensible,  thoughtful-looking, large-featured, and homely man, past the middle age, clad  rather shabbily in gray, stooping somewhat, and without any smartness about  him.
what he will do on returning to the world, as his purpose is, i  cannot imagine; but, no doubt, though all their remaining life, both he and she  will look back to this rocky ledge, with its handful of soil, as to a paradise.
the mist rises from the highest of these cataracts, and  forms a pleasant object in the sunshine.
august 19th.--monument
this incident had a curious effect on  me.
an article on fire, on smoke.
it being known precisely how many and what people were on the island,  and that no such little woman was among them, the fact of her being a ghost is  incontestable.
there were enough  of them to form a party, though greatly in the minority; and, a squabble  arising, some of the blacks were knocked down, and otherwise maltreated.
he was the operative of a scientific person in boston, the  director.
there is a sort of gravity about  him.
some are almost always playing about; and if a cow or a pig be  passing, two or three of them scamper forth for an attack.
old major cutts in brown velvet, laced with gold, and a large  wig.
i could not make out whether either  of the men were the father of the child, though i was inclined to set it down  as a family party.
our river  in its present state has quite a noble breadth.
i used to think i could  imagine all passions, all feelings, and states of the heart and mind; but how  little did i know! . . .
"that, sir," said he, "is a  very high hill.
last evening, when i entered, there was one guest somewhat overcome with  liquor, and slumbering with his chair tipped against one of the marble tables.
they were of a slate-color, and might, i  suppose, have been able to shift for themselves.--the other day a little yellow  bird flew into one of the empty rooms, of which there are half a dozen on the  lower floor, and could not find his way out again, flying at the glass of the  windows, instead of at the door, thumping his head against the panes or against  the ceiling.
then goeth she for a pail of water.
but who must be the giver of the  feast, and what his claims to preside?
finally, meeting at the  funeral of a grandchild, the offspring of a son and daughter married without  their consent,--and who, as well as the child, had been the victims of their  hatred,--they might discover that the supposed ground of the quarrel was  altogether a mistake, and then be wofully reconciled.
finally to discover that he had only been dreaming of old  age,--that he was really young, and could live such a life as he had  pictured.
rainy day,--a rainy day.
but in the lake, beneath the aforesaid border  of trees,--the water being not rippled, but its grassy surface somewhat moved  and shaken by the remote agitation of a breeze that was breathing on the outer
and, having been a backslider, he is cursed with a  half-frenzied humor.
he spoke of margaret fuller, who, he  says, has risen perceptibly into a higher state since their last meeting.
"yes," said  orrin s----, "and only one of the times has he to pay anything for it out
september 7th.--a drive to ipswich with b----.
a man who does penance in what  might appear to lookers-on the most glorious and triumphal circumstance of  his life.
part of the way it  was strewn with the dusky, yellow leaves of white-pines,--the cast-off garments  of last year; part of the way with green grass, close-cropped, and very fresh  for the season.
the breadth of back of these fat men is truly a wonder.
i  suspect that she has not yet transferred her affections from her old master to  her new one.
what pleases much in  mons.
a drawbridge to the  house, which was raised every evening, and lowered in the morning, for the  laborers and the family to pass out.
then there was a rainbow, or a large segment of one, so exceedingly brilliant  and of such long endurance that i almost fancied it was stained into the sky,  and would continue there permanently.
one of his pigs, a large one, particularly  troublesome as to running off the road towards every object, and leading the  drove.
it was of a glistening, yellowish brown, with its fins  all spread, and looking very strange and startling, darting out so lifelike  from the black water, throwing itself fully into the bright sunshine, and then  lost to sight and to pursuit.
our old house would lose much were this willow to be cut  down, with its golden crown over the roof in winter, and its heap of summer  verdure.
o. e. s----, a widower of forty or upwards, with a son of twelve and a pair  of infant twins.
meantime, mr. hayward, or somebody else, seems to have given him such a  whipping that he is absolutely stiff, and walks about like a rheumatic old  gentleman.
"nothing," said the boy.
men of cold passions have quick eyes.
monday, october 10th.--a long while, indeed, since my  last date.
yet all to be real, and he to be told so, when too late.
old drinking-glasses, with tall stalks.
the process is, in the first place, to  find out the site of the treasure by the divining-rod.
two persons, by mutual agreement, to make their wills in each other's  favor, then to wait impatiently for one another's death, and both to be  informed of the desired event at the same time.
the tide, being high, had flowed almost into the cold spring, so its small  current hardly issued forth from the basin.
a group of universalists and  no-religionists sat around him, making him their butt, and holding wild  argument with him; and he strangely mingled humor, with his enthusiasm, and  enthusiasm with his humor so that it was almost impossible to tell whether he  were in jest or earnest.
this man was formerly a lawyer in good practice; but, taking to drinking,  was reduced to the lowest state.
she has already made herself  as unlovely in outward aspect as can well be.
we climbed to  the top of the arch, in which the traces of water having eddied are very  perceptible.
i saw  two or three, i think, with flowers.
he owns a mill, and seems to be prosperous in the world.
but this would be a hard subject.
the door of one tomb, a wooden door, opening in the side of a  green mound, surmounted by a marble obelisk, having been shaken from its hinges  by the late explosion of the powder-house, and incompletely repaired, i peeped  in at the crevices, and saw the coffins.
the kiln was perhaps six or eight feet across.
other islands have one house and barn on  them, this sole family being lords and rulers of all the land which the sea  girds.
one of the most sensible men in this village is a plain, tall, elderly  person, who is overseeing the mending of a road,--humorous, intelligent, with  much thought about matters and things; and while at work he has a sort of  dignity in handling the hoe or crowbar, which shows him to be the chief.
the  windows of princes and great noblemen were of crystal; those of studley castle,  holinshed says, of beryl.
i did not observe  her beard; but very likely she may have had one.
islands are seen in summer sunshine and green glory; their rocks also  sunny and their beaches white; while other islands, for no apparent reason, are  in deep shade, and share the gloom of the rest of the world.
there is evil in every human heart, which may remain latent, perhaps,  through the whole of life; but circumstances may rouse it to activity.
one was found among the  bushes the next summer.
we went to the house of the town clerk of gosport (a drunken  fisherman, joe caswell by name), and there found the town records, commencing  in 1732, in a beautiful style of penmanship.
he has not risen to  his present rank in the regular line of the profession; but entered the navy as  a sailing-master, and has all the roughness of that class of officers.
his conversation has much  strong, unlettered sense, imbued with humor, as everybody's talk is in new  england.
the sweet-fern is changed mostly to russet, but still  retains its wild and delightful fragrance when pressed in the hand.
there is a glen between this house and the lake, through which winds a  little brook with pools and tiny waterfalls over the great roots of trees.
one of the party was six feet seven inches high, and all his  herculean dimensions were in proportion; his features, too, were cast in a  mould suitable to his stature.
"nobody," quoth she, "shall drive me  out of this house, till my praties are out of the ground."
i laud my stars,  however, that you will not have your first impressions of (perhaps) our future  home from such a day as this, . . .
the famous characters of history,--to imagine their spirits now extant on  earth, in the guise of various public or private personages.
the disease may be either moral  or physical.
on the whole, i have come to the resolution not to  use more than one dish at each meal.
it seems to be of a kindly and homely nature.
in the course of the  forenoon, the rain abated for a season, and i went out and gathered some corn  and summer-squashes, and picked up the windfalls of apples and pears and  peaches.
i saw a slight remnant of it yesterday  afternoon, but to-day it is quite gone.
the grave was dug on the steep slope of a hill; and the  grave-digger was waiting there, and two or three other shirt-sleeved yeomen,  leaning against the trees.
when the company rose from table,  they all, in my single person, ascended to the study, and employed themselves  in reading the article on oregon in the "democratic review."
a bust has more reality.
dress that i ever saw a woman wear.
saturday, july 8th.--yesterday afternoon, a  stroll with b---- up a large brook, he fishing for trout, and i looking on.
the keeper of the  light-house was formerly a writing-master.
in our own atmosphere there is no fog nor mist.
it was about the height of a man.
he is a sharp, shrewd yankee, with a yankee's license of  honesty.
the moral,--that there  is no place on earth fit for the site of a pleasure-house, because there  is no spot that may not have been saddened by human grief, stained by crime, or  hallowed by death.
your tracks being  all traceable, you may recall the whole mood and occupation of your mind during  your first passage.
august 21st.--eight more chickens hatched.
my business is merely to live and to enjoy; and whatever is  essential to life and enjoyment will come as naturally as the dew from heaven.
the cold, blue  aspects of sheets of water.
after leaving the beach, clambered over crags, all shattered and tossed  about everyhow; in some parts curiously worn and hollowed out, almost into  caverns.
nobody answered for a time, till at last one said, "i don't know whom  you speak to: not to me, i'm sure" (meaning that he did not claim to be a  gentleman).
the sky is overcast, and, about the time the spy and the fanny sailed,  there were a few drops of rain.
i glanced over the stories, and  they seemed painfully cold and dull.
when shall we be able to walk again to the far  hills, and plunge into the deep woods, and gather more cardinals along the  river's margin?
the mosquitoes were very abundant last night, and  they are certainly hardier race than their inland brethren.
it appears to me that men  are more affected by the deaths of their wives than wives by the deaths of  their husbands.
afterwards, in a reply to a question of mine, whether he still  seemed to feel the hand that had been amputated, he answered that he did  always; and, baring the stump, he moved the severed muscles, saying,  "there is the thumb, there the forefinger," and so on.
the best view, i think, is to stand on  the verge of the upper and largest fall, and look down through the whole rapid  descent of the river, as it hurries, foaming, through its rock-worn  path,--the rocks seeming to have been hewn away, as when mortals make a road.
the old lady was a very proud woman, and, as e---- says,  "proud of being proud," and so is s. i----.
s---- , and myself continue to live in the same style as  heretofore.
large trees, almost a wood, principally of pine with the green pasture-glades  intermixed, and cattle feeding.
a fine wind out, which died away towards  evening, and finally became quite calm.
then we talk over the matter, and i tell him the  fates of the principal men,--some banished to new south wales, one hanged,  others in prison, others, conspicuous at first, now almost  forgotten.--apartments of private families in the hotel,--what sort of  domesticity there may be in them; eating in public, with no board of their own.
" a tri-weekly paper, to be called the tertian ague.
she strings the seed-berries of roses together,  making a scarlet necklace of them, which she fastens about her throat.
i passed along, and heard them come chattering behind.
the little waterfalls with which we had impeded it in the  summer and autumn could do no more than form a large ripple, so much greater  was the volume of water.
on the highest point of star island stands the church,--a small, wooden  structure; and, sitting in its shadow, i found a red-baize-shirted fisherman,  who seemed quite willing to converse.
this quality was displayed in his  resistance to the demand of a new patent capstan for the revenue-cutter, which,  however, scott is resolved in such a sailor-like way to get, that he will  probably succeed.
a person to be the death of his beloved in trying to raise her to more than  mortal perfection; yet this should be a comfort to him for having aimed so  highly and holily.
the burial-ground (there are two in  the town) is on the sides and summit of a round hill, which is planted with  cypress and other trees, among which the white marble gravestones show  pleasantly.
he arrived in a wagon, with a  span of handsome gray horses, and ordered dinner.
they  are almost precipitous, clothed in woods, through which the naked rock pushes  itself forth to view.
september 12th.--the night set in sullen and gloomy, and  morning has dawned in pretty much the same way.
he is the quaintest and queerest personage you ever saw,--full of  dry jokes, the humor of which is so incorporated with the strange  twistifications of his physiognomy, that his sayings ought to be written down,  accompanied with illustrations by cruikshank.
to repaint its reverend face would be  a real sacrilege.
pacing the sidewalk in front of this grog-shop of parker's (or sometimes,  on cold and rainy days, taking his station inside), there is generally to be  observed an elderly ragamuffin, in a dingy and battered hat, an old surtout,  and a more than shabby general aspect; a thin face and red nose, a patch over  one eye, and the other half drowned in moisture.
having distinguished himself  there, he had suddenly vanished, and had never been heard of till he was  thus discovered to be identical with a distinguished man in new england.
walking about town, we knocked, for  a whim, at the door of a dark old house, and inquired if miss hannah lord lived  there.
we rattled downward into a warmer  region, beholding as we went the sun shining on portions of the landscape,  miles ahead of us, while we were yet in chillness and gloom.
it is a  marvel whence it derives its loveliness and perfume, sprouting as it does from  the black mud over which the river sleeps, and from which the yellow lily  likewise draws its unclean life and noisome odor.
then  they plodded onward in the rugged and bewildering depths of tieck's tale until  five o'clock, when, with one accord, they went out to split wood.
my chief amusement has been boating up and down the river.
the legion of  devils in the herd of swine,--what a scene it must have been!
the officers generally wear blue jackets, with lace on the shoulders,  white pantaloons, and cloth caps.
merino sheep (which are much raised in berkshire) are good for hardly  anything to eat,--a fair-sized quarter dwindling down to almost nothing in the  process of roasting.
a gush of violets along a wood-path.
the forenoon was spent in scribbling; but at  eleven o'clock my thoughts ceased to flow,--indeed, their current has been  wofully interrupted all along,--so
an old english sea-captain desires to have a fast-sailing ship, to keep a  good table, and to sail between the tropics without making land.
at the tavern were students with  ribbons, pink or blue, fluttering from their buttonholes, these being the  badges of rival societies.
the familiar  ones seem strange by their breadth and volume; their little waterfalls set off  by glaciers on a small scale.
and we had a splendid  breakfast of flapjacks, or slapjacks, and whortleberries, which i gathered on a  neighboring hill, and perch, bream, and pout, which i hooked out of the river  the evening before.
i should  not have discovered the ducks had they not risen and skimmed the surface of the  glassy stream, breaking its dark water with a bright streak, and, sweeping  round, gradually rose high enough to fly away.
there were also the  half-obliterated traces of other graves, without any monuments, in the vicinity  of this one.
but, passing onward, a narrow defile would give  us egress into a scene where new mountains would still appear to bar us.
this claims to be called a haunted  chamber, for thousands upon thousands of visions have appeared to me in it; and  some few of them have become visible to the world.
he supports himself by making soap; and, on  account of the offals used in that business, there is probably rather an evil  odor in his domicile.
the books on the table were  "pre-raphaelitism," a tract on spiritual mediums, etc.
an incident that befell dr. harris, while a junior at college.
i shall work to the better purpose after the beginning of november.
i look out of the window and think, "o  perfect day!
i bathe once, and often twice, a day in our river; but one dip into the  salt sea would be worth more than a whole week's soaking in such a lifeless  tide.
the houstonias seem quite to  overspread some pastures, when viewed from a distance.
sample ears of various kinds of corn hanging over the looking-glass or  in the bars of taverns.
tiger is the bully of the village,  and keeps all the other dogs in awe.
they  merely made a flying call, and took to their boats again,--a disagreeable and  impertinent kind of people.
and yet this was a sort of festal day, as well as a day of business.
shoals of fishes, at a little distance from the shore, discernible by  their fins out of water.
a negro, respectably dressed, and well-mounted on horseback, travelling on  his own hook, calling for oats, and drinking a glass of brandy-and-water at the  bar, like any other christian.
"i've no call to your fence, misser b----."
there is a full-rigged man-of-war,  with, i believe, every spar, rope, and sail, that sometimes makes its  appearance; and, when on a voyage across the pond, it so identically resembles  a great ship, except in size, that it has the effect of a picture.
country graduates,--rough, brown-featured, school-master-looking,  half-bumpkin, half-scholarly figures, in black ill-cut broadcloth,--their  manners quite spoilt by what little of the gentleman there was in them.
she was a woman of violent  passions, and so proud an aristocrat, that, as long as she lived, she would  never enter any house in the town except her own.
columbines, of  a pale red, because they have lacked sun, growing in rough and rocky places on  banks in the copses, precipitating towards the lake.
the second wife, experiencing the same kind of  treatment, ran away from him, and returned to her friends.
a clear, breezy morning, after nearly a week of cloudy and  showery weather.
at  one shop for manufacturing the marble, i saw the disk of a sundial as  large as the top of a hogshead, intended for williams college; also a small  obelisk, and numerous gravestones.
they were  on an excursion which is yearly made from that school in search of minerals.
while standing on the quarter-deck, a great piping at the gangway, and  the second cutter comes alongside, bringing the consul and some other  gentleman to visit the vessel.
at one end of the promenade is a covered veranda, thirty or forty  feet square, so situated that the breeze draws across it from the sea on one  side of the island to the sea on the other, and it is the breeziest and  comfortablest place in the world on a hot day.
but that heaven may be imaged in its bosom.
a person to be writing a tale, and to find that it shapes itself against  his intentions; that the characters act otherwise than he thought; that  unforeseen events occur; and a catastrophe comes which he strives in vain to  avert.
opium has produced many a brighter  vision of heaven, i fancy, and just as susceptible of proof, as these.
i ought to have mentioned among the diverse and incongruous growths of the  picnic party our two spanish boys from manilla,--lucas, with his heavy features  and almost mulatto complexion; and josé, slighter, with rather a  feminine face,--not a gay, girlish one, but grave, reserved, eying you  sometimes with an earnest but secret expression, and causing you to question  what sort of person he is.
there were houses scattered here and there up the mountain-side,  growing poorer as i ascended; the last that i passed was a mean log-hut, rough,  rude, and dilapidated, with the smoke issuing from a chimney of small stones,  plastered with clay; around it a garden of beans, with some attempt at flowers,  and a green creeper running over the side of the cottage.
in the course of a quarter of an hour, he roused himself (a plain, middle-aged  man), and went out with rather an unsteady step, and a hot, red face.
knowing little of men and matters, and  desiring to know more, he was very free in making acquaintance with people, but  could not do it handsomely.
the advance of  man from a savage and animal state may be as well measured by his mode and  morality of dining, as by any other circumstance.
i have had thee portraits taken  before this,--an oil picture, a miniature, and a crayon sketch,--neither of  them satisfactory to those most familiar with my physiognomy.
he is excellent  at a bargain; and if, in the midst of his ghostly exhortation, the talk were  turned on cattle, he eagerly seized the topic and expatiated on it.
for the virtuoso's collection,--the pen with which faust signed away his  salvation, with a drop of blood dried in it.
both are the property of mr. laighton.
imaginary diseases to be cured by impossible remedies,--as a dose of the  grand elixir, in the yolk of a phoenix's egg.
so he sat himself down on the lower step of the stoop, and  began to talk; and, the conversation being turned upon his bare feet by one of  the company, he related the story of his losing his toes by the glancing aside  of an axe, and with what great fortitude he bore it.
but i reflect  that the plymouth pilgrims arrived in the midst of storm, and stepped  ashore upon mountain snow-drifts; and, nevertheless, they prospered, and became  a great people,--and doubtless it will be the same with us.
star island is less than a mile from appledore.
doubtful whether it came from the shore or a vessel.
the pieces of marble that are washed by the water are of a  snow-white, and partially covered with a bright green water-moss, making a  beautiful contrast.
" a newspaper, purporting to be published in a family, and satirizing the  political and general world by advertisements, remarks on domestic  affairs,--advertisement of a lady's lost thimble, etc. l. h----.
the bright yellow and the rich scarlet are no more to be seen.
both, in most joyous sorrow,  hasten to be present at the funeral, meet, and find themselves both hoaxed.
one would think that the atmosphere, continually filled with tobacco-smoke,  might impregnate the water unpleasantly for the scaly people; but then it is  continually flowing away and being renewed.
july 4th.--a very hot, bright, sunny day; town much  thronged; booths on the common, selling gingerbread, sugar-plums, and  confectionery, spruce beer, lemonade.
he generally gets  close to me in these displays of musical and histrionic talent.
thus we lost above a week of delicious autumnal weather,  which should have been spent in the woods or upon the river.
wednesday, august 15th.--i went to commencement at  williams college,--five miles distant.
also, he encouraged me to hope that he might buy  a barrel of our apples.
on this subject his talk is really fierce; but as  to all other matters he is good-natured and good-hearted, fond of joke, and  shaking his jolly sides with frequent laughter.
above this  margin the sand is not wet, and grows less and less damp the farther towards  the bank you keep.
a week after  the father had been informed of this, the child died; and, in the mean while,  his feelings had become so much the more interested in the child, from its  threatened blindness, that it was infinitely harder to give it up.
blessed be god for the sky, too, though the smoke of the city may somewhat  change its aspect,--but still it is better than if each street were covered  over with a roof.
the cows had each given her  milk to support families,--had roamed the pastures, and come home to the  barn-yard, had been looked upon as a sort of member of the domestic circle, and  was known by a name, as brindle or cherry.
he is also on intimate terms with the clouds, and can  tell the portents of storms.
i anticipated a great deal of bore and  botheration; but, through heaven's mercy, he merely spoke a few words, and left  me.
when i first visited it, early in june, it  looked pretty much as it did during the old clergyman's lifetime, showing all  the dust and disarray that might be supposed to have gathered about him in the  course of sixty years of occupancy.
but now, with the burden of  a continual task upon me, i have not freedom of mind to make such observations.
for a child's story,--the voyage of a little boat made of a chip, with a  birch-bark sail, down a river.
i could wish that the east-wind would  blow every day from ten o'clock till five; for there is great refreshment in it  to us poor mortals that toil beneath the sun.
sunday, september 23d.--i have gathered the two last of  our summer-squashes to-day.
wednesday, april 9th.--there was a great rain  yesterday,--wind from the southeast, and the last visible vestige of snow  disappeared.
sometimes it almost seemed as if i were at work in the sky itself, though the  material in which i wrought was the ore from our gold-mine.
the heat of the fire was  powerful, at the distance of several yards from the open door.
distant clumps of trees, now that the variegated foliage adorns them, have  a phantasmagorian, an apparition-like appearance.
mrs. f.  s---- and miss a. s----.
his library is a stately and  beautiful room for a private dwelling, and itself looks large and rich.
mr. emerson comes sometimes, and has been feasted on our  nectar and ambrosia.
thus i make prize of five or six,  which are as many as usually blossom within my reach in a single morning;--some  of them partially worm-eaten or blighted, like virgins with an eating sorrow at  the heart; others as fair and perfect as nature's own idea was, when she first  imagined this lovely flower.
if i had wings, i would gladly fly; yet would prefer to be  wafted along by a breeze, sometimes alighting on a patch of green grass, then  gently whirled away to a still sunnier spot. . . .
there are several of these lime-kilns in this vicinity.
the  comfortless appearance of houses at bleak and bare spots,--you wonder how there  can be any enjoyment in them.
the lady  ursula, an early colonial heroine, was wont to dine at the upper end, while her  servants sat below.
we have eight of our own; and the  number is now increased by a transcendental heifer belonging to miss margaret  fuller.
[1853] concord, march 9, 1853.--finished, this day, the last story of  "tanglewood tales."
free to enjoy  nature,--free to think and feel! . . .
then he sits  still and silent a long while,--then inquires the hour,--then says, "i  should like to go to bed."
the excruciating agonies which nature inflicts on men (who break her laws)  to be represented as the work of human tormentors; as the gout, by screwing the  toes.
a bunch of pickerel, intended for a tavern-keeper farther on, was  carried by the stage-driver.
the people may be as  rough and wild as the fancy can make them; nevertheless, there must be one or  two grave, puritanical figures in the midst.
on the other side of  the boat, the marblehead light-house still threw out its silvery gleam, and the  moon shone brightly too; and its light looked very singularly, mingling with  the growing daylight.
the poor fellow has nobody to sympathize with him but b----, and  thus a singular connection is established between two
the  shadowiness of the clouds overhead made the effect of the sunlight strange,  where it fell.
i remember them, with the sunlight breaking through overshadowing  branches, and they appearing and disappearing confusedly,--perhaps starting out  of the earth; as if the every-day laws of nature were suspended for this  particular occasion.
mr. f---- is in perfect health, and  absolutely in the seventh heaven, and he talks and talks and tails and talks;
occasionally the pop of a champagne cork.
to say the truth, i look  upon it as such a masterpiece in its way, that it seems irreverential to eat  it.
a snake taken into a man's stomach and nourished there from fifteen years  to thirty-five, tormenting him most horribly.
on coming from supper, i found that little puss had established herself in  the study, probably with intent to pass the night here.
there was a good bed, in which i slept tolerably well,  and, rising betimes, ate breakfast, consisting of some of our own fish, and  then started for augusta.
he spoke of the  trials of temper to which pedlars are subjected, but said that it was  necessary to be forbearing, because the same road must be travelled again and  again.
besides the large trees in blossom,  there are little ones, probably of last year's setting out.
the rooms seemed never to have been  painted; at all events, the walls and panels, as well as the huge cross-beams,  had a venerable and most dismal tinge of brown.
"where's the man-mountain of these liliputs?" cried a little boy,  as he looked at a small engraving of the greeks getting into the wooden horse.
[here the supper-bell rang.]
a dreadful secret to be communicated to several people of various  characters,--grave or gay, and they all to become insane, according to their  characters, by the influence of the secret.
round the walls are placed some half a dozen  marble-topped tables, and a centre-table in the midst; most of them strewn with  theatrical and other show-bills; and the large theatre-bills, with their type  of gigantic solidity and blackness, hung against the walls.
when the sunshine falls upon them, they seem to  smile; but it is as if they were heartbroken.
stories to be told of a certain person's appearance in public, of his  having been seen in various situations, and of his making visits in private  circles; but finally, on looking for this person, to come upon his old grave  and mossy tombstone.
he pointed out a rough place in the road, where his stock of essences had  formerly been broken by a jolt of the stage.
smith's monument is about seven feet high, and probably ten or twelve in  diameter at its base.
returned home, and took a lesson in french of mons.
september 7th.--in a wood, a heap or pile of logs and  sticks, that had been cut for firewood, and piled up square, in order to be  carted away to the house when convenience served,--or, rather, to be sledded in  sleighing time.
an old man, on a summer day, sits on a hill-top, or on the observatory of  his house, and sees the sun's light pass from one object to another connected  with the events of his past life,--as the school-house, the place where his  wife lived in her maidenhood,--its setting beams falling on the churchyard.
the  verdure, both of trees and grass, is now in its prime, the leaves elastic, all  life.
the spots where i stood to fish, on my preceding  excursion, were now under water; and the tops of many of the bushes, along the  river's margin, barely emerged from the stream.
besides  these, there were many ladies and others boarding there, for the benefit of the  air, i suppose.
dined aboard the revenue-cutter hamilton.
the sun's disk was  but half above the ocean's verge when i ascended the ship's side.
it does not belong too evidently to man, having  been built so long ago.
it was on this account, probably,  that he labored as a farmer, instead of setting up a shop.
on favorable  slopes and exposures, the earth begins to look green; and almost anywhere, if  one looks closely, one sees the greenness of the grass, or of little herbage,  amidst the brown.
some of the houses are very comfortable two-story dwellings.
in the cabinet of the essex historical society, old portraits.--governor  leverett; a dark mustachioed face, the figure two thirds length, clothed in a  sort of frock-coat, buttoned, and a broad sword-belt girded round the waist,  and fastened with a large steel buckle; the hilt of the sword  steel,--altogether very striking.
i know not exactly how  soon i shall return to the farm.
after  the death of her father and mother, lady ursula came to kittery, bringing  twenty men-servants and several women.
yet he has the signs of having been a handsome man in his  idea, though now such a beastly figure that probably no living thing but his  great dog would touch him without an effort.
if represented, i see not what scene can be beneath  it, save poor mr. oliver, taking the oath.
then  there is a sound of the wind among the trees round the house; and, when that is  silent, the calm, full, distant voice of the river becomes audible.
most of  the people were of a bulky make, with much bone and muscle, and some good store  of fat, as if they had lived on flesh-diet; with mottled faces, too, hard and  red, like those of persons who adhered to the old fashion of spirit-drinking.
i might have written more, if it had seemed worth  while, but i was content to earn only so much gold as might suffice for our  immediate wants, having prospect of official station and emolument which would  do away with the necessity of writing for bread.
the world is so sad and solemn, that things meant in jest are liable, by an  overpowering influence, to become dreadful earnest,--gayly dressed fantasies  turning to ghostly and black-clad images of themselves.
soon  after sunrise it lay, white as snow, over all the grass, and on the tops  of the fences, and in the yard, on the heap of firewood.
my cold has almost entirely departed.
our peas are in such forwardness that i should not wonder if we had some of  them on the table within a week.
there were also gentlemen-farmers, neatly, trimly, and fashionably  dressed, in handsome surtouts, and trousers strapped under their boots.
he has for sale printed histories of the  personages.
saturday, july 1st.--we had our first dish of green peas  (a very small one) yesterday.
the dull  looks of passengers, who have driven all night, scarcely brightened by the  excitement of arriving at a new place.
i saw a race, the other day,  between the ship above mentioned and a pilot-boat, in which the latter came off  conqueror.
his brother tells me that  he was driven almost crazy by the loss of his wife.
he seemed to feel  that this was a more poetical epithet than saddleback, which is a more usual  name for it.
in colonel sparhawk's house there were forty  portraits, most of them in full length.
ellery says he  has seen him coming up the avenue with a calf's whole head in his mouth.
i am not quite so strict as i should be in keeping  him out of the house; but i commiserate him and myself, for are we not both of  us bereaved?
going down below stairs, you come to the  ward-room, a pretty large room, round which are the state-rooms of the  lieutenants, the purser, surgeon, etc.
i am not, nor shall be, the least in his power, whereas he is,  to a certain extent, in mine.
at the  tavern was an old, fat, country major, and another old fellow, laughing and  playing off jokes on each other,--one tying a ribbon upon the other's hat.
in the mean time autumn has been advancing, and is said to be a month  earlier than usual.
there is then a feeling of comfort, and  consequently of heart-warmth, which cannot be experienced in summer.
a type of envy or some other evil  passion.
one day, perchance, i look at my bean-vines, and see only  the green leaves clambering up the poles; again, to-morrow, i give a second  glance, and there are the delicate blossoms; and a third day, on a somewhat  closer observation, i discover the tender young beans, hiding among the  foliage.
i am very well, and not at all weary,  for yesterday's rain gave us a holiday; and, moreover, the labors of the farm  are not so pressing as they have been.
some of them have huge old elms overshadowing the yard.
these falls are the largest in this state, and have a very peculiar character.
be that as it may, he managed his stock  of provisions very thriftily, burying it in the earth, and eating a portion of  it whenever he felt an appetite.
he had come from ohio, and was  returning to his native place, somewhere in new england, stopping occasionally  to earn money to pay his way.
our few remaining days of summer have been latterly grievously darkened  with clouds.
aboard the steamboat several poets and various other authors; a  commodore, ---- colton, a small, dark brown, sickly man, with a good deal of  roughness in his address; mr. waterston, talking poetry and philosophy.
there were many tokens of autumn in this beautiful picture.
so much did she impede my labors  by keeping close to me, that i found it necessary to give her two or three  gentle pats with a shovel; but still she preferred to trust herself to my  tender mercies, rather than venture among the horns of the herd.
the storms, meanwhile, have  tossed up the shingle and paving-stones at each end of the valley, so as to  form a barrier against the passage of any but such mighty waves as that which  thundered through a year or two ago.
he is a man of unmalleable habits, and wears his dress of the  same fashion as that of twenty years ago.
in this crag, or parts of it, now far beyond the reach of the water, it has  worn what are called pot-holes,--being circular hollows in the rock, where for  ages stones have been whirled round and round by the eddies of the water; so  that the interior of the pot is as circular and as smooth as it could have been  made by art.
now, all these hearty old people have passed away, and in  their stead is a solitary pair, whose appetites are more than satisfied with  the windfalls which the trees throw down at their feet.
they do not appear to be active, and it makes  one rather melancholy to look at them.
when the turf that is piled against the  walls of some of them becomes covered with grass, it makes quite a picturesque  object.
october 29th.--on a walk to scott's pond, with ellery  channing, we found a wild strawberry in the woods, not quite ripe, but  beginning to redden.
at the distance of more than two miles, we had a view of white  augusta, with its steeples, and the state-house, at the farther end of the  town.
if they were so white all over, it would  be a splendid show.
the stream which they call north branch, and into  which hudson's brook empties, was much swollen, and tumbled and dashed  and whitened over the rocks, and formed real cascades over the dams, and rushed  fast along the side of the cliffs, which had their feet in it.
little children, also, on their way to school, stopped to  laugh and point at poor little bossie.
in some places,  owing to the same cause perhaps, there is a great hollow place excavated into  the ledge, and forming a harbor, into which the sea flows; and, while there is  foam and fury at the entrance, it is comparatively calm within.
the foliage has still some variety of hue.
grasshoppers, flies, and  flying insects of all sorts are more abundant in these warm autumnal days than  i have seen them at any other time.
there is so  much of the white in him, that he gives the impression of belonging to a  civilized race, which causes the more strange sensation on discovering that he  has a wild lineage.
in the cold, gray atmosphere, such as that of most of our  afternoons now, the landscape lies dark,--brown, and in a much deeper shadow  than if it were clothed in green.
i do not quite  see how he would make such a picture tell its own story;--but
copyright 1868 by sophia hawthorne, copyright 1883 by houghton, mifflin & co. vol.
they are then reburied, with certain  ceremonies, in their own peculiar graves.
the  hills and hollows beyond the cold spring copiously shaded, principally with  oaks of good growth, and some walnut-trees, with the rich sun brightening in  the midst of the open spaces, and mellowing and fading into the shade,--and  single trees, with their cool spot of shade, in the waste of sun: quite a  picture of beauty, gently picturesque.
but the owner of the strip of land was at variance  with the owner of the estate, so he always refused to sell it at any price, but  let it lie there, wild and ragged, in front of and near the mansion-house.
it was an ugly thought that his confidence in human  nature, and nature in general, was to be so ill rewarded as by cutting his  throat, and selling him in quarters.
the sleeves were short, and ragged at the borders, and her shawl, which she  took off on account of the heat, was old and faded,--the shabbiest and dirtiest
certainly, as i beheld it then, it was one  of the loveliest features in a scene of great rural beauty.
we played till i, at least, was quite weary.
percival spoke to me of how his business in the yard absorbed  him, especially the fitting of the columbus, seventy-four, of which ship he  discoursed with great enthusiasm.
this character might be wrought into a strange  portrait of something sad, terrific, and laughable.
in the pulpit there was an hour-glass on a large and  elaborate brass stand.
b---- thrust himself between and parted them; but they afterwards  renewed their fray, and the canadian, i believe, thrashed the yankee  soundly--for which he had to pay twelve dollars.
the present mr. ripley planted it, fifty years ago, or thereabouts.
if our boat were  in good order, i should now set forth on voyages of discovery, and visit nooks  on the borders of the meadows, which by and by will be a mile or two from the  water's edge.
characteristics during the walk--apple-trees with only here and there an  apple on the boughs, among the thinned leaves, the relics of a gathering.
the tide, now coming up, gradually dashed over the fires we had left, and so  the rock again became a desert.
just now it was brown, like the rest of the scenery: look again, and there is  an apparition of green grass.
the grass is still verdant on the hills and  in the valleys; the foliage of the trees is as dense as ever, and as green; the  flowers are abundant along the margin of the river, and in the hedge-rows, and  deep among the woods; the days, too, are as fervid as they were a month ago;  and yet in every breath of wind and in every beam of sunshine there is an  autumnal influence.
the spells of witches have the power of producing meats and viands that  have the appearance of a sumptuous feast, which the devil furnishes: but a  divine providence seldom permits the meat to be good, but it has generally some  bad taste or smell,--mostly wants salt,--and the feast is often without bread.
he is a keen and delicate observer of nature,--a genuine  observer,--which, i suspect, is almost as rare a character as even an original  poet; and nature, in return for his love, seems to adopt him as her especial  child, and shows him secrets which few others are allowed to witness.
his temperament is cool and pure,  and he is greatly delighted with any attentions from the ladies.
july 27th.--left home
but the sunshine, somehow or other,  found its way between the interstices of the clouds, and illuminated some of  the distant objects very vividly.
other bright flowers sometimes impress me as wanting  sentiment; but it is not so with this.
echo is the voice of a reflection in a mirror, a house to be built over a natural spring of inflammable gas, and to be  constantly illuminated therewith.
introduced into the cabin,--a handsome room,  finished with mahogany, comprehending the width of the vessel; a sideboard with  liquors, and above it a looking-glass; behind the cabin, an inner room, in  which is seated a lady, waiting for the captain to come on board; on each side  of this inner cabin, a large and convenient state-room with bed,--the doors  opening into the cabin.
methinks he must have spent a happy life (as happiness  goes among mortals), writing his great three-volumed book for twenty years;  writing it, not for bread, nor with any uneasy desire of fame, but only with a  purpose to achieve something true and enduring.
on our departure, they ranged themselves on the rails of the  fence, and, being dressed in blue, looked not unlike a flock of pigeons.
but it does not escape me so.
i am glad to think that god sees through my  heart, and, if any angel has power to penetrate into it, he is welcome to know  everything that is there.
the first marked frost was seen last saturday morning.
"is that a burden of sunshine on apollo's back?" asked one of the  children,--of the chlamys on our apollo belvedere.
there is no season when such pleasant and sunny spots may be lighted on,  and produce so pleasant an effect on the feelings, as now in october.
hardly anybody, probably, thinks him better than he is, and many think him  worse.
a bat being startled, probably, out of the meeting-house, by the commotion  around, flew blindly about in the sunshine, and alighted on a man's  sleeve.
the smaller birds, --the birds  that build their nests in our trees, and sing for us at morning-red,--i will  not describe.. .
there was the man who put his head into the lion's  mouth, and, i suppose, the man about whom the anacondas twined, talking about  their suppers, and blustering for hot meat, and calling for something to drink,  without anything of the wild dignity of men familiar with the nobility of  nature.
it is an excellent salad at this season, salt,  yet with an herb-like vivacity, and very tender.
somehow the doctor and i seemed to be  theretête-à-tête . . . .
the coffin was placed in the midst  of us, covered with a velvet pall.
voices are heard,  and the shouts and laughter of children, who play about like the sunbeams that  come down through the branches.
then they sent branches of  trees, or the outer shells of walnuts, sailing down the stream, and watched  their passages through the intricacies of the way,--how they were hurried over  in a cascade, hurried dizzily round in a whirlpool, or brought quite to a  stand-still amongst the collected rubbish.
mr. thaxter took it to be a gannet; and, while walking over the island, an owl  started up from among the rocks near us, and flew away, apparently uncertain of  its course.
but my impulse now is to be  idle altogether,--to lie in the sun, or wander about and look at the revival of  nature from her death-like slumber, or to be borne down the current of the  river in my boat.
meantime his great dog, a cleanly looking and not ill-bred dog, being the only  decent attribute appertaining to his master,--a well-natured dog, too, and  receiving civilly any demonstration of courtesy from other people, though  preserving a certain distance of deportment,--this great dog grew weary of his  master's lengthy talk, and expressed his impatience to be gone by thrusting  himself between his legs, rolling over on his back, seizing his ragged  trousers, or playfully taking his maimed, bare foot into his mouth,--using, in  short, the kindly and humorous freedom of a friend, with a wretch to whom all  are free enough, but none other kind.
a doctor, a  stout, tall, round-paunched, red-faced, brutal-looking old fellow, who gets  drunk daily.
i would not read it over for  sixpence.
the house  is very pleasantly situated,--half a mile distant from where the town begins to  be thickly settled, and on a swell of land, with the road running at a distance  of fifty yards, and a grassy tract and a gravel-walk between.
i pointed to a hill at some distance  before us, and asked what it was.
the snake was as much startled as myself, and, in its fright, stood an  instant on its tail, before it recovered presence of mind to glide away.
towards night, took up an  essence-vendor for a short distance.
but it soon becomes bewildered there.
but, climbing a rude, rough, rocky, stumpy, ferny height  yesterday, one or two of them stood and stared at me with great earnestness.
heaps of dry leaves tossed together by the wind, as if for a  couch and lounging-place for the weary traveller, while the sun is warming it  for him.
there is a muggy warmth in  the atmosphere, which takes all the spring and vivacity out of the mind and  body.
in some places your footstep is perfectly implanted, showing  the whole shape, and the square toe, and every nail in the heel of your boot.
the mountains look much larger and more majestic sometimes than at  others,--partly because the mind may be variously disposed, so as to comprehend  them more or less, and partly that an imperceptible (or almost so) haze adds a  great deal to the effect.
just when i was on the point of choking with a huge german word, molly  announced mr. thoreau.
the fat old squire, whom i have mentioned more than once, is an odd figure,  with his bluff, red face,--coarsely red,--set in silver hair,--his clumsy legs,  which he moves in a strange straddle, using, i believe, a broomstick for a  staff.
the world is made brighter and sunnier by flowers of  such a hue.
a little crowd of  people gathered about him on the stoop, peeping over each other's heads with  huge admiration,--fat otis hodge, and the tall stage-driver, and the little  boys all declaring that it was the masterpiece of sights.
it is known by the name of graylock."
scattered over the pasture, which the late rains have kept tolerably  green, there are spots or islands of dusky red,--a deep, substantial hue, very  well fit to be close to the ground,--while the yellow, and light, fantastic  shades of green soar upward to the sky.
sometimes they let it bear them off their feet, and  float lightly on its breaking summit; sometimes they flutter and seem to rest  on the feathery spray.
dinner, chowder, fried fish, corned beef,--claret, afterwards  champagne.
sometimes autumn may be perceived even in the early days of july.
the ship-of-war above mentioned is about three feet from stem to stern, or  possibly a few inches more.
p.s. 3 o'clock.--the beef is done!!!
it  is like the light of mind thrown on an obscure subject.
a person to be in the possession of something as perfect as mortal man has  a right to demand; he tries to make it better, and ruins it entirely.
it overshadows these poor people, and assimilates  them somehow or other to the character of its natural inhabitants.
i asked the old lady for some water, and she gave me, i think,  the most delicious i ever tasted.
let them live as long as they may, and  contort themselves in whatever fashion they please, they are still respectable,  even if they afford us only an apple or two in a season, or none at all.
ordinarily, since i have been here, we  have spent the evening under the piazza, where mr. laighton sits to take the  air.
i fear it is time for me--sod-compelling as i am--to take the field again.
one or two other stems lying  prostrate and partly overgrown with bushes and shrubbery, some of them bearing  a yellow flower,--a color which autumn loves.
he sought for the spot again and again, but could never  find it.
he talks with the female visitors, remarking on ellen jewett's  person and dress to them, he having "spared no expense in dressing her;  and all the ladies say that a dress never set better, and he thinks he never  knew a handsomer female."
these solitary meals are the  dismallest part of my present experience.
there were little fish, also, darting in shoals through the pools  and depths of the brooks, which are now replenished to their brims, and rush  towards the river with a swift, amber-colored current.
afterwards modified the  conclusion, and lengthened it to 201 pages.
the beans have suffered very much,  although, luckily, not more than half that i planted have come up.
after an arduous journey, we arrived safe home in the afternoon of the  second day,--the first time that i ever came home in my life; for i never had a  home before.
a town clerk arranges the publishments that are given in, according to his  own judgment.
remarkable items: the observation of mons.
the mist reaches almost to my window, so dense  as to conceal everything, except that near its hither boundary a few ruddy or  yellow tree-tops appear, glorified by the early sunshine, as is likewise the  whole mist-cloud.
there is a lightness,  however, about their foliage, which greatly relieves what would otherwise be a  gloomy scene.
he has a fine house, at the corner of park and beacon  streets, perhaps the very best position in boston.
we have seen no apparitions  as yet; but we hear strange noises, especially in the kitchen, and last night,  while sitting in the parlor, we heard a thumping and pounding as of somebody at  work in my study.
i am  going to take lessons from him in the pronunciation of french.
he gave good advice to the irishman about the best method of coming easiest  through the affair.
forward of the  wardroom, adjoining it, and on the same level, is the midshipmen's room, on the  larboard side of the vessel, not partitioned off, so as to be shut up.
a young man and girl meet together, each in search of a person to be known  by some particular sign.
if i had been merely  a vegetable,--a hawthorn-bush, for instance,--i must have been happy in such an  air and sunshine; but, having a mind and a soul, . . .
at ---- a nice, comfortable boarding-house tavern, without a bar or any  sort of wines or spirits.
after the visitors were gone, i sat at the gallery window, looking down the  avenue; and soon there appeared an elderly woman,--a homely, decent old matron,  dressed in a dark gown, and with what seemed a manuscript book under her arm.
when  he delivered an article, he exclaimed, "you're the lucky man,"  setting off his wares with the most extravagant eulogies.
but the weather has been generally sunny and pleasant, though often  very cold; and i cannot endure to waste anything so precious as autumnal  sunshine by staying in the house.
what a misty disquisition i have scribbled!
the country boors were continually getting within the barriers, and  venturing too near the cages .
the garden looks well now: the potatoes flourish; the early corn waves in  the wind; the squashes, both for summer and winter use, are more forward, i  suspect, than those of any of my neighbors.
in the  early sunshine of the morning, the atmosphere being very clear, i saw the dome  of taconic with more distinctness than ever before, the snow-patches, and  brown, uncovered soil on its round head, being fully visible.
he walks  with an affected gait, his arms crooked outwards, treading much on his toes.
a solitary butterfly flitting to and  fro, blown slightly on its course by a cool september wind,--the coolness of  which begins to be tempered by a bright, glittering sun.
anciently, when long-buried bodies were found undecayed in the grave, a  species of sanctity was attributed to them.
what a singular mode of  life for a man of education and refinement,--to spend his days in hard and  earnest bodily toil, and then to convey the products of his labor, in a  wheelbarrow, to the public market, and there retail them out,--a peck of  peas or beans, a bunch of turnips, a squash, a dozen ears of green corn!
to be a trustee of the  brook farm estate, and chairman of the committee of finance! . . .
even the  shapes of apple-trees have great individuality, into such strange postures do  they put themselves, and thrust their contorted branches so grotesquely in all
at last we came to where a dam had been built  across the many years ago, and was now gone to ruin, so as to make the spot  look more solitary and wilder than if man had never left vestiges of his toil  there.
he is a rare man,--a perfect original,  yet without any one salient point; a character to be felt and understood, but  almost impossible to describe; for, should you seize upon any characteristic,  it would inevitably be altered and distorted in the process of writing it down.
his picture was to represent the soldier to whom the  garment without a seam had fallen, after taking it home and examining it, and  becoming impressed with a sense of the former wearer's holiness.
an old volume in a large library,--every one to be afraid to unclasp and  open it, because it was said to be a book of magic.
thumb-rings were set with jewels of extraordinary size.
nothing very remarkable among the guests.
they are  circular, built with stones, like a round tower, eighteen or twenty feet high,  having a hillock heaped around in a great portion of their circumference,  so that the marble may be brought and thrown in by cart-loads at the top.
others (like myself) had on the blue stuff frocks which they wear in the  fields, the most comfortable garments that ever were invented.
the old sea-captain, preparatory to sailing, bought a bunch of  cigars (they cost ten cents), and occasionally puffed one.
at first, four brown-speckled eggs,--then two little bare  young ones, which, on the slightest noise, lift their heads, and open wide  mouths for food,--immediately dropping their heads, after a broad gape.
i think i should soon become strongly attached to our way of life, so  independent and untroubled by the forms and restrictions of society.
this dull river has a deep religion of  its own; so, let us trust, has the dullest human soul, though, perhaps,  unconsciously.
it had been cold towards morning, but now grew  warm, and gradually burning hot in the sun.
our indian races having reared no monuments, like the greeks, romans, and  egyptians, when they have disappeared from the earth their history will appear  a fable, and they misty phantoms.
three-pronged steel forks.
entering the kitchen, i observed a  fireplace with rough stone jambs and back, and a marble hearth, cracked, and  otherwise contrasting a roughness of workmanship with the value of the  material.
some parts of  the crag are as much as fifty feet of perpendicular height, down which you look  over a bare and smooth descent, at the base of which is a shaggy margin of  seaweed.
supposing that the power arises from the transfusion of one spirit into  another, it seems to me that the sacredness of an individual is violated by it;  there would be an intruder into the holy of holies, . . .
our fare, thus far, has consisted of  bread, butter, and cheese, crackers, herrings, boiled eggs, coffee, milk, and  claret wine.
while she was doing this, the goddess diana let fly an arrow, and hit  me smartly in the hand.
perhaps we shall see a  storm yet from the eastward; and, having the whole sweep of the broad atlantic  between here and ireland, i do not see why it should not be fully equal to a  storm at sea.
champagne, he says, is drunk of better  quality here than where it grows.--a vendor of patent medicines, doctor jaques,  makes acquaintance with me, and shows me his recommendatory letters in favor of  himself and drugs, signed by a long list of people.
i do  not get intolerably tired any longer, and my thoughts sometimes wander back to  literature, and i have momentary impulses to write stories.
to those remaining in the boat,  we had looked very picturesque around our fires, and on the rock above  them,--our statues being apparently increased to the size of the sons of anak.
the new monument is visible from base to summit.
nevertheless, it  is a miracle.
it was perhaps fifty years--perhaps more--since the woodman had cut and  piled those logs and sticks, intending them for his winter fires.
he was a man between thirty and forty, with a face expressive of other ability,  as well as of humor.
saturday, august 6th.--still a dull day, threatening  rain, yet without energy of character enough to rain outright.
a  week or two ago (september 27 and 28) i went on a pedestrian excursion with mr.  emerson, and was gone two days and one night, it being the first and only night  that i have spent away from home.
on monday afternoon he left us, and mrs. hillard still remains here.
the river was a  brawling stream, shallow and roughened by rocks; now we drove on a plane with  it; now there was a sheer descent down from the roadside upon it, often  unguarded by any kind of fence, except by the trees that contrived to grow on  the headlong interval.
"mather's manduction and ministerium,"--or, "directions for  a candidate" for the ministry,--with the autographs of four successive  clergymen in it, all of them, at one time or another, residents of the old  manse,--daniel bliss, 1734; william emerson, 1770; ezra ripley, 1781; and  samuel ripley, son of the preceding.
in the next box to me were two young women, with an infant, but to which  of them appertaining i could not at first discover.
i like my brethren in affliction very well; and, could you see us sitting  round our table at meal-times, before the great kitchen fire, you would call it  a cheerful sight.
these have slate gravestones.
he was very free to talk with all and sundry.
when it abated, the clouds in all parts of the visible heavens were tinged with  glory from the west; some that hung low being purple and gold, while the higher  ones were gray.
then, methought, the wretched vigwiggie came, and jumped  upon the window-sill, and clung there with her fore paws, mewing dismally for  admittance, which i could not grant her, being there myself only in the spirit.
sometimes part of  an island is illuminated and part dark.
in the evening, the company at the hotel made up two whist parties, at one  of which i sat down,--my partner being an agreeable young lady from portsmouth.
he turned this foolery to philosophy, by observing  that mirth contributed to goodness of heart, and to make us love our  fellow-creatures.
in the afternoon, very  probably, she dresses herself in silks, looking not only pretty, but lady-like,  and strolls round the house, not unconscious that some gentleman may be staring  at her from behind the green blinds.
when he got aboard  the fishing-vessel, he seemed not entirely at his ease, being accustomed to  command and work amongst his own little crew, and now having nothing to  do.
he sat down on the step of our stoop, looking surly, and speaking  to nobody; then got up and walked homeward, with a morose swagger and a slight  unevenness of gait, attended by a fine newfoundland dog.
here the effect of the wide sea
but the moss had accumulated on them, and leaves falling over  them from year to year and decaying, a kind of soil had quite covered them,  although the softened outline of the woodpile was perceptible in the green  mound.
the tavern-keeper in stockbridge, an elderly bachelor,--a dusty,  black-dressed, antiquated figure, with a white neck-cloth setting off a dim,  yellow complex-looking like one of the old wax-figures of ministers in a corner  of the new england museum.
in one of the sunny bits of pasture, walled  irregularly in with oak-shade, i saw a gray mare feeding, and, as i drew near,  a colt sprang up from amid the grass,--a very small colt.
at one of the lower  windows, a woman at work; at one above, a lady hemming a ruff or some such  lady-like thing.
they  were invisible till they hopped.
they trade  to waterville and thereabouts,--names, as "paul pry," on their sails.
[1839] january 4th, 1839.--when scattered clouds are resting on  the bosoms of hills, it seems as if one might climb into the heavenly region,  earth being so intermixed with sky, and gradually transformed into it.
september 19th.--lying by the lake yesterday afternoon,  with my eyes shut, while the waves and sunshine were playing together on the  water, the quick glimmer of the wavelets was perceptible through my closed  eyelids.
how marvellous the tendency is! . . .
merry, "in merry england," does not mean mirthful; but  is corrupted from an old teutonic word signifying famous or renowned.
he then took the  paddle himself, and, though i could observe nothing peculiar in his management  of it, the musketaquid immediately became as docile as a trained steed.
i can neither guide nor enlighten him.
a bushel of  walnuts would cost about ten dollars.
they were very good, but i should hardly have taken the  trouble on my own account.
a pig, in a sty even more extemporary than the  shanties, is grunting and poking his snout through the clefts of his  habitation.
it was a cool, windy day, with heavy clouds  rolling and tumbling about the sky, but still a prevalence of genial autumn  sunshine.
the  crickets sing, and i hear the chirping of birds besides.
this cabin is on a level with the quarter-deck, and is  covered by the poop-deck.
he must have been taken for a pedlar travelling with his pack.
there is something  pleasantly annoying in this superfluous abundance; it is like standing under a  tree of ripe apples, and giving it a shake, with the intention of bringing down  a single one, when, behold, a dozen come thumping about our ears.
mrs. p. ---- continues to be the instrument of  providence, and yesterday sent us a very nice plum-pudding.
he received them with  genial courtesy, made them dine with him aboard the vessel, and sent them back  to their constituents in great love and admiration of him.
in  presence of this goodly company, a man of a depressed, neglected air, a soft,  simple-looking fellow, with an anxious expression, in a laborer's dress,  approached and inquired for mr. barker.
a man with a cradle on his shoulder, having been cradling oats.
a fat man who feels  his flesh as a disease and encumbrance, and on whom it presses so as to make  him melancholy with dread of apoplexy, and who moves heavily under the burden  of himself,--such a man is a doleful and disagreeable object.
a beautiful, warm, sunny afternoon, the  very pleasantest day, probably, that there has been in the whole course of the  year.
i found one cracker in the tureen, and  exulted over it as if it had been so much gold.
its sails were of  curious construction: a long mast, with two sails below, one on each side of  the boat, and a broader one surmounting them.
every day of my life makes me feel more  and more how seldom a fact is accurately stated; how, almost invariably, when a  story has passed through the mind of a third person, it becomes, so far as  regards the impression that it makes in further repetitions, little better than  a falsehood, and this, too, though the narrator be the most truth-seeking  person in existence.
an  island of gravel, long and narrow, in the centre of the river.
b---- making acquaintances and renewing them, and gaining great  credit for liberality and free-heartedness,--two or three boys looking on and  listening to the talk,--the shopkeeper smiling behind his counter, with the  tarnished tin scales beside him,--the inch of candle burning down almost  to extinction.
the  customers are rather riotous, calling loudly and whimsically for what they  want; a young fellow and a girl coming arm in arm; two girls approaching the  booth, and getting into conversation with the folks thereabout.
i have not seen much of the people.
i am convinced that christian's burden consisted of coal; and no  wonder he felt so much relieved, when it fell off and rolled into the  sepulchre.
stopped at rice's, and afterwards walked down to the steamboat wharf to see the  passengers land.
the sheep cut down the former, so that few berries are  produced; the latter gives a pleasant fragrance when pressed in the hand.
people with false hair and other artifices may be supposed to deceive death  himself, so that he does not know when their hour is come.
the moss of those stone walls does really look very old.
in low, marshy spots, on the verge of the  meadows or along the river-side, there is a much more marked autumnal change.
i was glad to hear  it cry at last; but it did not cry with any great rage and vigor, as it should,  but in a stupid kind of way.
and i love to watch the successive development of  each new vegetable, and mark its daily growth, which always affects me with  surprise.
the complexions of people are exceedingly  enriched by it; they look warm, and kindled with a mild fire.
this, if i mistake not, was the size of a  ship-of-the-line in the navy of liliput.
the door opens into  court square, and is denoted, usually, by some choice specimens of dainties  exhibited in the windows, or hanging beside the door-post; as, for instance, a  pair of canvas-back ducks, distinguishable by their delicately mottled  feathers; an admirable cut of raw beefsteak; a ham, ready boiled, and with  curious figures traced in spices on its outward fat; a haif, or perchance the  whole, of a large salmon, when in season; a bunch of partridges, etc., etc.
he was not  exclusively an essence-pedlar, having a large tin box, which had been filled  with dry goods, combs, jewelry, etc., now mostly sold out.
his face is fresh-colored, comfortable, sufficiently vivid in  expression, not at all dimmed by his fleshly exuberance, because the man  possesses vigor enough to carry it off.
at first the  smile was so faint, that i doubted whether it were really a smile or no; but,  on further efforts, it brightened forth very decidedly.
mr. jenkins, an instructor at amherst, speaking of the western mounds,  expressed an opinion that they were of the same nature and origin as some small  circular hills which are of very frequent occurrence here in north adams.
his companions saw  the gigantic horse precisely as he did, only to them it appeared bay instead of  white.
an uneducated countryman, supposing he had a live frog in his stomach,  applied himself to the study of medicine in order to find a cure for this  disease; and he became a profound physician.
looking upward into the  deep glen whence it issues, you see its shady current.
a few days  after the letter came, she went out in a low carriage to visit her work-people,  and was blessing the food for their luncheon, when she fell dead, struck by an  indian tomahawk, as did all the rest save one.
a light-house nine miles from shore  would be a delightful place for a new-married couple to spend their honeymoon,  or their whole first year.
at hartford, the keeper of a temperance hotel reading a hebrew bible in the  bar by means of a lexicon and an english version.
suppose, for instance, in a coach travelling along, that one of the passengers  suddenly should die, and that one of the indications of his death would be this  deportment of the crow.
nevertheless, we made bold to eat some of my fish for  breakfast, and found them very savory; and the rest shall meet with due  entertainment at dinner, together with some shell-beans, green corn, and  cucumbers from our garden; so this day's food comes directly and entirely from  beneficent nature, without the intervention of any third person between her and  us.
he said he thought artists should attempt only  to paint child-christs, human powers being inadequate to the task of painting  such purity and holiness in a manly development.
i strolled slowly through the  pastures, watching my long shadow making grave, fantastic gestures in the sun.
he observed that he was just getting interested in  the work, and i could recognize the feeling that was in him as akin to what i  have experienced myself in the glow of composition.
to make a story of all strange and impossible things,--as the salamander,  the phoenix.
although a hundred and fifty years before, and  though their roots were propagated all over the country, they were still  flourishing in the original garden.
our brook, which in the summer  was no longer a running stream, but stood in pools along its pebbly course, is  now full from one grassy verge to the other, and hurries along with a murmuring  rush.
but the immediate part where  the stream forces its winding passage through the rock is stern, dark, and  mysterious.
a loon, seeking, i suppose, some quieter resting-place than on  the troubled waves, was seen swimming just now in the cove not more than a  hundred yards from the hotel.
but in the one we saw last night a hard-wood fire was burning merrily,  beneath the superincumbent marble,--the kiln being heaped full; and shortly  after we came, the man (a dark, black-bearded figure, in shirtsleeves) opened  the iron door, through the chinks of which the fire was gleaming, and thrust in  huge logs of wood, and stirred the immense coals with a long pole, and showed  us the glowing limestone,--the lower layer of it.
all the sky, too,  and the rich clouds of sunset, were reflected in the peaceful bosom of the  river; and surely, if its bosom can give back such an adequate reflection of  heaven, it cannot be so gross and impure as i described it yesterday.
a stray leaf from the book of fate, picked up in the street.
the stream flows through  the midmost privacy and deepest heart of a wood, which, as if but half  satisfied with its presence, calm, gentle, and unobtrusive as it is, seems to  crowd upon it, and barely to allow it passage; for the trees are rooted on the  very verge of the water, and dip their pendent branches into it.
boston, july 3d, 1839.--i do not mean to imply that i am  unhappy or discontented, for this is not the case.
the intrusion of an outward necessity into labors of the imagination and  intellect is, to me, very painful. . . .
the farm business to-day is to dig potatoes.
it gives strange ideas, to think how  convenient to dr. p----'s family this burial-ground is,--the monuments standing  almost within arm's reach of the side windows of the parlor,--and there being a  little gate from the back yard through which we step forth upon those old  graves aforesaid.
chips, blocks of  wood, slabs, and other scraps of lumber, strewed along the beach; logs drifting  down.
all the sparhawk portraits were covered with black crape,  and the family pew was draped with black.
within the verge of the meadow, mostly near the firm shore of pasture  ground, i found several grapevines, hung with an abundance of large purple  grapes.
this morning there is a sullen sky, with scarcely any breeze.
perhaps, if we could penetrate  nature's secrets, we should find that what we call weeds are more essential to  the well-being of the world than the most precious fruit or grain.
the  squashes, both summer and winter, appear to be almost killed.
four precepts: to break off customs; to shake off spirits ill-disposed; to  meditate on youth; to do nothing against one's genius.
be it  said, with all the rest, that there is a perfect maiden modesty in her  deportment.
meantime there came a shower, which so besprinkled  the grass and shrubbery as to make it rather wet for our after-tea ramble.
if she were larger than she  is, and of less pleasing aspect, i think she might be intolerable; but being so  small, and with a fair skin, and as healthy as a wild-flower, she is really  very agreeable; and to look at her face is like being shone upon by a ray of  the sun.
the  toddy-stick is still busy at these berkshire public-houses.
a ghost seen by moonlight; when the moon was out, it would shine and melt  through the airy substance of the ghost, as through a cloud.
the  crickets begin to sing early in the afternoon, and sometimes a locust may be  heard.
may 16th.--it has been an easterly rain yesterday and  to-day, with occasional lightings up, and then a heavy downfall of the gloom  again.
this is, practically at least, my faith.
i was surprised to observe that some weeds (especially a plant that  stains the fingers with its yellow juice) had lived, and retained their  freshness and sap as perfectly as in summer, through all the frosts and snows  of last winter.
we get up our steam, and  soon enter the harbor, meeting vessels of every rig; and the fog, clearing  away, shows a cloudy sky.
one knew that there must be almost a precipice behind, yet we could not see it.
and so i awake in the morning with a  boyish thoughtlessness as to how the outgoings of the day are to be provided  for, and its incomings rendered certain.
each circumstance of the career of an apparently successful man to be  a penance and torture to him on account of some fundamental error in early life.
he wrote his own memoirs after returning from america.
the bill of fare for the day  was stuck up beside the bar.
i  observed the eager awkwardness with which he accomplishes the recognition, his  carefulness in descending steps, and generally in his locomotion.
sometimes she is  rather vulgar, but even that works well enough into her character, and accords  with it.
a rough-looking, sunburnt, soiled-shirted, odd, middle-aged little man came  to the house a day or two ago, seeking work.
they  wish the governor to order out the militia at once and take possession of  the territory with the strong hand.
left northampton the next morning, between one and two o'clock.
the scenery of concord, as i beheld it from the summit of the hill, has no  very marked characteristics, but has a great deal of quiet beauty, in keeping  with the river.
it is strange to see such a rough and untamed stream as it  looks to be so subdued to the purposes of man, and making cottons and woollens,  sawing boards and marbles, and giving employment to so many men and girls.
sometimes i wanted to wrench it off, and give it a great kick, like a football.
the next day we came back to our old house, which  had been deserted all this time; for our servant had gone with us to boston.
the rush of the streams comes up  the hill somewhat like the sound of a city.
the leaves of the vine are  more decayed than those of the maple.
april 14th, 10 a.m.--. . .
brook farm, september 26th.--a walk this morning along  the needham road.
a stone-wall, when  shrubbery has grown around it, and thrust its roots beneath it, becomes a very  pleasant and meditative object.
it is as if something were being created under my own inspection, and  partly by my own aid.
july 9th.--went with b---- to pay a visit to the shanties  of the irish and canadians.
can the tolling of the old south bell be painted?
pensive autumn is expressed in the glow of every one  of them.
we should have had them some days earlier, but for the loss of  two of the vines, either by a disease of the roots or by those infernal bugs.
there was a schooner about a mile from the shore, at  anchor, laden apparently with lumber.
he leans in a slightly  stooping posture on a stick, forlorn and silent, addressing nobody, but  fixing his one moist eye on you with a certain intentness.
nevertheless, there  is nothing so unseemly and disagreeable in this sort of toil as you could  think.
i suppose adam felt it in paradise; and, of merely and exclusively  earthly enjoyments, there are few purer and more harmless to be experienced.
the two yankees had  brought guns on board, and asked questions about the fishing of the shoals.
there is something in  this sunny autumnal atmosphere that gives a peculiar effect to laughter and  joyous voices,--it makes them infinitely more elastic and gladsome than at  other seasons.
his tomb stands near the house,--a spacious  receptable, an iron door at the end of a turf-covered mound, and surmounted by  an obelisk of marble.
these tricks make  much mirth in the bar-room.
the wakeful voices of children were  heard in a neighboring hollow.
not  understanding the meaning of the supper-bell till asked to supper by word of  mouth.
the sun shone  strongly in among them, and quite kindled them; so that the path was brighter  for their shade than if it had been quite exposed to the sun.
perhaps our stream will be found to have  this property.
he was probably attempting to get  a fly, which was on the pane of glass against which he rapped; and on my first  motion the feathered visitor took wing.
most of them followed a path which led  them away from us; but an old man passed near us, and smiled to see margaret  reclining on the ground, and me sitting by her side.
and here they all were, old and young, gathered from  their thousand homes to brighton fair; whence the great chance was that they  would go to the slaughter-house, and thence be transmitted, in surloins,  joints, and such pieces, to the tables of the boston folk.
it is an irregular circle, somewhat decreasing  towards the top.
his brother  is handsome, and might have quite the aspect of a smart, comely young man, if  well dressed.
it is thus that an aged man may keep his heart warm for new things  and new friends, and often furnish himself anew with ideas; though it would not  be graceful for him to attempt to suit his exterior to the passing fashions of  the day.
when a man asked whether  a bill were good: "no! do you suppose i'd give you good money?"
i betook myself to sawing and splitting  wood; there being an inward unquietness which demanded active exercise, and i  sawed, i think, more briskly than ever before.
other passengers,--three or four slender  williamstown students, a young girl, and a man with one leg and two crutches.
it is now filled, the last being the refugee tory, colonel p----, and  his wife.
the parson, headboroughs, and his five other sons  were to appoint the persons.
my position is so far retired from the river and mill-dam, that, though the  latter is really rather a scene, yet a sort of quiet seems to be diffused over  the whole.
at parting, eliza said to the girl, "what do you think i heard
the owner of such an island must have a peculiar sense of property and  lordship; he must feel more like his own master and his own man than other  people can.
the old birds, by certain signs upon the floor  of the room, appeared to have fallen victims to the appetite of the cat.
he persisting,  she took her stand in the doorway of the hut, and stretched out her fist in a  very amazonian attitude.
he has another inmate, in the person of a queer little frenchman,  who has his breakfast, tea, and lodging here, and finds his dinner elsewhere.
here i have written many tales,--many that have been burned to ashes, many  that doubtless deserved the same fate.
why is it, i wonder, that nature has provided such a  host of enemies for every useful esculent, while the weeds are suffered to grow  unmolested, and are provided with such tenacity of life, and such methods of  propagation, that the gardener must maintain a continual struggle or they will  hopelessly overwhelm him?
they thrust their snouts into the mud, and pick a grain of corn out of  the rubbish.
how she came by it i did not  ask, being content to suppose it was brought by a heavenly messenger.
a pleasant,  mild shade; a strip of sunshine or a spot of glimmering brightness in some  parts.
his bride set off in search of him,--wandered about new england  all her lifetime, and at last, when she was old, she found her bridegroom on  his death-bed.
there  are a good many peach-trees, but all of an old date,--their branches rotten,  gummy, and mossy,--and their fruit, i fear, will be of very inferior quality.
around the island, there is the little ruffle of a breeze; but  where the sail-boats are, a mile or more off, the sea is perfectly calm.
however, i have sent a petition  to mrs. p---- stating my destitute condition, and imploring her succor; and,  till it arrive, i shall keep myself alive on herrings and apples, together  with part of a pint of milk, which i share with leo.
sometimes they  appear on the hills, in close proximity to this village.
he provides his own breakfast and supper, and occasionally his  dinner; though this is oftener, i believe, taken at a hotel, or an  eating-house, or with some of his relatives.
personages at the tavern: the governor, somewhat stared after as he walked  through the bar-room; councillors seated about, sitting on benches near the  bar, or on the stoop along the front of the house; the adjutant-general of the  state; two young blue-noses, from canada or the provinces; a gentleman  "thumbing his hat" for liquor, or perhaps playing off the trick of  the "honest landlord" on some stranger.
nearer the  base of the hill, i could discern the shadows of every tree and rock, imaged  with a distinctness that made them even more charming than the reality;  because, knowing them to be unsubstantial, they assumed the ideality which the  soul always craves in the contemplation of earthly beauty.
i should judge it a good site for the growth of delicate fruit; for, quite  enclosed on all sides by houses, the blighting winds cannot molest the trees.
one man in the  bar-room observed that it must be enchanted; and spoke of a tinker, during the  revolutionary war, who met with a somewhat similar instance.
the waiter tells the captain of the cutter that captain percival  (commander of the navy yard) is sitting on the deck of the anchor hoy (which  lies inside of the cutter), smoking his cigar.
" a person, while awake and in the business of life, to think highly of  another, and place perfect confidence in him, but to be troubled with dreams in  which this seeming friend appears to act the part of a most deadly enemy.
on the sides which receive the direct rays, the effect is  altogether rich; and in other points of view it is equally beautiful, if less  brilliant.
the men tease him, and put quids of tobacco in his mouth, under pretence of  giving him a fig; and he gets enraged, and utters a peculiar, sharp, spiteful  cry, and strikes at them with a stick, to their great mirth.
i have no disposition  to take long walks in such a state of the sky; nor have i any buoyancy of  spirit.
it has been the hottest day that i have  known here, and probably one of the hottest of the season ashore; and the land  is now imperceptible in the haze.
its crew are new hands, and therefore require much instruction  from the cockswain.
they care not for man, and will not adapt  themselves to his notions, as other beasts do; but are true to themselves, and  act out their hoggish nature.
the flowers, even the brightest of them,--the golden-rod and the  gorgeous cardinals,--the most glorious flowers of the year,--have this gentle  sadness amid their pomp.
on the morning of the fourth of july, two printer's apprentice-lads, nearly  grown, dressed in jackets and very tight pantaloons of check, tight as their  skins, so that they looked like harlequins or circus-clowns, yet appeared to  think themselves in perfect propriety, with a very calm and quiet assurance of  the admiration of the town.
at any rate, the disembodied shadow is nearest to the soul.
they looked strangely  pretty, with yet a melancholy prettiness, as they floated along.
did you ever behold such a vile scribble as i write since i became a  farmer?
yesterday i went to the athenæum, and, being received with great  courtesy by mr. folsom, was shown all over the edifice from the very bottom to  the very top, whence i looked out over boston.
pray god she bring me a letter with good news from home; for i begin to  feel as if i had been long enough away.
afterwards in parliament.