we suggest that you read through the directions for both projects and then decide which approach would work best for your particular climate and setting.
when viewed from a location in the northern hemisphere, as in the diagram here,  the sun is at its lowest position in the sky at noon in december and at its  highest position in the sky at noon in june.
during the period from around october to  february, the earth’s orbital speed is much faster than at any other time  of year.
this  invisible path is called ananalemma.
in the other half of the year, as the orbital speed of the earth is slower, similar effects can be observed as well.
then get  started on charting your local analemma.
this increased speed causes the sun to reach its noon position in the sky earlier in january and later in november than the time caused  by the earth’s tilt alone.
the diagram here shows in lighter colors the sun positions due to the tilt alone.
the tilt of the earth is the main cause of these temperature changes.
earth is closest to the sun in january.
putting it all together the combined effects of the tilt and the orbit shape produce the analemma  which in turn, helps us to understand why the earliest sunset is in early  december and the latest sunrise is in early january.
many people are surprised to learn that the change in  distance from the sun is not enough to affect the temperature very much.
this means that at 12:00 in other months the sun will not have yet reached the same noon position in the sky as the june or december sun.
the diagram here shows in lighter colors the sun positions due to the tilt  alone.
this would be true if the earth had no tilt and if its orbit were a perfect circle.
for the southern hemisphere, the opposite is true.
let’s take a look at the sunrise and sunset times for december 21,  the shortest day of the year in the northern hemisphere.
this shift creates the surprising  situation mentioned above.
for locations at least  20° in latitude north or south of the equator, thisvertical movement during the year is quite apparent.
the early morning northern hemisphere analemma (created by observing the position of the sun at the same time early each morning) is tilted to the left, while the late afternoon analemma is tilted to the right.
earth  is closest to the sun in january.
the positions shown in darker colors take into account the effects of  both the tilt and the changing speed due to the shape of the orbit.
the  tilt of the earth is the main cause of these temperature changes.
ask the experts seedstore
the height of the analemma is due  to the tilt of the earth, and its width is due to both the tilt and the  elliptical nature of earth’s orbit.
print this page looking for more information?
at a latitude of about  40° north of the equator (near the mediterranean sea, the central part of  the united states, or the yellow sea, for example), sunrise would be about  7:40 a.m., with sunset at about 4:55 p.m. (16:55 military time).this gives a  total daylight time of 9 hours and 15 minutes for this latitude.
this invisible path is called ananalemma.
as we know, this is  not the case.
in the other half of the year, as the orbital  speed of the earth is slower, similar effects can be observed as well.
the day with the latest  sunrise, around 7:43 a.m., is january 4, and the earliest sunset takes place on  december 7 at around 4:52 p.m. (16:52 military time).
instead of a camera, you can use either  reflected light or ordinary shadows.
at the top of the photograph are shown the positions of the sun in the sky  in june and july, while the positions in december and january are shown at the  bottom.
instead of a camera, you can use either reflected light or ordinary shadows.
if you live in a region that does not a lot of snow or rain during the year, you may wish to work outdoors instead.
let’s take a look at the sunrise and sunset times for december 21, the shortest day of the year in the northern hemisphere.
when viewed from a location in the northern hemisphere, as in the diagram here, the sun is at its lowest position in the sky at noon in december and at its highest position in the sky at noon in june.
in the actual sky, the  horizontal distances are not this great; however, they are easily noticeable.
© copyright anthony ayiomamitis it is easier to understand the effect of the tilt and slightly elliptical orbit when we look at it graphically.
let’s look at the tilt of the axis and the shape of the  orbit in a bit more detail.
for more  information, seewindows to the universe web site.
in the course of a year, the apparent location of the sun—viewed from the same location at the same time each day—traces out a path shaped like a figure eight in the sky.
in the how long is the day activity, we focused on how the length of the daylight hours is different for different places on earth.
you might think that this short day would be caused by the latest sunrise and the earliest sunset; however, that is not the case!
this would be true if the  earth had no tilt and if its orbit were a perfect circle.
© copyright anthony ayiomamitis it is easier to understand the effect of the tilt and slightly elliptical  orbit when we look at it graphically.
for example, between  december and march and between june and september in the northern hemisphere,  the sun reaches the noon position in the sky a few minutesbefore local  noon.
we also looked at how the times of sunrise and sunset change throughout the year.
over the course of a year, he took a photograph of the sun about once a week from exactly the same place and at the same time of day (in this case, 12:18), with his camera fixed in the same position.
this shift creates the surprising situation mentioned above.
you might think that the sun would appear at the same place in the sky at the same time each day.
how would you describe its shape?
as we know, this is not the case.
the combined effects of the tilt and the orbit shape produce the analemma which in turn, helps us to understand why the earliest sunset is in early december and the latest sunrise is in early january.
it’s not difficult to do.
if you could mark the position of the sun in the sky each day at the same time, what would be the result?
two factors produce this curious situation.
this apparent movement is caused by the rotation of the earth.
can you trace out the general path of the sun in the diagram here through the course of a year?
for locations at least 20° in latitude north or south of the equator, thisvertical movement during the year is quite apparent.
if he had taken the photographs at an earlier time in the day, the analemma would have been tilted to the left.
you can see the shape of the analemma in this famous photograph taken by anthony ayiomamitis, an amateur astronomer in athens, greece.
the tilt of the earth causes the sun to reach its noon position (its  highest position in the sky on a given day) a little before or a little after  12:00 noon local time on all but a few days of the year.
the tilt of the earth changes how high the sun appears to be in the sky throughout the year, as seen from a specific place on the surface of the earth.
we also looked at  how the times of sunrise and sunset change throughout the year.
in the how long is the day activity, we focused on how the length of the  daylight hours is different for different places on earth.
you might think that the sun would appear at  the same place in the sky at the same time each day.
if he had taken the photographs at an earlier time  in the day, the analemma would have been tilted to the left.
we suggest that you read through the directions for  both projects and then decide which approach would work best for your  particular climate and setting.
in this diagram and the one below, the horizontal distances are exaggerated so that you can see the highlighted effects clearly.
the other is the fact that the earth’s  orbit around the sun is not quite circular.
at the top of the photograph are shown the positions of the sun in the sky in june and july, while the positions in december and january are shown at the bottom.
the  diagram here shows this movement as seen from a location in the northern  hemisphere.
at a latitude of about 40° north of the equator (near the mediterranean sea, the central part of the united states, or the yellow sea, for example), sunrise would be about 7:40 a.m., with sunset at about 4:55 p.m. (16:55 military time).this gives a total daylight time of 9 hours and 15 minutes for this latitude.
first, let’s look at the path of the sun across the sky on a typical day.
one is the tilt of the  earth’s axis of rotation.
the diagram here shows this movement as seen from a location in the northern hemisphere.
the positions shown in darker colors take into account the effects of both the tilt and the changing speed due to the shape of the orbit.
during the period from around october to february, the earth’s orbital speed is much faster than at any other time of year.
these sun  positions at 12:00 are shown in the diagram below.
the orbit of the earth is nearly circular, but it is elliptical (oval) just enough to cause the orbital speed of the earth to change throughout the year.
if you live in the northern hemisphere, you might be curious about why  outside temperatures are colder in december and january when the earth is  closest to the sun.
the orbit of the earth is nearly circular, but it is elliptical (oval) just enough to cause the orbital speed of the earth to change throughout  the year.
instead, it is slightly elliptical, or oval.
let’s look at the tilt of the axis and the shape of the orbit in a bit more detail.
for example, between december and march and between june and september in the northern hemisphere, the sun reaches the noon position in the sky a few minutesbefore local noon.
in the actual sky, the horizontal distances are not this great; however, they are easily noticeable.
this increased speed causes the sun to reach its noon position in the sky earlier in january and later in november than the time caused by the earth’s tilt alone.
if you could mark the position of the sun in the sky each day at the same  time, what would be the result?
at the noon  position, the sun is at its highest point in the sky for any given day.
if you live in a  region that does not a lot of snow or rain during the year, you may wish  to work outdoors instead.
many people are surprised to learn that the change in distance from the sun is not enough to affect the temperature very much.
since this is a yearlong project, you may find it easier to work indoors, depending on your climate.
then get started on charting your local analemma.
at the noon position, the sun is at its highest point in the sky for any given day.
one is the tilt of the earth’s axis of rotation.
in this diagram and the one below, the horizontal distances are exaggerated  so that you can see the highlighted effects clearly.
in the course of a year, the apparent  location of the sun—viewed from the same location at the same time each  day—traces out a path shaped like a figure eight in the sky.
this means that at 12:00 in other months the sun will not have yet reached  the same noon position in the sky as the june or december sun.
the other is the fact that the earth’s orbit around the sun is not quite circular.
the tilt of the earth causes the sun to reach its noon position (its highest position in the sky on a given day) a little before or a little after 12:00 noon local time on all but a few days of the year.
this changing speed affects the position of the sun in the sky.
these sun positions at 12:00 are shown in the diagram below.
similarly, between march and june and between september and december, the sun reaches its highest point in the skyafter local noon.
two factors produce this curious situation.
the early morning northern  hemisphere analemma (created by observing the position of the sun at the same  time early each morning) is tilted to the left, while the late afternoon  analemma is tilted to the right.
since this is a yearlong project, you may  find it easier to work indoors, depending on your climate.
over the course  of a year, he took a photograph of the sun about once a week from exactly the  same place and at the same time of day (in this case, 12:18), with his camera  fixed in the same position.
similarly, between march and  june and between september and december, the sun reaches its highest point in  the skyafter local noon.
the height of the analemma is due to the tilt of the earth, and its width is due to both the tilt and the elliptical nature of earth’s orbit.
the day with the latest sunrise, around 7:43 a.m., is january 4, and the earliest sunset takes place on december 7 at around 4:52 p.m. (16:52 military time).
together, these two things produce a shift in the  apparent path of the sun throughout the year.
the tilt of the earth changes how high the sun appears to be in the sky  throughout the year, as seen from a specific place on the surface of the earth.
can you trace out the general path of the sun in the diagram here through the  course of a year?
you might think that this short day would be caused by the latest sunrise  and the earliest sunset; however, that is not the case!
first,  let’s look at the path of the sun across the sky on a typical day.
laboratory experiment: what is the path of the sun?
the tilt of the earth also has an effect on the sun’s horizontal position during the year as seen at the same time each day.
if you live in the northern hemisphere, you might be curious about why outside temperatures are colder in december and january when the earth is closest to the sun.
you can see the shape of the analemma in this famous photograph taken by  anthony ayiomamitis, an amateur astronomer in athens, greece.
are you ready to find out what the analemma looks like where you live?
together, these two things produce a shift in the apparent path of the sun throughout the year.
review the indoor project and outdoor project instructions.
for more information, seewindows to the universe web site.