although there is always a chance it could  become serious, basal cell cancer usually does not spread.
malignant melanoma malignant melanoma, although rarer, is the most serious of the skin cancers.
if exposure to sunlight continues for several years, the damaged skin has an increased chance of developing one of the forms of skin cancer.
the remaining radiation is scattered into the tissues  just beneath the skin's surface.
on the other  hand, ultraviolet radiation itself can act as a promoter.
they eventually grow into larger wounds with crusts.
manufacturers label sunscreens with a sun protection factor (spf).
the blemishes  develop into rough, scaly patches with small areas of open wound that do not  heal.
(check with your physician or pharmacist is you suspect abnormal or  severe reaction to sun exposure after taking new medication.)
ultraviolet radiation causes tanning in two different ways: by immediate  tanning and by delayed tanning.
the danger signs include any wound, sore, or patch of skin that won't heal or constantly scales.
set up shade structures when shade is not available.
http://www.who.int/uv/publications/en/globaluvi.pdf all outdoor workers potentially exposed to the sun's ultraviolet radiation are at risk, including: skin cancer is the result of decades of exposure to the sun.
sunscreens should be used in addition to, not instead of, working in shade and wearing suitable clothing, hats, and sunglasses.
most cases are easily treated and cured.
what types of skin cancer are linked to sunlight exposure?
all outdoor workers potentially exposed to the sun's ultraviolet radiation  are at risk, including: agricultural workers
exposure  to chemicals exposure to certain chemicals can increase the skin's sensitivity to  ultraviolet light through a process called photosensitization.
skin may require extra protection against these indirect, reflected rays.
this darkening begins during the period of exposure, but fades within a few hours or days.
also wear wrap-around sunglasses that absorb uva and uvb radiation.
in particular,  ultraviolet radiation (uvr) can increase the cancer-causing ability of  chemicals from coal tar and pitch.
table 1 types of ultraviolet radiation and their features ultraviolet radiation type general  features ultraviolet a radiation (uva, long-wave uv) -not
table 3 uv index description sun protection actions 0 - 2 low minimal sun protection required for normal activity wear sunglasses on bright days.
these changes may  take many years of exposure but when they occur, the damage is irreversible.
osh answers > diseases, disorders & injuries there is convincing evidence that sunlight causes skin cancer.
there are three basic types of ultraviolet radiation: table 1 summarizes the general features of each type.
reducing exposure workers should avoid unnecessary exposure to the sun, especially to the intense midday rays between 11:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. during the summer.
filtered out in the atmosphere -passes through glass -once considered harmless but now believed harmful over the long  term -levels remain relatively constant throughout the day ultraviolet b radiation (uvb, sunburn radiation) -some filtered out in the  atmosphere by the ozone layer -does not pass through glass -causes  sunburn, tanning, wrinkling, aging of the skin and skin cancer -highest
other people, especially those with  dark skin, never burn.
unprotected skin will be damaged and can burn in  minutes.
while the exact relationship is  not 100% defined, it appears that intermittent (occasional) exposure and  exposure during childhood and adolescence are likely important predictors for  basal cell carcinoma, and cutaneous malignant melanoma.
however, ultraviolet (uv) radiation can  cause harmful effects to the skin.
however, simple skin contact with psoralens, which are found in figs, parsnips, citrus plants, or mouldy celery, can make the skin more susceptible to sunburns in some individuals.
people with genetic diseases that make them more sensitive to sunlight  have a greater chance of developing skin cancer.
examples of such  chemicals include: coal tar pitch and petroleum products containing polycyclic aromatic  hydrocarbons (pahs) certain printing chemicals used in photosensitive printing processes certain drugs and antibiotics such as tetracyclines, sulfonamides,  thiazide diuretics, chlorpromazine, oral contraceptives chemicals called psoralens found naturally in certain plants, fruits and  vegetables antibiotics must be taken internally before the skin becomes sensitive to  sunlight.
products such as baby oil, cocoa butter, or skin oils that do not have protective chemicals, do not protect against sunburn, skin aging, or skin cancer.
four main factors influence the risk of skin cancer: skin pigment and ability to tan heredity amount of exposure to sunlight skin pigment and ability to tan ultraviolet radiation from sunlight affects everybody's skin to some  extent, but the skin's response varies widely from person to person.
in contrast, the relationship between squamous cell carcinoma and solar uvr  appears to be quite different.
this type of cancer  can be removed with a good chance of total cure, if caught in time.
in general, the risk of developing skin cancer increases with the amount of time spent under the sun and the intensity of radiation.
you may be interested in these related products and services from ccohs:
with delayed tanning, the skin increases its production  and distribution of dark pigment.
brief intense exposure can cause severe sunburn in people who are not accustomed to strong sunlight.
the risk however, may be reduced through awareness of the problem, and by  taking measures to prevent exposure to sunlight.
intensity at noontime (uvc, short-wave uv)  -filtered out in the atmosphere by the ozone layer before reaching earth -major artificial sources are germicidal lamps -burns the skin and causes  skin cancer how does sunlight affect the skin?
the types of radiation include visible light, which gives us the colours we see infrared radiation which gives us the warmth we feel ultraviolet (uv) radiation except in extreme situations, neither visible light nor infrared radiation  from sunlight causes health problems.
the blemishes develop into rough, scaly patches with small areas of open wound that do not heal.
what is the uv index?
using protective sunscreens workers should liberally apply protective sunscreen on exposed skin 20 minutes before working in the sun, then reapply it during the periods they spend under the sun, as directed by the manufacturer's instructions (usually every two hours).
experimental studies show that chemicals called "promoters" can  increase the cancer-causing ability of ultraviolet radiation.
immediate tanning causes the skin to darken in  response to uva.
most sunscreens are colourless, invisible, and cosmetically acceptable provided they do not stain clothing or produce adverse skin reactions.
recent studies have focused on the effects of intermittent (short-term, occasional) sun exposure in comparison to chronic (long-term) exposure.
it is most  dangerous if it occurs on mucous membranes such as on the lip.
the amount of tanning increases according to the  skin's natural darkness and previous amount of tanning.
it often shows itself as a mole or pigment spot that begins to bleed,  grow, or change its colour, shape or texture.
it also usually develops in areas where the skin has been  damaged by the sun - areas with blemishes or sun freckles.
exposure to  ultraviolet radiation increases the risk of developing these cancers (although  it may not be the only cause of the disease).
sunscreens should be applied 20 minutes before going outdoors, and reapplied every two hours, or more often if perspiring.
the pattern for cutaneous melanoma is similar to that for  basal cell carcinoma.
frequent and/or intense sunburn in children with fair skin and freckles  has been linked to malignant melanoma later in life.
the following facts also link sunlight exposure to skin cancer: three different types of skin cancer are linked to sunlight exposure: basal cell cancer basal cell cancer is the most common of all cancers in north america and europe.
a sunscreen's effectiveness also depends upon its ability to withstand heat, humidity and sweat.
what factors affect a person's risk?
however, ultraviolet (uv) radiation can cause harmful effects to the skin.
patches of skin become thin and less  elastic, and develop blemishes, sun freckles, and wrinkles.
for reasons not completely understood, people with celtic heritage (irish,  scottish or northern european) have increased risk of skin cancer from the sun.
ultraviolet radiation absorbed by living cells damages sensitive substances  that influence the skin's normal growth and appearance.
studies show that ultraviolet radiation similar to sunlight causes skin  cancer in animals.
it is an inflammation caused by an increase in blood-flow beneath the skin.
the human health effects and precautions relating to the uv index are summarized in the following table.
it is an inflammation caused by an increase in blood-flow beneath  the skin.
a fraction of this radiation is absorbed by the skin's living cells.
workplaces can also rotate workers between site locations to help reduce uv exposure.
they all contain chemical ingredients that weaken (but do not eliminate) the effects of ultraviolet radiation.
brief intense exposure can cause severe sunburn in people who are not  accustomed to strong sunlight.
exposure to chemicals exposure to certain chemicals can increase the skin's sensitivity to ultraviolet light through a process called photosensitization.
also examine for any growing lump, particularly if brown or bluish in colour.
skin cancer  can be treated and cured without serious consequences.
it  appears that the type of exposure may influence the type of cancer that  develops.
when ultraviolet radiation reaches the skin, some radiation is reflected  away from the surface.
damage can result in: sunburn increased rate of aging of the skin skin cancer sunburn sunburn is the most familiar and immediate effect of ultraviolet radiation  on the skin.
what types of skin cancer are linked to  sunlight exposure?
examining skin regularly people who work under the sun should examine their skin regularly for any unusual changes.
skin cancer can be treated and cured without serious consequences.
* spf 15 sunscreen may absorb more than 92 percent of uvb radiation.
for squamous cell tumours, high levels of chronic occupational sunlight exposure, especially in the 10 years prior to diagnosis, results in an elevated risk for this cancer in the highest exposure group.
it is important to try a variety of different types of sunscreen to find out which one best suits a particular skin type and activity.
the level of protection depends greatly on how the sunscreen is applied.
use a broad spectrum lip balm with an spf of 30 or higher as well.
however, simple  skin contact with psoralens, which are found in figs, parsnips, citrus plants,  or mouldy celery, can make the skin more susceptible to sunburns in some  individuals.
childhood sun  exposure may also play an important part in the development of these cancers  later in adult life.
in canada the uv index is categorized into low (2 or less), moderate (between 3 and 5), high (between 6 and 7), very high (between 8 and 10) and extreme (greater than 11).
if treatment is delayed, it  is often fatal.
some people burn easily after the first hour of sun exposure following  winter or any period away from the sun.
skin cancer if exposure to sunlight continues for several years, the damaged skin has  an increased chance of developing one of the forms of skin cancer.
however, in some cases  the condition can be life-threatening if not diagnosed in time.
the following facts also link sunlight exposure to skin cancer: most skin cancer occurs in areas of skin most heavily exposed to sunlight  (ears, forehead, arms, etc).
delayed tanning occurs two to three days after exposure to either uva or uvb.
the exact nature of the relationship between malignant  melanoma and sun light is not completely clear.
genetic diseases that affect the skin can also increase the risk.
the skin also becomes thicker.
the pattern for cutaneous melanoma is similar to that for basal cell carcinoma.
it is important to get medical care for anything that looks suspicious rather than wait until the problem becomes untreatable.
however, the uv index can  reach 14 or more in the tropics and southern u.s. take full precautions.
malignant melanoma malignant melanoma, although rarer, is the most serious of the skin  cancers.
wearing protective clothing and sunglasses the use of wide brim hats and clothes made from close-knit fabric can protect the skin and scalp from ultraviolet radiation.
this type of skin cancer appears as a  raised, hard, red or red-grey, pearly wound often found on the forehead,  eyelids, cheeks, nose, and lips.
squamous cell cancer squamous cell cancer occurs most frequently on the skin exposed to sunlight  over long periods of time.
the condition can be very painful and sometimes  causes peeling of the skin.
it can go to the mid-teens at midday in the tropics.
some sunscreens contain only one of these protective chemicals while others may have two or more for greater reliability.
it usually spreads if not treated in the early stage.
how can i reduce the risk of skin cancer from sunlight?
the amount of tanning increases according to the skin's natural darkness and previous amount of tanning.
the condition can be very painful and sometimes causes peeling of the skin.
there is evidence that this type of exposure, as  well as long-term exposures, might be linked to serious forms of skin cancer  later in life.
other people, especially those with dark skin, never burn.
immediate tanning causes the skin to darken in response to uva.
these changes can follow sunburning or develop gradually over a long period of repeated brief exposures to sunlight.
examples of such chemicals include: antibiotics must be taken internally before the skin becomes sensitive to sunlight.
* spf 40 sunscreen may absorb 97.5 percent of uvb radiation.
however, brief intense exposure  (intermittent exposure) to strong sunlight appears to increase the risk of  malignant melanoma in people who are not used to strong sunlight.
are there  different types of radiation in sunlight?
the intensity of radiation varies according to the season of the year, time of day, geographic location (latitude), elevation above sea level, reflection from surfaces (e.g., white sand or concrete, water, snow), stratospheric ozone, clouds, and air pollution.
it is important to be aware of the risks and take precautions while under the sun from as early in life as possible.
for example, a white cotton t-shirt may have an spf of 7 while a long-sleaved denim shirt has an estimated spf of 1700.
skin cancer is an occupational concern for people who work under the sun.
patches of skin become thin and less elastic, and develop blemishes, sun freckles, and wrinkles.
frequent and/or intense sunburn in children with fair skin and freckles has been linked to malignant melanoma later in life.
table 1 summarizes the general features of each type.
although long-sleeved shirts and long-legged pants may not be comfortable in extremely hot weather, they do help protect the skin.
the human health effects and precautions relating to the uv index are  summarized in the following table.
this difference in reaction makes it possible to  classify skin into one of six different types (see table 2).
table 2 skin type hair complexion freckles sun reaction tanning i red or blond very fair +++ always burns never tans ii  blond fair ++ often burns tans lightly iii blond or light brown fair to  medium + to 0 sometimes burns tans progressively iv brown olive 0 rarely  burns tans easily v brown to black dark 0 rarely burns tans deeply vi  black very dark 0 never burns tans deeply the risk of skin cancer from the sun generally follows the same pattern.
these changes  can follow sunburning or develop gradually over a long period of repeated brief  exposures to sunlight.
skin cancer among people who are sensitive to sunlight is more common in  regions with stronger sunlight.
* spf 30 sunscreen may absorb 96.7 percent.
what  workers are at risk?
ultraviolet radiation absorbed by living cells damages sensitive substances that influence the skin's normal growth and appearance.
the reaction is not normally instantaneous, but reaches a bright red colour within 15 to 20 hours.
delayed tanning occurs two to three days after exposure to either uva or  uvb.
it  can go to the mid-teens at midday in the tropics.
it usually spreads if not treated  in the early stage.
increased rate of aging of the skin repeated exposure to the sun's ultraviolet radiation eventually causes skin damage similar to the aging process.
the canadian dermatology association recommends using sunscreen products with a minimum spf 30 or higher (uva and uvb protection).
this type of skin cancer appears as a raised, hard, red or red-grey, pearly wound often found on the forehead, eyelids, cheeks, nose, and lips.
exposure to ultraviolet radiation increases the risk of developing these cancers (although it may not be the only cause of the disease).
and some fabrics like cotton lose about 50% of their spf rating when they get wet.
however, in some cases the condition can be life-threatening if not diagnosed in time.
most sunscreens are not water-resistant and people need to reapply them after perspiring or getting wet.
canadian centre for occupational health and safety www.ccohs.caskip to content home >
the reaction is not normally instantaneous, but reaches a bright red  colour within 15 to 20 hours.
how does sunlight  affect the skin?
the types of radiation include except in extreme situations, neither visible light nor infrared radiation from sunlight causes health problems.
in canada the uv index is  categorized into low (2 or less), moderate (between 3 and 5), high (between 6  and 7), very high (between 8 and 10) and extreme (greater than 11).
this darkening begins during the period of exposure, but fades  within a few hours or days.
there are three basic types of ultraviolet radiation: uva (long-wave uv)
a fraction of this radiation is absorbed by  the skin's living cells.
this type of cancer can be removed with a good chance of total cure, if caught in time.
in contrast, the relationship between squamous cell carcinoma and solar uvr appears to be quite different.
most cases are  easily treated and cured.
it is usually found in areas of the skin exposed to sunlight, but sometimes occurs in other areas as well.
if treatment is delayed, it is often fatal.
document last updated on april 20, 2010 copyright ©1997-2012 canadian centre for occupational health & safety
approaches to prevent skin cancer include: in the winter time, it may be advisable to the above precautions when exposed to sun for prolonged periods, especially in the presence of snow or at high altitudes.
four main factors influence the risk of skin cancer: skin pigment and ability to tan ultraviolet radiation from sunlight affects everybody's skin to some extent, but the skin's response varies widely from person to person.
as such, this type of skin cancer tends to develop  where maximum exposure to radiation occurs - forehead, cheeks, nose, lower lip,  and tops of the ears.
there is convincing evidence that sunlight causes skin cancer.
a joint recommendation of the  world health organization, world meteorological organization, united nations  environment programme, and the international commission on non-ionizing  radiation protection.
it is usually found in areas of the skin exposed to sunlight, but  sometimes occurs in other areas as well.
peoples' sensitivity to the sun varies according to the amount of pigment in the skin and the skin's ability to tan.
these changes may take many years of exposure but when they occur, the damage is irreversible.
the risk however, may be reduced through awareness of the problem, and by taking measures to prevent exposure to sunlight.
this service is free, reliable, and confidential.
the person  most prone to skin cancer caused by sunlight tans poorly and suffers sunburn  easily.
three different types of skin cancer are linked to sunlight exposure: basal cell cancer malignant melanoma basal cell cancer basal cell cancer is the most common of all cancers in north america and  europe.
with delayed tanning, the skin increases its production and distribution of dark pigment.
as such, this type of skin cancer tends to develop where maximum exposure to radiation occurs - forehead, cheeks, nose, lower lip, and tops of the ears.
the remaining radiation is scattered into the tissues just beneath the skin's surface.
peoples'  sensitivity to the sun varies according to the amount of pigment in the skin  and the skin's ability to tan.
increased rate of aging of the skin repeated exposure to the sun's ultraviolet radiation eventually causes skin  damage similar to the aging process.
the intensity of radiation  varies according to the season of the year, time of day, geographic location  (latitude), elevation above sea level, reflection from surfaces (e.g., white  sand or concrete, water, snow), stratospheric ozone, clouds, and air pollution.
recent studies have focused on the effects of intermittent (short-term,  occasional) sun exposure in comparison to chronic (long-term) exposure.
http://www.who.int/uv/publications/en/globaluvi.pdf what workers are at risk?
there is evidence that this type of exposure, as well as long-term exposures, might be linked to serious forms of skin cancer later in life.
on the other hand, ultraviolet radiation itself can act as a promoter.
workers should be informed about different fabric characteristics that effect the transmission of sunlight.
table 3 sources: uv index and ozone, environment canada http://www.ec.gc.ca/uv/default.asp?lang=en&n=880acc87-1 global solar uv index: a practical guide.
it appears that the type of exposure may influence the type of cancer that develops.
(check with your physician or pharmacist is you suspect abnormal or severe reaction to sun exposure after taking new medication.)
darker skinned people have lower risk of sun-induced skin cancer.
for further assistance with a particular workplace topic or issue, contact ourinquiries & client services team.
the exact nature of the relationship between malignant melanoma and sun light is not completely clear.
childhood sun exposure may also play an important part in the development of these cancers later in adult life.
for example, albinism, a genetic condition which prevents the production of normal skin pigments, makes the skin sensitive to ultraviolet light.
does sunlight cause skin cancer?
high levels of chronic  exposure, such as working outdoors, is more often associated with squamous cell  tumours.
table 1 when ultraviolet radiation reaches the skin, some radiation is reflected away from the surface.
the higher the factor, the greater the protection from the sun.
umbrellas, buildings, trees, canopies, etc., can protect against the direct rays from the sun.
wear sunglasses and  apply sunscreen 3 - 5 moderate take precautions - cover up, wear a hat, sunglasses and sunscreen  especially if you will be outside for 30 minutes or more look for shade near midday when the sun is strongest 6 - 7  high protection required - uv radiation damages the skin and can cause sunburn reduce time in the sun between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. and take full  precautions - seek shade, cover up, wear a hat, sunglasses and sunscreen 8 - 10 very high extra precautions required - unprotected skin will be damaged and can burn  quickly avoid the sun between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. and take full precautions - seek  shade, cover up, wear a hat, sunglasses and sunscreen 11+  extreme values of 11 or more are very rare in canada.
severe acute respiratory syndrome (sars) skin cancer and sunlight does sunlight cause skin cancer?
sunscreens are not intended to extend the exposure time to sunlight, but rather to reduce the effects of sunlight when people have to be in the sun.
for example, intermittent solar exposure may be an important factor leading to the onset of basal cell carcinoma of the skin.
in particular, ultraviolet radiation (uvr) can increase the cancer-causing ability of chemicals from coal tar and pitch.
in order to address the growing concern by canadians regarding changes in uvr resulting from ozone depletion, environment canada rates the uv intensity as uv index on a scale of 0 (when there is no sunlight) to 11+ (extreme).
a joint recommendation of the world health organization, world meteorological organization, united nations environment programme, and the international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection.
it also usually develops in areas where the skin has been damaged by the sun - areas with blemishes or sun freckles.
for example, intermittent solar exposure may be an important factor  leading to the onset of basal cell carcinoma of the skin.
for squamous cell tumours, high levels of  chronic occupational sunlight exposure, especially in the 10 years prior to  diagnosis, results in an elevated risk for this cancer in the highest exposure  group.
if caught early, malignant melanoma can be treated and cured.
experimental studies show that chemicals called "promoters" can increase the cancer-causing ability of ultraviolet radiation.
in order to address the growing concern by canadians regarding changes in  uvr resulting from ozone depletion, environment canada rates the uv intensity  as uv index on a scale of 0 (when there is no sunlight) to 11+ (extreme).
it lasts from several weeks to months, and is maintained by repeated  exposure to sunlight.
however, brief intense exposure (intermittent exposure) to strong sunlight appears to increase the risk of malignant melanoma in people who are not used to strong sunlight.
avoid the sun between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., cover up, wear a hat,  sunglasses and sunscreen white sand and other bright surfaces reflect uv radiation and increase uv  exposure sources: uv index and ozone, environment canada http://www.ec.gc.ca/uv/default.asp?lang=en&n=880acc87-1 global solar uv index: a practical guide.
high levels of chronic exposure, such as working outdoors, is more often associated with squamous cell tumours.
in addition, water, white sand or concrete, snow, and ice can reflect from around 10 percent to 85 percent of the sun's ultraviolet radiation.
for example,  albinism, a genetic condition which prevents the production of normal skin  pigments, makes the skin sensitive to ultraviolet light.
ultraviolet radiation causes tanning in two different ways: by immediate tanning and by delayed tanning.
it is most dangerous if it occurs on mucous membranes such as on the lip.
this difference in reaction makes it possible to classify skin into one of six different types (see table 2).table 2 the risk of skin cancer from the sun generally follows the same pattern.
a wide variety of sunscreens are available.
some people burn easily after the first hour of sun exposure following winter or any period away from the sun.
if caught  early, malignant melanoma can be treated and cured.
in  general, the risk of developing skin cancer increases with the amount of time  spent under the sun and the intensity of radiation.
work, and take breaks in the shade when ever possible.
while the exact relationship is not 100% defined, it appears that intermittent (occasional) exposure and exposure during childhood and adolescence are likely important predictors for basal cell carcinoma, and cutaneous malignant melanoma.
although there is always a chance it could become serious, basal cell cancer usually does not spread.
not all clothing offers the same protection.
the most widely used protective chemicals are paba (para-aminobenzoic acid) and closely related chemicals such as cinnamates, salicylates, benzophenones, or anthranilates.
are there different types of radiation in sunlight?
people with skin sensitive to sunlight should use a sunscreen with a high spf.
if outside for more than one hour, cover  up and use sunscreen reflection off snow can nearly double uv strength.
squamous cell cancer squamous cell cancer occurs most frequently on the skin exposed to sunlight over long periods of time.
for reasons not completely understood, people with celtic heritage (irish, scottish or northern european) have increased risk of skin cancer from the sun.
amount of exposure to sunlight the damaging effects of ultraviolet radiation accumulate over the years.
damage can result in: sunburn is the most familiar and immediate effect of ultraviolet radiation on the skin.
if possible, people should plan outdoor work for early morning or late afternoon, and work in the shade as much as possible.
it lasts from several weeks to months, and is maintained by repeated exposure to sunlight.
the person most prone to skin cancer caused by sunlight tans poorly and suffers sunburn easily.
it often shows itself as a mole or pigment spot that begins to bleed, grow, or change its colour, shape or texture.