avoid weedy species that become difficult to control in colorado's environmental and social conditions, since chemical herbicides are usually the only effective controls.
add deciduous shade trees to your plan  to maximize summer shading and winter solar heating.
consider other plant characteristics that make trees desirable, such as  flowers, fruit, fall color of leaves, winter texture in the landscape,  exfoliating or colorful bark, branching habit, more than one season of  ornamental interest and attractiveness to wildlife and birds.
the height of the structure you want to shade or protect  should be considered.
fast growing trees develop weak wood that splits and breaks easily in storms, as in the snowstorm of september 1995.
on the plan, mark driveways, downspouts, utilities, fences, walkways, overhead lines and obstructions, doors, windows and other glass areas.
use small trees under utility lines and near small buildings.
consider the general shape of the tree at  maturity since upright forms can be more appropriate for narrow spaces than  spreading types.
when landscaping a home, sketch it and the lot to scale, allowing 1/8 or 1/10 inch per linear foot.
observe the wind and effects of a winter storm on your building.
choose only trees with good branch spacing and trunk taper.
avoid weedy species that become difficult to control in  colorado's environmental and social conditions, since chemical herbicides are  usually the only effective controls.
choosing a tree consider the normal mature height and spread of trees for your site.
note the direction of winter winds, usually northwest in origin, and add windbreaks of mostly evergreen trees to your plan to block the prevailing wind.
remember that  evergreens can provide screening from unsightly views and a sound barrier from  traffic and loud noises, as well as wind protection.
leaves,  when present, should be evenly spaced along the twigs.
consider other plant characteristics that make trees desirable, such as flowers, fruit, fall color of leaves, winter texture in the landscape, exfoliating or colorful bark, branching habit, more than one season of ornamental interest and attractiveness to wildlife and birds.
avoid planting spreading trees too close to  structures.
selecting ornamental and shade trees for the eastern plains landscaping with trees proper landscaping elements can conserve up to 25% of the energy needed to heat or cool a home or building.
site selection choose your planting site carefully.
avoid planting trees with  weak wood unless used for quick, temporary cover only.
instead, plant evergreens on the north and west sides of your property to slow the prevailing winter winds and save on heating bills.
a single story building surrounded by medium to small trees appears aesthetically pleasing from a design perspective.
notice how the sun strikes the house in the early morning and late afternoon in the summer, and between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. in the winter.
do not purchase trees  that have injuries to the bark or with root balls that are loose in the  container, or have not been kept moist.
choose trees that are well adapted to colorado's  harsh, variable climate.
add man-made structures, like arbors, to provide immediate shade.
use fences, windbreak plantings, and shade trees to provide a sun pocket on the south side of your home, creating a warm spot for outside activities during sunny, cool, but comfortable winter days.
measure the height of the  house.
instead, plant evergreens on the north and west sides of your property to  slow the prevailing winter winds and save on heating bills.
avoid trees with many  upright branches, rather than good horizontal growth.
crabapples, for  examples, should be chosen for fire blight resistance.
if fast growing,  weak-wooded trees are used, plan to replace them with more suitable species as  soon as possible.
avoid trees with visible damage from insects  or diseases.
nursery-grown plants are superior to  "collected" plants of the same species, since containerized plants  are the least risky of all, as compared to b&b stock and bare-root  material.
crabapples, for examples, should be chosen for fire blight resistance.
avoid trees with many upright branches, rather than good horizontal growth.
select a reputable colorado nursery or garden center that stocks trees acclimated to our growing conditions.
never top trees to limit growth or control their size.
also, the mature height of trees will determine the location for maximum shading.
using trees, shrubs, vines and man-made structures can modify the climate around any building to reduce heat gains in the summer and heat losses in winter.
trees with a slow rate of growth are generally thought to be more desirable.
keep in mind that large  shade trees require large planting areas for the development of healthy root  systems and a mature canopy.
these include: soil conditions and ph, available light and exposure, water and adequate drainage, localized weather patterns, terrain and elevation and the presence of a microclimate (a location with climatic conditions different from the surrounding geographic area).
choose specific trees for your plan with an understanding of their mature height and spread.
choose specific trees for your plan with an understanding of their mature  height and spread.
(see landscaping for energy conservation, no.7.225)
home > horticulture > selecting ornamental and shade trees selecting ornamental and shade trees for the eastern plains landscaping with trees proper landscaping elements can conserve up to 25% of the energy needed to  heat or cool a home or building.
some trees are evaluated for insect and disease resistance.
nursery-grown plants are superior to "collected" plants of the same species, since containerized plants are the least risky of all, as compared to b&b stock and bare-root material.
match the tree's desired function to the cultural and environmental conditions of the site.
protection from winter wind and shading  from summer sunlight can effectively reduce energy consumption.
select a reputable colorado nursery or garden center that stocks trees  acclimated to our growing conditions.
these include: soil  conditions and ph, available light and exposure, water and adequate drainage,  localized weather patterns, terrain and elevation and the presence of a  microclimate (a location with climatic conditions different from the  surrounding geographic area).
add man-made structures, like arbors, to provide immediate  shade.
a sun pocket makes an excellent location for a patio or greenhouse.
trees  with a slow rate of growth are generally thought to be more desirable.
avoid planting evergreens on the south and southwest sides of a home, since they will block winter solar heat.
use fences, windbreak plantings, and shade trees to provide a sun pocket on  the south side of your home, creating a warm spot for outside activities during  sunny, cool, but comfortable winter days.
when landscaping a home, sketch it and the lot to scale, allowing 1/8 or  1/10 inch per linear foot.
topping trees "causes decay and sprout production, resulting in a potentially hazardous situation once the sprouts become large and heavy" according to the international society of arboriculture, the recognized authority on tree health care.
fast  growing trees develop weak wood that splits and breaks easily in storms, as in  the snowstorm of september 1995.
avoid trees with visible damage from insects or diseases.
match the tree's desired function to  the cultural and environmental conditions of the site.
consider that some trees are more suited to partial shade, low moisture and drought from sprinkler system malfunctions and other changes that occur as a landscape planting matures.
consider the general shape of the tree at maturity since upright forms can be more appropriate for narrow spaces than spreading types.
a single story building surrounded by medium to small  trees appears aesthetically pleasing from a design perspective.
using trees, shrubs, vines and man-made  structures can modify the climate around any building to reduce heat gains in  the summer and heat losses in winter.
do not locate trees with  excessive leaf, fruit or twig drop next to gutters, sidewalks, patios or  parking lots.
avoid planting spreading trees too close to structures.
beware of trees that are susceptible to insects and diseases or that  require high maintenance and frequent pruning.
avoid trees with circling roots that  will eventually girdle the trunk.
the height of the structure you want to shade or protect should be considered.
remember that evergreens can provide screening from unsightly views and a sound barrier from traffic and loud noises, as well as wind protection.
notice how the sun  strikes the house in the early morning and late afternoon in the summer, and  between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. in the winter.
topping trees "causes decay and sprout production, resulting  in a potentially hazardous situation once the sprouts become large and  heavy" according to the international society of arboriculture, the  recognized authority on tree health care.
identify north (n) with an arrow.
observe the sun during different seasons of the year.
measure the height of the house.
some characteristics make trees undesirable.
note  the direction of winter winds, usually northwest in origin, and add windbreaks  of mostly evergreen trees to your plan to block the prevailing wind.
do not locate trees with excessive leaf, fruit or twig drop next to gutters, sidewalks, patios or parking lots.
consider that some trees are more suited to partial  shade, low moisture and drought from sprinkler system malfunctions and other  changes that occur as a landscape planting matures.
a sun pocket makes an excellent  location for a patio or greenhouse.
beware of trees that are susceptible to insects and diseases or that require high maintenance and frequent pruning.
never top trees to limit growth or control  their size.
do not purchase trees that have injuries to the bark or with root balls that are loose in the container, or have not been kept moist.
avoid planting evergreens  on the south and southwest sides of a home, since they will block winter solar  heat.
avoid planting trees with weak wood unless used for quick, temporary cover only.
leaves, when present, should be evenly spaced along the twigs.
if fast growing, weak-wooded trees are used, plan to replace them with more suitable species as soon as possible.
also, the  mature height of trees will determine the location for maximum shading.
when selecting the plant in the nursery, always choose the best, healthiest plant.
use  small trees under utility lines and near small buildings.
when selecting the plant in the nursery, always choose the best, healthiest  plant.
choose trees that are well adapted to colorado's harsh, variable climate.
protection from winter wind and shading from summer sunlight can effectively reduce energy consumption.
on the plan, mark  driveways, downspouts, utilities, fences, walkways, overhead lines and  obstructions, doors, windows and other glass areas.
more information watering trees & shrubs during the drought recommended trees for the easten plains trees to use with caution questions to ask when buying a tree or shrub disclaimer | eeo | ask an expert | webmaster - last updated 8-25-08 extension home | csu home
avoid trees with circling roots that will eventually girdle the trunk.
keep in mind that large shade trees require large planting areas for the development of healthy root systems and a mature canopy.
add deciduous shade trees to your plan to maximize summer shading and winter solar heating.