home | research | buyers' guide | albums | pests | new varieties | grapes | people | marketplace | advertising | current ads | quick bites advertise | about us | contact us | copyright 2012 washington state fruit commission.
european union growers can no longer use carbaryl for chemical thinning, and  corelli is worried about the long-term future in europe for other chemical  thinners.
comments do not represent the views of goodfruit.com and are not an endorsement or guarantee of accuracy.
we cannot ­accelerate  above the influential rate of light from the sun.”
“if you miss the fine-tuning by one-quarter  of a turn of a screw, you miss your chance of winning.”
we reserve the right to remove all or any language deemed  potentially libelous.
previous scientific studies have helped growers understand the importance that light plays in fruit production, said corelli, plant physiologist in the horticultural department of the university of bologna.
“you’d see one color used for bud break, another color if you want to make shoot growth be shorter, and the top layer may reflect the sky to make the net disappear for environmental impact.”
this page requires  javascript.
“you’d see one color used for bud break, another color if you  want to make shoot growth be shorter, and the top layer may reflect the sky to  make the net disappear for environmental impact.”
managing competition the process that turns light into fruit, is complex and fraught with  chances of mistakes.
the process that turns light into fruit, is complex and fraught with chances of mistakes.
already, he’s observed that peaches are more sensitive to shading than apples.
“if we manage this competition properly, you can shift some  percentage points in the dry matter partitioning to fruit growth,” he  said, adding that growers must understand that on the road of turning light  into fruit, the tree can’t make up lost time.
already, he’s observed that peaches  are more sensitive to shading than apples.
moreover, corelli sees a future when growers might plant rows at specific  angles, such as a northeast to southwest orientation or northwest to southeast,  with trees angled to the east or west, to maximize light interception and  photosynthesis while minimizing damage from too much light.
this article appears in the march 15th 2011 issue of good fruit grower did you like what you read here?
initial research shows that blue hail nets result in more buds breaking than some of the other colors, he said.
moreover, corelli sees a future when growers might plant rows at specific angles, such as a northeast to southwest orientation or northwest to southeast, with trees angled to the east or west, to maximize light interception and photosynthesis while minimizing damage from too much light.
in  addition, he is studying the interaction of plant stress and the timing of  irrigation to learn if fruit size can be influenced by irrigating in the  afternoon rather than the morning.
please  enable javascript and press the reload/refresh button on your browser.
we reserve the right to remove all or any language deemed potentially libelous.
italian scientists are also looking at the effects of different hail net colors on other aspects of fruit production.
“the environmentalists want hail nets to be green, but that is the one color to avoid because it depresses photosynthesis.”
if all goes well, corelli explains, light is used for  photosynthesis and carbohydrates are partitioned throughout the plant in the  fruit, leaves, trunk and shoots, and roots.
photo courtesy of university of bologna the worldwide transformation of tree fruit orchards from low to high densities and from wide to narrow canopies marked a major revolution in orchard systems.
growers responded in the  last few decades by adopting vertical and v-type training systems that better  intercept light.
corelli said that some believe that the extensive use of dark gray hail  nets in the tourist region is ruining the view.
for example, he noted that fuji apples in the bologna area grow about two grams per day.
corelli said the model should help them avoid excessive fruit drop, as well as to know when to remove the nets.
email steve call to subscribe to good fruit grower »
melissa hansen dr. luca corelli is studying a rainbow of hail net colors to see if fruit  growth and development can be influenced.
but future improvements to orchard systems likely will be made through  fine-tuning techniques instead of radical changes, says italy’s dr. luca  corelli.
“we wiped out a peach crop  from one week of shading,” he said, noting that three days of shading in  peaches can cause fruit drop.
| a godengo technology | privacy policy
it’s a nice color because it fits in well with the lake region, but is it the best choice in terms of fruit production?
as scientists learn more about how the plant uses different light frequencies, including ultraviolet and infrared, he envisions orchards in the future that would use three or four different colors of netting material, at different times.
“if we manage this competition properly, you can shift some percentage points in the dry matter partitioning to fruit growth,” he said, adding that growers must understand that on the road of turning light into fruit, the tree can’t make up lost time.
he shared the details of his research projects with an international group of tree fruit growers who visited the university of bologna last fall.
to encourage an open exchange of useful information, we welcome comments from readers.
to encourage an open exchange of useful information, we welcome comments  from readers.
one experiment involves using shading as a way to thin the crop load,  “shocking” the fruit to make it fall off without chemical thinning.
however, it took five to seven days of shading to  show effects in pink lady and golden delicious apples.
one experiment involves using shading as a way to thin the crop load, “shocking” the fruit to make it fall off without chemical thinning.
“we wiped out a peach crop from one week of shading,” he said, noting that three days of shading in peaches can cause fruit drop.
dry matter partitioning is a highly  competitive phenomenon, and growers must learn to manage the partitioning if  they want the tree to produce large fruit, which goes against the tree’s  natural instinct of producing lots of small fruit.
i have strong reservations that it is not.”
“if you go to zurich, the color of choice for hail nets on tree fruit and grapes is blue.
as scientists learn more about how the plant uses different light  frequencies, including ultraviolet and infrared, he envisions orchards in the  future that would use three or four different colors of netting material, at  different times.
he shared the details of his  research projects with an international group of tree fruit growers who visited  the university of bologna last fall.
good fruit grower /  march-15th 2011  / italians study light & shading email  print   feed subscribe to good fruit grower : news and features italians study light & shading blue hail nets result in better bud break than other colors of net, but it  might not be the best choice.
he is using lakso’s apple thinning model that was developed to help  growers factor in weather data, the carbohydrate supply, and the demand of  apple trees when deciding how aggressive their chemical thinning efforts should  be.
photo courtesy of university of bologna the worldwide transformation of tree fruit orchards from low to high  densities and from wide to narrow canopies marked a major revolution in orchard  systems.
european union growers can no longer use carbaryl for chemical thinning, and corelli is worried about the long-term future in europe for other chemical thinners.
previous scientific studies have helped growers understand the importance  that light plays in fruit production, said corelli, plant physiologist in the  horticultural department of the university of bologna.
that officials  believe has a negative impact on tourism.
“in our shading trials, we know we can cause fruit to drop, but we don’t want excessive thinning.
anonymous comments are enabled.
corelli said the model should help them avoid excessive fruit drop, as well  as to know when to remove the nets.
email address (not displayed publicly)
this article appears in the march 15th 2011 issue of good fruit grower did you like what you read here?
“if you make a mistake with irrigation and it’s off  for ten days in a row, you can’t make up that twenty grams unless you  remove plant material.
corelli also thinks shading could have thinning applications for self-fertile varieties of sweet cherries, though he hasn’t studied cherries.
corelli also thinks  shading could have thinning applications for self-fertile varieties of sweet  cherries, though he hasn’t studied cherries.
“the environmentalists  want hail nets to be green, but that is the one color to avoid because it  depresses ­photosynthesis.”
“be aware that a day lost is a day lost.
dr. luca corelli is studying a rainbow of hail net colors to see if fruit growth and development can be influenced.
with the major tree-training changes already implemented by growers, corelli believes that improving size and quality in the future will be through small steps that result in only incremental changes.
feel free  to post to comments anonymously.
create an instant account, or please log in if you have an account.
most italian growers already use hail nets, so the structures to  install shade cloths are already in place.
“if you miss the fine-tuning by one-quarter of a turn of a screw, you miss your chance of winning.”
in addition, he is studying the interaction of plant stress and the timing of irrigation to learn if fruit size can be influenced by irrigating in the afternoon rather than the morning.
“if you go to zurich, the color  of choice for hail nets on tree fruit and grapes is blue.
it’s a nice  color because it fits in well with the lake region, but is it the best choice  in terms of fruit production?
he has a trial with trees planted in different directions and angles, and  is measuring photosynthesis by putting plastic bags over whole trees.
he has a trial with trees planted in different directions and angles, and is measuring photosynthesis by putting plastic bags over whole trees.
“if you make a mistake with irrigation and it’s off for ten days in a row, you can’t make up that twenty grams unless you remove plant material.
but future improvements to orchard systems likely will be made through fine-tuning techniques instead of radical changes, says italy’s dr. luca corelli.
growers responded in the last few decades by adopting vertical and v-type training systems that better intercept light.
corelli, who spent time at cornell university and has collaborated with cornell’s dr. alan lakso on light interception and fruit development, is studying how different aspects of light interception (shading, row orientation, and hail net color) affect fruit production.
email steve call  to subscribe to good  fruit grower »
“the orchard today is a highly technological enterprise,” he  said, likening the orchardist to a racecar technician who must expertly keep  the car at peak performance.
initial research shows that blue hail nets result in more buds breaking  than some of the other colors, he said.
dry matter partitioning is a highly competitive phenomenon, and growers must learn to manage the partitioning if they want the tree to produce large fruit, which goes against the tree’s natural instinct of producing lots of small fruit.
it seems that your browser does not have javascript enabled.
most italian growers already use hail nets, so the structures to install shade cloths are already in place.
the colored nets could be layered in the appropriate order needed.
“the orchard today is a highly technological enterprise,” he said, likening the orchardist to a racecar technician who must expertly keep the car at peak performance.
corelli, who spent time at cornell university and has collaborated with  cornell’s dr. alan lakso on light interception and fruit development, is  studying how different aspects of light interception (shading, row orientation,  and hail net color) affect fruit production.
some of the interest in netting  color comes from attempts by local governments in the south tyrol region to  mandate specific net colors to minimize the landscape blight
with the major tree-training changes already implemented by growers,  corelli believes that improving size and quality in the future will be through  small steps that result in only incremental changes.
we cannot accelerate above the influential rate of light from the sun.”
for example, he noted that fuji apples in the bologna area grow about two  grams per day.
he is using lakso’s apple thinning model that was developed to help growers factor in weather data, the carbohydrate supply, and the demand of apple trees when deciding how aggressive their chemical thinning efforts should be.
comments do not represent the views of goodfruit.com and  are not an endorsement or guarantee of accuracy.
if all goes well, corelli explains, light is used for photosynthesis and carbohydrates are partitioned throughout the plant in the fruit, leaves, trunk and shoots, and roots.
“in our shading trials, we know we can cause fruit to drop, but we  don’t want excessive thinning.
rainbow of nets italian scientists are also looking at the effects of different hail net  colors on other aspects of fruit production.
you do not need to log in, create an account, or use a password.
corelli said that some believe that the extensive use of dark gray hail nets in the tourist region is ruining the view.
however, it took five to seven days of shading to show effects in pink lady and golden delicious apples.
the colored nets could be layered in the appropriate order  needed.
some of the interest in netting color comes from attempts by local governments in the south tyrol region to mandate specific net colors to minimize the landscape blight that officials believe has a negative impact on tourism.