i have felt more energetic, sleep better, and have more time in the morning!
too much workouts can actually delay weight loss… check out the primal fitness guide on marksdailyapple.
so as regards the admonition to “eat only when hungry”, i add “but only after a long delay measured in hours, or even multiples of half-days”.
i began doing this after reading about regulating the human growth hormone in wikipedia and other studies ( including the one in pp ).
now i have a new book to read.
total- 227 hdl- 35 ldl- 175
i’m severely obese (still) and just starting out here, so i’m wondering – 1.
good luck in bringing your wife around.
(therefore, siblings averaged just 88 years–he is now 26 years older than this– and his parents averaged only 48 years; no information on his maternal grandparents but assume they died at 78; summing all of his first degree relatives up with proper weighting factors, breuning should have lived to age 76)
i have always eaten several small meals.
btw, at the top you mentioned writing more about the if story in another post.
i read a factoid somewhere that the cr animals tend to drop over dead without the toll of chronic disease.
we set up our cutoff time as 6 pm.
when new muscle is made, the amino acids used to construct the muscle protein are drawn from the amino acid pool.
some people do great on an if – others don’t do so great.
now i have a question about my weight loss during intermittent fasting (if).
if people are now saying it’s a marker for inflammation, that’s news to me.
thanks— mrereply i’m trying to integrate this into my thinking and have a few questions.
thank you this sounds great.
stevia packets that contain inulin are o.k. hi mike– you could be right about the dawn phenomenon – i don’t know.
east as per normal after 4:30 pm (completion of 2nd 24 hour fast) thursday:
i do have a question: i am curious about insulin-dependent diabetics.
also, their farmhand, one indian joe, ate only meat, intestines, and organs, was built like a body-builder, and only looked 40 when he was 70 years old.
i can’t imagine going so long with out eating like on an if plan.
if a meal was even an hour late, i always felt desperately hungry, fatigued, and very cranking.
thanks for all your insightful commentary on this post and others.
in fact, the doses of the chemotherapy drugs are about 10 to 15 percent of what they are in standard chemotherapy, which means that most of the horrible side effects – nausea, hair loss, tremendous fatigue, etc. – are eliminated with ipt.
but, having said all that, i doubt that it will make the fast less effective.
but if there are small stones in the gall bladder, these stones can be forced down into the gall bladder ducts, precipitating the agonizing pain of a gall bladder attack, a situation that typically requires surgical intervention.
i tolerate it better because i sip coffee all the time, caffeinated in the morning and decaf in the afternoon.
kids, before this kind of programming, eat when they’re hungry.
anyway, i kept checking my bp throughout the fast to make sure that it wasn’t a fluke, and sure enough, it remained well below 120/80.
interesting post i have to say.
about three months ago i had a little brain flash after reading about calorie restriction.
back to the health issues, after 3 years low carb, dh has much improved his health parameters, but would really like to get the weight and blood pressure down just a little more.
the only bad thing that happens in the starvation response is the loss of protein (often from muscle) to make glucose.
cheers– mrereply dr eades, there’s a little group of us who’ve been toying with intermittent fasting for the past year or so, based on dr mattson’s research and ideas.
there is a way to reduce blood sugar, improve insulin sensitivity, reduce  blood pressure, increase hdl levels, get rid of diabetes, live a lot longer,  and still be able to lose a little weight.
many ifers take daily vitamins.
after a few months it became hard to keep doing this from a social standpoint, since the days i ate flipped every week and having social dinner on the right day was difficult.
i’m now age 52 and my weight has varied +/- 5 lbs over that period until recently.
the third week i fasted 1 day and broke the fast with pizza!
ori hofmekler, the author of the diet, says that during the fast you are allowed to have a couple pieces of whole fruit like an apple, since fruit goes straight through the stomach and doesn’t put any strain on the digestive system and increases the effect of the detoxification process during the fast.
here is a quick outline: * eat normal 5 days per week * fast 2 times per week until dinner * for that dinner meal, eat a normal size dinner (not a day’s worth of calories)
i have developed a lack of taste for alcohol – it’s like a physical aversion.
reply such an timely article.
i typically eat 1 to 4 oz. meat or other protein per meal or sometimes a snack.
if this is true, will only having the rm make me more insulin resistant?
which, in my opinion, makes it almost criminal to put patients with cancer on low-fat, high-carbohydrate diets”.
so it has 3 24 hour fasts in a week, but a 48 hour periods without fasting.
hi constance– i think the hot or cold is a personal preference.
best– mrereply ok. thank you for the response!
also, at which point in the fast would a body go into ketosis, readings vary, i believe my utilization of a high interval training session in mornings would aid me on fast days to use up my glycogen stores more quickly.
i’ll do a long post on protein and blood sugar in due course.
d ps: if you have any of the references about heat-shock proteins and cold-water dips, i’d love to read them.
i was curious about what you have to say about that.
as you surely know, many studies link elevated igf-1 to an increased risk of cancer.
i have learned to live with it.
i think that many parents, working with the bad cultural info that’s available, often completely screw up their children’s instincts.
these wrestlers eat huge high-carb meals twice per day.
thats with eating about 480 calories on the down days.
i am not sure if can work for everyone.
i’m looking forward to seeing how this works.
i lost 140 lbs low carb
be sure to keep me posted.
you would lose weight, but much of it would be lean body mass, which you really don’t want to lose.
i’m eating reasonable quantities now and this is easy because i now get to eat throughout the day!
i also take probiotics and multi vits/mins.
many bodybuilders consume way more than that day after day with no ill effects.
good luck everyone & keep this post alive!reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
if you buy into the idea that the paleolithic diet is the optimal diet for  us today because it is the diet we were molded by the forces of natural  selection to perform best on, then you should probably also buy into the idea  that a meal timing schedule more like that of paleolithic mean would provide  benefit as well.
i am doing if every other day with a fast window of 12-15 hours.
based on the studies i’ve read, i don’t think the if is going to do much of anything to your metabolic rate: it certainly won’t ‘die.’
if you have stopped doing so before getting to this my feelings won’t be hurt, but in case you still are, i have a question about water weight.
i haven’t read the whole thing but definitely will.
perhaps when the diet is modified in some way, for example by going back to what has worked for us humans for millennia, doesn’t really expand anything in the true sense, but restores the rate at which we are suppose to age.
i’ve also lost 4 pounds, though i suspect that’s mostly holiday carb binge induced water weight.
i practiced it for several years quite some time ago with spectacular results.
he’d prefer to just eat mango 3 times a day.
there are no known health problems.
i’ve been fasting 3 days a week for almost a year, and two days a week a year before that.
planning a 3day/wk if pattern.
for years i used to have a binge day and then for the next couple of days i’d limit myself to about 900 kcal.
5.6 5.2 5.5 blood pressure 100/70 100/70 90/60 weight 80 76 80 total colesterol 232 193 229 hdl 38 42 38 ldl 169 128 167 triglycerides 127 117 122
i’m guessing bcaa’s, glycine, alanine.
that was back when i was young and still had my girlish figure and metabolism.
if your husband keeps up his caloric intake on the eat days, he shouldn’t have a problem with weight loss.
the most exciting part of this to me is the fact that bdnf is increased with if.
i’m experiencing reduced allergy and digestive problems using if, and i’m not experiencing any major energy problems other than a desire to sleep earlier than normal on my fasting days.
thus money, time, and effort savings.
decided when i rarely have no appetite for my nightly feed, i will do the eatstopeat approach and do a overt fast.
i have a son that suffers from cholinergic urticaria, and am wondering about if helping him with this.
according to every “formula” i should be losing weight, but i’ve learned to discount the formulas and do what works for my body.
as i’ve mentioned before, i don’t think there is any magic number in terms of how long between eating, no one size fits all.
my wife does not also fast, but feels relieved at the lessened meal preparation (she does our cooking and this constitutes my way of contributing to the household efforts in addition to cleaning dishes).
i figure i may try my hand at cr at some point, but for now just trying to eat reasonable amounts of food and of course get adequate amounts of protein and keep my carb intake to pp levels.
i think i’ll give all of these changes a chance to “settle down” and will make the if routine my fourth challenge.
i don’t have a problem with the protein, though.
have you lost weight since starting the if?
i like my present regime and the social connections so often a bar to if are all accommodated in my family.
if requires vigilance about the *timing* of meals, rather than the amounts of food eaten or the ingredients.
so my question is, do you think the program will help me loose weight and start me out on the right track.
i gained about 100 lbs.
i’m a regular reader of timesonline and somehow i had missed it.
i don’t think coffee is a problem, even with a touch of 2% milk.
do you see any extra benefits from keeping your carb count so low?
consequently, dr. bernstein uses a lot of appetite suppressing strategies to help them.
there is much more to the if story that i will continue in another post.
i might have a protein shake around 7:30, then my postworkout shake.
blood glucose went from 102 (last years reading) to 95.
this is the post you’ve been whining for and i didn’t hear from you for almost 36 hours.
when i was a child my mother used to freak out because i wouldn’t want to eat breakfast and often went without; as an adult while trying to “eat healthy” i have to force myself to eat breakfast.
don’t get me wrong, i don’t argue the reported benefits attributed to if, but so far, and this is just a personal comment before i get jumped at, i don’t see the need of dealing with the practicalities of having to set a particular time to eat (which may or not fit into my life, which tends to be full of unexpected events), plus dealing with the apparent constant thought of how much i’m going to enjoy f’east-day’.
keep me posted as you progress.
and i am delighted with living this way…
an old researcher named max kleiber who wrote a famous book called ‘the fire of life’ back in the 60s figured out that metabolic rates throughout and within species was a function of body weight.
it’s difficult for me to make an intelligent suggestion because i don’t know what your low-calorie diet is composed of.
most of my patients have been motivated and came to me to lose weight.
i’m about 30-40 lbs overweight at 5’8″.
in conclusion i can say that fasting every other day is quite easy mentally and physiologically, but social factors make it hard, and if you eat low carb i don’t really see the point of doing if very much.
you write that most of the research starves the rats for 24 hours, then work and experiment diligently to design 24 hours for people.
maybe other readers know of books that i don’t know about.
it is working for me very well
its definitely something that has been of interest to me in trying to live a healthier lifestyle, but i wont say that i also need to lose 15-20 lbs.
in addition to losing the weight (i’d like to lose about 8 more pounds), on my fasting days i often, but not always, have increased mental clarity and well-being.
basically dinner-lunch-bf / – - – / hi yvana– you’ve got the scheduling correct.
because of the small amount of insulin released on the 2 lc meals, insulin is released in a small amount at the reward meal (written now that it should be balanced but you are allowed carbs) within the first 60 minutes.
if they don’t snack with every insulin shot they’ll get hypoglycaemia… so can they go completely without insulin (or lower dose) on fasting days?reply
eating right before you sleep practically guarantees that you’ll gain weight because when you go to sleep with food still in your stomach, your body automatically stores the food as fat and burns less of it.
reply hi dr. eades, i haven’t read this entire thread (it’s very long!), but i see you’re still responding to posts here
i have asked for comments on this subject from my lowcarbfriends but i need more information.
i don’t drink diet sodas because i don’t particularly like them, but they should be fine also.
the results are a decreasing waist size.34 is now loose.
but what i’ve found is most striking is that my energy has increased tremendously.
reply i meant to also say, that 4 weeks isn’t long enough to tell if if is working or not.
if it’s the latter, i’m not surprised your having difficulty.
the advantage of if is that on eating days one can eat foods that one can’t eat on a good low-carb diet and still lose some weight.
are you following a low-carb diet during your eating days or are you eating a lot of carbs?
we didn’t evolve to not produce our own vitamin c and then survive millions of years of low/zero-carbing for no reason you know… at worst, there are always supplements.
let me know if you give if a try.
that, in a nutshell, is the starvation response.
i find as mentioned above that i feel full a lot sooner than i would otherwise.
well if my annual physical has any relevance, let me let it be known everything always comes back perfect, i get a very excellent grade by my doctor.
first, i’m thinking, of course, with activities and other distractions.
is this something to be worried about?
i did this 3 times and was beginning to make a little progress, noticing that my clothes were a bit looser and my skin looked better when i stumbled across this website and read about the 6pm to 6pm (24 hr.
just don’t eat high-carb & low-vit.
my motives entail health, weight control (i’m 20 lb lighter now than aug 04) and energy (calorie restricted animals can go longer in running wheel conditions before they drop), and less on the longevity itself.
i’m very happy with the results and think i will make this a long term way of eating.
im use to a three day period, this one has lasted almost two weeks.
and increased levels of bdnf improves cognitive ability.
normal day which example would you lean more towards doing as a low-card eater doing if?
later i realized that low manesium also contributed to my pre-diabetes so i began taking magnesium regularly and i have experienced healthier blood glucose levels.
i changed to breakfast and lunch because i have more of a tendency to cheat on carbs at the end of a stressful day!
i don’t plan on staying with the mc lemonade part of it once i reach my goal weight but the 2 cups of fruit juice a day on fasting days i would like to be a staple.
it should answer a lot of your questions.
i had a hard time feeling satisfied from food.
we used the time that otherwise would have been spent on meals to hit the gym.
when we don’t eat we often don’t have much desire to drink, but we need to.
i will probably continue the 36-hour fasting until i hit my goal weight and then switch to 24-hour fasting every other day (eating dinner every night).
i’m ravenous going into my first meal after fasting, get started eating, then get full way before i thought i would.
we were thrilled when my very slightly elevated cholesterol and triglycerides returned to normal range after being on the diet for only 5 weeks.
i had a check up and blood work in june and i did quite well.
i have never found it easier to stay below 10% bodyfat and at 40 yrs old i’m quite happy about that.
i eat a high-fat, low carb diet.
just eat what you want on eat days and don’t worry about it, then don’t eat, or eat just a small amount – maybe a protein shake – on the fast days.
but it took me so long to do it, mar 03 to oct 05 and in the past year i gained about 12 lbs.
plus it brings about the state of ketosis on fasting days, and more and more it is beginning to be realized that ketones provide better fuel than most anything else.
i’m 46 and an ex-weightlifter (all natural, no drugs) so dieting is no stranger to me.
i especially like how you picked apart jane brody’s article.
i eat after 7 p.m. an all day fast.
hi hap– thanks for the informative post.
here in mexico it’s possible to order tests directly at the lab, and i would prefer to keep an eye on the imporant parameters myself, rather than rely on a doctor.
best– mrereply i have been ifing for a week now
afterall, it has to work harder, therefore it gets stronger and it becomes more efficient at burning fat and calories.
i suspect that it is also a cautionary tale about the applicability of caloric restriction studies to humans.
my wife and i embarked on a fasting program just a few weeks ago, going without food for a good part of the day, and then eating dinner.
i also immediately noticed after starting this eating plan that i had improved sensory perceptions, including a greatly increased sense of smell and hearing.
even though that really doesn’t make sense if you think it’s at all wise to try to eat like our ancestors.
(by the way, i had a murderous problem with late night binging, even on low carb–it was as if a false bottom dropped out of stomach between 8 and 10 pm–and that problem is instant history.)
on the occasion i’ve done a protein feast and then felt nauseous afterwards for a reason that i reason may have to do with my gall bladder being less active.
reply i have a question!
i think you and your friend’s plan is exactly what i’m looking for thanks so much, i’m going to start tomorrow!!!
i have now started leaving out the milk and feel like i’m achieving more.
mre hi dr mre i take a whey protien supplement which is low carb has all req.amino acids good fats, all in its 90cals
i have had difficulty losing weight on all kinds of diet including lo-carb.
cheers– mrereply i agree.
yesterday i exercised after not having eaten for quite a while — and felt much stronger than usual.
diet plan not so much.
will keep you posted!reply dr. eades, have been on a vlcd since nov last year, lost 65 lbs, but still having headaches i know to be from blood sugar.
so far we find that we feel a bit ill while we detox, but feel better overall after a day or two.
with the if, i know i won’t be able to eat all i want when the fast is over because it will raise my bg too high even if it is lc.
i can’t begin to tell you how good i feel on tues and wednesday morning (i honestly don’t want to ruin the feeling with food— but ya gotta eat…)my thursday fast is just a prelude to the inevitable friday night out, and having people over on saturday and all the drinking that goes with that.
there are other nice advantages as fasting has shown to boost hgh, but to me the whole calorie deficit created is what really makes the difference.
website comments will be closed on january 25, 2013.
let me show you what i mean.
hi athelstan– maybe i’m behind the times, but i’ve never heard of bdnf as being a marker for inflammation.
to prevent muscle catabolism for gluconeogenesis, would exogenous amino acids, specifically those that can convert into glucose, be warranted?
i eat basically paleo- whats in season and try and eat game (mainly kangaroo) or pasture fed meat.
mrereply dr eades sir..this is scandalous.
i’m glad you’ve conquered the late night binge demon.
easily able to sustain until 2-3 pm in the afternoon and then eating a good paleo meal and snacks for 4 or 5 hours.
especially if what you want to eat is high-carb stuff.
i’ve read (eat stop eat, brad pilon) that this is not the case.
lol i figured it was a good thing to try because i’ve been craving pizza!
the subjects were in  a residence for old people, and all were in perfect health and over 65.
finally your if setup calls for eating till 6pm but most of the posters seem to discuss eating dinner/breakfast/lunch.
the one area where we saw huge improvement was with his triglycerides.
and thanks for the update.
well i put it back on during the holidays (so much work and time to get it off, so fast to put it back on), so in january i started back up on my regimen.
i was looking for something a bit more rigorous – i actually need to lose a bit more than 20lbs.
and i thank you for bringing it to my (and many other readers’) attention!
cheers– mrereply i’m so hard to convince sometimes and i admit that it sounds intriguing.
i would love to have more information on intermittent fasting if you find any.
mrereply sir thankee.
i just figured since i was losing weight that i was now on a high fat diet even though i don’t eat hardly any fat.
technically makes me not very vegetarian, but i read somewhere that this help to burn fat with exercise) and maybe a table spoon of grape seed oil or olive olive when i cook onions and peppers.
i don’t have any doubt that some people are food addicted.
it’s not that i don’t have anything to say, i just don’t always have the time to say it right.
i generally fast from midnight until 4pm, with the exception of the epri-workout nutrition.
hence my fasting period is sometimes longer than 24 hours and sometimes shorter.
not to mention that i only gained 20 pounds during the pregnancy because if taught me how to eat!reply i have been doing a form of this for about 8 months, and lately have been backsliding a little.
took a break in week four, took two days of random junkfood to get back to pre warrior diet lethargy, cravings, and foggy thinking.
i exercise 6 mornings a week (4 days of 90-min.
after two years of this i started to develop what i now recognize as insulin resistance – probably due to my very high carb intake on the days i did eat.
if you had been on a low-carb diet previously for any length of time, then i would imagine that your insulin sensitivity had already improved.
the dr has recommended medication.
i fast for 16 hours and re-feed for 8 every day eg.
i am following warrior diet.
best– mrereply is it me, or is about everyone in the paleo movement ripping ori hofmekler/warrior diet off… i gotta say mike your post was almost verbatim warriior diet.. heck, the whole if upstart of recent is on the heels of ori/warrior diet, which has been out for 6+ years… i wouldn’t have no much problem with it, esp.
i plan to continue into the fall, and see how it’s going in another 3 months…reply very interesting read, i’ve recently tested positive for hla-b27 which is a blood marker for ankylosing spondylitis, i’ve suffered lower/upper back pain not to mention hip pain for the past 18yrs,(i’m 40 now), now since i’m a muslim part of my faith is fast for 30days once a year, from dawn till dusk(you eat nothing at all, not even a drink of water,not even chewing gum).
thanks hi laurel– the idea that you have to keep your metabolic furnace stoked is a myth.
i shall consult the lawyer i do not have.
i stopped when i found out
it seems like that would give you similar results without the insulin response.
(i’m eating how i normally do when i’m being “good” about carbs — somewhere between 50 and 100 g per day.
a nice 16 ounce steak contains about 112 grams of protein, and i can eat one in about 15 minutes–and use the protein.
but i am still very curious about the “technical stuff.”
collapsed on the couch,,,,,very pleased with myself, then started tingling in my extremities, even my lips and tongue.
fasting towards the end of the day might even help because you are more tired by the time you sleep, which allows more prolonged bouts of rem.
i don’t do the day on, day off — i found that a bit too disruptive.
my glucose level has gone up from 95 mg/dl in november last year to 103 on march 3rd 2010.
if you eat from 8 am that day until 10 pm, you’ve eaten for 14 hours.
i think they’re right.
i am a recovering carb junky and don’t feel a need to be in ketosis for my primary goals.
i feel great, and this is the easiest diet i have ever tried.
best– mrereply i’ve been practicing if for about a month with good results — fasting bg is down about 10 pts.
i accidentally ifed last wednesday, eating nothing after breakfast until breakfast on thursday.
i’m going to see if i can continue, at least every wednesday since that is easiest for me, and hopefully a second day whenever possible.
i should also say that pp and pplp did a lot to convince me that the single most important thing that most of us can do for our health is to achieve insulin control.
basically about 200-300 calories on these days…reply a lot of people do what you are contemplating on an if.
so perhaps trying to match the rat’s day as a percentage of lifespan isn’t critical, although it seems likely that there is some optimal period between 24 hours and 20 days.
we stuck with the regimen for a few weeks just to see if we could tolerated it, which we did just fine.
so if we fast for a day, we end up fasting for about 34 hours and eating for 14, which isn’t the same as 24 on, 24 off.
and now im stirring things up?
cr animals don’t produce much more bdnf than do ad libitum fed animals.
but man i get really hungry!!
have a little salt with it.
post workout i drink 16 oz of chocolate milk.
check it out, as there may be some info there that’ll help you get your metabolism back under control.http://www.joelmarion.net is his personal site (the january ’08 archives has the article
i don’t buy the idea that fruit goes straight through the stomach and doesn’t put a strain on the digestive system – fruit is digested just like everything else.
now they are totally pink.
the relatively new study i saw by mattson which mentions bp increase is in the american journal of clinical nutrition.
blood sugar levels go down and stabilize: good.
the scientist then noticed that once they left the eggs, the flies actually died when they were expected too.
how would you like it if i told you there was a way to eat pretty much anything and everything you wanted to eat and still maintain your health?
i have had no illnesses ( no colds or flu ).
i imagine that whatever degree of rest one can give the liver and the rest of the metabolic machinery is all to the good.
they will say i am becoming anorexic, which is miles from the truth.
i love the idea of only having to do food prep and kitchen clean up every 2nd day.
sometimes we get up and get going with all our projects and don’t eat breakfast.
the abstract says they fasted for 12 hours but if you read the actual study it says they fasted for an average of 15.
i know better than to buy it but every time i tell myself i can control this obsession i have, oh well it is gone now,( the peanut butter, not the obsession with it) but i digress.
so far, i’ve lost 11 pounds and my bmi is 22.
i wouldn’t bet my life on it, but it seems like the cr ones were actually a little more active.
i’m looking at if as a permanent way of life.
cheers– mrereply hello dr mre, thanks for keeping up with this post, it continues to provide useful information.
oh by the way i just got your book “the protein power lifeplan” from the library.
that would involve either 4 fasting and 3 eating days ‘every’ week, or 3 fasting and 4 eat days ‘every’ week.
if you are doing a keto-type diet it is more important to eat more fats since that is where ketones come from and that is your energy source.
i have lost 5 inches spread out over 5 measurements on the torso (chest, bust, under bust, waist, and hips).
only u knew how good fasting is for you…you and your studies are only now confirming.
hi steve– make sure to tell the bozos at the national weightloss registry that your maintaining on a low-carb diet.
prior to this i was eating (low-carb) every few hours to fight hypoglycemia, but since zero carb i’ve had zero hypoglycemic symptoms, terrific energy, etc.
today’s after supper blood sugar is 130, great results for me.
am i missing something?
also, does my plan look okay to you?
hi zer– thanks for the info.
your comment – along with a number of others – for some reason got caught in my spam filter.
we decided start trying to have another baby, expecting it to be a couple of years before i would get conceive.
it is the oposite of what you are stating and what we hear most of the time.
any thoughts greatly appreciated!reply the only way you can tell is by giving it a try.
infusing bdnf into animals increases their insulin sensitivity and makes them lose weight.
i drink only raw fruit/veg juice along with my usual 6grams of omega 3 for depression.
it’s something that you will have to determine yourself.
i never checked fsh levels on these ladies, so i don’t know what the levels did on the diet.
http://www.ajcn.org/cgi/reprint/29/10/1167
thus the if animals eat about  the same number of calories overall that the ad lib fed animals eat, but, and  this is a huge ‘but,’ the if animals enjoy all the health  advantages that the cr animals do, and, in fact, are even healthier than the cr  animals.
md and i spent a couple of weeks doing it that way, and i’m here to tell you, it’s no fun.
since then i’m down about three pounds, which is surprising, since i’m certain that in my case this has resulted in a great decrease in calories.
anyway, thanks for your information.
best– mrereply this sounds very interesting.
they study participants lowered their homocysteine levels on a 15 hour fast.
i had difficulty sleeping that night.
like the gorilla i eat all the time.
thanks again for a good article.
so easy and effective.
these enzymes break down and their amino acids enter the aa pool where the muscle can pick them up as needed.
md and i, using ourselves (selflessly, i might add) as subjects have worked it out.
yes, just working on fractional time equivalents is not great, but it’s far easier than the ideal, which would be to find which genes and gene groups are involved, and how long of a fast it would take to appropriately affect expression or suppression .
the 6 o’ clock regimen.
the clarity and self-control have been great bonuses to if.
so, what is your current recommendation on if?
thank you, very informative blog by the way.
i used to do it just for fun (obviously insane at a young age) when in my teens (really amps up the ‘esoteric awareness’ bit).
now my last cycle was about a day shorter.
you can read about their results and live the if life vicariously while you continue to gnosh on low-carb victuals to your heart’s content.
i will let you know more about my experiment over the next few weeks.
kristinereply hi mike, i thought i’d give you a quick update.
sorry about the length of this, i write like i talk, fast and alot.
hi lcforevah– i’m in total agreement with you about the child rearing issues.
the next day, however, we are out of ketosis and we are constantly hungry, so keeping it lowcarb sounds right to me.
humans with greater levels of bdnf have lower levels of depression.
i am still waiting to see if i have benefits.
cheers– mrereply i’ve been intermittent fasting for about 1.6 years now.
i will say, right off, there is never a good day to fast because there are always good meals to be eaten but with the eat stop eat you never go a full day without eating.
i forgot that “breakfast is the most important meal of the day” only for general mills (sorry, any gm folks in the room).
i have kept up my exercises.
i eat mostly meats, fish, eggs, spinach, broccoli and cauliflower.
i feel great mentally/emotionally — good mental energy and focus, even keel with emotions.
best– mrereply how many carbs do you recommend on eating days?
i knew that it would be slow going because of my age and the the character of my body.
i’m hoping that i will get this  straightened out soon.
i would however like to lose about 10 lbs of fat.
except when i was starving myself, which i don’t want ever to do again.
i allowed myself weekends “off”
reply we have been doing if for 7 days now.
cheers– mrereply that 24 hour thing ….
the wikipediadefinition is the only one that i’ve ever seen.
i (and many other physicians using lc diets) have had a number of patients with weights in that range who have done very well on protein power-style low-carb diets.
well, here are the results!!!
i will be extremely curious to hear the answers.
i think that i am noticing a bigger difference in this more than anything else.
if you eat those vegetables along with a steak, then you’ve got a good meal.
many people don’t realize that caloric liquids–as far as the metabolic system is concerned–are no different that solid foods.
but thanks for such a useful site.
dr. eades, imo, adrenal fatigue is very real.
–anne hi anne– i’ve often noticed the same thing: i’m not particularly hungry yet i eat just because it’s time to eat.
if you eat from 8 am that day until 10 pm,  you’ve eaten for 14 hours.
hi lyndsey– i’m here to serve best– mrereply mike, i’ll have to dig into my files.
hi george– sorry it has taken me so long to answer, but your comment was one that somehow got hung up in the spam.
and a couple of specific question: 1) what would you say to a glass of wine during my “no food” evenings?
i averaged about 7-12 lbs loss/year
thanks i don’t drink diet drinks with aspartame, but not because they prevent fat burning.
or maybe we are also like animals that hibernate (bears come to mind), which don’t really need water since it’s produced from continuous fat oxidation.
i tryed the 24 hours on….
a sheep that weighs as much as a human has pretty much the same metabolic rate.
certainly works…i didn’t have any weight issues to begin with as i was already eating paleo, but decided to start eating that way on a 6 week icu rotation where we were severely understaffed (made life a lot easier).
i don’t have any experience with patients on if regimens and gerd, but i do have a ton of experience with patients on low-carb diets, which work like a charm.
i am wondering, though, if you think there would be any benefit to trying the schedule used in the study you cited—50% on one day, 144% on the next.
we call if pätkäpaasto in finnish, it is something like fast shorty in english.
q: how does the effect of amphetamine work with the fasting?
it is not difficult to manage.
there are no human longevity studies, but there are a number of human studies on cr and health that show that human subjects under cr conditions reduce blood sugar, improve insulin sensitivity, reduce blood pressure, etc., so it stands to reason that if humans reduced their caloric intake by 30-40 percent for their entire lives, they would also live longer.
example b day 1: breakfast, late lunch, sleep day 2: normal-timed lunch, dinner, sleep day 3:
for 5 days now, i have been drinking only water until 6 p.m. every day.
i  would do it in this one, but i (actually my web guy) upgraded my blogging  software and somehow the little buttons that let me link to other sites are  awol.
his breakfast is eggs, toast or pancakes.
i recommend it to everyone.
i couldn’t tell from your comment if you were or weren’t eating a higher-fat diet.
wouldn’t my body think i was ‘starving’ myself and hold on to all the fat?
and i’m doing the daily 18 hour fasts with my window of eating between 12p.m and 6p.m. i’ve only been doing it for 3 days…have plenty of energy and my brain feels very alert
reply i find it interesting that there are so many women reporting weight loss success with if when on lots of the other threads there are so many women wondering why they can’t lose weight.
later i have a banana for a snack ,sometimes a sandwitch & coffee or milk at noon, little treats during the day & a good dinner at 5:00 to 5:30 pm.
generally i fast for 20 hours and then consume my meals i eat within a 4 hour window.
keep us posted on how your fibromyalgia and your husband’s efforts to reduce his seizure meds progress on the regimen.
his silence on the subject is disturbing.
can anyone provide some weight loss stories and if thanks jaime hi jaime– i’ll throw it out for the group to comment on.
many mystics were enjoying long fasts seemingly not concerned about medical details, and they regarded it as an effective panacea, which they put into practice, allegedly with great effects.
– avoid eating within a few hours before bedtime.
must be new nerve cells getting created.
does your experience offer any insight?
i ate _a lot_ of carbs on the days that i did eat.
i have a three year old, and have been known to do the old “you can get down from the table after you finish eating” thing before.
cheers– mrereply can i chew sf gum while doing this?
i was quite tired the day after i skipped my window, but im not a big trainer, so no harm for me.
nothing like a little early positive feedback to keep one enthused.
since i was eating small amounts frequently i did not experience the effects of low blood sugar very often.
we didn’t check any lab work to see if any values had changed.
however, my workouts would always be scheduled on the overeating days.
also, you get to experience the exquisite pleasure of eating well, when you’re truly deep-down hollow hungry.
thanks also for the intelligent and well researched discussions of the subject.
i’d fast for exactly the same amount of days per year so calorically it would be the same as i’m doing now.
i’ve shrunk my eating window from 4-6hr to 1-3hrs most weekdays, and incorporated longer, more carb based cheats on the weekends.
well i assume because i exercise regularly and eat fairly healthy.
did people follow a low-carb diet on their eating days?
when i was in medical school i thought  i wanted to be a plastic surgeon so i went to stanford during a part of my  senior year and worked with dr. laub as my mentor.
on the mornings of my fast days i have boundless energy , especially when i do my exercises.
i tend to eat freely on eating days, and as you pointed out, it tastes very good then!
nothing, if you’re a sumo wrestler.
this maximizes my workout efficiency.
just logically, they can’t be eating just a regular japanese diet crammed into a few hours at night!!
i find it relatively easy to fast and eat very low calorie during the week, so that i can enjoy “normal” eating on the weekends.
my concern is my seizure meds, can i take those on an empty stomach?
i would eat because it was mealtime.
when md and i did our version of if we drank water whenever we were thirsty and drank coffee and other non-caloric beverages as per our taste.
this is my first time visiting this site.
when researchers restrict the caloric intake of a group of lab animals to about 30 to 40 percent of that of their ad libitum (all they want to eat) fed counterparts, they find that the calorically restricted animals live 30 percent or so longer, don’t develop cancers, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity.
thanks for the great info, daniel chong
we stuck with the regimen for a few weeks just to  see if we could tolerated it, which we did just fine.
where can i learn more?
good luck– mrereply this came from dr. hymans’s “ultrametabolism” book.
mrereply hello somewhere in your book “protein power lifeplan” you say something like… the smallest bite of food will kick-start the body into eating/digesting mode to deal with the nutrients (and wanting more and more ?).
even if it was ‘scientifically deduced’.
it wasn’t until i began to worry about weight and what i was eating, how often each day etc that i begin to struggle to keep that level of health–interesting!
i exercise daily and have a busy day job protecting assets of a large oil & gas company.
and i saw remarkable strength gains.
my question is: is the if program you described better overall than the warrior diet, in which the participant eats during a 2- or 4-hour window in the evening?
but, if you’re  willing to put up with a little irritability, hostility and depression, it  might be worth cutting your calories by 30 percent for the rest of your long,  healthy miserable life.
first, if it’s not too personal a question, do you mind sharing why you and your wife stopped doing if given all the benefits you list?
explain how they are the same “verbatim”.
some colleagues/friends would have their family life disrupted.
…the subjects were eating, on alternate days, either 900 calories or 2300 calories, averaging 1600, and that body weight was maintained.
in the evenings i graze constantly.
basically, i dont eat till after 12pm (ie no breakfast).
now we have a question.
i know loren cordain seemed to be intrigued by the idea of once-a-day meal frequency, as he covered in one of his recent newsletters.
one last thing: i have a friend that suffers from ibs.
i have never gotten to that “i’m gonna burst” feeling eaither.
on tuesday i felt a little lightheaded and at one point, nauseous, but not at all hungry.
1) “i think you should push back from the table when you’re still hungry” (famously long-lived okinawans do the same thing, hara bachi bu– eat until you are 80% full: http://www.okinawa-diet.com/okinawa_diet/hara_hachi_bu.html ) 2)
i’ve looked at a lot of longevity studies (including a lot using fruit flies) and i’ve never seen that one.
and i hope that i am not repeating myself.
reply 44 year-old male here.
over the period that we followed the various if regimens we lost a little weight because, unlike the rodents, we couldn’t eat twice as much during the eating days as we would have eaten were we not fasting.
we are so strongly programmed to eat 3 times a day.
on the next day we ate supper right after 6 pm and ate breakfast and lunch (and a few snacks) the next day until 6 pm when we started fasting again.
would like to buy one for my gf for xmas, she’s a great cook & will love that thing.
i’m probably eating 75% or less of what i would typically have for dinner, and today (which is an eating day) felt no urge to eat lunch.
what i have found is that this is a way to reduce your weekly total calories and can create a nice weekly calorie deficit.
i just like food too much.
i must admit, i am afraid because i prefer eating over weightloss.
i am african-american and read where it is normal for “us” to have dark gums.
i re-read your comments from august and am thinking my body must be on to my routine – and maybe it won’t work as well now.
i get the same low heart rate and relaxed feeling from low carb that i got from if – minus feeling cold.
it’s been my 5th year of if.
i was face down in my first plateful when i did it.
he has a website, http://www.arthurdevany.com/. your take on food is very similar to his.
i was waiting for dr md to weigh in on if, guess she saw the monster you created and decided to steer clear.
i certainly don’t think an if diet is conducive to anabolism but hey… 2.
the wed & fri fasts start after dinner on tue or thu – and no meals are eaten until after 3 pm on wed & fri – and those are one or two small, vegan-no-oil meals.
my practical mind jumps to other, non-health related pluses.
charlene hi charlene– thanks for the kind words about the site.
i am 5′ 10″, weight 175 lbs, i carry between 4 – 6% body fat and am often mistaken for being much younger.
i am going to start the slow burn if i can work all this out and do it all in a healthy fashion.
and it is the immune system that is the first line of defense against cancer.
hi tess– i’ll try to keep the news from eadesville a little bit more up to date.
i would guess it would still be workable, depending on how you schedule your workouts.
see how it works for you – it has worked for others.
lol i actually wandered onto this website because i google dr. mattson’s study on intermittent fasting.
get plenty of saturated fat, coconut oil is great.
however, isn’t it true that artificial sweetners are metabolized in the same way that pure sugar is?
and i found on my fasting days, by early afternoon, i could not concentrate, i was pretty spacey, zoned out and clumsy.
we fill up on pancakes, omelet, corn beef hash, and it just goes on.
dr. mike, i also read your blog in the anti-inflammatory properties of if.
and you’ll only be hungry for the first seven or eight months.
definitely will give this a try and started today.
breakfast lunch dinner day two eat: dinner with the last bite of food say 6:00pm day one and the next bite of food 6:00 pm day two (so a 24 hour period between bites) or is it: day one eat: breakfast lunch day two eat: dinner with the last bite being at lunch on day one and the next bite being dinner on day two (so around 28 hours between bites of food for the fasting period)
he is not a big carb eater but he could stand to lower them a little more.
i lost the weight quickly by resuming my one meal a day and i fasted on mondays.
i have great energy and enjoy health and many interests.
i’m an avid exerciser and can have about 4% body fat, carbs or no carbs, without a whole lot of effort, so i’ve always been a little afraid not to eat.
jessireply hi again dr. eades - i wrote to you back in august and you posted a great reply, thank you.
best– mrereply i do remember mrs. heller writing her story about how the diet came about just as the above poster mentioned.
any help you can give would be very appreciated.
i also plan on doing some exercise, so i was thinking that on the days i’m eating, i will lift weights and do some sit-ups (or if you have any other exercises that might help me lose weight and build muscle mass).
many people don’t consider this as fasting but when you consider that fasting is ketogenic then i conclude that fats are a plus not a negative.
i don’t know but i am being transformed.
clearly 170lbs on a 6’0″ adult frame isn’t “too skinny” no matter what chart you might consult.
thank’s for all the work you do on your site, by the way.
later, before i broke my fast, i decided to do a few minutes trying out some kettlebell moves.
in the meantime, if any of the readers of this blog would like to undertake an intermittent fast, i would love to hear the results of the experience.
hi portail– a study was published a few months ago showing that people who ate one meal per day had a slight increase in blood pressure (about a 6% increase) compared to people who ate the same diet spread over three meals.
i started if two weeks ago not really to lose weight but more for the health benefits that i have read about – but i was hoping to drop 5 or so pounds.
how long was the if?
in the early part of this century bernarr mcfadden, a famous health buff, would fast for days at a time.
btw, food tastes much better when you are physically hungry.
i have a paper that shows increased levels of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase in cold water swimmers compared to controls.
there are  no human longevity studies, but there are a number of human studies on cr and  health that show that human subjects under cr conditions reduce blood sugar,  improve insulin sensitivity, reduce blood pressure, etc., so it stands to  reason that if humans reduced their caloric intake by 30-40 percent for their  entire lives, they would also live longer.
i experienced lack of a real hunger, interestingly.
do you think black coffee would mess up the fasting times?
hi david– glad to hear you’ve been doing so well on the if regimen; most people i’ve encountered who have followed such a regimen really get into it and have the same experience you did.
i just noticed that you had commented here .
a condition of numbness in my arms and hands has pretty much disappeared, and my neck, which has hurt for years, hurts much less and i can turn my head further.
if, by some miracle, i can get him to try eating this way, i will let you know how it turns out.
so i began weekly day-long fasts (supper of day one, no eating except for coffee and wine on day 2 and commenced eating breakfast on day three) and did this until august 2004 when i returned from europe heavier than i wished.
i love food, and get very moody and pissed off at the world (just like those rats!
no sob, no chest pain, maybe a little light headed later after i started to freak out over the tingling.
i do eat more than 100 carbs a day.
however, i’m only 5″2″ and weighed no more than 110 for years, which felt like the best weight for me.
if i understand correctly, the muscle is rubbing against the nerve.
the contributions made by activity level and the thermic effect of food add to the total, but the largest component is determined by body weight alone.
normally i would expect a larger initial weight loss from such a change (due to water loss), and was curious to know if the body might react differently to caloric/carb reductions with this pattern of eating as opposed to similar reductions with “regular” eating.
http://360.yahoo.com/borndiva2006 thank you!
am i misguided in thinking that merely eating one day and not the next will prove to be as beneficial to my health as these guys imply?
following this advice but still overweight?
the nice thing about if is that one can get the benefits from it without sticking to a strict low-carb diet, although i suspect it works even better with a low-carb diet.
i wonder if if is an option for me.
i plan to do a strict one day fasting, next day low carb eating for 12 weeks just to see what it will do and lose the few pounds that i recently put on as a result of a major stress (no, not illness).i also run long distance including marathons (all on bare feet, incidentally) and do fine with the very low carb intake.
reply i do 24 hour fasts every other day x 5 years at least and do not experience ketosis (though i do drink a glass of wine and consume salmon oil capsules as my sole calories).
it sounds like this way of eating should eventually improve such a condition.
and of course, most importantly, what you can do to stop eating like a sumo wrestler and start eating what your body was designed to eat.
cholesterol went from 238 (last yr) to 194.
but i do plan on stepping on the scales soon too make sure im not like losing or something if an individual is in good health there should be nothing to fear from an intermittent fast.
i’m glad it’s working for you.
so, i ‘invented’ my system.
the amount of times i walked automatically towards the fridge door or the bread bin was quite scary.
after that i was usually too busy with homework/activities to eat again before bed, so this cycle amounted to eating once a day.
hi there, i’ve read a lot of your posts and really like to give this a try.
my question is that if i go on a low carb eating plan combined with the if – will i still slow my metabolism and gain even more weight?
reply i would like to include the fact that i donated blood to my husband for an upcoming surgery.
occasionally do eat dessert.
and you don’t get rid of the fat.
best– mrereply i think i still have the same question regarding, or rather comparing a well followed protein-adequate/carbohydrate-controlled approach like protein power with an intermittent fast.
if has been shown in studies to relieve allergic symptoms.
i have been low carbing for years and i do not lose on low carb if i don’t restrict calories as well but i find it impossible to restrict calories when i don’t low carb.
best– mrereply hi, mike…i thought you might be interested in how this discussion is progressing in one thread in your own forums.
hi carolyn– unless one doubles up on caloric intake on eat days, one definitely does cr.
(although the ent doctor i saw did not touch on any of those items.)
you could eat breakfast, then fast until breakfast the next day on workout days if you don’t feel that you can do your workouts without eating afterwards.
since these are non-caloric, they don’t really impact the if.
no wonder so many americans are overweight or obese!
i ended up gaining weight and feeling lousy.
i’ve had slightly elevated bp before if’ing, but since if’ing, it’s been much higher.
you may or may not stop producing a lot of ketones at 100 g carbs per day.
after that, it’s a breeze.
you wake up the next  morning and eat all day, then go to bed and start again.
in this respect, if has certain advantages.
she lost significant fat and thus the carb addict revolution began….so if in another incarnation, eat once in 24 hrs….it worked for me 18 years ago, i wonder why i stopped.
it’s not just a myth.
as i say to anyone who asks, if you’re doing fine on whatever regimen you are currently following, why change?
good luck– mrereply
having said that, however, your profile doesn’t look all that bad to me.
i’ve always been told to eat good protein immediatly after training.
if i wrote it, i was wrong.
thanks a lot in advance.
so i think this should be fun.
i have only been trying this for a few days but it is fairly easy to stick to and if i reap the other benefits then it is well worth it.
thank you for this thread and your great website.
i’m definitely going to give your schedule a try.
i don’t do that often
animals in the wild, particularly  carnivorous animals, don’t eat thrice per day; they eat when they make a  kill.
now i’m going back on it.
after a while my body learned to compensate and i got to my normal weight again.
my goal is to lose 5 pounds and keep it off, which seems like it should be easy, but i’ve tried many approaches over the last few years and none have worked.
they consider the very-low-carb diet dr. bernstein puts them on as a real burden and feel they need some help to stick with it.
when muscle breaks down the individual amino acids go into the pool from where they’re harvested by the system that converts them to glucose.
on march 1st 09, i decided to do my own version of if where i drink 1 – 3 glasses of the mc lemonade (1 tbsp organic maple syrup or blackstrap molasses or agave nectur, 2 tbsp lemon juice & a pinch of cayenne pepper) and/or fruit juice on 2 1/2 fasting days (totally about 150cals) and eat whatever i want for dinner on the 3rd day.
with very-low-fat diets, the gall bladder doesn’t squirt its contents out because there is no fat going down the digestive tract.
thanks again!reply i am indeed healthier now than i was 3 years ago.
not as low as induction but low.
this is just amazing!
all i can say is this – i feel better than i ever have in my short (33 years) life.
the only question i had regarding my fasting state (8pm-12pm) are bcaa allowed?
any thoughts/suggestions?
i have always heard that eating your larger meal early in the day was more healthful…is there any truth to that, or is it another myth??
given it essentially changed my life (about 10 major health issues cleared up miraculously after 10 days — probably from ditching all gluten and milk during the period)
my question is, if i should start to feel the manic ravenous crazy state that i can sometimes fall into, is it best to break the fast and try another day or gut it out.
second, although many of these studies were done using unhealthy subjects, a number were performed on people, both healthy and unhealthy, who were fasting for religious reasons.
sure, i get stomach-grumbling hungry late in the day, but it’s easy to take, since i know i’ll be eating later.
hi lc– see today’s post.
(i do not keep losing weight)
does a protein shake count as food or drink?
then i came across your blog here while looking for more info.
i was really hoping if would be the answer
i asked if you would consider the pritikin diet acceptible for a cancer patient wanting to practice i.f. (i.e. eating pritikin on the on days), since it is low in fat and high in (complex) carbohydrates.
md and i settled on the regimen that we did because it breaks up the day nicely and gave us something to eat every day.
best– mrereply hi, dr. e. - stumbled upon your blog and found it fascinating.
best– mrereply i started low carb 2.5 years ago in order to get my ravenous appetite under control and quit gaining weight (losing 60# has been a nice side benefit).
anything here that you would tweak, dr. eades?
but, that one meal is well worth waiting for.
if all systems are working better – including the digestive tract – nutrients would be more likely to be better absorbed.
or  better yet, what if i told you that you could eat pretty much anything and  everything you wanted and even improve your health?
getting the feeling to skip breakfast or lunch lately .
i will stop eating at 6pm tomorrow.
i’m working out 1 to 3 hours prior to my first meal, so approximately 15 hours after last eating.
and to end, may i just add my voice to the chorus thanking you for such an interesting and provocative article and an overall interesting blog.
hi levi– it bumfuzzles me why your blood pressure has gone up.
if you reduce calories significantly over the long run, you will reduce you caloric output as well.
i have noticed that i am not hungry for the 2 lc meals, only the rm at dinner time.
congrats on excellent blog!
cheers– mrereply kudo’s on the great blog dr. mre; it seems exercise in the morning during if might augment growth hormone (gh) release.
even a soy burger patty or small glass of skim milk for protein.
best– mrereply hi dr. eades, i was wondering if you have any information on if and metabolism?
don’t eat all day and have just one big meal.
susan hi susan– i would probably try to gut it out until dinner on the fasting days.
but, i have your comfort food cookbook and since i puchased it i have found that i cannot tolerate soy (it makes me have arthritis like symptoms and being hypothyroid i am not supposed to have it for that reason either)
one of my favorite (off topic) stories is when an elderly couple came into the shop and asked about the “98% fat free” doughnuts.
i always knew that was what worked for me.
i felt very strong on my weight training and bike ride even on and empty stomach at the end of the fast.
i’m about to start my second year in college and wanted to know if there would be any fall back on the “if” if i had followed it “warrior fast” style and missed the time period i was giving myself to eat?
while this makes logical sense, i’m wondering if anybody had the same reaction?
one pecular note is, for years i have had very brief, very clotty, very painful periods.
it just seems to me that ketosis would increase one’s ability to absorb nutrients.
eagerly awaiting your reply!
i feel great on the fasting days, and i can feel a nice spiritual effect too.
my second question is i have a trainer that works me out now 3 times per week and i don’t eat until everyday at 8 pm, will no food give me less energy or hurt me at all in my workouts?
http://www.dr-gonzalez.com/ i’ll give it a look.
oh, and i guess short of exercise too, since my schedule has made all but a lunch-time walk a few times a week difficult.
if might work, but i will gladly read about the results.
but given the fact that i have a quite sedentary job and lifestyle altogether, i guess it’s not too bad a result.
but i realize that for some, there is more satisfaction in being able to eat *whenever* they want, even if what and how much they eat are restricted.
should these be avoided during the fasting intervals?
cheers– mrereply hi doctor, a question about eating qod.
seems pretty simple, but it’s amazing how many people eat at set times whether hungry or not.
so far, as of this morning, i have lost pounds 3.8 pounds i noticed a huge low carb following here and that you only drank water & black coffee on your fasting days.
after dinner on the fast days, i got a massive surge of energy.
@mory – you said ” its so odd that everyone looses [sic] significant wt.”.
as a matter of fact they went many days without eating, especially, during the winter months.
one basically confines all their eating to a 4 hour window, so you’re fasting 20 hours/day or so.
i like instant gratification (as do most people) and i have a significant amount of weight to lose.
the fast sounds excellent – i must give it a go.
interesting post by the way.
this is a wonderful post, mike, thanks!
now i have to admit, i’m and always have been vegetarian, or better–quasi vegetarian, i.e. i do not eat white or red meat
these stones usually stay in the gall bladder, but sometimes when someone who has been on a low-fat diet for a long time decides to go out and blow it out on pizza or burgers or some other high fat food the trouble can start.
this helps me sleep; otherwise, i toss and turn.
thanks so much for this interesting article and information!
hi there, thanks for the excellent read.
i was eating 3-4 meals a day.
running with freedom and energy instead of pain and dread is something i’ve literally dreamed about, but never experienced until today.
it’s the long period of having no food that provides the health benefits.
i fasted on mon, wed & fridays every week and allowed myself anything i wanted on the other 4 days.
talked a bit about the concept with my roommate, who runs triathlons.
(or why anyone’s would go up.)
i also have “thin so fast” and i want to thank you for writing them and for all the research you put into them.
anyway i was wondering if if could be effecting my metabolism.
what can i do to get enough protein without causing this reaction?
based around what i first read about the warrior diet.
so my strong suggestion for anyone overweight is to try a strict low-carb regimen first, and then consider if only when you’ve reached normal weight.
also, i definitely would enjoy drinking calorie free soda and drinks on my fasting days.
in addition  to the health effects, this pattern of eating has proven to be a good method of  weight control, and we are continuing to study the process in conjunction with  the nih.
despite already being lean, i became even leaner despite no longer having time for exercise, without losing any significant muscle mass.
i’m not particularly health conscious; i’m doing this in aid of the prospective increase in cognitive ability, and reduction in the effects of stress, both of which would be greatly beneficial!
we did take our supplements on fasting days, we just took them during the period during the day when we were eating, i.e., before 6 pm or after 6 pm depending on the day.
it occurred to met that in paleo times no one was mucking around in the morning preparing food.
whew, so much has been observed and experimented on this subject.
i’ve also gotten a bunch of info from robb wolf and the crossfit community.
the more data that comes in – especially human data – the more i’m convinced it is a healthful way to live.
i would imagine that paleolithic man did the same.
in most societies, both eastern and western, periods of fasting where common.
but i’ve recently read how sweeteners (aspartame, etc.) slow down the fat burning process as they over work the liver etc
hi sheyla– there isn’t a limit.
i’ll be interested in following your progress.
swimming and 2 days of 90-min weights) and have found no difference in performance, though sometimes i feel a bit weaker on the morning after a fasting day (i do eat before working out
hi mallory– the beauty of the intermittent fast is that one can eat a higher-carb diet and still get health benefits.
this is a real dilemma for me, given the many beneficial effects of i.f.
if you aren’t restricting carbs as much, you could also eat more of cheaper higher carb veggies and whole grains.
i’m also more aware of eating only when hungry.
there is no question that a significant weight loss typically reduces overall blood sugar levels, so why have you and others had an increase?
we anxiously awaited his test results only to find they are worse.
after reading your updated ideas on ifing, i thought i would add that, after ifing for months on end (six to date), im finding it a wonderful lifestyle.
i began losing again early january, after adding vitamin d 3 to my diet.
and i’m certainly not crazy:)
today would be my 2nd fast day and so far no problem.
hi todd– interesting point about different people having a ‘preferred’ vigilance.
hi linda– the portion of metabolism affected by diet is relatively small.
i reasoned then that since it was so easy to do this once weekly i could do it more often and then did from two to three days per week for over a year.
in regular fasting one goes entirely without food, which is caloric  restriction carried to the extreme.
with the cr if (judddd), sld, continuous, gradual weight reduction, exercise, specific nutritional supplementation (cellfood, stemenhance, oxegen bp, idebenone, fo-ti (like resveratrol/japanese knotweed), magnesium, hawthorne berry etc., etc., since 2 weeks into ecp and ever since, i feel better than i have in 10 yrs…as energetic and healthy as if i didn’t have chf…full energy, full breath, etc.
has he published nothing since then regarding the benefits of this diet?
yes i did get a glycosolated hemoglobin test it was 5.1 and has always been in this range for the last 8 years.
cheers– mrereply i am in dr eades, i have stopped having diet sodas i was hoping maybe with this plan i can have a soda and still lose weight?
my focus is greatly improved in the late afternoon.
my point being i guess fasting does have some real health benefits when doing it for a long period of time say 16-17hrs a day.
reply hmm, i’m not quite sure about this.
i found, doing if, that at first i lost weight and felt really good, but after a while i stopped losing weight and started to get tired a lot again and having to take naps (it is almost involuntary, i have to sleep, not normal tiredness)
even though my weight is ideal for my height my wife says i look too skinny.
i ate dinner on thursday and then ate nothing except coffee with cream until dinner on friday.
we found that it indeed is.
let me know how you do.
every few days i find myself trolling google to make sure my muscles aren’t going to disappear.
i’ve learned what hunger really feels like and how to delay gratification and it’s been eye-opening to find out how much time i spend planning meals, preparing them, eating them, etc… on my fasting days, i have so much more time.
i also want to compare it to my other runs.
not pigging out mind you, but enjoying some wine, bread and occasional dessert.
mrereply dr bert herring has a similar if plan, which calls for fasting all day till 5pm, much like the warrior diet.
others do just fine with heavy workouts in the morning while ifing.
however, the weight loss stalled there.
another study on boxers eating 2 vs. 6 meals a day showed more muscle maintenance on 6 meals, although protein intake was abysmally low and the study had some shortcomings, such as a poor measure of body comp.
my pre-meal is usually in the 80s and my post can be up to 105.
during the first 2 weeks i found it impossible on the fasting days to drink black coffee so i was cheating and drinking coffee with a small amount of milk.
but i plan to eat the remains throughout the day if i get any hunger pangs until dinner.
funny i’m sure the sirt1 genes are involved, and i would bet that if stimulates them.
i may just get to my goal weight yet!
i am by-no-means an athlete but i walk everyday while i am fasting.
the beauty of the program is that you can chow down to your heart’s content on the eating days as long you don’t eat on the fast day.
you eat all day, then go to bed, wake up in the morning and fast all day, then go to bed.
or is it just less calories?
do you have any recommendations?
best– mre replyreply hi michael, a group of finnish low carbers have tested if for a while.
i’ve had pancreatitis before
so many different variations, fast all day everyday, every other day, normal carb, low carb….
i remember following it in high school, only eating between 3-6pm
have looked for data comparing wild and feedlot style meat and composition of coq10, lipoic acid etc and have not found any.
cheers– mrereply how does this eating method fit into an active lifestyle?
i think you could do it, but it would require a lot of vigilance, diligence and help from your diabetes doc.
but if your eating a little more on the non-fasting days, your metabolism shouldn’t suffer.
i lost weight rapidly and felt very energized.
most of us don’t experience real hunger anymore; we just think we do.
a number of different research teams have studied a method by which rodents can get all the health and longevity benefits of caloric restriction without calorically restricting.
the doctors just say, “make him eat less.”
dinner was a beef patty, mustard greens and sliced avocados.
any tips or help is greatly appreciated.
some research shows that a fairly steady supply of aminos need to be ingested regularly to build and/or maintain muscle while dieting.
usually, that meant some fish, salads, veggie sprouts, beans, occasionally eggs, a lot of fruits.
i began taking chromium 2 years ago.
will this fasting – mixed with eating days of low carb and weight training for an hour 3 x a week and doing cardio for an hour 3x a week – help get rid of excess skin by any chance?
it’s great to hear from folks who have been following such a lifestyle for some time, and who have put their own twist on it.
thanks for the feedback.
loved the article anyway…just had to add my 2 cents!reply another great blog entry michael.
i can’t even get my doctor to call me back to talk about if, but i’m doing it.
hi sunny– that’s what the studies seem to show.
just one question: do you think it matters if i drink a couple of smoothies on the fasting days?
i have gained 60 lbs over the last five years; never had a weight issue until this time.
i am nowhere near being athletic but exercise in some form has always been important to me.
i know that i did make comments on this
cheers– mrereply how about low carb diets?
one of the contributors to the aa pool is enzymes that are no longer needed and junk proteins that the body is cleansing from the cells.
if you mean is it okay to have cream with your coffee on the if, my wife would say, go for it.
im just a pound or two away from my goal weight now – the fasting has helped me shed over 10 pounds since my plateau in october.
i’m going to be talking to my web guy later today; i’ll ask him for some suggestions.
my guess is that it allows the liver (the metabolic master organ) have a chance to rest and rehabilitate.
it would be easier not to have to worry about too much.
i’ve never skipped more than one meal in my whole life.
would that be related to fasting?reply hello, i am a female 5’4 around 140 size 6.
i think i will stay pretty low carb, i feel better.
what about supplement fillers that include small amounts of carbs?
reply hi folks – great post, great replies.
the insulin signaling system j. biol chem 1994;269: 1-5 probably a good idea.
hi sue– i hadn’t considered the other virtues of every other day eating such as only having to clean the kitchen half as much.
i love life and enjoy food, however i have food and my body under my control, this is a wonderful feeling.
i have read you book and readily tell people about it.
i started intemittent fasting in august 2005, so at time of typing, i’ve been doing it for three years, four months
kab i don’t think a blood sugar post meal of 115 is all that high.
i don’t know whether i lost any muscle as i was told, but after an hour in gym everything hurts …
if sounds like it could heal my problem.
i really enjoyed reading this and i’m definatly going to try this out!
my question is more on timing.
the china study is something to consider with this.
best– mrereply this sounds really interesting, and i think i might give it a try.
that´s an interesting alternative showing that what the body feels, such as stress, influences the body weight.
if you do decide to give if a try, be sure to let me know how it works for you.
blood sugar can fall in a hurry, sometimes more quickly than your liver can replace it.
i have always had great luck reducing blood sugars with low carb but the uric acid kidney stones has made it more difficult.
no low blood sugar symptoms, energy levels high.
as you can imagine, it is not easy to put a child on a calorie-restricted diet, for a variety of reasons.
not for religious reasons such as sympathy for animals but for health reasons.
cheers– mrereply i just came across this idea a couple days ago.
i think this may be why the if approach increases bdnf in the brain – because during fasting it is getting a stable input of energy from the body, rather the continuously fluxing which comes from digesting food.
q: does if include all beverages?
if i’m low-carbing, i want to fast every other day and eat whatever i want.
ive tried a few if diets, but the judddd really works for me for weight-loss.
keep me posted on how you do if you give it a whirl.
as i understand it, the reason why alternate fasting is thought to make people live longer and better is because it positively affects the metabolic profile.
“i’m not really hungry, but i really want some mango. ”
when i do, i’ll go into the subject in a little  more detail and show a chart that demonstrates the difference between cr and  if.
i have really enjoyed the self-knowledge i’ve gained from going without food several days a week.
i went ahead and had some because i had a quiz coming up at 11 in a class i’m taking and was worried if i didn’t eat i wouldn’t be able to concentrate.
most fasted until 5 or 6 pm on the fast days, then ate, then ate regularly on the eat days.
when you skip breakfast, your body automatically goes into starvation mode (which i explained in an earlier lesson).
i’m curious because one of the virtues of the if is that it gives people a little more leeway carbwise in their diet.
fruits & vegetables?
in short, you want as much bdnf as you can get., and with if you can  get a lot.
also, for the past two months are so i’ve been eating low carb, which i like as a lifestyle.
reply started if about 3 weeks ago and had my blood test done a few days back.
most rodents feed throughout the day and night, so restricting them for 24 hours does just that: it restricts them for 24 hours.
hi mary– good luck with your regimen.
i would love to start an if program
the sirt1 gene is great, but why make it work so much harder by eating food that’s bad for us?
i have been convinced since way before you published pp that lc is the way to go, since i’ve struggled with reactive hypoglycemia for many years.
reply i don’t think intermittent fasting should be used as an excuse to eat junk food.
is there any change for those values based on eating significantly less food less often?
when i explained to my doctor my eating routine he told me it was not normal and suggested the same 3-5 meals a day and no fasting.
we could have been happy on the intermittent fasting  regimen for the long term.
none of the subjects in any of  these studies has done the full 24 on-24 off that md and i did.
so although my weight is down a tad, it’s too soon to say if that’s real.
there is no set regimen that i know of because people are just beginning to feel their way through this whole idea.
is it possible to do a low carb/high protein diet by using mostly fruits and vegetables (low glycemic of course)?
i just happened to stumble onto this because i was fasting out of frustration with my digestive problems last week.
my tummy would never allow it.
so i tend to believe (for me) that the liver has that 24 hour supply.
he is writing a book called evolutionary fitness, training and eating like a human did hundreds of years ago.
other than that i feel ok and am not finding it too hard.
if you have any thoughts or recommendations we would be very appreciative.
looking back i realize i did this a lot of if when i was younger, some days not eating much if anything other days eating normally and enjoyed fantastic health.
my rationale being that in paleo times there was variation in what was eaten and when eating occurred and it would tend to be a few hours after getting up each day.
what i liked about that was i could feel myself getting stronger physically and mentally.
mcts absorb directly into the circulation instead of going through the lymphatics as do the longer-chain fats.
use the search function and put in ‘heat shock protein.’
no question about it.
the much-villainized and misunderstood uric acid is upregulated and replaces nearly all of vitamin c (ascorbic acid)’s job when vitamin c is low, and very, very little vitamin c is lost on a no-carb, no-plant diet (some plants have a lot of vitamin c, but plant anti-nutrients and high carb intake depletes your vitamin c reserves quickly).
fast 6 pm until 6 pm the next day?
i plan a post on this subject in the near future.
jannette i know a lot of people, myself included, who have done if.
anyway, i have been aiming at a very low 1300 calories day to lose weight, it works, but i hate it.
i wouldn’t worry about the bcaa.reply just a short note… i live in thailand.
i finally realized it is a system that must be implemented whole-heartedly in order to maximize results and benefits.
i just started your program suggested in the blog for if this past thursday since because of living overseas right now and not having my own way to control my whole meal plan at the moment.
muscle is the repository of amino acids, which are converted to glucose in the gluconeogenic process.
as far as how i feel and especially for weight loss.
anyway, i’m lucky enough to have a very flexible schedule, so i’m thinking i could make this even easier by shifting the magic hour to 2pm.
you might want to try that for a week or so to see if the eczema gets better.
best– mrereply thanks for the post, dr eades, and thanks for answering so many emails.
so it’s been fascinating to read your comments (and the comments of others) in favor of 1 meal a day.
we modern humans have become acculturated to the  three square meals per day regimen.
my daily appetite is getting less of an urge as in the previous readings in this article , i’m not hungry in the morning so i have a slice of toast & peanut butter with my coffee in the am .
will the hypoglycemic body eventually adapt to the fasting.
caloric restriction is a terrific way to lose weight and get healthy;  problem is, it’s not much fun.
to understand how they do it, you need to first understand how they live: they skip breakfast, exercise for about 5 hours, eat a huge meal, and then take a long nap.
it’s working..my fastings are lower…i feel pretty good.
i truely believe that i have found a way.
i, too, have strong dietary beliefs, but i usually have a scientific basis to cling to.
i worry more with breakfast because i work early in the morning.
so, no eggs, no progeny… bad idea to die!
i’ve lost pretty consistently, averaging about 1.5 lbs per week for a total of 7.5 lbs so far.
i do martial arts and heavy weight-training and would not want to compromise performance or gains in either case.
best– mrereply i realize this isn’t a diet per se
i am a participant in the diabetic prevention program outcome study and will go back for bloodwork in february and hoping for better numbers.
wasn’t trying to lose weight but a few pounds was nice.
cheers– mrereply i really want to try i.f.
reply waltk, what you did is called restricted feeding, and has a slightly different mechanism… you were “lucky” because as long as i understand, restricted feeding only works like if when the eating is doing almost in the night time, because cheats the circadian rhythm of your body and “reset” the cycle, so it could be adjusted to the feeding pattern, without de-synchronize the clock of your organs and tissues and the clock of hypothalamus.
there have been a few human studies on if, and all have shown a marked  improvement in virtually every parameter tested.
i find it much easier to not eat as in the if program and then to eat what i want.
it all depends upon what you’re eating overall.
i like to do fasted state cardio in the mornings, but the amino acids ensure that no muscle is lost.
humans with greater  levels of bdnf have lower levels of depression.
the idea being to keep your blood sugar on an even keel and not spiky.
i’m 350 looking to drop about 100 lbs.
there have been physical benefits, as well.
if i remember correctly, he did bad mouth low carb, but recommended eating a big meal once per day as he believed the warriors of times past had done.
and don’t worry about it with resistance training.
i’ve noticed a couple of things, and will be curious to see if they continue.
take the next step to a rich, satisfying and healthy life.
i’m eating between 5 and 10 p.m. every day, fasting the rest of the time.
would it be a reasonable plan for someone who does not eat meat but wants to still go low carb?
the organs are functioning at their peak performance.
at least not on the fast days.
doesn’t that apply here as well?
thanks for bringing it up.
it just doesn’t work that quickly.
concerning “metabolic slowdown” you’ve said that the main determinant of metabolic rate is lean body mass, i believe, since muscle is metabolically active tissue.
we ate breakfast and usually a late lunch (circa 3-4 pm) on day one, then didn’t eat again until about 6 pm on day two.
any thoughts on this system?
if you kick up your intake on the eat days, your metabolism should be fine.
i would bet that it does, however.
i’m saving for one of those cooking contraptions, too.
hi tess– thanks for the good wishes!
so if i tried if, am i correct to think i would only consume say 800 or maybe a little less one day, then 1800 the next, and so on?
it’s difficult for me to comment without knowing a lot more.
i’m 5’9″ and weigh around 143 lbs..
i don’t normally eat much in a day if anything, so it isn’t going to be very difficult to change my eating habits – but i do have a question.
i am very overweight and have been fasting for 2-3 days at a time and eating one meal on my non fasting days.
i have to say i love doing it.
one of the recent papers published on the less rigid if schedules caught my  eye because one of the authors was don laub, who used to be the chairman of the  plastic surgery department at stanford.
i have not kept strict numbers on calories or carbs since starting this thinking it was unnecessary, but maybe i had better.
in fact, they’ve decreased.
and i know that i am all out of whack, and trying to reverse this thing.
intermittent fasting (if) is just as its name implies: a period of fasting alternated with a period of eating.
one nice side effect of this way of eating is that i have now a tremendously more precise feeling how much food i *really* need to eat.
what’s the message here?
best– mrereply mike…my friend who was an avid lc’er along with me has been going to a trainer at a gym.
i have also been interested in using one of dr. bernstein’s ideas…i read his article on his website regarding weekly rotation of various appetite suppressants herbal and/or prescription.
my senior year i began eating lunch during the day and immediately gained weight and developed some acne.
protein is broken down into its constituent amino acids, which are then used or stored.
hi ross– i don’t see any problems with your regimen as long as you get plenty of calories on your eat days.
fast (3rd 24 hour fast) friday: eat as per normal after 4:30 pm (i’m guaranteed to eat a lot on friday nights, so i extended the previous fast to cover it) saturday:
anyway, just pondering ideas here.
i am not asking for your medical advice, but is this common with fasting and what is a suggestion to try?
keep me posted on how you’re doing with it.
another note: i would also like to hear other comments or findings related to other benefits of if.
too much fruit sugar i guess, i never eat processed stuff apart from rye bread and soy yoghurt.
i did not change my low carb eating habits of 3 square meals a day.
everything that happens is good.
i eat every 36 hours, mostly carrot / apple juice, oranges and sometimes toast.
one would get the best of  all worlds healthwise this way.
the studies i’ve read address an if with a fasting period of a day or less, but there may be some with longer periods of fasting.
carb restriction is the most intuitive way to achieve this, but it does seem that if is a serious rival.
i am planning to work up to a 5k run just to see if it can be done.
and i don’t believe that there is any special detoxifying properties of fruit.
michael could many things, the vast majority of which are not serious.
some of them have their own sets of problems, but they don’t have sugarlike effects.
a great advantage of intermittent fasting is that it is eminently doable for the average person as evidenced by breuning himself.
i’m glad to hear that you’re still doing so well.
no, they make no reference to low-carbs.
and increased levels of bdnf improves cognitive  ability.
and i was a lot thinner back then!
i do tend to over-eat at the end of each fast – the consequence of this is my belly feels like it has a brick inside it – but this soon passes.
if it does, your problems are solved.
the only problem i constantly encounter are the friends and family members that think i am crazy for doing this.
reply hi michael, this blog is so active i couldn’t find a clear answer to my question, so sorry if you’ve already addressed it.
she is thin and exercises so we together have a high energy life style.
now, i can say that the results are astounding.
i’m an artist after all after a career as an academic physician who no longer sees patients but contributes to the scientific literature (indeed, on completion and submission of this, i need to get back to work on a paper that has a deadline!)
i want and keep my calorie intake below 500.
i hope to continue the intermittent fasting and make it part of my overall plan.
incidentally, i’ve been drinking about 3 litres of water a day; some of that from green tea but none from carbonated/caffeinated beverages.
cheers– mrereply hmm gorging yourself on a meal then sleeping or laying around until it was time for the next meal, sounds like a great lifestyle to me.
cathy hi cathy– i’ll keep an eye on it.
if i am not mistaken, isn’t this unique to other caloric sources?
after 11 weeks i am down 15 pounds but more importantly my blood pressure is down from 140/80 to 115/68!
lowering carbs would have made a world of difference.
so i didn’t add any oil) and half a large seasoned rotisserie chicken (from the supermarket; already cooked and still hot) with about 130g of salad (i’m lazy, so i buy bags of salad).
eating to the point of real satisfaction would be such luxury, yet has always seemed so unattainable… so… no restriction if i only eat once a day (low-carb, of course)??
of course it’s nice not having to think about food during the day, or having to spend $7 or $8 or more on lunch out every day, and while the weight loss is nice as well, i was also losing when just following protein power normally (i still restrict my carbs and make sure i get my minimum protein according to pp every day while on if).
i will probably pick 8pm because i like to eat and watch my tv show.
if you’re only eating, say 1600 calories per day, you can only be burning 1600 (if you’re weight-stable).
i try for one hour of strenuous exercise per day, as at the gym once or twice a week, which includes weight work, cross trainer and treadmill.
i go to work without eating.
now i have more self’-control.
hi ryan– the ‘stretch’ reflex could conceivably cause a problem, but in all the studies i’ve read, glucose levels and insulin sensitivity improve.
i’m glad the regimen is working out for you.
if i try it, i’ll let you know how it goes.
i have found that each one is a little easier than the previous one.
first and foremost, when we do eat, we eat a lot less and feel stuffed.
let me think about how we could bring it about.
they are separated by one eating day.
i think i am very near whatever my body thinks is its ‘set weight” because it is very difficult for me to lose weight.
mrereply i made it 24 hours just fine!
i know that fasting has been a good way to jumpstart my weight loss.
obviously, once they are produced, they don’t just disappear overnight.
once at 5:00 and again at 7:00.
i’m going to do another post on if soon, so i’ll give you an update then.
dr. bernstein’s patients come to get their diabetes treated and many don’t really care about their weight.
dr. rachael heller only ate one meal per day before the book was written and that is how she lost over 100 lbs.
however, there seems to be a bit of confusion with “what is the way to go now… dr. mike now says we need to fast to get better health… whatever happened to protein power then?”
while i knew i would be quite hungry after my first fast day, when 6:00pm rolled around i felt like i couldn’t stop eating.
http://www.proteinpower.com/forum/showthread.php?t=1423 several posters have questions/concerns about the impact of if on hypoglycemia and on reinforcing binge behavior and/or emotionally-motivated eating.
every morning i do all my exercises.”
in summer 2008 i discovered fasting.
would this be considered a meal or as a liquid?
if you’re only eating every other day the 1400 to 1500 calories for a couple of meals actually sounds a little low.
doctor, has there been any new research on if?
hi iris– you don’t force gluconeogenesis by eating protein.
i’ve done the warrior diet in the past, so i understand the basic concept (and i do kinda miss the old wd days).
but isn’t that what we do anyway?
when i was in medical school i thought i wanted to be a plastic surgeon so i went to stanford during a part of my senior year and worked with dr. laub as my mentor.
as of this weekend i have been doing intermittent fasting for 2 years.
i don’t think i am eating double the amount of calories on my eat days
in the beginning those meals looked like binging feasts but as my stomach became smaller my meals became smaller too.
or simply be content with trading the extra five pounds for the benefits being able to eat what you want on the weekends brings you.
does that seem reasonable?
can this possibly be to the fact that i have been insulin resistant for so long
it feels as if my allergic rhinitis is slightly less on the low cal days, but not on the ad lib ones so far.
the point of me writing to you is how can i easily make this life change when everyone else in the world lives with the concept that 3 meals per day is the only way.
i’ll continue to use the 24-hour fast (skipping bkfst and lunch only) for maintenance in 2012.
as you know, it is low fat… but the carbohydrates are complex, not simple.
fasting sped up my metabolism- it didn’t slow it down.
we believe widespread use of this pattern of eating could impact influenza epidemics and other communicable diseases by improving resistance to infection.
during the fasting intervals, one would use stored glycogen and, eventually, glucose from amino acids for those tissues that need glucose.
a smaller, less complex gi tract needs foods (meat, for example) that is nutritionally dense and easily digestible.
i blogged about my experiences here: http://radven.livejournal.com/116689.html we haven’t been doing a true fast, and i think that helps.
the weight gain period was eating mostly 1 meal a day, of megacarbs before collapsing into my 4 hours of sleep.
http://www.diabetic-talk.org/dp.htm note: these sf packets like splenda are not a free food as they contain maltodextrin from corn (~1 carb).
i was thinking of eating at 6 pm but wasn’t that hungry and i couldn’t decide what to eat
anyways, it would have been really nice to see part 2 of your post together with part one.
but whether the advantage holds up with the intermittent fast is anyone’s guess.
i’m doubtful that 20 human days alternating would be equivalent — the rats wouldn’t be starving in their 24 hour fasting period, just hungry.
for most of the afternoon i had a headache, but it wasn’t bad enough that it stopped me from working, nor disturbed my sleep (i still had it as i fell to sleep).
i would be very interested in starting an if regimen again, and have actually been toying with the idea for some time…i studied anthropology in college, so have been aware of if for a few years now.
my fast begins after sundays meal and that is usually around 4 pm.
it may sound just as semantics, but somehow, living longer and aging slowly it’s not the same, at least not to me.
thanks in advance for your information.
good luck– mrereply “http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/fasting/ have suddenly become aware of the fact that they have very slightly elevated fasting glucose levels.
did they eat anything at all on the fast days?
low carb has helped greatly with joint pain, but it improved even more after beginning if.my son is having problems with his sciatic nerve.
however, when i followed the link to you article on this site: http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2008/03/03/real-life-extension-caloric-restriction-or-intermittent-fasting-part-2/ i found the following at the end of part ii: “its looking like the intermittent fast is another of those ideas in science that looks good in animal studies then not so good in human studies, proving once again that rats and mice arent simply furry little humans.
best– mrereply i am a friend of lisa’s and am learning about dercum’s from her.
i enjoy eating alot of low carb/protein/ with added fats such as butter and coconut oil.
mrereply there is a diet that uses if: the warrior diet.
i often don’t eat at all
it didn’t improve the way i felt of course, since i didn’t change my diet.
i just think maybe am not doing enough as i can’t stand coffee without cream and just having tea and water i get a little sick.
i’m also tracking my blood pressure (just one reading a day), so i’ll be able to see if there is any trend there.
people who have never been on such a regimen don’t believe how unhungry they really are when they don’t eat carbs.
i have a lot of weight to lose, but will not weigh to avoid moood swings and since the benefits of this is so much more than weight loss.
i have a two-hour eating window in the evening, and stick to relatively low carb eating.
i started if (after the pattern you suggested) on monday–didn’t weigh until tuesday morning.
i can’t think of a reason you would damage your metabolism by intermittent fasting, so i wouldn’t worry about that.
if you have time for new thoughts that would be great!
for one, the cells are not clogged with an over abundance of glucose plus ketones are aplenty.
it is sort of like what would happen if we decided to move away from gasoline to some other fuel.
i’m 15 and overweight, and figure it’s about time i do something about it.
i drink loads of it all the time, so if that’s what it takes to get you through the fasting days, i would say that the data says, go for it.
most of the people who know me think i’m strange anyway, so the would just probably figure it’s par for the course.
other days i do an hour walk or a total of an hour on nordic track.
i’m going to start this tomorrow (saturday), and i’d appreciate any comments, guidance, or good jokes you may have.
i eat enough to not be hungry and make sure i don’t stretch my stomach.
why can it not simply be treated as a fact of life.
you’ll have to enlighten me a little more.
another brother died at age 78.”
i have been doing this on and off for a few years and whenever i do, i lose weight and i have more energy (in fact, i did the ‘eat one meal a day’ regimen eating non low carb a few years ago and also lost weight and had more energy).
best– mrereply dear dr. mike, i’ve been on if for 48 hours now
it’s still a bit of mystery to me why some form of if hasn’t shown up in big media outlets, such as on the “biggest loser” show.
from personal experience, i’ve been doing daily 16 hours fasts for 10 days now, and my performance on brain training games at luminosity.com has risen significantly.
(funny thing is this also *might* be true of manganese, mostly found in plants but replaced by magnesium in cases of deficiencies… )
increasing heat shock protein levels increases the body’s ability to deal with stress.
i keep my meals to naturally low carb whole foods (grass-fed pasture finished meats, ocean fish, non starchy vegetables, eggs, butter and olive oil and very small amounts of berries/melon) but plan on trying some portion controlled higher carb whole foods soon.
i plan to continue to monitor it closely, especially since i’m off my meds, but in my limited experience, if is a miracle.
moreover, i ultimately wasn’t eating enough calories, which made my body think it was starving and shut down my t4 to t3 conversion.
seems like the meat protein is what is allowing you to feel full for long periods of time.
he, too, believes it is the paleolithic way and that meal timing could be equal in importance to meal composition.
so i decided to just skip supper and wait until the next morning to eat.
but i soon got very comfortable doing it.
i check every day to see what is new in eadesville!
yeah, i know… flies aren’t men… but neither are rodents!
best– mrereply thanks for the insightful blog post dr eades i eat only one low carb meal during the day during the week.
but now that you’ve mentioned ph, i’m really in the mood.
it takes about 3 days before your body will eat its on muscle for energy.
i have very stubborn hypertension.
i’ve used this model on-and-off since 1996 and given the growing obesity crisis, wanted to share it.
i don’t want to lose weight (i’m about 22% bf and quite happy there), so i’d like to keep the cals up.
what apparently makes this regimen work is the period of time one goes without food.
when one is fasting, one of the group of enzymes not really needed is the group of digestive enzymes that would otherwise be employed in digesting food.
after the day’s labors, you get to sit down to a ‘feast’ of sorts, and loll about in delicious laziness afterword, guilt-free.
if a cancer is in place there is some, but certainly not conclusive, evidence that elevated levels of igf-1 can increase the rate of growth.
where last year it was 74.
i haven’t caught a cold in these past 2-years and just when i was worried that my health was being jeoprdized with my irregular eating habit.
if you have to have animal based fat, make sure it’s grass fed at least.
i can handle, “eat a lot of that”, but “eat some of that, then eat something else with more fat because there’s too much protein on that…” doesn’t work well with me.
for some reason, we have all been told that we must must must eat breakfast.
i still tend to eat once a day (around dinnertime), though i grant junk, and i don’t lose weight–but at 467 as of today, you’d think i’d have to eat a refrigerator a day to maintain that, sheesh.
for your readers here’s a link to the abstract: http://www.ars.usda.gov/research/publications/publications.htm?seq_no_115=200159 i could not get access to the full study, but i’m not sure that would help much given the fact that i’m a layman without much technical background in nutrition, medicine, etc.
reply would this work for a compulsive overeater?
thanks for the study.
i assume i could find that info in protein power.
when i first started fasting, i was lucky to lose even one pound in a day (that’s how sluggish my metabolism was)
in summary i have done at least once weekly day-long fasting for over five years and this extended to alternate day 24-hour fasting for approximately 2 or 3 years.
fasting has worked well for me from time to time but seems to catch up with me during competitive physical events.
so i don’t know if anyone has asked this question or if you have discussed it, i apologize for being redundant if you have.
reply hi everyone, i’m feeling ready to start this diet with the 6.00 pm cut-off as suggested.
sunday, i usually wish i had fasted friday and saturday, but i know monday is coming— my great day of re-booting!reply i am starting tomorrow.
but what i wonder is this – if my typical diet is 2000 to 2500 calories and im only skipping one day of feeding, how am i averaging a full pound of real loss with each fast?
i am looking at the volume of the needed food every alternate day, which seems too much, i already feel it is high volume even when not doing if.
if i go on if – will i slow my metabolism even more?
i have heard things like 15-18 hours of fasting provides all the same benefits as alternate day.
keep me posted; i’m really interested to see how it goes with someone who is diabetic.
i have had myocarditis (evidently viral) since at least 1998, resulting in heart failure/decreased ejection fraction, etc., but am doing excellently (i had ecp therapy from october – december 2006).
i don’t know about how amphetamines would work with if; i haven’t had any hands-on experience with them.
so, yes, the rm does provoke an insulin response large enough to deal with the carbs eaten.
keep after it and keep us all posted.
when i look back on what was required of me and many of my childhood friends i can understand why so many of us have ended up obese.
later when the hellers’ wrote the carbohydrates addicts diet book, they found that they could eat the lc meals too.
i’m allergic myself (pollen, mainly), and during puberty i had enormous problems with it.
it seems to me that if you do if, you end up doing some cr also.
if so, i’ll switch in a heartbeat.
it feels to me, that longterm ifing with no overt calorie restriction has improved my health and energy levels greatly and is changing the shape of my body consistently on a week to week basis.
i have lost 10 pounds since 11 april.
also, when i began doing if i began by eating breakfast progressively later each day.
a few questions — do coffee and tea count as food, or must it be strictly water–could club soda be used on the fast?
if it has worked before, go for it.
i think i ate about 1400 calories… maybe 1500.
i think it is untrue that if insulin is low during the day, the rm won’t provoke a large insulin response.
thank, paul i meant restricted by 30-40 percent.
this will be my last concerning blood pressure.
digestion takes up a lot of energy and i am definately not a morning person… i only wake up (mentally) after 9am.
food hurts me when i do it too often.
i have lost 5lbs in one week.
jimmy moore, author of “livin’ la vida low-carb” livinlavidalowcarb.com livinlowcarbman@charter.net hi jimmy– since and atkins shake contains calories, if you took it in you would not be fasting.
reply butter,,it does a body good!reply here is something that i have noticed.
i’m glad you enjoyed it.
the point is that the advice that has been shoved down our throats for so long may not really be so great after all.
looks like the if works for you for sure.
september 2006, 14:08 uhr intermittent  fasting, lipids, weight loss mreades 443 comments how would you like it if i told you there was a way to eat pretty much  anything and everything you wanted to eat and still maintain your health?
it didn’t seem to make a big difference when i worked out relative to when i was fasting.
my body must be adjusting quickly to the program im on, a combination of fast five/warrior principles.
i know that once i am done breast feeding and get back on if, my baby weight will fly off of me.
you could easily drop does 100 pounds in a year or lessreply here are some interesting results.
on fasting days, how many calories and carbs should you allow yourself when you break the fast?
i’m just not hungry in the mornings.
i’ve lost weight in the past (and am losing some more now) this way.
before i was eating 2 omelets a day, avocado/mayo/celery, ground flaxseed with 2 eggs & cream cheese, can of sardines and go to bed hungry; now i eat 1 omelet at 6pm & avocado/mayo/celery at 9pm and am satisfied.
hi kevin– no, you don’t need to worry about too much protein as long as you have normal kidney function.
when i drink water, i can exercise.
it looks interesting.
seems like an easy way to do cr.
2 1/2 miles) with no problem and no energy crashes.
one body-builder explained to a writer why he never switched to a high-carb diet back in the eighties as all of his weight-lifting friends did.
low igf-1 doesn’t help muscle growth, that’s for sure.
also ask what were the main problems, if any, that people experienced.
bdnf, as its name implies, is a substance that increases the growth of new nerve cells in the brain, but it does much more than that.
the most important thing is to have good blood sugar levels although i need to lose weight too.
over  three years, there were 6 deaths among 60 study subjects and 13 deaths among 60  ad lib-fed controls, non-significant difference.
the authors of the study i quoted in the post didn’t really even if; they simply consumed fewer calories on alternate days.
cheers– mrereply hi… i started the warrior diet(20/4) about 4 months ago.
i’m pretty sure now that it was the blood sugar spikes & valleys caused by consuming carbs while being borderline insulin resistant – just like most americans in middle age.
although it does have calories it goes directly to the liver causing a rapid ketone increase.
http://www.greatfallstribune.com/article/20100919/news01/9190301 “as it turns out, longevity runs in much of breuning’s family, although his parents died at ages 50 and 46.
if you told me down was up, i would believe you!
this schedule worked the best for us.
best– mrereply does coffee with cream only count on the if and diet soda count?
even if that fuel was abundant, we would still experience “hunger” until we built enough refineries that could convert that new fuel into a usable form.
and they do seem to be a not uncommon side effect of intermittent fasting.
for the last 35 years, he has eaten just two meals per day, breakfast and lunch; he skips dinner and “feels much better for it.”
i cannot possibly consume my day’s calories in a short time.
i’ve heard of a few people who have had this same outcome, and i’m really interested to see what happens over the longer term.
i would say that whatever works the best for you is probably the best.
the brain represents about 20% of the metabolic rate irrespective of whether one is eating or not.
my fasting blood sugar dropped from 98 to 85 within 2 days and i lost 3 pounds.
hi dr. eades, i started the if regime 4 weeks ago – i stop eating one day at 6pm and start eating again 24 hours later at 6pm throughout the week.
oh and those “snacks” your supposed to get in to make up the 5-6 smaller meals a day.
now my 2 hour glucose test wasn’t all that good.
also, i see lots of people taking supplements while ifing.
hi sheyla– you should.
the casein group lost more fat and built more muscle than the whey group because of this.
healthy food and mental psychologic health are linked.
and, the sugar in the juice would continue to stimulate insulin release.
(religions for some reason have always encouraged fasting?)
optimally, one would continue to restrict carbs to under 50 gms per day on eating days, but it’s not necessary to get plenty of benefit from the program.
i’m glad your fellow lcers found it interesting.
anyway, i have been reading a lot of the comments here although i have only got around to about half of them.
so i am trying to lose weight.
eat as per normal monday:
i really want to stick with this religiously for a year just to see how far i can go.
i’ve easily gone 24 hours without eating, up to 36 hours as well and i could easily go 48hrs if need be.
in the mean time, i found a ‘jewel’ for you that i’m sending by e-mail; and article on if and longevity in drosophila written in 1928.
if we’ve never dieted, almost anything works in helping us lose weight.
we believe  widespread use of this pattern of eating could impact influenza epidemics and  other communicable diseases by improving resistance to infection.
i don’t have enough information to give intelligent advice, but even if i did, i couldn’t because you are not a patient of mine.
does if burn more calories?
i would often do this naturally as a child–or i should say, i would try, and then get disciplined by my parents.
at 125 pounds, it doesn’t sound like you’ve got a lot to lose.
but like everyone i have a particular image that i would like to obtain.
it it’s the former, i would try to change the regimen around a little.
i am now at 139 lbs and i continue to do low carb intermittent fasting.
therefore i have been on a few days of eating only between 3pm and 7pm.
cheese, cream and milk are present but not in huge quantities.
i highly recommend it.
i’ve experiemented with lots of different eating styles in my day (vegan, low fat, low calorie, traditional low carb, only produce a la joel fuhrman etc) and none have felt more natural than if coupled with low carb.
my appetite is often voracious!
i’ve been experimenting with various forms of if and calorie reduction since august 2008.
keep me posted on how it works.
the traditional notion is that we need a certain amount of vitamins and minerals each day in order to maintain strong health.
do you want me to keep you posted?
i believe it was mrs heller that would fast until evening and then allow herself to eat a reward meal in the evening.
among professionals like you who seem to be coasting on a bit of sucess from others, would give hofmekler his due credit when these discussions/debates/postings come up… man this makes me agitated since i am seeing it everywhere… leereply i don’t see how this looks like the warrior diet.
and this is with no food.
since december, sld has reduced appetite to a normal level (no great hunger, no cravings), and i can eat very little (about 450-500 calories) on my “down” or calorie restricted days without hunger, cravings, etc.
it would have to be true gorging, a falstaffian meal of calorically dense food.
i have currently been fasting on saturdays (36 hours, fri.pm till sun.am).
to summarize : day 1 : eat bf & lunch =
although when i eat breakfast it is like opening the flood gates and i am starving all day lone.
best– mrereply hi dr. mike!
has anyone tried if and not lose weight?
based on your hunger profile, i would think that being able to eat all day might work a little better than just a few hours, but you need to fiddle with it to see what works best for you.
i’ve never heard of alpha cells failing as do beta cells from over stimulation.
it seems that the if approach combined with lc eating on the non fast days would be optimal when it comes to the burning of stored fat.
going 24 hrs on water,black coffee with minimal hunger.
i do know if i eat breakfast skip lunch ugh really sick.
i would love to try a longer fast, to see if it might “cure” something in my head, but i’ve never been overweight, and i’m afraid i might lose too much weight.
hi walt– you’re right on all counts.
michael ps i did allow myself coffee with honey and cream during my fasting days.
we started a support thread ( http://forum.lowcarber.org/showthread.php?t=309675&page=1&pp=15), where you or anyone else interested, can follow our progress, if you are so inclined.
i would think one is asking for messed up metabolic profile.
can’t think well at work with them
otherwise my diet is unchanged.
how soon should i expect to have my ankles stop swelling at the end of the day?
hi sheyla– fantastic results.
best– mrereply forgive me if this ? was already asked and answered but i didn’t see it anywhere
sounds like it’s working for you.
hi tess– i was just asking myself this same question as i type out the responses to the 23 or so more that have stacked up while i was out today.
yankee magazine calls it “heaven on earth,” and i agree.
my son is ten, overweight by about 30 pounds, and i fear he will become diabetic.
it makes no difference metabolically whether you eat many small meals or one large meal.
it truly makes me miserable.
perhaps it may help my hashimotos.
there is a wrong way and a right way to do if in my opinion.
it’s nice to see some alternate ideas on diet when i had been convinced 6 small meals a day was the only way.
hi cindy– sounds like you’re on the right track, but make sure you get plenty of protein.
is this advisable or am i messing up the benefits of fasting?
maybe i’ll have a can of sardines for brunch, but not much else until dinner.
and i’ll be starting this tomorrow!
do you think i can reach my goal of 20 pounds at a good rate by doing this?
i exercise, although i have never been athletic, i have also managed to build a liittle muscle. .
i dont eat any sweets because im usually full once im finished eating my meal.
i learned a lot about food too.
please help, and thanks!
it is indeed the post that has garnered the most comments by far.
no energy drops during the day.
so far i have to say it is not really easy but quite possible.
the effect is stronger.
this is one problem i am trying to work out while doing the if and even doing the protein power by the way.
i believe i experienced low blood sugar throughout the day as well and would crave carbs to the point that i would binge and then purge.
should i have eaten less when i started using chromium?
it’s tough, if there ever was a wannabe vegan, it’s him.
if not, i would be in real trouble.
but i have not lost any weight – i have not gained any weight – just maintained.
cheers– mrereply above, during the fasting intervals you allow taking fish oil supplements.
that leaves ~19 hours of intermittent fasting, not that different from 24 hours of intermittent fasting in the research papers.
and that would be a time saver too.
if you can dig it up, send it my way.
after these 43 days i feel comfortable & satisfied with no urge to snack in the evening.
so as you can see my low carb/
i have had blood work done and it is exemplary.
i’m thrilled to hear that you’ve done so well.
this makes sense from a paleo pov, since you would want to put on some fat every time you ate, even if you were gorging on mastadon meat.
amazingly, at least in the case of the flies, what made them ‘not die’ was the removal of their eggs right after the females laid them.
i am even more convinced about lc/adequate protein since reading your books.)
i started with the michel montignac eat yourself slim method two years ago.
there is a way to reduce blood sugar, improve insulin sensitivity, reduce blood pressure, increase hdl levels, get rid of diabetes, live a lot longer, and still be able to lose a little weight.
if you keep the protein up on your eating days and watch the carbs at least a little, i think you should lose fairly well.
hi peggyjo– thank you very much for taking the time to give such a complete update.
best– mrereply i will certainly give it a go, dr. eades.
when i do, i’ll go into the subject in a little more detail and show a chart that demonstrates the difference between cr and if.
there’s more out there, though in obscure and difficult to find papers.
we have a wonderful family owned breakfast restaurant called “percy’s.”
i went from 166 lbs to 136 lbs ( on good days ).
thanks for the link to the discover article.
almost certainly there would also be “diminishing returns”, (i would expect exponentially diminishing, if pure chemistry is involved without genetic “threshold” effects), whereby a 1 day fast might provide 40% of the benefit (number pulled out of thin air), 2 days 65%, 3 days 75% and so forth >>
one of the main advantages of if is that it provides the same longevity benefits as cr, but without the caloric restriction.
i was curious as to whether my bp and hr would stay at my fasting levels after i started adding food back into the equation.
if you can get dh to give it a go, make sure and let me know how it works.
and i’m gonna be honest with you–i hate it!
i also take a resveratrol tablet (for about six months now)
(i wonder if insulin resistance can kick in at a certain age genetically?)
is this really a necessity?
one more question and i’ll be done.
(didn’t mean to monopolize.)
my question is, if i slip a little and eat something, should i just bag it for the day, or do i still get some benefit if i stop it right there and continue to “fast.”
do you think the less frequent eating patterns of adults compared to teenage guys could affect this?
when people do go on long-term severely restricted diets (anorexics, for example), they drop their metabolic rates.
i have heard great things about it.
insulin goes down, glucagon goes up, fat is converted to ketone bodies, which are burned for energy in many tissues in place of blood sugar, protein is converted to glucose to be used by those tissues that can’t use ketone bodies.
as i see it, every diet involves some kind of restriction or, if you prefer, *change* from the eating habits that feel spontaneous to us, and which made us fat.
i only ate every other day.
cheers from australia!reply
what will make the fast less effective is snacking during fasting times, but then it wouldn’t be a fast.
cheers– mrereply dr. eades, have been doing if for about a month now with good results, but have just found out that i have laryngeal edema, probably caused by laryngopharyngeal (acid) reflux.
how can i get enough protein if i do the if?
mrereply in both this forum and in the yahoo intermittent fasting group, i see numerous instances of people reporting that their fasting glucose levels have increased while practicing e.o.d. fasting.
cheers– mrereply what about if for someone who will be trying to get pregnant or even newly pregnant?
– am i not putting too much stress on the pancreas on the off days to produce an increased amt of glucagon every second day?
i am a 43 year old male, quite muscular.
then i started listening to old “parent tapes” in my head about “starving myself” when in fact intermittent fasting is voluntary and starvation is not.
when i was at my thinnest, i was doing a form of it without even realizing.
this works very well and i find easy to maintain.
i decided to check in at the end of the week.
eating small, healthy meals more frequently continues to keep your appetite under control, and gives you the energy you need to motor through your day.
i’m sorry i can not remember his name but the guy who started “curves” wrote a book and had an interesting fasting concept in it.
i am getting blood work at the end of august, well see.
subscribe and get these posts delivered to your inbox fast way to better health 13.
c at the same time; you’ll get scurvyreply great post!
ye know the work of nick gonzalez md ?
i’ve had many conversations with dr. bernstein on the many appetite suppressants he uses.
i find it all very interesting considering i am pre-med and hope to go to medical school one day.
i am aware of some of the research on calorie restriction diets and i think it’s all quite fascinating.
i’ll keep an eye out for it.
stick with it and you will add years to your life.
http://www.diabetes-normalsugars.com/articles/method_of_treatment.shtml i hadn’t given much thought to the tolerance issue on appetite suppressants before but it made sense to me.
earlier this week, monday, for the yom kippur holiday, i fasted.
when these folks got hungry, they went out and hunted and started the cycle again.
that was the extent of the knowledge then, and i told them doughnuts were not good food.
best– mrereply i have fiddled with the low carb idea (and practice) since the early sixties when chance led me to a book presentation in london by dr. richard mackarness.
look back over the last few comments as i discussed more fully what happens to blood sugar during a fast and how the metabolic rate is set.
even if you’re going to go all day without food, i still think a few supplements will be okay.
and what do you recommend breaking the fast with-protein or vegetables?
2 years later, i can go on a fast of nothing but water and black coffee and i will drop 4 lbs overnight.
pj hi pj i have seen no published studies showing how the if would work for someone weighing 467 lbs.
when you get used to it, you don’t really even think about it.
will fasting for 24 hours mess up your gallbladder?
also, my lower back pain is going away as have my stomach problems (the main thing is when i would run it would sometimes throw my stomach into unbearable cramps-
i don’t tell them the particulars or i would probably get the same reaction you do.
i take metphormin, hummulin and humalog to control my sugar.
best– mrereply i’m very interested — excited, even — about this!
md and i spent a couple of weeks doing it that way, and  i’m here to tell you, it’s no fun.
let me think about the questions and i’ll get back to you.
im doing 5oish carbs a night , so ive adopted the more low carb approach.
i truly need to get a handle on this digestive stuff, though.
you should check with your doctor and be careful.
– eat 3 or 4 more times during the day.
reply are there any new stories on weight loss from intermittent fasting?
it is nice not to be concerned with food for 24 hour intervals.
cheers– mrereply you might already know that twice-a-week if is the norm for (traditional) orthodox christians.
i took them again yesterday — 5 days after changing to this way of eating.
someone cracked that there is no spice like appetite!
i’m quite certain my caloric intake is somewhat below what it would be if i were eating regularly everyday, however energy is fine so far.
but, since i don’t know exactly what you’re going to eat, i don’t know what your results will be.
i have found that being hypothyroid makes me very resistant to weight loss…eating or not eating….!reply i have not been able to lose weight quickly on if.
keep it up and keep us posted.
so, i decided to try the intermittent fasting.
cheers– mrereply what were the other eat-fast-eat regiments that you played around with?
on no days would we go entirely without food.
at work now, see if i can pull it up later.
support or suggestions on-line, seem to be only offered by wackos selling snake oil or scary religious based sites (also selling snake oil).
although i was 165 lbs and running 4 miles a day, my bp ran 160/112 at times.
one thing to consider would be fluid retention as a function of carb intake.
and i’m glad my blog was a source of motivation.
most of the work in caloric restriction has been done on rodents, but there  is a long term study on rhesus monkeys (17 years at this point) that appears to  confirm the rodent data on longevity and health with cr in primates.
also, i can go to work empty-handed, not packing food, and have my lunch break free to walk, read, knit, meditate, rest.
he’s published much since then, including an article just a couple of months ago on if and asthma.
so in two days i would consume 2600 calories.
i’ve done 3 fasts, and can honestly say it has been easier than expected, and i do feel great during, and especially right after a fast.
i have a great deal of weight to lose, 100 pounds.
this seemed to stop with low carb.
so a couple of questions spring to mind… 1.
reply following the warrior diet for two weeks now.
when i stand up after sitting a long time, i am dizzy.
since that is not changing i wonder if youd be so kind as to tell me whether you would recommend sticking with intermittent fasting for another while or trying something else, such as caloric restriction?
anyway, just wanted to get this off my chest.
during those 4 months i never measured my ketons but occasional hunger attacks were so short and mild that i strongly believe my ‘diet’ was heavily keton-supported.
my concern is getting too much protein.
if you are not hungry, don’t eat!
i beleive that my heart will benefit, not only from the continuing, gradual weight loss and good nutrition, but from the other healthful effects of if / cr, which may include increased elasticity of heart tissue and more… hi dwb– thanks for the interesting diet history.
hi sam– glad to hear that you’ve done well on the if regimen.
people have been very excited, and we have now 50 lowcarbers trying this for a month.
i wouldn’t get too excited about them, though, unless the hgba1c levels were rising as well.
got interested after reading good calories, bad calories.
i’ve been paleo for over a year, and i’m a recent zero-carber.
i think i could easily do this, but is it certain that i won’t further damage my metabolism or insulin mechanism?
my questions is this, do all the people on here who if this way still eat small amounts of food during the day?
i am thin and healthy, but i have found that if gives me great relief from this addiction.
and how many carbs or calories do you recommend when you break your 24 hour fast?
and i don’t know why since it contains no links (a sure way to gain a trip to the spam basin).
we here in eadesville take them wherever we can get them.
i read them all, every last one, over the last week or so.
i’m thinking of giving this a try, with a (hopefully) minor variation.
it didn’t seem to adversely affect my weight loss, though i suspect the fat would come off a little quicker if i could stomach my coffee black.
75 g of carbs (which is high for me) and yet i maintained my 3 lb weight loss from sunday into monday.
looking forward to my second month!reply tangent question: since in all my readings you seem to be the most intelligent, with fewer ideologies, ill ask you this, if you deplete your glycogen stores in a couple of weeks of it’ing, and then the body switches to a different fuel source ie fatty acids and ketones, will you stop using ketones if you eat more than 100 carbs a day?
but i do think that since the non-eating interval is what makes the thing work, it needs to be of significant length.
(i’m delighted that there is evidence that i’m not harming myself eating the way i prefer.)
i have read every single comment and i want to try this
now im back to eating everynight for now.
i guess perhaps the question should be more directed to temperature – is there a benefit to hot or cold, or is it a personal preference?
that would therefore negate some of the positive effects of fasting, no?
i’ve read that supplementing with l-glutamine can help stave off some muscle loss in the case of cr or very low-carb diets; would it be beneficial during if?
my problem is with food.
i already eat very healthily (vegan) but this could explain the last little bit of abdominal fat.
i am doing 19 hours fasting and eating in a 5 hour window.
my wife reports that on fast days, she can have a very small snack (like a slice of salami) and get through till dinner with flying colors.
reply thanks for your continued commitment in giving us valuable information on staying healthy and fit.
i have always thought that working out as hard i have was actually causing me to keep my extra weight on.
have contributed to dr. eades blog before.
i also will allow myself dinners on friday & sat nites and fast during the daytime.
if primates don’t get  enough cholesterol, they can actually become violent.
in short, you want as much bdnf as you can get., and with if you can get a lot.
if you eat 2500 calories of mainly carb, weight loss would be doubtful.
i only weigh 128 pounds so if i do lose it will be slowly, i’m sure.
from having two children in the past two years.
reply quick question!
i mentioned).reply hi dr. eades, i am begining my 2nd week of intermittent fasting and i’m amazed at how easy and great it feels!
overall and the spikes are not as high.
the eating days were a different story; they were great, but we would spend the  entire day dreading the fast day coming up.
you may appear a bit flatter which will make you believe you are losing muscle during if this is water loss and will be replenished on feed days giving you a pumped and vascular look if you are already lean the results will be even greater.
i have been able to maintain my weight but it is frustrating to not be able to lose it again.
even during fasting times, the gi tract has to deal with the food that was eaten earlier, and even if no food is there, the gi tract deals with the vast biomass of bacteria that live there and work with us synergistically.
also, when i began if i was low carbing…i will always be a low carber.
i eat dinner on one day and then just skip breakfast the next day and i don’t eat anything in between.
i’ll let you know how it works out.
you can try it your own way to see if it works.
reply thank you so much for such a quick answer to the mct question… this next question is a little off the subject of
i’ll go back and check.
isn’t it simply a matter of calories in and calories out?
i am trying to get back to 125.
mrereply david hola…my two penneth.
(also in a significant decrease in carbs, although i was going from low-carb to low-carb.)
what happens is that when this fat comes down the digestive tract the gall bladder squirts out its bile salts to help absorb the fat.
i also work out for 40 minutes 5 days a week.
since you indicated there isn’t enough research to determine the “magic” number of hours or perfect schedule, i selected what would work for me long term.
everything looks pretty good except for my uric acid which has gone up from 400 or so to 660 in the 3 weeks that i was fasting.
it is simply a great way to eat less, without feeling like you are dieting hard most of the time.
more energy on fasting day.
i have missed three days in all that time.
reply i was thinking this for an if schedule with a lean towards low-carb dieting: what if you eat breakfast, then a late lunch/early dinner (at a time maybe in between you would eat the normal lunch and dinner), and then the next day either ate breakfast like normal or eat lunch at a more normal time?
cheers– mrereply i’m 70 yrs old, heavy the last 30yrs.
even compared to plain caloric restriction, carbohydrate control (as you wrote it once), is perhaps the most clever way to reduce calories for those who still buy into the standard calorie rule.
i personally like to include a few more carbs and regular if may allow this.
also, i can’t imagine there not being an inflammatory component, and, since the if (and the lc diet too, for that matter) reduce inflammation, it may help in that regard.
i began by eating breakfast and hour later each day.
in terms of the cold water hormesis would mean that a small dose of cold water would protect one from the damaging effects of a prolonged stay in frigid water.
my story is typical.
there’s only one reason to be hungry and that’s because of carbs in the diet and it’s fluctuations in your blood sugar, even minimal ones.
well, you don’t have to.
the only things i consume during fasting days are water, tea and coffee (no sugar!)
the digestive system jumps into action the minute we swallow anything?
hi todd– the aiello/wheeler paper is one of my favorite papers of all time.
just wanted to add this for you to ponder, mike.
mrereply i’ve been really interested in this for quite some time.
not a single slip-up.
life is truly not fair in this aspect since when i was younger, up to my 30′s, i could pretty much eat whatever i wanted, and if i put on a few pounds, i’d go to walmart and get some metabolife 356 with ephedra and drop the weight in no time.
well, i have been just about a month and the bad news is that i haven’t lost another pound.
i wish i would have heard about this sooner.
best– mrereply hi michael, thank you very much for letting me translate your intermitting fasting article to our finnish low carb forum.
ressy hi ressy– thanks for the great story.
hi dave– interesting article; i need to pull the paper from cell metabolism and look at it.
i am 51 and 6 foot tall.
what is your opinion?
people feel as if i am forcing a new religion down their throats.
i tried if for a few months earlier this year and i can attest to its efficacy.
could you give me the quote, i can’t find it.
in other words, can i drink an atkins shake on the mornings i am supposed to be fasting or not?
hi georgio– read some of the other comments.
great blog by the way, very informative.
i would think that the optimal way to go would be to follow an intermittent  fast using low-carb foods during the eating periods.
i use your basic antioxidant elements ala protein power lifeplan although a little lower in amounts if i can.
a couple of comments and questions… 1.
best– mrereply hi dr. mike, i’ve been practicing if for six weeks, after a friend on my master’s swim team mentioned he’d been doing it for three years (he’d read about the rat study and just decided to try it to prevent his aging bio-markers from going up).
i follow your protein-power lifeplan hedonist approach.
reading about if, i just realized that i was most successful losing weight on what seems to be a variant of if, though it was not done purposefully.
if you’re not eating, the body makes plenty of blood sugar keeping levels from falling rapidly.
basically, this schedule allows our family to maintain a 6 to 6:30 “dinner time” every day.
the last seems to be the most remarkable benefit of this regime.
i do eat healthy, by preference.
best– mre good stuff.
just wondering if my metabolism is already shot (which is what i guess) if if would make it worse.
i love this way of eating.
the author is not a fan of low carb per se, but is a big advocate of whole foods, etc.
speaking of coffee, i find while fasting i need to cut back.
a few slices of cold meat and maybe a kiwi fruit.(the equivalent of plucking a few berries or nuts)
it’s not nearly as difficult as a lot of people think it is.
i would give this diet full credit as a wt loss solution for a short time, as long as i can go the fasting day with no surrogates.
also glad i’m not the only one who guzzles coffee.
or better yet, what if i told you that you could eat pretty much anything and everything you wanted and even improve your health?
the main benefit of this if experiment for me so far is the fact that this way of eating fits in with what has always just “felt right” to me.
but i write here today, because i wanted to say that in the diet book “the carbohydrate addicts diet” by rachael heller, and her husband richard, in rachael’s introduction, she states she lost all her excess weight, over 100 lbs, by fasting all day, and eating what she wanted in the evening, as her dinner meal.
i don’t know if 24 hours is the magic number or not.
hi sheyla– glad to hear of your rapid success on the if.
great idea, fasting!
please forgive the deluge of questions.
trememdous energy, fat loss, mental clarity, breathing better.
what triggered my thoughts was the discussion about length of fast-was 15 hours enough.
do you know of people who have done this?
it is much better now.
it would mean they would consume 60-70 percent of their former ad lib diet.
does the process of muscle wasting only occur after all fat stores are used up or is there a specific point (varied, i assume, from person to person) after which fasting for so many hours/days where muscle is used for energy?
and so i am always experimenting on myself with various things, just to get a feel and understand different things.
so as you can see the fasting month has been occuring when the days are long.
i was eating once every third night, usually, a dinner around 7 pm.
i’m also beginning a running program, c25k, so it will be interesting how the weight will come off!!
i know it is possible
study subjects were in  hospital 123 days, controls 219, highly significant difference.
i’m 13st, 6,2″, male, under 25, and not very active (i work from home, on my computer, and get very little exercise as i’m not involved in team sport / enrolled to the local gym).
mrereply thank you so much for your prompt reply.
animals that are intermittently fasted greatly  increase the amount of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) relative to cr  animals.
do you think that eating pattern was close enough to if to have pushed the results i had?
we are very much interested in if, but a few worries remain: 1 how will it affect someone who is already underweight?
beginning as i intend to continue.
i maintained my ideal weight (5-8 pounds less than i am now, more toward the bottom of a healthy bmi for me) for 4 years just prior to this so i know it can be done!
but i use splenda and a little 2% milk… is that killing my results?
thus they  consumed either 56% or 144% of daily caloric requirement.
someone above posted they were doing what looks like the warrior diet.
i began if in 2007 to lose my regained weight.
coffee, water, etc? hi fred– no, beverages can be included during fating periods as long as they are non-caloric.
i have done two days of the 24 hour fast every other day.
i fully recommend this diet to anyone who needs to slim down and just feel healthier!reply hi… i started if today.
it happened very effortlessly and naturally.
hi daniel– thanks for all the links.
if sounds like the way to go but i may have to do just water throughout the day which, as you know, makes it more difficult.
we didn’t  check any lab work to see if any values had changed.
i know it shouldn’t be an all out feast, but is there a limit to how much so you don’t lose any of the benefits of the 24 hours of fasting?
it’s causing some to doubt the safety of long term i.f. do you have an opinion – or possible explanation – for these elevated glucose levels?
it’s called caloric restriction.
thanks!reply thanks for a great read.
when it comes right down to it, those of us who love food, love to eat, and sometimes eat to excess, have an addiction to food.
i’ll be back to share my findings and any changes i make in my program.
reply http://intermitfasting.blogspot.com/reply i just want to post an update on my experience.
i have also found that my seasonal allergies are almost non existent since i started fasting and generally eating less often.
reply dr. eades, i’ve been doing if since i first read this blog three weeks ago.
the supplements are fine, but the whey protein and fruit/vegetable juices are food, so it you consumed them, you wouldn’t really be fasting.
it’s gone well and i maintain my weight without any problem.
but only did it for two weeks.
don’t know if that is enough info.
black coffee, water, club soda, etc. best– mrereply dr m just curious-have you ever had a post with more comments?
also, during an if, the body goes into ketosis.
ie putting about 1-3 fasting days (no eating from 7am-7am) randomly into a week, or even just one fasting day randomly in a week?
i lost 3 lbs overnight drinking nothing but black coffee and water.
just need to know if there is something to be concerned about, and if so, how much is too much.
some believe that is the reason pre-menopausal women are protected from heart disease.
intermittent fasting is how i control my meal frequencies and it is what i use to keep my weight at healthy levels.
a number of different research teams have studied a method by which rodents  can get all the health and longevity benefits of caloric restriction without  calorically restricting.
these calorically restricted (cr) animals have low blood sugar levels, low insulin levels, good insulin sensitivity, low blood pressure and are, in general, much healthier than the ad lib fed animals.
it was also very convenient.
i have done a fair number of 1 day, 3 day and one 9 day fast.
reply i am going to have to try if.
mike was alternating days not eating.
i am thinking about 20 days of a juice fast and then getting into a regular if routine. ????
both of us for approximately the past year have been persuaded by colin campbell’s plant based diet ideas and are more or less vegan.
sincerely, phil hoguereply the world’s oldest man, 114-year-old breuning may have accidentally practiced intermittent fasting for the last 35 years.
reply i have been doing intermittent fasting for several years now.
keep me posted on your results.
lowering intensity of resistance training has decreased my post workout tingling sensation to the bottoms of my feet, so the blood sugar theory was spot on.
negate the value of ifing?
that’s a lot of workouts… did you know that you can get muscle growth and endurance training from just two half-hour weight sessions plus 10 minutes of sprints per week?
which, in my opinion, makes it almost criminal to put patients with cancer on low-fat, high-carbohydrate diets.
of course, even on adif there are the sleep intervals, but since they are relatively short i don’t count them as true fasting intervals.
there are a lot of opinions out there that your body shifts into this mode if you don’t eat regularly.
i have been ifing since jan 1st.
hi jen– thanks for the update on your version of the if.
i know at no time did i truly feel hungry not even after the 24 hour fast.
i exercise while i am in my fasting mode and i do not eat for atleast an hour following exercise.
like many others who have posted comments, i find that on the fasting days i am curiously energetic and of a buoyant mood.
has that possible benefit not been studied or just not found to be a benefit in the studies done?
in the meantime, if any of the readers of this blog would like to undertake  an intermittent fast, i would love to hear the results of the experience.
and the method has been studied in humans and seems to  achieve the same health benefits and, if an old spanish study can be believed,  maybe even an increase in lifespan.
i continue to if ( i have been doing it for over a year now ), combined with healthy low carb eating.
no medications; a baby aspirin per day is the only pill he takes, 5) drinks lots of water, eats lots of fruits & vegetables and has 2 1/2 cups of coffee per day.
pull uppubmed, enter mattson mp in the search line, and take a look.
will taking my meds interrupt the fast?
anecdotically, even before i heard of protein power, i ‘got used to’ not eating breakfast
the problem is, you’re not, but you might be living like one.
zach hi zach– it’s hard to say what the problem is.
even if it were appropriate (and in his case i do believe a somewhat aggressive approach is justified), he could never handle even the modified if schedule you propose.
mind blowing stuff, literally.
i’ll try to be more diligent in my posting, so that more of your days will be complete.
there’s a more natural biological rhythm to that, at least for me.
does this change at all how any exercise is scheduled?
my wife continued to eat three meals a day, also pp, and struggled mightily with weight loss.
hi sheyla– interesting!
eating daily, you just take it for granted.
hi lisa– many religions have incorporated fasting for various lengths into their customs.
not eating … but ok lets try and see what happens thanks for the info!reply i began doing if three weeks ago by fasting for two 40 hour fasts on tuesdays and fridays.
i may yet come back to if, but i think for now it’s more important to get bp under control, and my fitness level up.
i’ve been reading dr. berstein’s “diabetes solution” book and he talks about how overeating, even no carb food, can cause the body to release excess insulin and glucagon, due to the upper small intestine getting stretched.
hope it works for you.
i don’t know your coffee-drinking situation, but maybe caffeine withdrawal during the fasting time could be a cause.
ordinarily i drink perhaps one litre a day, so this is a marked improvement.
one of the things md
celery is my snack of choice if i’m starving hungry on the go
hi melissa– thanks for an insightful comment.
thanks for the post – it is great and please keep up the good work!
in less than a year in 2008-2009 due to a terrible combo of psychiatric drugs which gave me a thyroid problem and really exacerbated the horrible varicose veins in my legs.
here’s the schedule i came up with: weekly schedule: saturday: lc lifestyle, eat 3 lc meals sunday: if lifestyle, no food after 8 pm (eat bfast, lunch, dinner before 8pm) monday: if lifestyle, no food before 6 pm (eat dinner after 6pm) tuesday: if lifestyle, no food after 8 pm (eat bfast, lunch, dinner) wednesday: if lifestyle, no food before 6 pm (eat dinner) thursday: if lifestyle, no food after 8 pm (eat bfast, lunch, dinner) friday: if lifestyle, no food before 6 pm (eat dinner) the reason the “no food” if days end at 6 pm instead of 8 pm is to allow a family dinner with the little one before her bedtime.
for those who are wondering about exercise and having energy while on a fasting day, let me tell you this: today is my fasting day.
i linked back here from my blog.
i don’t know the answer to your question.
i have no trouble on that score in that i’m willing to let folks think me weird.
cheers– mrereply dr. eades, when i do an if i find that i need a lot of coffee to get me through the fasting portion of things.
well, i was feeling great mentally, but was a physical wreck.
benefits: weight: lost 30 lbs during the first year, nothing after, but if i up the exercise, i do lose more.
loren cordain and i have had many, many conversations about meal timing.
overall, whether fasting or not, my routine tends to be this: very low calorie, low carb (between 500 and 1200 calories depending on whether i am fasting)
the french don’t like to snack between meals because they feel that the snack diminishes their hunger and prevents them from fully experiencing the meal.
if you take out the daily dose of sweets, i eat a very healthy diet, closer to a stone age type diet.
with the if as with all dieting, the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
cheers– mrereply thanks for the clarifications.
my day never feels quite complete without a eades blog update, so today is starting very well.
don’t see many old, fat monks.
i have been following cad.
is a if or warrior diet plan ok for me to live on, or am i just creating problems for myself?
should i have the same effect of low amounts of insulin release at the rm?
if i switch to “living as a lumberjack” (= exercise intensely) i am now quite sure that i will eat appropriately (but not more).
what is this magic method?
if you break that metabolic rate down to the individual metabolic rates of all the body components, you find that the sheep heart and the human heart both consume about the same energy.
when they refeed, they tend to put more on as fat simply because they have adapted to the lower-caloric intake.
i will let you know my numbers and how i feel..
please do let me know how you do.
i drink a glass or two of wine, a beer, or even scotch in the evening (after i’ve done my driving for the day!), this alcohol my only calories in the 24 hours.
food: you really appreciate it more.
no cakes, cookies, breads, potatoes.
i’m keenly interested.
one of the nicest changes is that money goes into the dieter’s pocket instead of some corporation’s.
thanks, katherine plan looks fine other than that i would opt for more fat.
wow, this is absolutely fascinating about bdnf.
we fooled around with a number of different eat-fast-eat regimens and came up with something that works pretty well.
hi dr. nehrlich– thanks for commenting.
it seemed that the only purpose in the flies’ life was to procreate and preserve their kind.
certainly not statistically significant with a sample size of 1 and no control, but enough good stuff happening here to keep me interested and motivated to continue for a while.
mrereply be careful you are drinking plenty of water.
i’ve lost 17 pounds since i started (202 down to 185)and have an amazing amount of energy.
his cholesterol has been bad since he first had it checked at age 25.
i always considered fasting as being an unhealthy practice.
reply is there any reason to be concerned about vitamin/mineral intake problems with the addition of fasting days?
so a good case for if is that we give the body a vacation from the work of digesting.
i have been successful with other diets but have always fallen off the wagon and gained it back.
actually my whole family (females only for some reason) tend to do this in the mid-20′s; i denied it and it happened anyway.
one of my vice’s is diet cola drinks.
maintaining the restriction, whatever form it takes, requires a kind of mental vigilance.
on a workout day i will fast for 16 hours prior to my wo and upon finishing i will re-feed from 4pm till midnight with complex carbs and protein to help the starved muscle.
i really have no appetite during the day now and really enjoy regular amounts of food at dinner and have no cravings for junky food.
you’re not ready to sign up yet?
what about supplements on the morning of the fast?
i’ll be interested to see how you do if you continue on with the if regimen.
i would do it in this one, but i (actually my web guy) upgraded my blogging software and somehow the little buttons that let me link to other sites are awol.
i had just had blood work done
i want to be as healthy in my golden years as possible.
i’ve been doing it for a couple of weeks and i really notice the difference…reply look in amazon at the 4hb.
keep me posted on your if efforts.
like others, i’m interested in whether there will turn out to be much difference between daily
is a meal of lightly steamed vegetables really unhealthy or in some way inferior to a meal of steak and eggs?
i was thinking the fish oil and walking an hour a day would raise my hdl, but it didn’t.
the gi tract itself is not particularly ‘expensive tissue.’
you sure know how to butter a guy up.
best– mrereply dr. mike, i’ve read your article, and some of the posts following the article.
(his birthmother was obese and diabetic at a young age.)
the insulin is administered knocking the blood sugar down and basically starving the cancer, making it much more susceptible to the chemotherapy drugs.
i’m still finding the whole topic of if and this blog so interesting.
i’m sure you know that when in college you don’t know what your doing at the same time every day.
dr mike okay, a few questions off the top of my head: why am i getting sleepy on my fast day when i’ve had no carbs?
so when we have those big breakfasts we are actually stealing all this energy that our brain could be using.
sincerely, jordan o’hara hello, do you see any problem with a younger person trying this?
i typically work out from 10:30-midnight, after which i’ll go have a protein shake before bed.
studies have shown that a ketogenic diet helps in the treatment of malignant brain cancers, which makes sense in view of the fact that cancer cells, unlike normal cells which can use fat, glucose and ketones, can use only glucose.
reply i was intrigued, so i began if on april 30, and have been successfully fasting every other 24 hour period since.
hi david– no, you’re not missing anything.
i would either eat once or sometimes twice a day but pretty small meals and i’d never snack.
20 years ago i was deliviering papers at 3 in the morning and then i went straight to college where i stayed all day and then drove to my evening job.
another option is one meal a a day, consumed within a single hour.
will it return to normalcy in time?
i plan on staying with the if until after my next blood tests and doctor’s appointment in october.
cheers– mrereply i was wondering if there are any studies or any experiences you know of that are done with intermittent fasting but are not low-carb based do you get the same benefits or will one gain weight eatting one meal a day in there window of eating if there is the typical “american diet” used?
i would indeed be interested in seeing the articles on cold water immersion and increased endogenous anti oxidant production.
cheers– mrereply hi dr. eades, gotta totally agree with you on this one.
most of the organs–liver, kidney, lungs, heart, and all the rest–work on doing their jobs no matter what the state of eating is.
my brother has used the one meal a day approach to lose weight in the past and it works wonderfully for him.
the subjects were in a residence for old people, and all were in perfect health and over 65.
hi nancy– thanks for the nice words about the blog; i really appreciate it.
i think he may have even worked with cordain at some point.
i don’t eat until lunch.
i’ve always been told to break it with something on the light side.
so i decided (against my better judgment) to try it by doing 2 fast per week at 6pm to 6pm even though in my younger days, i could go all day without eating and then eat a large meal at night and gain weight, but as long as i did all my eating by 1:00 pm, i lost.
it is not true that if you fast for any length of time, whatever you regain will all fat.
eat before 6 pm day 2: eat dinner = start eating after 6 pm day 3: eat bf & lunch =
so, i am going to do this and let you know what i discovered.
i do two 36-hour fasts (e.g. fast from mon dinner to wed breakfast) per week and ive completed four of these.
reply sounds interesting enough to give it a try….
i might go back now and read the rest of the 350 odd postreply
all the best portail i have spent the past two hours or so reading every comment on this blog and the original blog itself.
& decided it’s time to scale down & tone up because my weight was starting to bother me at 275-lbs.
i think going without food from time to time-whether it’s every other day or once a week or so–is a good thing and provides health benefits.
cheers– mrereply i tried if this fall
please explain why this statement is untrue in my situation.
i can’t italicize or set off quotes or do any of the things i  normally do in the course of posting.
the tingly low blood sugar/pressure (?) has been totally alleviated even though i keep uping the intensity of my exercise.
if i had to make an  intelligent guess, i would say that paleolithic man probably ate once per day  or maybe even twice every three days.
i have been limiting myself to one meal a day….timing depends on schedule and one snack as a meal a day….something like a low carb soup.
he has been checked out by endocrinologists and so on and no physical cause for his weight issues have been identified.
my family has a history of heart disease, although i’m not sure about bp except i know that my half-brother, who is not significantly overweight, has been put on medication for it.
since starting their regimen they have observed health benefits starting in as little as two weeks, in insulin resistance, asthma, seasonal allergies, infectious diseases of viral, bacterial and fungal origin (viral uri, recurrent bacterial tonsillitis, chronic sinusitis, periodontal disease), autoimmune disorder (rheumatoid arthritis), osteoarthritis, symptoms due to cns inflammatory lesions (tourette’s, meniere’s) cardiac arrhythmias (pvcs, atrial fibrillation), menopause related hot flashes.
i make healthier eating decisions.
but the way you wrote the post, they didn’t restrict it 30 to 40 percent they restricted it to 30 to 40 percent of the total … meaning they restricted it by 60 to 70 percent.
mrereply oh, and on cr: mike, i always wondered about energy expenditure among the crers.
in this study, published in the journal medical hypothesis in  march of this year, dr. laub along with two other physicians (neither of whom i  know) underwent their version of and intermittent fast.
great article, the 6pm thing is genius, never occurred to me and makes it a lot easier.
intermittent fasting has allowed my body to completely overhaul itself.
just yesterday it got to be close to 9:30 am and i realized i had forgotten to eat breakfast (usually have it around 7).
lots of energy, clearer thinking, more focus, better stamina.
to better imitate the ratty day in the experiments i could fast two days, and eat for two.
i’d like to share something brief about my experience with if, and ask for your insight: i do not eat bread, pasta, potatoes, etc.
cheers– mrereply dr. eades: i am a 55 year old male, in good health, and reasonably active (i jog 4 miles 4 to 5 days per week).
cheers and happy new year.
if you try it for a week and still find your abilities decreasing, go back to what has been working.
his opinion has prevented me from skipping meals.
would i be able to take this on my fasting days??
are rashes supposed to get worse before they get better?
i would credit this somewhat to weight loss, but even after a couple of weeks and a couple of lbs, i had a lot more energy.
i also eat often voraciously on eating days “there is no spice like appetite”
ok, i used to do this about 25 years ago.
my weight is therefore remarkably stable for someone who has in the past fluctuated quite a bit when not exercising.
if you are interested in making the effort, i would try any new diet for at least a week to allow time for needed enzymatic changes to take place; in other words, give your body a chance to adapt to the new diet before abandoning it.
also my creatinine was 0.9….
reply doc, thanks so much for you info on if.
but i was more intune with my hunger and i only ate when i hungry.
the idea i am using comes from the leangains website – eating in an 8 hour window, from noon to 8 each day and fasting 16 hours.
since these folks were eating all day, they weren’t really on an if.
ldl went from 168 to 135
despite the fact that i could eat during the daytime, i had to back off on both the intensity and resistance of the elliptical machine i use because i didn’t have the energy to exercise as i have daily for the past three years.
this week switched to a 24 on/24 off program a la your experience above, and am hoping to see an increase in fat loss due to the extra 4 hours of fasting.
in their paper these researchers discuss a 1957 paper from the spanish  medical literature.
[70 pound loss in 11 months] i am definitely starting a real if today.
i would recommend, however, that you maybe get your son reevaluated by another endocrinologist, maybe one more attuned to weight issues.
i really appreciate (as i’m sure the other readers will as well) your history and your subjective feelings.
that all changed this year when i participated in a 21 day juice fast with my wife.
when my wife (not too sportive either) was sure that this is not just one of my temporary spleens she joined me ifing and is quite satisfied wit the results (even though she loses weight slower than me, which is, afaik, overall, typical for females.)
congrats on your success.
since periodic fasting – not by choice, but by necessity – was a common occurrence during our development as a species, i’m pretty sure the alpha cells have evolved to handle making the amounts of glucagon required without a problem.
it’s been an interesting year to say the least!
why am i so thirsty all the time?
i’m delighted to hear that you are so much improved.
usually, weight training increaes my appetite.
i have no experience with anyone with adrenal fatigue (which is itself a questionable diagnosis) following an if, so i can’t say from observation.
thanks for the your blog as it intially helped motivate me in many ways to get started.
yesterday, after a 14 hour fast, i had steak, salad and zucchini.
it was very effective for me.
all i did was gain weight.
keep me posted as to how your heartburn does on the if.
i hope i’m not pregnant .
it’s so easily tweaked too, if the day calls for a certain lunch appointment i just start at noon and end at 4 or 5, of if i have to go out for a later dinner, just start later in the day….
i think i’ll try my old eating schedule.
i take one day off per week on the weekend, and eat lunch and dinner.
reply i just started if this week.
don’t take my word for it–look at the medical literature.
he has continued to publish pretty regularly on if since his first publication on the subject.
i did this progressively until i was able to go until 3:00 pm before breaking my fast.
and in day 2, something really strange happened to me when i went to workout.
i lost 2 3/4 lbs and most likely would have lost more but fell prey to a jar of peanut butter.
cheers– mrereply hi!
americans are eating more than ever before and obesity and type 2 diabetes are at epidemic proportions.
if you skip eating window to eating window, you basically have about a forty to forty three hour fast.
eating is a big part of my social life on the weekends and it is very difficult to stick to 1200 calories a day when eating out, going to social events, celebrating holidays etc.
i have been a vegetarian since 16 (no fish no meat) currently i am 29.
i eat healthy by choice
mrereply dr. eades, above someone asked about the 15 hour fast recommended by de vany and you replied you hadn’t seen any studies on it.
i have faith i am retraining my body.
there’s just not enough data to make those kind of specific calls.
i’m hoping i will have non meat options.
if you don’t have a problem with that, the diet sodas should be okay.
reply i have been looking into fasting for some time now for both health and religious benefits.
i would stop eating around 6pm the prior evening and not eat again until wednesday a.m. and saturday a.m.
i punched it out as hard as i possibly could, felt great.
long story–short, i ended up losing 17 lbs, but that’s not the best part.
anways, we’ll see how it goes….by the way, i’m glad to have read some of the above posts.
i had pretty decent results with a psmf-like approach and eating only 1000 kcals one day and overeating another day.
so, assuming you eat  until 10 pm on your eat day, once you quit eating you don’t eat again  until 8 am 34 hours later.
i also like these sites if you are interested: evfit.com untamedlife.com goanimal.com i might post again after i read the rest of this latest post.
going entirely without food in the short  term leads to improvement in health, but also leads to an extremely short life  unless the fast is aborted.
it seems like gorging one day and then fasting the next would play havoc with bg over time in a modern world, where we can’t loll about after gorging ourselves.
i typically exercise vigorously one hour/day.
do you think though that eating fruit would make the fast less effective?
last fall after i wrote you, and also read some new information about the appropriate number of calories i should be consuming to lose weight (pretty low given my size), i adjusted my formula to further lower my average weekly caloric intake.
infusing bdnf into animals increases  their insulin sensitivity and makes them lose weight.
i know you mentioned coffee as a beverage, and realize, if i remember reading correctly (previously) that you don’t eliminate caffeine, so i am wondering if a person could make a beverage by freezing coffee in ice cube trays, and then shredding it in a blender – having a sort of iced coffee/frappichino (sp?) effect, with no particularly adverse consequences.
but my question is this: how is what i’m doing different from the success so many people have with if?
let me know how you do if you try.
that alone, took a month.
my gums had flecks of black or blue throughout my mouth.
my wife spends more time with her twin sister often while i can remain at the studio with my projects.
mrereply hi mike, interesting post!
animals given small doses of gamma radiation are later protected against larger doses of gamma radiation, i.e., they don’t develop cancers at as great a rate as those animals that weren’t given the initial small dose.
the funny thing is that if i succumbed to the temptation of a freshly fried doughnut, i was a mess for the rest of the night.
it shouldn’t be too hard, as i like fatty cuts of beef, for example.
if, as in your case, the intelligence of the body and brain have figured out that all it has to do is hang on until the weekend when it will again be fed, it will hold on to the weight and wait you out.
if i’m fasting, i want to eat all the time, but restrict my carbs.
maybe some of the readers of this blog can dig it out.
i think the reason i liked if so much was because my body so craved having a high blood sugar that i only seemed to get from a large meal (i didn’t care for sweets a whole lot for the most part, not like you would think) so it was worth it not to eat in order to get to eat a real meal.
all i can suggest is to cut the calories a little more on your eat days.
more energy, less $/time spent on food, lower resting bp & p this am.
ever tried lighting a fire in the dark?
i didn’t know about low carb diets at the time, basically i considered if an easy way to stay healthy while still being able to eat yummy cookies and whatever else i wanted.
don’t drive by any bakeries either.
i also tried and liked alternate-day, 24-hour fasting, but figure my current protocol is more paleo-like.
my migraines stopped after doing lc but the auras remained.
my waist is losing its girth.
my wife then did notice ketone bodies on my breath (i did wine and oil capsules for omega 3s back then too).
and i am no longer ravenous in the evening.
my stomach is now totally flat and my eating habits are more under control.
reply that’s what i really love about if.
cheers– mrereply hello doctor, i think that it is great that you get around to answering questions and responding to comments here.
is it normal to ‘go off’ alcohol ?
i really thought that i’m alone.
(i lost another 15 lbs switching to a lower carb regime over the last 2 years due to igt dx.
i don’t have any info or data on if and binge or emotionally-motivated eating.
albeit there are some days when i consume more but it is rare.
for them, i think the intermittent fast is probably the best thing going for all the reasons you mention.
i don’t try to make up for my fast day
none of the subjects in any of these studies has done the full 24 on-24 off that md and i did.
gloria, i had to work up to fasting.
i used to skip meals and by dinner i was ravenous and would pig out, then experience what i think was reactive hypoglycemia.
plus, ketones reduce reductive stress (a difficult concept to grasp, but one i need to post on someday), which will increase longevity.
thus they consumed either 56% or 144% of daily caloric requirement.
free weights twice a week and walking on treadmill two days out of three.
we exclude them just to be able to put in ourselves enough good protein and fats like fish, nuts, olive oil and tree nut oils.
but dreams of drastic reduction is short amounts of time have not happened longterm for me.
however, i adhere to teh 24 hour fast, combining that with a full 1 hour workout every morning that incorporates heavy lifting and high interval cardio within the rest periods of my excercise.
the three of them have  since may 2003 been on a version of the if in which they consume about 20-50  percent of their estimated daily energy requirements on the fast day and eat  whatever they want on the non-fast days.
thanks for the report.
rather than torture myself with three small restricted meals per day, i can eat whatever i want (protein power + the occasional bread and dessert when dining out), and leave the table truly satisfied.
in my college history class, i learned that the british considered the natives as being lazy and unable of taking care of themselves.
i add fats to my diet every chance i get.
i’ve implemented a supplementation program to minimize inflamation including axtazanthin, garlic caps, fish oil, multivitamin and a morning shake on my eating mornings composed of almond milk, flax seed, frozen berries, protein whey.
i can handle the on/off eating requirement.
mrereply i was thrilled to find this discussion and, as a type 2, would be just as thrilled to see how if would influence my bg readings.
my question is whether or not there is any advantage to the body in terms of eating at a certain time of the day?
cheers– mrereply i’ve been alternate day fasting now since may 13/07, and have found it pretty easy.
do you know of anything about if research that would indicate that it might have any advantages for this condition, and do you have any suggestions on what avenues i might go down to research it?
these calorically restricted (cr) animals have low blood sugar levels, low  insulin levels, good insulin sensitivity, low blood pressure and are, in  general, much healthier than the ad lib fed animals.
best– mrereply hi doctor, i enjoy reading your posts.
wanted to let you know about a great article in today’s timesonline, if you haven’t seen it — http://www.timesonline.co.uk/article/0,,8126-1707912_1,00.html it doesn’t name the woe as if, but that’s what it really is.
and by making saturday a lc day i don’t disrupt the families meals then either (we’re already used to me eating lc while other family members have whatever).
i am a personal trainer
thanks for the “push” to get going on this.
does one have to fast more than 16hr?
it’s amazing how much time and effort goes into planning our next feed!
the people who generally criticize me and make the biggest deal are usually the people who are the most unfit, smokers, obese people, etc.
http://hapmoorii.blogspot.com
even when i put on a couple pounds over the weekend, they come right off after the fast.
why has my weight loss stopped, do you think?
so, assuming you eat until 10 pm on your eat day, once you quit eating you don’t eat again until 8 am 34 hours later.
so, after researching pretty much the same set of cr and if articles and reviews, we worked out a simple eating schedule that suits us perfectly: one meal a day at 7 pm.
so it doesn’t matter whether it’s a protein shake or a rib-eye steak when it goes in your mouth, by the time it reaches your small intestine where it is absorbed and kicks off all the metabolic processes it is a liquid.
ori eats like his whole day’s worth of calories pretty much in one sitting.
my schedule was erratic, as i’d start work at 9 pm, work until 7 am, take a nap, commute to college in the afternoon, take another nap and so on.
i certainly look forward to dinner after skipping three meals, and it it does taste good.
hi brigit-carol– thanks for the heads up on the timesonline article.
i don’t think about portion control, i have increased the amount of fats in my food.
i wrote about this on my intermittent fasting blog at http://eatingandfasting.blogspot.com/2009/07/eat-whatever-you-want-with-intermittent.html tomreply i have really enjoyed reading all these post.
i gained about 24 lbs within a 2 year period.
it is kind of ikelike wanting some desert after having a meal.
in the studies that have been done and published, glucose levels have not increased.
chicken, pasta, turkey burgers any type of turkey dishes (turkey meatballs w. spaghetti), one night i had tacos.. with turkey instead of beef.
i never cheat on the fasting but do take fish oil tablets for their omega-3 content, do eat butter as well as an occasional bacon side order and otherwise do a less fanatic vegan diet of no animal proteins or animal-derived proteins.
there is a ‘starvation response’ that kicks in after one goes without eating for a day or so.
i can’t really make medical recommendations over the internet.
if i happen to be away from my apartment and miss that time period, would it do any damage to continue fasting all the way to the next eating period?
we humans, for the most part, eat only during our waking hours.
having said that, i don’t have a clue as to what the people whose glucose levels have risen are eating during their eating days.
i’m concerned with health and performance and am interested to know if anything has come up about 16 hours vs. 20 hours vs. 24 hours etc.
i had blood lipids measured a couple of weeks ago (i tend to have higher numbers than i’d like.)
on weekends i eat both days low carb.
i did the old “you can’t leave until you’ve cleaned your plate” myself and they don’t seem to be any the worse for wear.
my family would go on about how it is “unhealthy” until i finally eat something just to shut them up.
i noticed recently that my appetite has again become an issue, although i only eat very low carb.
ive read visceral fat release is more responsive to calorie restriction than exercise, so this my expedite my belly lose.
i also could read that magnesium have various effects on our main organs and improve the mineral balance, helping the mood, sleep, appetite level… and a lots of people have deficiency of it!reply is it ok to if if you have adrenal fatigue?
so i keep an eye on that one.
reply here is an update on my progress.
once a week for the next month (5pm til 5pm next day)
i’m assuming that very low carb can still be used on eating days, i can just have more of whatever it is i’m eating.
it seems i could get away with eating higher carbs on eating days if i am doing 24 on, 24 off -as long as it averages out to the right amount of carbs for me to be able to maintain my weight.
once we’ve dieted a bit, however, things change.
md and i tried the if for a while just to see if it were truly a practical regimen that could be followed easily.
i finally have seen some weight loss after 6 weeks of low carb and seeing nothing.
i bought your “protein power” book as soon as it came out (and loved it)
hi michael– i don’t think it probably makes that much different one way or another.
i love sweets, not starchy food like pasta, breads, potatoes; just homemade baked goods.
i might add, that the if system that mike made up, might be a combination of both… http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/pmc2837202/?tool=pubmed very interesting stuff indeed.
if i have it correct the timing you used was: day 1: eat until 6:00 pm day 2: eat nothing but dinner around 6:00 pm day 3: eat breakfast and lunch nothing past 6:00 pm (if your lunch was at noon you could stop there as well?)
but i don’t have to obsess over what i eat and even eat my fun foods with no worry.
i don’t know if 24 hours is a magic number or not, but it seems pretty easy to schedule that way.
since starting their regimen they have observed health benefits starting in as little as two weeks, in insulin  resistance, asthma, seasonal allergies, infectious diseases of viral, bacterial  and fungal origin (viral uri, recurrent bacterial tonsillitis, chronic  sinusitis, periodontal disease), autoimmune disorder (rheumatoid arthritis),  osteoarthritis, symptoms due to cns inflammatory lesions (tourette’s,  meniere’s) cardiac arrhythmias (pvcs, atrial fibrillation), menopause  related hot flashes.
i’ll have to post a link to your article on kickas.org message forum and perhaps the if might be something that could help.
i love the feeling of freedom from always thinking about food and with less injected insulin i’m getting away from the “feed the insulin” feeling that it can cause.
so i stopped doing it.
it really sounds doable.
using a 20 hour fast/4 hour feeding window (in 8 weeks), i have lost a few lbs.
i have since expanded that to my goal of fasting for 20 hours and eating within a 4 hour window.
the question is: is an hour a day of eating enough?
i feel like i have much better mental clarity, i’m not even thinking about baking cookies or eating ice cream, my appetite seems more controllable, my belly is flattening, and i have energy.
it involves 2 24 hour fasts per week & goes into the research & positive benefits of intermittent fasting.
if the very-low-fat diet goes on for a while the cholesterol that is sitting in the stagnant fluid in the gall bladder can begin to form into stones.
which leaves me with an interesting question.
and that’s going from drinking a bottle of wine most nights.
make sure you keep your protein intake up on eating days.
md and i, using ourselves (selflessly, i  might add) as subjects have worked it out.
i’ve been eating two meals a day – breakfast and dinner – for a while now, i’ve also low-carbed all the way through.
mind you, i was not nearly as ravenous as i was in my pre-low carb days.
if, of course, you can remember with al the thousands of words you have written!
hi patricia– good luck with the if.
i have more energy on fasting days, i have my 8-pack abs back and did not lose very much muscle either, which surprised me a great deal because whenever dieting i would always lose a significant amount of muscle mass.
6pm tuesday to 6pm wedesday; and, 6pm thursday to 6pm friday.
thanks for the kind words about the blog.
my concern is the insulin resistance that comes along with chronic use of caffeine.
best– mrereply hi… i’m vegetarian and the only fat i eat is my 6 grams of fish oil(which
the scheduling problem we did have was with social engagements.
i have religiously taken a multivitamin every morning for 6 years, and don’t feel right about skipping this regimen.
like some here i have a problem with the whole if and eat 200gms of carbs at a time, common sense says that it is worse, all the poison at one time.
dyan hi dyan– i’m curious.
in retrospect, after reading increasingly more about the foods of these earlier cultures, i know this helped them to achieve outstanding health.
to have this kind of phycial development a few months before you turn 40 is truly mind boggling.
i have only been doing this for a week though.
if going on the full meat diet doesn’t help, then you’ve probably got an eczema of non-allergic origin.
i drink a good amount of water (at least 3 liters) because i realize that caffeine is a diuretic.
for example: if i eat breakfast one day at, 6:00 am, after a few days, breakfast would be at 7:00 am then 8:00 etc.
interestingly, on feeding days most of the animals eat a almost double the amount that their ad lib fed mates do.
it’s dr. hyman again with your next installment of the mini- course titled: “how to reset your metabolism to lose the weight and keep it off for life
i became pregnant again in 2002 and this time i stayed on my one meal a day (no fasting) and i gained 20 pounds and had a perfectly healthy pregnancy.
an extra two to three hours spare time on fasting days.
best– mrereply hi dr. eades, when i was younger (high school age), i naturally did a sort of if.
but to see how much good the regime is doing, and also to make sure it is doing no harm, i would very much appreciate it if you could list the tests you recommend getting, how often, and what to look for in those tests.
maybe this will do the trick, if i can convince him to give it a try.
i like this way of eating so much that i don’t see ever changing.
we usually wont eat again until the next day, maybe a bit of cheese around 10pm.
if i skip a protein snack like beef liver or an egg at night before my blood test then fbs is higher.
i know that if you don’t eat enough fat, your gallbladder is not doing it’s job.
i maintain a good weight and well toned muscle mass.
i’m keeping track of my progress on my own blog if anyone cares.
randy hi randy– you got it.
it does seem to me that you should have lost more than 15 pounds over 43 days.
don’t eat within 3 hours of your bedtime.
then, i’m wondering if there are any suggestions on how one might “disguise” the 50% day.
and without having to eat those foods in tiny amounts.
some of the practitioners who use if actually encourage the intake of a smaller number of calories on the ‘fasting’ days for this very reason.
(it took about 8 weeks in the fall to lose 4 pounds).
to me, perhaps it is because i have done this for so long, but it is common sense that the metabolism would improve this way.
thank you josh your blog post had a lot of good information.
i’m 71 now, have to watch my salt and take a diuretic for high blood pressure issues, have some mild osteoarthritis, but otherwise am very alert, energetic, and healthy.
i have noted a reduced appetite and am working on lowering my blood pressure.
sometimes i am amazed by it.
i’m also doing a lot of thinking right now about why i stopped trusting my instincts and eating when, what, and how worked for me.
i’ve been doing the if way of eating for 4 solid weeks & haven’t lost an ounce.
the virtue of the if is that you don’t have to worry so much about what you eat on the eat days as long as you get plenty of protein.
if you do choose to try the if, please let me know how it goes.
fast every other day?
mrereply i made it through my 3rd fasting day.
on average, i do the 24-hour fasting three to four times a week.
owenb hi owen– i’ve touched on the hot/cold issue in a previous post or two.
it’s now been nearly 8 weeks
reply i’ve noticed that once i start eating on a given day i am hungry the rest of the day.
i’ve encountered a number of people with this response.
i am curious to know if there low carb foods that i should avoid to lessen inflammation?
but, i’m not a quitter and since i committed to doing it for at least a week, i will see it through to the end.
do you think they’d be able to adjust their insulin regimen to fit around if?
i eat everything except meat, sugar and high carbs, but only once a day, in the late afternoon or evening.
i’ve been accepted to the national weightloss registry and am happily filling out a whole bunch of surveys.
i’m amazed since i’m one of those that loses well at first, then the loss slows to a crawl.
back then i hadn’t thought of if-regimen and tried to stick to 4-5 meals/day in the bb-fashion.
i am reading about intermittent fasting with some interest, as i recognize that my best days are always after a day of reduced food, for one reason or another.
i’m on a zero carb diet (only eating from the animal kingdom, no veggies, starches, sugars, low-carb products, etc.)
which we hardly ever experience any more.
they can’t dispute the years of positive data in the mice studies but again they think i am crazy assuming it will also work in humans.
i notice significant drop offs in ability if i do not eat pre and post workouts… what studies have been done to help someone in my shoes?
unfortunately, my vigilance is always greener on the other side of the fence.
owever once i began doing if, my auras also vanished.
how many people are “programmed” to eat at work breaks or social events (where the food is usually bad) because that’s what you do?
as to the life extension qualities of if, i think i mentioned that in the blog, but didn’t really stress it.
however, the more i thought about it, the more it made sense to skip meals… after all, one of the biggest energy consumptions of our body comes from digesting food.
i also do at least a couple longer fast (15 days) yearly.
hi mrfreddy– surprisingly, you don’t really get all that hungry during the day.
i have two exceptions to the no-calorie routine: a glass of red wine and the fish oil.
when you have an hour or two you might want to read this: http://www.arthurdevany.com/webstuff/images/revisedessay.pdf from what i can tell, most if not all should be right up your alley.
insulin is secreted at the smell, sight and expectation of food.
intermittent fasting.
your blog and his are two of my favorites.
i also excercise, burning off 1000 calories in 55 minutes on a lateral trainer, on fasting or eating days, there’s no effect on my ability to do so.
so much of what i have read says that fasting, at any length past 3 hours to maybe 24 it seems, means that your next meal, regardless of what it is comprised of fat/carb/protein, will be stored as fat… or something along the lines of- your body is more sensitive post-fast to calories somehow and shifts to “fat storing mode” in response to the fast.
i am planning on alternating 20/4 and occasionally 24 hours depending upon how i feel.
my paradigm is that even the thinnest of us have a lot of fat and other tissue that can be converted into energy.
i am going to begin doing the fasting and let you know what happens to me.
then we ate from 8:30 pm until 6 pm the next evening and got back on schedule.
is the timing the main criteria?
i was miserable all night!
i think a lot of us forget what real hunger feels like in this era of 24-hour food on demand.
he feels that when they are rotated, they retain their effectiveness longer.
hope this answers your question.
i read somewhere that if will raise the blood pressure.
if i haven’t eaten by ten i get a so-called hollow feeling on my stomach and then i have to eat.
fasting, could that be why i have put on the 20 lbs that i lost?
the only problem i am experiencing is i feel constantly dehydrated.
now, my fasting insulin level (through quest diagnostics) came back 125 lbs.
apologies for the excessive detail!
hi mary– thanks for giving me a heads up on what’s going on.
now i weigh 170 pounds.
there’s been a lot of discussion about the topic over the past year or so on the nutrition board athttp://www.crossfit.com.
it was just so hard to eat restrictive every day for me after, i’d start good then by the end of the day i gorged.
reply i’m currenty 120kg
cheers– mrereply if is something i’ve been interested in for a while, and i’ve followed this blog discussion since it began.
i get a little hungry and have had a 100-200 calorie snack a couple of times but generally it goes well
i was reading a few articles yesterday that touched on inuit societies and theirlargely fat-based diet… a related article (that i can’t find now) warned against getting too much protein, and had suggestions for fat to protein ratios.
benefits are as you mentioned — nuisance health issues go away, zero colds/flu, weight dropped to a comfortable lean zone, and oddly, energy actually increases during the non-eating time.
for example the fat police study showed that casein was better than whey, since casein was slower digested than whey, keeping a steady level of blood amino acids.
well…..i lost 4 pounds this week!!!
is that something you’ve done?
and then i go back to low-carbs meals for the remaining eat phase till the 6pm fast.
i get the “do you go to college” question all the time.
i’m not suggesting that this would be the way to do if, but just as a demo: a single slice of pizza hut sicilian lasagne pizza is 310 kcals.
now my cycle was due about 3 days ago but has not yet started.
i just didn’t want my answer to get too complicated.
i started fasting to improve my physical performance in the upcoming anaconda race (world’s largest adventure race)- you can read the story at http://www.thefeelgoodlifestyle.com/fasting-for-fast-weight-loss-superior-fitness-and-better-health.html – but this bdnf idea just opens up a whole new world of possibilities.
however, with spring concerts, my schedule has been a little whacko
reply i have been reading a lot on the internet about if and decided to give it a try.
not so with the sugar-free candy.
i think i might actually put my person results in the offtopic section of my webpage over athttp://sandboxgamemaker.com if anyone is interested.
cheers– mrereply i just started ifing this week.
i am hell bent to figure this out, and come up with a healthy plan i can live with long term.
tribes like the masai and inuit have diets which are almost/completely devoid of plants, and yet they seem to be fine.
so i eat about every 80 hours now.
i am not overweight by standards that i have seen (5’3″, 114 pds.)
it’s more likely that the changes are coming from the estrogen stored in your fat cells that is now being released.
if i’m working hard, i may be hungry 4-5 times a day.
thanks!reply it is really nice to read some positive words about intermittent fasting.
mrereply a couple of questions for you dr. mike….
please do find that quote for me.
for example, i know of a christian priest who was seriously ill in his early 60s, dvt and pain in legs due to long distances on foot, got cured through long fasts and addopted regular longer fasting periods afterwards.
did you get a hgba1c test or simply a 2 hr glucose?
we fooled around with a number of different eat-fast-eat regimens and came  up with something that works pretty well.
i find that when i do eat, i don’t eat more than usual to make up for my skipped breakfast.
in thinking about the process i came to the conclusion that if was probably  the way paleolithic man ate.
there exists a fair amount of data that low-starch diets (and low-carb diets) work to prevent flare ups of all kinds of autoimmune disorders.
cheers– mrereply i have only tried if a handful of times over the past 2 years.
i really find it hard to go all day with out eating a single thing (still drink water obviously).
i’ve been reading quite a lot about cr since there is an avid, practicing cron person posting on the low carb forum i frequent.
on an unrelated but similarly interesting issue, you were asked about whether cold water dips worked via the principle of hormesis (from your “cordain picnic” post).
first, i’m sorry it has taken me so long to respond.
in a previous life (okay, a month ago), i could easily eat an entire pizza all by myself.
the regimen is that i commence a 24 hour fast almost every day.
researching this topic has demonstrated, even more than when i started a low carb style of eating, that people develop very strong dietary beliefs, will argue them to exhaustion, and rarely have any scientific basis for those beliefs.
i then eat nothing all day monday and i usually have my first meal on tuesday morning earlier to break the fast.
eating during the day is simply too disturbing to my physiology.
the first couple of days were very difficult, but now it just seems normal.
all without giving up the foods you love.
i’m going to show it to my husband and let him read it and see how he feels about partaking of this regimen.
i don’t think it matters what you break it with.
somewhere in protein power you advise against skipping meals since fasting stimulates insulin.
have lost 30 lbs since october 9, 2007, when i began reducing/restricting my caloric intake.
i understand that when it comes to the amount of calories consumed, the average number is what matters, but why is it healthy?
reply hi dr. eades, fantastic study!
thank you for your time and expertise.
i used to be so bad that i could hardly do much at all.
this is year-round – there are of course other times when the vegan-no-oil diet is followed for up to 40 days at a time (great lent, nativity fast, etc).
this is incredibly interesting.
from day one, i have felt excellent!
ofcourse, during puberty, a tall growing lad has to eat a huge amount of calories just to keep up with the basic metabolic rate, and eating that many calories requires either eating until you almost throw up or eating 5-8 times per day (which i did).
or you could be reducing your metabolic rate a little due to eating less – as i’ve written numerous times, calories in and calories out are not independent variables.
the long time going without food seems to in some measure undo the bad effects of the higher carbs.
it didn’t seem to matter to us.
we do use juice (have a juicer), maybe a glass or two of a vegetable or fruit juice, with lots of water, no coffee.
i am guessing that “it must be relatively lowcarb” is the entire difference!
thanksreply medium chain triglycerides.
thanks for your interesting blog.
animals in the wild, particularly carnivorous animals, don’t eat thrice per day; they eat when they make a kill.
that adds up to more food than you would have eaten if you had 3 or 4 smaller meals.
i will let you know how it goes dr. mike, mary t
hi levi– i’m glad the program has worked so well for you.
my job is somewhat physically demanding and i want to have energy for this job.
i, too, found the same phenomenon when i was ifing.
i’m betting on it but in the meantime, whether or not it does, the side benefit of reduced weight that i seen as a likely result of simply eating less with the every other day diet feels good as do my improved lipid levels.
hi corey– with the level of activity you’re maintaining, you need to eat more often.
best thing to do is give it a try to see how it works for you.
i’ve never had experience with the if and ibs, although just thinking it through, it seems like it should help.
it was such a difficult day, but then at 8pm i came across your post with its different if schedule and i hurrayed and hurried off to the kitchen to fix myself a pizza.
so, i eat until 6 p.m. then don’t eat again until fri at 6 pm, one meal.
see for a while after i wasn’t eating enough i was gaining weight when i began eating enough.
i was prone before to getting low blood sugar swings – feeling light-headed, sweating and shaking – at certain times of the day – and suffering too with digestive problems.
and i often go extended periods without anything to eat, without even tying really, especially if i happen to be busy.
the biggest obstacles to once-daily eating are the social pressure to eat and the deeply ingrained dogma about breakfast (aka “the breakfast myth”) that appears to be the result of successful marketing tactics.
and i don’t remember being particularly hungry.
i am finding that i am less and less hungry – on both eating and fasting days – as time goes by.
my husband and i started the diet sometime in january.
best– mrereply i have been fasting one day a week for the past two years because i know it’s good for the body.
consuming plenty of calories on the eating days will pretty much assure that not much – if any – weight loss will occur.
reply dear dr. eades, i had been aware of the calorie restriction research of mccay in the 1930s since my medical school when i took an elective course (~1959).
ive decided that for me, the best way to cheat and enjoy pleasure foods from now on is to eat them in my window at night.
as to your questions, first, metabolic rate isn’t just muscle tissue, it is all tissue.
i suppose i should mention that i weigh 115, and i know you’ll say that because my weight is already low, it may be hard for me to lose weight.
i doubt that any benefits would vanish with these two “indulgences” — red wine contains resveratrol that activates sirtuin activity and fish oil omega 3s seem most important.
i started if without knowing what it was.
in fact, i ate four times in that first hour and i was still hungry.
portail hi portail– i thumbed through the book a half dozen times and couldn’t find such a quote.
im slowly losing weight (current bmi is 24- and will keep an eye on this side so i don’t go below 21)
eventually i stopped doing if.
once i read this article and some others like it, i broke my fast at 32 hours and went this direction.
but, having said that, the most healthful approach – in my view, at any rate – would be to eat low carb on the eating days.
some studies have shown that coffee even improves that.
hi amy– i posted on this sometime in the past.
i read with great interest you post above and people’s great experiences with if.
when researchers restrict the caloric intake of a group of lab animals to  about 30 to 40 percent of that of their ad libitum (all they want to eat) fed  counterparts, they find that the calorically restricted animals live 30 percent  or so longer, don’t develop cancers, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity.
on my eat days i tend to still eat fairly lightly but will eat pretty much whatever i want.
for close to a year, i’ve eaten just once a day, usually something like a meal and a half between 6-8 pm, fully low-carb, and eating nothing the rest of the time.
for example would the process still work if i ate some celery which doesn’t contain any calories?
for me fasting was first ‘diet’ ever, that worked more than 3 days in a row.
(bf is never a good idea for me.)
very limited try at if – one b/l the day after ‘restarting’ pp/lc.
and i took away from our if experience is the idea  that we don’t have to eat three meals per day.
i don’t know how the wine or chai would fit in.
its such a relief on my cheat day to just relax and not have to keep looking at the clock to see if its been 3 hours.
i don’t remember if any of the cr studies discuss the activity levels of the animals.
cheers– mrereply is it normal to lose appetite after doing this for awhile?
i am struggling with headaches.
you have been a real trooper for a long time.
as soon as i began weaning off those drugs, i got so much better mentally and got a second opinion and counseling.
i’ll come back in a couple of weeks and let you know if the 40 hour fasts twice per week are working.
however, this is exactly how i lost 100 pounds about two years ago.
or should i just do it the way you did it and fast a day until 6 pm, have dinner, wake up, eat breakfast, eat lunch, snack and eat dinner, then fast and not eat until 6 pm the next day?
short, repetitive fasts, they said are extremely dangerous, i may lose all my muscle and i will not get any fasting benefits.
when you get used to  it, you don’t really even think about it.
the main part of your metabolic rate is set by your weight.
i hope to do a 40 day fast someday.
at first it was hard….
now that i’ve done just low gi for a couple months, i think throwing a fast in here and there would be ok, but doing it too often was probably too hard on my adrenals much as i hate to admit it.
without a detailed history i would be hesitant to make a diagnosis over the internet.
on the times during the day that we ate, we didn’t stick with our normal low-carb fare; we ate pretty much whatever we wanted, including a fare amount of higher carb stuff.
cheers– mrereply one thing that i am very observant of is menses.
i fasted 20 days without any problems.
hey mary– thanks for the update.
nice writeup i especially liked and thought about the part with allergies.
except sometimes the sweetness of the artificial sweetener can stimulate a little insulin squirt that runs your blood sugar down and makes you hungry.
he has him eating 5 large chicken and veggie meals a day (no fat) and told him if he didn’t eat 5 meals a day his metabolism would die and he would not build muscle.
it has been like this for me since my childhood days and i stopped eating breakfast at age 12.
my records show im losing about 2.5lbs during the fast and regaining 1.0 to 1.5lbs after each fast, so during each of these two weeks ive been fasting, ive lost a little over two pounds a week.
i guess that’s another benefit of the if: it’s light on the pocketbook.
i would never fast if i had not had a hearty pre-fast meal, first.
i hit a plateau for several weeks & wasnt dropping any more weight while continuing to eat induction levels of carbs, so i started if just a couple of weeks ago.
you asked for us to let you know how if is going for us.
i train in crossfit everyday and haven’t yet noticed a decrease in performance.
not too many workouts with weights.
and i’ve never been able to work out why beyond the fact that it starts your body burning food.
if you noticed any of my posts here, i also do a 20 hour fast with a 4 hour eating window.
hi paleogirl– please do let me know how it goes.
there are two key behaviors in this routine that ensure that you’ll gain weight, just like the sumos: 1.
i stopped eating at 4:45 last night – i don’t like to eat too late at night.
i discovered the intriguing information about intermittent fasting and and this blog.
this is how i now define my eating lifestyle…my dietary lifestyle is low carb all the way.
in research settings animals that are intermittently fasted are fed every  other day, so they eat whatever they want for a day, then they are denied food  for a day.
cathy hi cathy– i didn’t change my workout schedule at all.
when you become a 2nd initiate in the religion i belong to, it is recommended that you fast on fridays – a full fast, a partial fast or a mental fast.
best– mrereply today starts my third week of if.
in the same period of time i have gained half a pound (which i take to mean i basically weigh the same).
i workout from 1:30-2:30 and @ 3pm i have my largest meal of the day (~700 calories) composed of mainly protein/carbs/ and only a small amount of fat.
i will let you know what i discover, i am going to try fasting 24 hrs.
the advantage of this regimen is that we were able to eat every day.
thanks for this wonderful site.
these improve as well, especially the nash.reply dr. eads, i am confused.
i am still waiting for relief from allergy symptoms and hoping desperately for memory improvement, and longevity if possible.
35 mins prior to lifting i take a preworkout supplement containing about 100 cals, almost all comming from carbs.
(ie, day 1 = 1200 cal, day 2
you do so much outstanding digging for facts.
you only undergo gluconeogenesis if your blood sugar levels start to drop too low.”
what a great article and ensuing comments.
there is a large difference between the two.
my experience so far has been that on eating days, i am able to detect satiety whereas in the past i have not been able to do so.
http://www.usatoday.com/news/nation/2009-09-24-oldest-man-diet_n.htmreply
reply hello doc i love this
unfortunately i haven’t noticed that it has an effect on my eczema (which is rather chronic).
and then once i feel steady after this prolonged fast i’m currently on.
reply i read this entry a couple of years ago in researching low carb diets and, though intrigued by the idea, didn’t think i possessed the temperance to hang with it.
i would think that the optimal way to go would be to follow an intermittent fast using low-carb foods during the eating periods.
we only eat a couple of times per day most days and often go for long stretches where we don’t eat at all.
i’ve also jumped on the low-carb bandwagon, at least for lunch anyway.
i too am an avid reader of your blog, but this is my first post.
24 hours off and didn’t seem to be able to do that, but the 20/4 got easier as i did it.
i think that if has become the most significant piece of dietary information since i began the low carb trek.
i’m planning on ifing myself this holiday season and see if it works to let me enjoy a lot of the stuff i usually avoid while not having to pay the weight gain price.
one thing i learned when i was considering using fasting was this isn’t about reducing calories, it is about reducing meal frequencies.
hmmmph!reply sounds absolutely fascinating!
still, it’s pretty marginal in protein and totally deficient in good quality fat, both essential for optimal immune response.
we’re on day 4 of our program, where we just skip breakfast and lunch every other day (kiss ).
interestingly, on feeding days most of the animals eat a almost  double the amount that their ad lib fed mates do.
may be stress and then the diet has things changing.
i don’t really think it matters much if you eat only once per day as long as you get plenty of protein and calories (unless weightloss is your goal).
we found that worked better for us than setting a more strict regimen.
i go a full day without eating (so i’m fasting 36 hours, and eating no more than 12).
i’ll be less scheduled when i get off insulin completely but to do that more weight loss has to occur.
second, i thought one of the greatest benefits of the cron lifestyle was the extended lifespan, but unless i missed it, i see no mention of that as a benefit of if.
id like to see a little more weight loss.
the estrogen dumping must have been amped up considerably.
has it been definitely linked to increased blood pressure?
as i’ve said in reply to a number of other comments, at this stage i don’t think anyone knows the optimal length of fasting.
even with this wimpy if schedule the subjects did better.
thanks again for a wonderful blog.
so, you’re on (eating) for 14 hours and off (fasting) for 34.
= 1000 cal, day 3 = 1400 cal.)
i’ve also noticed that i feel sharp even on when i don’t sleep enough, which is totally new to me.
i fasted two days/week, 32 hour fasts, for 3 weeks.
wishing good heath to the first family of eadsville!
what is your opinion on the health effects for children and teenagers?
he lost 12 lbs over a few weeks and said it was really easy, but he only fasted once a week for 24 hours (the same thing dinner to dinner).
i do know, i look forward to my monday/tuesday fast, i feel there is a detox component to 60 hour weekly fast— i mega dose on vitamin c during the detox (about 15 grams powdered) for a powerful “evacuation” on all days.
i’ve heard that you it’s important to eat 3 meals a day if you have adrenal fatigue?reply
plenty of protein is at least 0.6 gms per pound of body weight for someone with normal activity levels.
then for our 24 hours of fasting, we limit ourselves to 400 calories spread out over the day – usually a small yogurt and some veggies.
so i guess, some muscle is still there.
eating very lc (which i do) makes it easier to skip meals and/or to fast.
a switch from a low-carb to a little lower probably won’t make the same difference.
since going low glycemic (plenty of protein and fat, good fat that is), i have lost about 8 lbs.
on the fasting 24 hours can you not have any food at all?
i keep my menus low carb…very low carb and eat to my heart’s content.
it was not the diet they outlined as the program, but the way that rachel heller had initially discovered worked for her weight loss — eat just in the evening without paying too much attention to *what* was eaten.
i told her that it was unlikely to be elevated, seeing that we hadn’t been gorging ourselves.
i would caution you, however, before starting such a regimen that if you are on any medications or have any secondary health issues, you must see a physician skilled in the use of low-carb diets.
hi bert– thanks for your input.
im eating once a day between 2-3 pm.
i don’t know what all ibs entails but it seems like if has helped with many other problems, i was just curious on what she may be able to do.
so far i have to say that fasting intermittently seems to be working for me.
hi michael– take a look at this post on gastroesophageal reflux i wrote about a year ago.
cheers– mrereply denise, thank you!
and, before i started this regimen, i was able to maintain 115 while eating quite a bit more calories during the week, so it just doesn’t make sense that i’m not losing now.
approx.-into 20 days i lost 12-lbs & the next 23 days 3-lbs.
i will then go to sleep and fast the next day till 4pm which is a non wo day and i will simply keep calories restricted to appx.
hi michael– i suspect that the if regimen as we worked it out will be a lot more tolerable than the one meal per day if that you did a while back.
if there are no calories it doesn’t matter if it’s boiling hot or freezing cold.
it was evident that my insulin wasn’t well controlled because i was hungry all the time.
it was precisely the aiello/wheeler “expensive tissue hypothesis” that i was thinking of, and the idea that the brain and gut in some sense were in “competition” for energy.
i’ve never had a concern about getting enough on a low carb diet.
my husband and i wish actually they had a pill you could take and just skip food altogether lol.
i have also seen lots of eating plans that want you to eat small meals throughout the day.
thanks for any info you can provide.
if your body doesn’t “hang on to fat” during if, why would mine be holding out knowing it will get “fed” on weekends?
it would work much better than consuming the 4000 kcal every day.
i say i wasn’t hungry at all, i didn’t have a stomach ache, but it was very mild, and entirely tolerable.
the other problem i see is (believe it or not) weight loss!!
and of course, nothing by mouth after dinner on saturday until after liturgy on sunday – usually around noon.
i enjoy large healthy meals without feeling the need to watch my portions.
in thinking about the process i came to the conclusion that if was probably the way paleolithic man ate.
thus i started the 24 hour on, 24 hour off, program last week.
hi chuck– i would like to see the quote from protein power where we wrote that fasting stimulates the insulin response.
hi kevin– i guzzle coffee whether fasting or not and it doesn’t affect me differently one way or another.
after the first week where i was pretty ravenous by the time dinner came each night, i now have to work hard to get enough calories and protein (using nutrition-tracking software), since i’m satisfied with just a normal meal for dinner.
cheers– mre replyreply nicholas might take some comfort in the results of this 2007 study: http://jap.physiology.org/cgi/content/abstract/00209.2007v1 during the course of the 4 week study, igf-1 levels were reduced by 40% (relative to controls) in mice that were 100 % calorically restricted on fasting days!
caloric restriction wasn’t what cause such extension of lifespan.
after a month, what kind of questions would you like me to ask in a questionnaire?
we will see where it will take us!
when i’ve fasted when the days were shorter, eg in winter months, i didnt notice any pain relief ,non whatsoever, i believe because i was not starving my body long enough.
and i’m still and chubbly little guy over two years of doing if?reply sounds interesting.
i mean look at what the keto diet does for epileptic kiddliesreply
but i would like to lose 5 or so pounds and am hoping this would help me do that.
then i read about intermittent fasting, the qod diet, the warrior diet, etc… i started eating every 3 days, the only nourishment i gave myself was post resistance training in the morning, a scoop of multi-purpose protein, a tablespoon of dextrose, a tablespoon of unsweetened cocoa powder, a taplespoon of coffee grinds and a tablespoon of cinnamon.
it helps the healing process, whether fasting or not, to take 4-10 grams of l-glutamine per day.
they were thin “poorly” clothed
does intermitttant fasting stimulate these genes too?
i’m nearing the point of just accepting this weight for the trade off of being able to have some treats on the weekends, but i’m not quite there yet.
doesn’t sound so cheery?
i haven’t taken bp meds in over three weeks now, and it’s the best it’s ever been.
thanksreply i am 58 years old and think i have finally found a plan that i can live with.
make sure you keep working, preserve your lean muscle and watch the fat disappear.
cheers– mrereply dr. eades, thank you for this article.
do you have any suggestions of any thing else it could be?
the typical routine of most americans is startlingly similar to that of a sumo wrestler: they skip breakfast, work all day, come home to fill up on a big meal, and hit the sack soon after.
doesn’t look like much of an if to me.
if you eat calories, whether they be from whey or anything else, you really aren’t on a fast; you would be following a low calorie diet.
i would be grateful for any thoughts you have, whenever you have time.
if you’re not hungry, don’t eat.
i’m not happy about that, but i am hoping the results are because i am losing so much weight.
if you read it you will find the the class of sumo wrestlers in training for the big time eat over 5000 kcal per day composed of over 1000 grams of carbohydrate and only 50 grams of fat.
i’m glad you’re doing so well.
all my food cravings disappeared along with my eating disorder and my unhealthy obsession with food.
i see lots of meat eating going on in this low-carb ifing.
current thinking is that during evolutionary times the size of the gi tract was sacrificed to release energy for the much more ‘expensive’ large human brain.
i had to fast two days for a colonoscopy.
its not alternate day fasting however.
i do if as a practicality, but i’m also completely vegan.
you have been quite generous with your time in responding to everyone’s comments and questions!
even if it only spreads by word of mouth, it works so well for weight loss and weight maintenance, it will eventually be well-known.
what they say is what the data show.
so, go forth and be a great example.
keep us posted should you give the if a try.
best– mrereply yep, you’ll be really hungry the first time you try if.
we didn’t change our exercise schedules, so i don’t really have a recommendation there.
now, i may have missed it but what about water?
recently i switched to a small breakfast and a larger lunch and skip the dinner.
will keep intensity lower until my body adjusts in few weeks/months.
if i need extra protein, as you have recommended so often, is there a way to do it without eating so much meat?
you stay so well informed by reading all the medical data.
but it’s so odd that everyone looses significant wt.
i can’t deal with the newspaper and need something to read during my breaks at work.
reply to tommi: joel marion has some good research and a book written about resetting the metabolism.
in the old carb days i would never have been able to do that because a drop in blood sugar was a major headache trigger.
that’s very interesting.
thus, as today when i eat with a friend at lunch, i’ll commence my fast today and it’ll go through tomorrow afternoon.
you mentioned that drinking water, coffee, et al is ok during the if regimen, but what’s you’re opinion if one were to partake of whey protein drinks/shakes during the fast part of the schedule?
that doesn’t mean that it won’t work (i figure it probably would); it just means that as far as i know there is no collected data.
here’s a reference for you on ramadan fasting.
i’m doing very well on the combination.
since i started eating 3 meals per day again, i do feel better, but i haven’t checked bp yet since i figured a few days could not really change much… hi levi– keep me posted as you progress along on the regular eating plan.
protein will run blood sugar up a little, especially if it is consumed with some carbs.
definitely going to give this a go – great article.
i found when i tried to exercise my first day doing this i couldn’t because i was dehydrated.
if you eat about what you normally eat or even a little more when you’re non-fasting on your ‘eat’ day, you should lose weight.
on one meal a day, one is fasting 23 out of every 24 hours, so the duration of fasting is similar to adif, but the total time fasting, over a period of a week, would be much greater.
hi athelstan– i doubt that the supplement fillers and the fish oil will cause a problem with the if.
what does make a difference is the composition of the meals.
yet, i experience a much higher than usual rise in my bg when i eat much more meat than is typical for me on my lc diet — i monitor my bg regularly as diabetes runs in my family.
i find i really cannot fit in more than one substantial meal during the eating interval
i don’t think whatever minuscule benefits you might get from the tiny amount of vitamins and minerals in the syrup or molasses is more than offset by the sugar.
i love food, that is not the problem.
most importantly i feast when i break my fast.
hi australya– we’re not talking about a major fast here; we’re talking about 24 hours.
i’ll keep checking in.
reply i have been doing the daily fasts (i.e. eat between 4 pm and 8 pm every day).
could you not get a similar effect by eating small amounts only when physically hungry?
thanks, david sears hi david– i have no opinion because 1)i’ve never tried it on children; and 2) like you i haven’t read any papers on it.
best– mrereply greetings dr. meades, i did alot of researching cr/if over the summer by reading as much as i could on the web.
invariably, less food means less pain, less edema.
reply back again.. on week two of intermittent fasting.
overall i’m very happy with the results – i may not be losing a full pound from a single day of fasting, but i’m still finding intermittent fasting to be much easier to handle psychologically than trying to use portion control to reduce calorie intake.
i’ve been fasting for over 24 hours at a time.
it’s been interesting reading people’s responses.
reply dear dr. mike, i read your post with much interest.
i’ve heard that’s why many anorexics, low fatters have their gallbladders fail.
my goal is bmi 22, or 158 lbs – basically college weight.
and i never, ever eat between meals.
intermittent fasting (if) is just as its name implies: a period of fasting  alternated with a period of eating.
we try to skip a meal here  and there because figure it’s probably good for us.
notify me of followup comments via e-mail view our archive of posts.
i can’t say that i was not concerned
hi pete– take a look at the reply to the comment from fred hahn; it will probably answer most of your questions.
the days that i fasted i never felt the energy boost that is reported for fasting, and i often felt very cold.
following the doctor’s advice worked and believe me, i was very hesitant to eat that much food!
check out the site, there is a free ebook that goes in great detail on how to setup and execute the fast-5 if plan including the science behind it.
sounds like your version of the if worked out great for you.
happy new year to everyone!reply geez jim, i’ve pretty much do what you do, only 2- 36 hour fasts a week– been doing it for at least two years at that pace, i’m only about 10 pounds lighter than i was two years ago in the fall.
not the nerve actually, but the muscle around it.
do you think that this would be a better approximation of the rats’ experimental conditions (with perhaps more likelihood of receiving similar benefits)?
i have always heard that eating 5 or so small meals a day would keep your metabolism high and that skipping meals would slow it down.
is there something that can be used in the recipes to take the place of soy?
i spent a week with the parents over the holidays.
thanks to you, too, dr. eades.
so far, down a pound and $5 richer.
my bg has been very stable too.
i don’t care what anyone says, it works for me and i hope i live to be 150!
and a large insulin response can indeed worsen insulin resistance in one already afflicted with the problem.
we humans, for the most part, eat only during our  waking hours.
do you rule out the pritikin diet as a healthy choice for i.f. adherents with cancer?
i’m glad to hear you’re doing so well.
you only undergo gluconeogenesis if your blood sugar levels start to drop too low.
keep after it with the if.
i felt perfectly normal.
i’ve found i can sip on a single glass for several hours in the evening.
making us feel more hungry than we would otherwise feel while fasting.
if i’m busy during day (usually 1-3 d/wk) i miss lunch or just have 100g tuna or similar.
i’m a 24 yom, 5’10″, 175lbs, can deadlift 325 lbs, run a sub 6 minute mile, a sub 20 minute 3 miles, have a 36″ vertical leap and am training for my first marathon, i’ve been able to achieve this eating 6 times a day.
cheers– mrereply hi….
i have now finished my 5th day with only breakfast and lunch again (tomorrow it will be dinner only and of course a snack at bedtime).
is that ok (or very recommended) while mid-fast, or am i sabotaging my fasting process?
and i do if everyday.
cheers– mrereply what is the problem with eating complex (i.e., unprocessed) carbohydrates.
and why is it considered a method that helps people loss weight?
on  the next day we ate supper right after 6 pm and ate breakfast and lunch (and a  few snacks) the next day until 6 pm when we started fasting again.
eight slices, the whole pie, would then be 2480 kcals.
as you do such exercises more, you should grease the skids of your metabolism so that this doesn’t happen as often or as severely.
hi athelstan– the idea that the body can handle only 15 to 20 grams of protein in a four-hour period is false.
the best thing to do it try it both ways and let us all know how it works for you.
joining the if conversations on the bulletin boards.
so far my goals of health, weight control and good energy have been realized along with no social or family negative consequences.
lab results and reality are often two different animals.”
before i get to the real nitty gritty of how such a thing can be done,  let’s look at a method that has been proven in countless research  institutions to bring about all the above-mentioned good things.
i.e. is the pattern: day one eat:
but i’m becoming very anxious about wanting to lose this weight.
the problem is i can’t figure out what works.
as for the number of generations, i’m pretty sure that was the number (i was also amazed), but now that you’re asking, i have this ‘fly’ in my brain that wants to make sure the facts are right… so now i must find that study again!!!
thanks john bailey hi john– keep me posted on your progress.
mrereply hi dr. eades, i belong to a lc support forum and some of us there, after reading your blog, have decided to give if a try.
i am concerned however about slowing my metabolism.
bdnf is neuroprotective against stress and toxic insults to the brain and is somehow–no one yet knows how, exactly–involved in the insulin sensitivity/glucose regulating mechanism.
i have to say that during this period i was very slim, had good energy, no teenage acne, etc.
i’m eating a full meal at or before 6 pm on my non-fasting days.
i’ve lost track of exactly then i shifted from that regimen to alternate day fasting, to what i read that you and md did for a few weeks.
i just discovered if after many, what some might call failed attempts to complete 10 days on the master cleanse (the most i could ever do if 7 days) but the mental part of it kills me every time!
here is what happened with me.
so perhaps trying to match the rats day as a percentage of lifespan isnt critical, hi sam– i agree it’s probably not all that critical to match the rat’s day in terms of fasting.
my internist is happy with my regimen as my lipid indices look good.
can i incorporate your if ideas into my induction, which is going to last… oh, at this weight, the rest of my natural life probably… without it being a problem?
that, folks, is called a woman’s intuition, the hand of god, or whatever other form of divine intervention that you want to ascribe to it.
you’ve got a new reader.
let me know how it works for you.
hi janet– thanks for the update.
assuming i can control myself enough to fast for the required 24 hours, would all of the work be undone if i were to consume something like 4,000 calories in the 24 hours i was able to eat?reply
do you believe there could be any benefit to drinking green tea during the fasting phase, purely to relieve any of the metabolism slow-down of which we are constantly warned?
so i thought i’d ask my question: when you describe the eating pattern do you eat supper on the full eating days or are you eating breakfast lunch one day, and only dinner the next?
and i’d like to know if it’s off limits during fasts.
best– mrereply regarding the orthodox christian fast – you don’t eat animal products.
i am a semi-vegetarian.
thank you so much…another thing i noticed is that my taste buds have returned….my eating habits were so messed up that i could no longer taste food….it is a gift to be able to relish and meal…i am forty-eight years old and i assume the weight gain i experienced over the last five years is partly the result of aging but i am confident i will continue to lose weight…thanks again, natalie hi natalie– i’m glad you’ve had such great success.
hi misty– a lot depends on how much you eat during the ‘eat’ days.
best– mrereply is it okay to use with splenda flavored packets in coffee while doing your 24 hours?
going entirely without food in the short term leads to improvement in health, but also leads to an extremely short life unless the fast is aborted.
thanks, bobreply addressing bob’s comments: i’ve if-ed since may 2003, doing a 24-hour fast that commences every other day routine for over five years.
50% bmr with low carb high protein moderate fat.
basically dinner-bf-lunch/ – - – / please let me know how it works for you.
now i lift lighter and run 4 days a week along with the above diet and feel great.
solid topic, -george
it has helped a lot, but has not eliminated the migraines.
are both views correct?
i want to know, do you have to have lots of veggies on your eat days or can you just have mostly protein?
dinner includes main course meat and fish or other animal protein in the salad.
at this rate, i believe i’m on the correct path to doing just that :}~ hi david– thanks for the inspirational history.
definitely going to try at least 1 day a week….but not break the fast with pizza!!!
but i’m just looking for a jumpstart.
she lost 2 pounds so did the same thing the next…and the next.
a couple years back i did the master cleanse, and followed up with disciplined eating schedules.
my continued experiment is being documented at http://rachel421-intermittentfasting.blogspot.com cheers!!
annereply i did if for more than 2 years and i stopped for reasons i’ll explain below.
tomreply dr. eades, i’ve just finished my first 5 weeks on if, doing a warrior diet-style approach where i eat every night in a 2-4-hour window, then fast until the following evening.
i am not working out; i think i’m going to concentrate on my eating habits and when i get to my desired weight, then i will exercise for maintenance.
i now manage my fibromyalgia very well and my husband is on his way to weaning from his anti seizure medication.
it’s the only way i could have done it.
so wouldn’t if tend to promote higher than usual cortisol levels during the fasting intervals, and is this a good thing?
the animals that were on the if regimen ended up eating as much as the animals that were fed ad lib (they ate twice as much on feeding days to make up for not eating on fasting days), but lived as long as the animals on 30-40% caloric restriction.
i was told that “allergies are usually worst during puberty and sometimes even go away completely at the age of 18-20″. so far, this still seems to be the widely observed fact.
anyone who gets blood drawn to check fasting blood sugar ought to have a hgba1c measure included to see if the increase in fasting blood sugar is just a strange blip or is a measure of an overall rise in blood sugar over time.
i can avoid taking a triptan.
personally, i would give it a year…serisouly to conclude if it works or not.
caloric restriction is a terrific way to lose weight and get healthy; problem is, it’s not much fun.
i combine monday and tuesday into one fast, eat lightly on wednesday, and fast again thursday.
now that i’m minus my gallbladder i decided to try intermittent fasting again.
i also like this because my ifing fast days are all work days (m, w, f) when i’ll be mentally engaged in other activities and therefore (maybe?) not so focused on the fact that i’m not eating.
it has been going very well and i am already down 2 kilos and have been able exercise just fine while fasting.
thank god for low carb websites!
on  the day we started, we ate until 6 pm, then fasted until 6 pm the next day.
always sitting, super high stress, but i attributed this mass gain in part to the only eating once a day thing and my metabolism just shutting down.
i have notices an increase in muscle fullness and fat free mass weight has stayed stable but with a loss in bf%.
i think the increased fasting blood sugars are an interesting and surprising phenomenon.
before 6 and after 6.
but i find it very easy to greatly restrict calories during the week.
as i became more and more convinced that low-carb is a healthier dietary lifestyle i switched over and now have the impression that weight loss accelerates again.
eventually over the years i have succumbed to all advice that not eating several times a day could cause weight gain (starvation mode, etc.).
thanks for commenting.
daily, walking, swimming, and working out with free weights, my stopped losing weight and i continue losing extremely slowly but weight loss is now not our major goal.
you’ll feel fatigued at first if you’re used to high meat intake, switching to a plant based diet.
(you’ll find more details on the sumo wrestler myth in chapter 5 of ultrametabolism.)
hi gabe– thanks for the study.
in christianity and other religions there have been numerous hermits who exalt the virtues of even longer fasting periods and allegedly results are amazing.
it is so discouraging because i love to eat
good to reread his 2006 statement.
ive had tremendous stress over the last six months, storm related displacement, job loss, friends scattered.
it was aggressive and it was challenging, but im so happy to report that the two weeks of intermittent water fasting has totally knocked out my almost constant pms cramps.
he’s written some articles on http://www.t-nation.com about this subject, such as the leptin manifesto.
let’s see…there are 168 hours in a week.
as an artist now who puts up lots of shows, i sometimes spend many hours doing less extensive exercise that nevertheless “counts.”
best– mrereply thanks again for covering this topic on your blog.
most of the time, i just suck up and stick with the low-carb regimen, but i often go a long time between meals.
best– mrereply in their reports of the efficacy of intermittent fasting/alternate day caloric restriction, do mattson or johnson/laub/john make any reference to low carbs?
in retrospect, i do everything on an empty stomach now.
kim hi kim– if shouldn’t affect your gall bladder at all as long as you eat some fat on your eat days.
this is known as the cephalic phase of insulin secretion and is due to the hypothalamo-entero-insular axis which is mediated by vagal nerve[1] [1]while mf, khan cr.
sometimes we get up and get going  with all our projects and don’t eat breakfast.
oh … and i’ve lost 7 lbs.
i have a problem with hunger tho.
can’t think of any reason not to stick with it indefinitely.
it sounds wonderful, and we tried it for a few weeks, but it was so much work!
bdnf given to depressed humans  reduces their depression.
reply it is interesting to consider that our current ‘educated’ society is one of the only times throughout history where fasting of any kind is shunned.
would this peri-workout nutrition be permissable during the fast?
by the way, i am 58, female, 5’3″, 130 lbs, very small framed and need to lose about 20 pounds from my middle mostly.
i would force myself to eat within 30 min. of waking as i have read so many times suggested even though i was never particularly hungry, it seemed this would only stimulate my appetite and by evening i was on the constant prowl for food.
and i researched the calorie restriction diet about a year and a half ago.
hi gabe– thanks for all you help with the board and your concern.
best– mrereply i would just like to say – for those who seemed to still be worried about your metabolism slowing down – it doesn’t!
calories would also be absorbed, but would get burned off more easily during ketogenesis.
and the method has been studied in humans and seems to achieve the same health benefits and, if an old spanish study can be believed, maybe even an increase in lifespan.
this doesn’t happen in the short term.
and they were not big eaters.
to use an image that gary taubes deploys somewhere: as i “live as a tailor” i finally “eat as a tailor”.
reply i am thoroughly convinced that intermittant fasting is a better way health maintainence.
i drank a little more because of the blood draw but it was not much more than my usual intake.
hi gabe– no, you didn’t miss anything about water; i didn’t mention it.
if you go without food for a long period of time, say, several days, your metabolic system goes after your muscle mass to convert the protein stored there into the glucose you need to keep your blood glucose normal.
i really believe that finishing the evening meal while the sun is still bright is congruent with natural cycles.
lipid numbers were total….
cheers– mrereply i’m on my fourth week of window “window fasting” 19 hours (at a minimum) of fasting everyday with a 5 hour (more or less) window for eating my eating hours are between 4:00 and 9:00pm and also – an important complement to the fasting doing interval weight training in that time i have lost 11 pounds feel highly energized and yes real hunger pangs and stomach growling start about an hour before eating time shows up and yes food tastes wonderful
btw robb wolf is a real decent ‘uman being hi simon– i know that cancer cells can’t use ketones for energy and must turn to glucose to grow and reproduce.
im so impressed with my results ive decided to incorporate this weekly fast permenately.
however, back then i would eat only once or twice every day and overeat on carbs.
what a sudden blast of cold water (or any extreme temperature change) does is increase the body’s production of heat shock proteins, which act as chaperones in the development of new protein.
unless of course, cr makes up for it in some way.
then early last year i went through a difficult period in my life, i just fell off the wagon, food-wise.
i allowed myself somewhat greater flexibility in order to suit social events, as follows: sometimes it’s an early dinner with a later one 24 or more hours later, but typically it’s an early breakfast (i and my wife note the time) and then a later one 24 or more hours later.
the amino acids from these proteins also enter the aa pool where they can be recycled by the muscle mass.
and then i read about the intermittent fasting and started yesterday!
i will be fifty in a few days and i am tying peri-menopause and into the weight gain mix.
the hypoglycemic state should respond nicely.
serum glucose 78 89 96 serum insulin 5.5 7.8 6.1 glycosylated hemog.
i really want to understand the science of this – it just isn’t making sense to me.
so after going without food for 16 hours and drinking nothing but water and black coffee, i weight trained for an hour and i walked for 40 minutes (approx.
(i’m using an eating window of 5 hours every evening).
i attribute my youthful appearance and physical health to calorie restriction and a very heavy dependance on vitamin and nutrititional supplements.
i didn’t think i could have real insulin problems because i work physically hard and ate decent but that’s apparently no guarantee!) and smaller meals more often.
i think this is a function of “dawn phenomenon” possibly an adaptive paleo holdover.
i got a burst of energy.
now i only went from 54 to 47.
my experience – all positive – so far.
mre what is the recommendation for protein levels?
i have had to repeat myself many times that it is not open for debate but many people in my life they seem to think that it will only make me malnourished and unhealthy.
(i occasionally eat meat, but prefer veggies and particularly fruit.
i definitely do not want my husband to loose any more weight, he is 60 kg and 1.84 m tall.
one of the correspondents mentioned social pressure to eat as others do.
i recently came across some of my old journals from the mid-nineties when i was extremely poor, and i was only eating once a day … but i was in pretty good health and the thinnest i’ve ever been
if you are doing fine on the dietary regimen you’re now following, why change?
it would be of interest to hear your views on sleep (especially duration), climatic exposure (eg dowsing\cold showers etc) in the blog at some point.
subject to my being able to do it are there any downsides that occur to you?
thanks for the great blog.
reply i think if is the best way to go.
i’m here to tell you that the 6 pm meal is one you will really enjoy.
it must be water retention, but i am still low carbing.
my bet would be low-blood sugar.
rather than a scheme which involves 2 weeks.
my hgb value was 10.9.
after 6 months of if i lost 37 pounds.
how about let’s stick it to the “diet industry.
basically, i controlled caloric intake so each day was +/-200 calories of a 1200 calorie baseline.
but i am stopped dead in my tracks when i read that igf-1 levels go up as much as 15% in mattson’s i.f. rats.
i’ve found the same thing when i if.
when i first read this i was worried about the whole yo-yo low-calorie diet thing which most people face when they try to reduce the calorie intake.
think of what other worthwhile activities could take up that time!
i would like to see the fruit fly study you wrote about.
cheers– mrereply i want to try this tomorrow, but i am not good at low carb at all, so i am just going to eat regular.
this method would be tons easier.
but when i eat after 9am i am fine.
i’m wondering what the “little treats” are that you eat throughout the day.
reply you said in a previous post, “you don’t force gluconeogenesis by eating protein.
if so, that would be a bonus.
this has persisted throughout my life, and it only succumbs to quite strong medicine.
on adif there would be 4 intervals of 24-hour fasting, totalling 96 hours.
i noticed the same thing about the energy increase with the if.
i do not want to eat dinner on fast days, i do not like the idea of ‘diet wafers’ for the blood glucose either.
everyone!!!reply hi doc!
took two more days of it’ing to get back to the “runners high” “fatty acid flush” energy levels i had gotten used to.
which is hard to do…just one of the miracles and proof 1 god allah swt and the messenger pbuh…how would they know this so many years ago..
no one really knows.
i will post more as information comes in.
good luck on your if.
it was the way i felt best and had the best energy to meet all the demands of working full time, going to school, hiking all over campus, etc.
i did two weeks of every other day fasting, along with my nightly eating window.
what i realised my pains in my back and not to mention my fatigue had gone.
[*]yes, it’s a python reference 24 ratty hours does indeed translate into more for humans – probably at least a couple of days.
fasting is part of the regime.
we ultimately drifted  back to our normal low-carb diet, however, just because it seemed to work  better with our schedules.
i also drink coconut milk smoothies in which i add whey protein powder and mct oil.
i know that a good low-carb diet helps many people with ibs, and i would try that first.
i notice coming up on dinner time, i actually get a surge of energy and almost fidgetiness, which i sometimes need to burn off with some exercise.
hi sheyla– since splenda is non-caloric, it shouldn’t be a problem.
i am 34 and a type i diabetic.
i’ll try to pick up the pace on my postings.
if we were invited to a dinner somewhere that was set for an evening when we were supposed to be fasting, we simply moved our time to start fasting until after the dinner.
thanks in advancereply actually, to clarify, my concern is too much protein.
hopes this answers your questions.
it might be that you would drop several pounds.
ruth hi ruth– i doubt that your increase in abdominal girth is from excess cortisol.
certainly the frequency of eating should also take credit.
or you could be consuming enough calories to maintain your weight.
if i’m only hungry once during the day, i only eat once.
i expect with if of judddd, the next tests will be even better.
is this because of the types of food that they are required to eat in a re-feeding plan?
i don’t know if i have actually lost weight, no scale, but i don’t think i’ve gained weight.
reply i fast mondays, wednesdays, and fridays.
let’s say you pick a day to start.
cheers– mrereply on second thought… i think that 20 human days would be closer to the rat’s day as a percentage of their lifespan.
hi peggyjo– i think it would be great to do that.
my question is this: are there any studies that support or address this type of if?
in addition to the health effects, this pattern of eating has proven to be a good method of weight control, and we are continuing to study the process in conjunction with the nih.
that really changed my whole opinion on fasting.
best– mrereply hi , i’m doing some sort of semi-if .by
the reason i posted on the if is that it is a method that permits more carb consumption yet provides many of the benefits of carb restriction.
i believe that my carbs are around 30 grams/day
i rarely eat more than 20 grams of carbs a day.
i think a natural result of intermittent fasting is caloric reduction (who wants to suffer through a day of no food and then blow it with a lot of garbage?), and i have as a result lost about 6 pounds.
one would get the best of all worlds healthwise this way.
rlw i suspect your problem is arising from your weekend eating pattern.
maybe you’re wife is just worried about the looks you’re getting from the other chicks @anne – if you’re saying that you’re “cheating” with a little cream in your coffee, it shouldn’t be too much of problem.
i have been really enjoying this book and enjoying my fasting days.
are not these if studies done on unhealthy, overfat subjects?
like oprah winfrey & others have said , “don’t eat after 7:00 pm.
cheers– mrereply hey mike, just to answer your questions, yes, i’ve generally kept to lc diet as described in protein power.
i was somewhat relieved to read your answer regarding protein; i too was under the impression that if i were to do this long-term, on fasting days my body would gradually eat away at lean tissue, leaving fat tissue.
i’m eager to see how you progress with your version of the if regimen.
one of the jobs of your teeth and your stomach acid is to convert solid foods into liquid foods.
you eat too close to bedtime.
one day we would get supper–the next day we would get breakfast and lunch.
“the autonomic innervation of islets plays an important role in the modulation of insulin release from the islet cells of langherhans.
i didn’t just wake up and said, ‘i’m going to start fasting”.
i still have 25 stubborn lbs to lose.
a great book to read is “adrenal fatigue”, by dr. james wilson.
before i started low-carbing, i couldn’t imagine skipping a meal.
once i went for 3 days without eating just for yuks and it was totally fine with me.
i’m an adult with adhd treated with adderall which kills the appetite while the medication is in effect.
best– mrereply dr. eades, all of the papers that i’m able to find concern intermittent fasting by adults.
i don’t think it really matters.
is it worthy or the result of human study which you mention (“papers appeared showing that subjects ifing, or even regularly skipping a couple of meals per day, were developing insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, elevated blood pressure, and decreased thermogenesis”)
hi sheyla– yes, it is normal to reduce appetite after a while.
for the last two months i have avoided breakfast altogether (black coffee only) and eaten only a very small lunch.
any info or speculation on what is happening would be appreciated.
i am thinking that it is probably not to even say breakfast lunch or dinner.
what the quran teaches us…1400 years ago..in the book…it also tells us to.. eat to hungry… and noteat to full.
we now often skip lunch  and don’t seem any the worse for it.
any way for you to do some kind of informal data collection here?
but the biggest plus is simply being really hungry by the time my eating window rolls around..
it seems to be a topic that has a lot of interest.
thanks for the dietary history.
feeling much better now, but may forgo the more intense weight training until i develop more endurance??
i can’t convince my wife to let me go all the way for dinner too!
please keep me posted as you go along, especially about the blood tests.
thanks kaireply hi, i’m trying intermittent fasting because i feel so frustrated with my weight right now.
because i’m stuck eating a little bit of food every 3 hours.
if you eat a couple of thousand kcals and at least 80 grams of protein, i think you’ll do fine.
i have not yet had any bloodwork done to compare my lipid values with pre-if, but have been feeling good.
i try to explain all the benefits and have only recently started sending them urls like this web page and abstracts from pubmed.
i couldn’t imagine getting thru a day at work without any breakfast or lunch, and i have a fairly low stress job.
well, i’m getting on in years now and have had a few health problems.
reply anyone have any opinions on ifing if you’re not in the best health and have hormonal imbalances/adrenal fatigue/weak immune system?
just thought you might like to know.
we eat whatever we want from 6:30pm one day to 6:30pm the next.
this fascinating topic has generated a lot of posts on the protein power board, which is good.
a number of scientific articles have been generated from data collected from religious groups undertaking these fasts.
i did a 8pm to 8pm again on weds and it went really well.
i don’t eat on any particular schedule at all over the week-ends, as eating by the clock is what got me in this fix in the first place.
i don’t know why i got launched off into all that, but the short answer is that fasting doesn’t particularly cause a metabolic slowdown.
type ii diabetics get better, type i diabetics significantly reduce their insulin doses.
instead i should say my meal or my daily meal.
once i got most of the weight off i seemed to quit losing, or slowed to near stop, 1 lb a month is as near a stop as i can tell.
reply don’t mean to hog the blog , but had a pretty big event today.
mrereply don’t you get unbearably hungry during the fasting periods?
kristi hi kristi– no books out there that i know of.
what surprised me was my iron was good despite the fact that i was on my monthly.
well i have a few questions .
to comment on some other concerns stated throughout this blog, i exercise towards the end of my fasting period and i put off eating for an hour following exercise.
i can’t tell you what i think because i have no idea what your doing on your intermittent fast.
both seem to eliminate my evening snacking problem quite effectively.
that’s quite interesting, since midsummer is usually a bit too early for fir and grass to be blooming fully where i live, but during the pollen peaks i generally have very little problems at all.
for the past 2 years or so i’ve been on a very erratic work schedule which at times leave me on diet coke for 36 hours even when i do get 4-6 hours of sleep.
although seemingly unrelated, i always remember this account when reading about life extension… particularly because i still haven’t seen studies in which caloric restriction added pieces to the telomeres (the tips of the human chromosome arms… i know you know these but for those who don’t i offer this visual) or, which is after all where ‘life span’ resides (of course in the genetic sense).
well, the fast did what my medicines have been unable to do.
i think it’d be really nice if this post linked over to part 2, which does provide a significantly different view in regards to the subject matter.
i have read the book protein power twice and constantly refer back to it with questions.
ok from your point of view?
some of the spectacular results he achieved were previously brittle nails became strong, having a head full of hair back again (which turned from white to grey) up until the end of his life in his 90s, and being in full strength — in his mid-90s he was still crossing part of the danube river swimming… a river which is pretty large…
my hgh went through the roof
are you sure it was 20 generations?
as long as we eat whole food diets containing plenty of good quality fats, there shouldn’t be a problem.
hi sherry– good luck.
for the last year and a half, my wife and i have been encouraging people to try the “primitive” model of eating we call fast-5 (a zero-calorie fast for 19 hours, then eat as desired for a 5 hour window, and one can go low-carb or not).
hi detox– i’ll await your response.
the fact that blood sugar is so essential for cancers to grow has led to a type of cancer treatment called insulin potentiation therapy (ipt), a controversial treatment involving a combination of insulin and standard chemotherapeutic agents.
anyway, if i did try this, i imagine i would try it with a low carb diet, why not have the best of both worlds?
i have insulin resistance.
these numbers were higher then normal too and lower hdl.
fasting doesn’t put nearly the stress on the alpha cells – those pancreatic cells that produce glucagon – as eating large amounts of carb puts on the beta cells – the pancreatic cells producing insulin.
best– mrereply i’ve just started 24-36 hour fasting, thanks to a new article i found tucked away in the latest issue of men’s health magazine.
mrereply today is one week on the program, and i have neither gained or lost any weight at all (128 pounds) but my waist measurement at the naval has gone up nearly 1 3/4 inches.
i had discovered it was the best way to avoid hypoglycemia problems — no problem at all if i just ate once a day, at dinner.
do you have questions that you would like me to ask in a questionnaire?
thanks for the personal replies.
if it does, then start adding one food at a time back in until you get a flare up and you will know what caused it.
i take no medications of any sort and have no health problems.
hi joyce– thanks for the update.
especially having quit my morning paper delivery which had me running over 100 flights of stairs wieghted down with papers, it was hard for me to feel like i should be eating 3 carb meals a day.
but if does even more.
any extended period without food intake is beneficial.
i always have worked out on an empty stomach because i read somewhere you then burn the fat that is stored rather than using the energy you just ingested, or something to that effect.
one thought would be to fast every 3rd or 4th day.
here are other tips for avoiding sumo-size weight gain: – eat breakfast.
however, when one has 100 pounds to loose, fasting is not an option.
but i was wondering if it is possible to lose weight with the 24 on 24 off fasting plan?
best– mrereply dr. eades, my question regarding this topic: i see on many low carb boards the topic of “starvation mode.”
did you mean all the numbers to be 30 to 40 percent: * 30 to 40 percent fewer calories (the study) * 30 to 40 percent longer life (for the thusly cred animals) * 30 to 40 percent fewer calories (for human) would lead to longer life ?
as to the eczema…i’ve read a couple of studies in which researchers have put people with allergic problems on a diet of meat only for a while.
until a number of studies are done, i guess we won’t know for sure.
your own low-carb, high-protein diet with sporadic skipped meals probably achieves equal effects.
reply fascinating stuff.
(maybe that accounts for a little bit of the lack of hunger.)
another idea would be to do yours and md’s schedule randomly, ie 3 days on, 3 days off, 2 days on, 1 day off, 4 days on, 5 days off, etc, etc.
i’m not sure without going through a bunch of comments.
i appreciate your extensive research and willingness to examine all sides of subject before drawing the conclusion.
i assume you’re going back to a pp-style regimen.
keep us all posted on your continued efforts.
it depends on what they are.
did most people lose early on and then slow down as the if progressed or did they lose about the same throughout or not much at first, then more later on?
whether one calls it paleo, warrior, fast-5, or just “once-a-day,” the growing body of experience with it has to eventually overwhelm the uninformed “it can’t be healthy” mainstream opinion.
and all i would consume on those days was black coffee and water.
our main goal of this diet was for me to lose weight and to bring down my husbands cholesterol.
in general, the idea of doing yom kippur every other day is a little too post-dilettante for me.
i’ve been reading a lot about if lately and there are 2 methods that many people seem to be using – eat stop eat by brad pilon and the warrior diet by ori hofmekler.
i would like to lose the 8 pounds that have crept on in the last year and a half.
this is very fascinating.
i had no idea that there were others who actually do this as a way of life until i started finding reasons why i shouldn’t be doing this.
i wouldn’t take it lightly.
sounds like a  late-night infomercial gimmick, but it isn’t.
there are no rules for the intermittent fast other than it be intermittent and more or less fasting, which sounds like what you’re doing.
i was so poor i did not have money for fast food or to eat out and i found that the only time i had to eat was when i can home at night.
so far, i’ve experienced deeper more restful sleep, more energy for exercise and have much greater clarity of thought.
that way on the ‘eat after 2pm’ days, a decent sleep-in until noon would have that day not feel like a fast day at all, and on ‘eat before 2pm’ days, breakfast and lunch would be eaten.
best– mrereply what about diabetics?
back in college (suny stony brook, anthropology), i worked as a baker, baking donuts for a chain donut shop.
i have never tried the 5 meals a day approach, actually my metabolism always seemed pretty good – i was able to eat basically what i wanted and if i needed to lose a little weight it wasn’t very hard until i turned 40 or thereabouts i noticed it wasn’t as easy to lose that extra weight.
i saw your post about salt, and potassium, and copper, but these haven’t seemed to help.
promptly got the assault of, “that’s dangerous, have you tried eating 6 small meals?
let’s hope that the growing body of experience ultimately overwhelms the uninformed mainstream opinion, but i’m not holding my breath.
at the weekends, no breakfast but have lunch and dinner as dictated by social requirements but i try and dodge dairy, grain and sugar.
i do not know what my glucose is but i am not having any detectable insulin spikes.
i’m hoping that if gives me both the lifestyle i’m looking for but aides me in losing this weight.
i’ll have to take him at his word because i’ve never really used appetite suppressants myself or with my patients.
any feed back would be helpfull.
i guess i’m the last guy on the planet to get up to speed on if, but here goes!reply i’m the handicap guy confined to to a wheelchair i want to follow your program i’m on limit budget ssd.i was wondering if you’ll take me on pro-bono or give me a site i were i can get more information on what to do.
would you say that this is perhaps an oversimplification and that the body can function healthily with a more random scheduling of vitamin/mineral intake?
if it doesn’t the hugely elevated blood sugar levels would be harmful and create enormous problems on their own.
primates do for sure.
then i have a light dinner around 8.
most the commenters here (and you and the missus) sound like you’ve been doing lc for eons.
i would like to see some studies on how if and a ketogenic diet (what i am doing) will work together.
study subjects were in hospital 123 days, controls 219, highly significant difference.
best– mrereply hmmmm, this sounds very familiar to how the hellers started their carbohydrate addict saga.
i’ve not been perfect, of course, but i think i’ve probably kept consistant 80-90% of the time.
my question is, do you think intermittent fasting would benefit me if i am close to a healthy/goal weight?
many (many many) people simply love to eat…to excess.
at least, that was my experience.
good luck, everybody.
let me know if you’re interested, i think i have some of the articles hidden somewhere in my laptop.
when i did it, i was eating at least once a day, so i took my supplements when i took my meal.
i spend about $3-4k per year on anti-oxidants, phyto-chemicals, resveratol supplements, coral calcium, b-complex, hyaluronic acid, etc… often when i discuss my lifestyle with people they criticze it and tell me i may be hurting myself.
i would be interested in your comments on daily if as opposed to “day on day off”..
”reply since december 28th i have fasted twice a week (tuesday/friday – and changing it to monday/thursday a month ago for 24 hours.
i know i’ve lost some wt.
in data gathered from humans still living  in non-westernized cultures in the last century, it appears that they would  gorge after a kill and sleep and lay around doing not much of anything for the  next day or so.
keep the glucose low, starve the cancer.
and i might be very good for one weekend instead of easing off just to see what happens.
best– mikereply if will not effect muscle mass.
i have to say, i am blown away by how much food i was eating before.
how many of us have been told that we couldn’t do this or that or couldn’t leave the table until we cleaned up our plate, that children in china were starving, etc.
we eat breakfast, then fast until lunch.
i enjoy eating now, for the flavor and because i need food to live, and do not feel compulsions to eat, and my desires are geared toward healthy, fresh, nutritiously packed foods.
i also became more tolerant to cold water and intense summer heat.
go for it and see what happens.
with a tiny bit of milk.
filling up early helps keep your appetite in check all day long and revs up your resting metabolic rate, so you burn fat all day long.
spending every other day drinking without eating, i hope, will help decrease overall kidney stone risk along with the alkalizers i use.
veech (a major ketone researcher) has shown that the heart runs 29 percent more efficienty on ketones.
hi brian– there are many studies that address if.
at 260 lbs & holding until i see where this goes.
reply i started low carbing three years ago, because i was desperate for help with chronic headaches and migraines.
so i can only conclude my conditon improved cause i was starving my body of starch.
any advice is greatly appreciated!reply the sound of “eat pretty much anything and everything you wanted to eat and still maintain your health”, seems so unreal.
i’m looking forward to hearing from you as your if progresses.
what about branched chain amino acid supplementation?
this is off of the subject
i think the particular form of if that works best is dependant on the person, i am just happy i finally found one i could stick too.
its causing some to doubt the safety of long term i.f.”
i’m going to revise my stance with the grandchildren, however.
i am 2.6 lbs away from my goal weight and it feels great !
reply hi dr. my first post here just found your website.
i was very overweight and wanted to diet
i still have some spurious problems with it, but mainly only around midsummer now (a very much observed holiday in sweden, with tons of food served many times per day).
the small amounts of vitamin c in muscle meat and liver, combined with increased uric acid secretion, seems to be adequate enough.
but that seems doable.
i understand 16-8hr rule ,about 3x a week i do 2x a days workouts,when would i eat after i workout?
it’s obvious from the disparate comments on this post that mileage indeed varies.
after 4 years of this i found that going back to three meals a day just didnt work for me.
so, if one reduces carbohydrate intake all the good parts of the starvation response kick in while the protein in the diet serves to be the substrate for the conversion to glucose, leaving the muscle and other protein structures intact.
what about for someone that is into bodybuilding and maintaining or building an above average amount of muscle.
i caught my reflection in the window today at work and i really liked what i saw.
but i eat only low carb high fat products.
this kind of meal makes it easy for me to got 20-22 hours in a fasted satate.
i fast three 24-periods per week, 6pm sunday to 6pm monday;
best– mrereply thank you so much for the sumo wrestler info.
i was able to stop the weight gain, but after a year of having 1 bowl of mini wheats for breakfast and lunch and watching my dinners and cutting back almost entirely on baking (which i love), my weight just sat there and then i even gained 10 lbs after 2 car trips that really made my leg swell up.
so, you’re on (eating) for 14 hours and  off (fasting) for 34.
my question is am i am doing a little mostly harmless cheating (i do the fast every other day till 6pm thing three days a week) or am i ruining all my efforts?
i plan a longer post about resveratrol soon.
these meals were spaced well, they were just too often.
i thought it was something to do with what i was eating and most evidence points to starch as being bad for as suffers.
and it’s nice to know that a big, fat juicy meal is awaiting you at 6 pm.
i have plenty of energy to get me through the day and i am pleasant at work.
what was your experience with exercise while you did your experiment, and with your current intermittent meal skipping?
i do indeed pig-out if i have the need.
reply p.s. here is my if blog for those that are interesting in witnessing my weight loss success!
my dietary lifestyle has contributed to my healthy regimen and i intend to keep it way up.
both my shins are worse than last thursday when i started.
these activate with resveratrol as well as with calorie restriction to cause the body to assume, metaphorically described, a thrift economy rather than a wastral-affluent economy.
i love eating lowcarb, i love cooking lowcarb.
what would the diet consist of mostly?
i am making sure to keep my protein intake high on eating days.
i would imagine that eating only once per day, everyday, would be a little tough.
i had to give up heavy-lifting due to some ulnar nerve damage.
the couple left, and my boss popped up and told me he’d fire me if i ever turned away a customer like that again.
i’ll try it two times a week.
that’s the point of the intermittent fast.
i do tend to eat much more (and more carbs) on saturdays and sundays.
but how do you feel about extended periods of fasting?
i know it’s probably mostly psychological, but nonetheless, it is friday and i’m doing my 40 hour fast again after having done two 6pm to 6pm fasts and have gained back whatever i lost and then some judging by the way my clothes are fitting today.
as for the rest of the world, i tend not to tell them much either.
my bodyweight is 228 lbs, and i do not know my bf%.
but it would be difficult to get humans to go that long without eating.
my doctor has changed my meds a number of times trying to get it under control, especially now that i’m 33 and overweight.
i can’t wait to get a physical next february to see what my other numbers are like.
reply own**reply i can attest, mike, it does work, exactly as you said.
my weight always increases at this time, which it has done but nothing has started yet.
mary hey mary– thanks for passing your story along.
again, my primary hesitation is weight loss.
the second fast day was much easier than the first.
hi dan– the preponderance of scientific papers seems to indicate that eating earlier in the day is better.
during the day i eat anything i want up to 6:00 pm.
hey there kristi just wanted to let you know that there is a new ebook called eat stop eat.
reply i am an insulin dependent diabetic and do the if from time to time.
mrereply it sounds like some of us are really interested in implementing various versions of this and tracking our results.
thanks, dr. e., for your blog here.
reply i am very interesting in ifing.
aksungar fb, eren a, ure s,t eskin o, ates g. effects of intermittent fasting on serum lipid levels, coagulation status and plasma homocysteine levels.
cheers– mrereply dr. eades, can you tell me how if will affect your gallbladder?
if there were ever a holy grail to getting fit and healthy this is it.
there have been a few human studies on if, and all have shown a marked improvement in virtually every parameter tested.
i have tried all kinds of diets but i always found that once i start eating, it becomes difficult to stop.
i just watch what i order and don’t overeat.
since going carnivore, i’ve found i naturally eat less often – usually brunch around noon and then dinner around 8 or 9.
around midnight, i’d go snitch some portions of meat.
what’s wrong with this picture?
we are staying on the diet and trying to add some exercise.
on the several occasions, i broke that 3-day ‘chain’, primarily due to social events but the point is that i lost all my weight in 4 1/2 months.
cheers– mrereply this article might be of interest to the fasters.
i should have put it that way in the post–it’s much easier to understand.
mrereply hello mike i ran upon this site and read about all the health benefits you say come from an if style diet.
best– mrereply dr. eades, i do believe you have solved my budget problem.
one might have assumed that he would have felt worse right away until he got used to missing dinner.
bacon, ham, tuna, roast beef, whatever.
i’ll let you know how it goes and if i lose the weight (and how quickly).
i have learnt that most of my eating previously was based on eating whatever and whenever i liked, often to counter-act stress or just something to do.
and i’d say these are comparable, they’re that painful, also my stomach would overract to herbal laxatives).
if you are doing okay moving toward your primary goal (whatever that may be) i don’t think it’s all that necessary to be in ketosis all day long.
on the day we started, we ate until 6 pm, then fasted until 6 pm the next day.
“every day i exercise.
i hope the tv show you’re watching is low carb cookworx let me know how you do.
i was doing “dinner only” style of if.
and i have cut my daily quantity in half (or more)
based on my experience, i wouldn’t have predicted such a dramatic improvement so quickly.
lose weight, feel fit, and boost your health.
call your pharmacist or prescribing physician and ask.
best– mrereply intermittent fasting is the way to go.
would welcome your comments.
i’m getting concerned given my diet, which may not be good enough after all.
great post, by the way.
but every once in awhile, it just sounds good.
i would like to try this but again will it kill my metabolism?
just my way of thinking the whole picture.
keep me posted; i’m really interested to hear how it works for you.
best– mrereply ok, the health benefits seem to be a given.
i’m very active, and train/exercise 4-5 times a week.
but i hate being overweight.
we could have been happy on the intermittent fasting regimen for the long term.
i think i will try the if starting today.
if the if program can help me loose some weight i will be extreamly happy.
muscle loss doesn’t occur after the loss of fat stores, but after the loss of glycogen stores.
a week has passed and this far only one has given up.
i don’t really struggle, cuz i like the way i feel doing it, and, i’d be 500 lbs if i didn’t.
if is an idea to consider when you’re at normal weight & considering ways to maintain that new weight.
i’ve been able to cut my insulin in 1/2 by controlling carbs, adding in exercise every day and now doing the if.
i’ve thought about doing 1-2 36 hour fasts each week as a way to further reduce my weekly caloric intake, because i find that easier than trying to stick to a 1200 calorie a day diet 7 days a a week.
i’m glad you’ve had such success; thanks for telling us about it.
(this surprised me as i am 5’1 and 119 lbs but would like to get back down to 107)
if you are ifing, you shouldn’t lose much – if any – muscle mass, and any you might lose will get picked back up the next day.
i very much enjoy reading this blog.
or, i will postpone my workout for 3 hours after eating and eat an hour following the workout.
one thing that may pose a problem with the low carbing- i don’t care to eat much meat.
but i still feel weird and have a headache.
i weighed 195 pounds 6 months ago and lost 25 pounds on caloric restriction.
hi sue– the if regimen should improve any kind of autoimmune disorders hashimoto’s included.
save the quick acting for your meals.
8 pm until 8 pm is fine if that works for you.
sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but thats the way science sometimes works.
i may have some mashed potatoes but, for the most part, the day will be low carb including desserts.
does that sound okay?
one of the most potent stimuli to feed is a rapid drop in blood sugar.
but in the last few weeks there have been half a dozen or more times when i thought “do i really have to eat?” or have nearly forgotten it’s time for a meal.
i took chromuim faithfully and began gaining weight.
it is this concept that keeps me from snacking during my fasting time.
best– mrereply i’d never heard of resveratrol before, but it seems to be connected with dietary restriction.
my whey powder has stevia in it.
it hasn’t been a problem to not eat for 24 hours, so i’m sure i can stick with it forever.
with one meal a day there would be 7 hours of eating and the remaining 161 would be fasting.
but then our bodies get smart and start using calories more efficiently and hanging onto weight, and our loss slows or even stops.
i started with the wd then went to lunch and dinner in a 6 hr window.
once you get used to fasting it is really easy as well.
i marvel at how much cleansing and healing can take place without overt fasting for days and weeks on end.
would your if idea be any kind of a problem during an atkins-like induction period, do you think?
the dinner meal at 6 pm is wonderful.
if may seem a little less challenging to me as i did a couple paavo airola seven-day fasts a long time ago (loren cordain is familiar with airola, the vegetarian health food advocate who died mysteriously.)
reply i have to take blood pressure and anxiety meds every morning and evening.
the eating days were a different story; they were great, but we would spend the entire day dreading the fast day coming up.
thanks for the heads up.
do you see the point?
when i if i drink coffee all the time.
or does it put your body into survival mode and not let it lose any fat or weight?
the body isn’t so easily fooled.
i’m glad that i am (finally) able to share my story and that 3-day fasting program is not as ridiculous as i was once told it is.
i started doing this because for the last 3.5 years i have been working out almost daily and haven’t lost any weight.
it’s the almost immediate increase in insulin sensitivity when switching to a low-carb diet from a high-carb diet that causes the water loss.
now that i have included if in my daily regimen, i am seeing some positive changes namely appetite control.
the whole point of me eating every 3 hours is to keep my metabolism high.
and eat what i consider a healthy diet.
it’s nice to see how different people respond.
do diabetes or insulin resistance related factors cause gluconeogenesis prematurely when a certain amount of meat is eaten?
i got pregnant on the first try and i was not gestational diabetic with this baby.
it can all be avoided by eating fat and keeping the gall bladder from letting it’s contents become stagnant.
his diet is very low in carbs, naturally.
given the calorie issue on fast days, i presume that it would be best to forego the fish oil on during fasting days.
i look forward to your comments dr. eades peace, mary i don’t know how low is low in your case, but many women who are pre-menopausal run chronically low iron levels.
would eating a moderate amount in the “main” meal and then having a small protein meal a few hours later within the if window work better as far as using that protein goes?
quite a lot to get into my head
i will keep you posted, but so far i think it is going well.
it’s the day without that brings about the advantages of the if program.
i am afraid that may mean excess cortisol production from stress and since the only stress i can think of is from the
i wish i could get a pdf–i would put it up for all to read.
eat before 6 pm day 4: like day 2… rinse & repeat.
if i do start if i will take notes to share.
thank you for your post and your time – i shall keep you updated.
reply i could just weep.
pulse: has been down to 47, usually averages 60.
i workout 6 days a week, about four of them with great intensity… would eating only once a day allow me to make the personal gains i am achieving?
my bp was at 90/65 with a pulse rate of 65.
hi lyndsey– thanks for the report.
but now this has me very excited – if i eat only once a day, can i really, really eat as much as i want?
thank you!reply i, myself, would probably go with example b.reply sorry mike, i made a comment about the warrior diet/if parallel and how people weren’t giving credit to ori hofmekler in a fair way, since if is on the back essentially of the warrior diet putting the fasting/eating method into the more public mindset in the fitness/health community, but now see that this blog activity was way back in 2006… thanksreply finally, i am four lbs away from my goal weight.
thanks tommi i doubt that your metabolism is ‘already shot.’
also his comment that he felt much better right away after starting this habit is telling.
i’ve combined daily if with skipping eating windows occassionally.
reply dear dr. eades, after 10 months of strict alternate fasting (24hrs eating, 24hrs fasting) my metabolic profile does not look like it is improving.
would it be wise to lift heavey and then fast the rest of the day and then eat a few large meals at night?
and time and again, these reports seem to be doubted, dismissed out of hand or minimized as a legitimate cause for concern.
you state that no calorie beverages are okay, my question: since coffee, for example, has an effect on pretty much every organ in the body, is the benefit of the fast lost or lessened by drinking it?
a substantial increase would get my attention.
some of mine contain rice powder, for example, although no caloric content is indicated on the label.
sure enough, a week into if, my bp is averaging a very safe 110/75 and my hr barely gets above 72.
he constantly claims he is “starving,” and this is on a regular diet!
over the period that we followed the various if regimens we lost a little  weight because, unlike the rodents, we couldn’t eat twice as much during  the eating days as we would have eaten were we not fasting.
was it just too inconvenient in the long run?
reply took things things to new level: skipped an eating window moday night and had a forty hour fast.
my blood pressure has gone down a lot since i started eating this way and my fasting bg has gone down (i’m not diabetic; i just monitor it).
in other words, everything short of drugs.
i’m not a true ifer, but i try to do a 36 hour fast once a week (sometimes twice).
cheers– mrereply i do the warrior diet every day which is intermittent fasting with one meal a day at dinner.
i calculated that we have negative calorie balance around 500 to 900 kcal a day but though we exercise at least 45 min.
i decided on three days as that puts me at about 40% reduction of cals.
for me, intermittent fasting just feels better.
and it appears – for humans, at least – that the intermittent fast is indeed beginning to look like the reality of a late-night gimmicky infomercial: long on promises, short on delivery.
as far as i know you can have oil as its not of animal origin.
i’ll think about giving if a try.
i’ve never been on anti-depression drugs or attention deficit medication, but it really almost feels almost like combination of what those two drugs would do.
daily fast have done wonderfuls for me, and that may be optimal for someone so atheletic.
trying to not worry to much and just keep doing what i am doing.
considering the enormous amount of pad thai i had last night…
just as a side note, a few years back there was a scientist that showed that he could extend the lifespan of the fruit fly up to 20 generations or so.
noticeably improved endurance when working out.
i do intend to post on it again soon, but i don’t have a specific date in mind yet.
if so, would it then be more effective to fast to this point and then begin re-feeding so that fat stores have dissolved and lean muscle mass remains intact?
monks around here are not supposed to eat anything after 12 noon.
a schedule like you and mary dan have set up sounds doable, and i’m going to try it.
reply keto jim, i keep my diet truly ketogenic.
it’s  called caloric restriction.
i was doing the mental fasts but decided to do a food fast.
i hope having hot coffee or tea doesn’t affect it.
ask how much weight was lost on average and when.
we have seen impressive results, including anti-inflammatory effects, and hope that the increasing familiarity with if will eventually overwhelm current custom and cultural pressure to eat 3x a day.
standard disclaimer: i’m not a physician and i’m only sharing personal experience.
oh yeah…and will you lose down to what’s normal for your body -weight
sounds like a late-night infomercial gimmick, but it isn’t.
hunters were up and away just at dawn to take advantage of that time of day when nocturnal feeders and day feeders were about at the same time, thus increasing the opportunity for a kill.
now, two years later i’m still 125, 5’7″ tall, 45 years old and very happy the way i look.
he attributed the radical changes on his body to fasting.
i’ve done that before with considerable success.
best wishes hoover hi hoover–
i followed that literature somewhat and stayed current with the workings of genes so was galvanized in may 2003 when i learned that a gene was activated by the calorie restriction, learning that intermittant fasting might produce the same results as calorie restriction in rodents.
it took be 2 years to conceive that pregnancy.
my bloodwork profile (done in the 3rd week of december 2006, before if – judddd, but after first 3 weeks of sld) is excellent — all numbers in normal and excellent range.
very heavy weight 12kg.
he’s homeschooled, so i prepare all his meals and snacks.
we ultimately drifted back to our normal low-carb diet, however, just because it seemed to work better with our schedules.
my skin has a healthy glow and it sometimes feels on fasting days like i have a slight fever, as if my body were cleaning house.
i think it was dr. fuhrman that said in his book “eat2live” that when you lost weight it was like you were on a high fat diet or something like that…
best of luck on the if regimen.
dinner is my main meal and except for weekends i try to ensure i cease eating within a couple of hours after dark.
thanks for posting…i never would have heard about this without your delightful blog!
it’s not the lack of food in general that initiates the response; it’s the lack of carbohydrate.
i think i will try that (especially if my wife agrees) and i’ll let you know how it goes.
sheep have extremely large, complex gi tracts that consume a lot of energy and small brains that don’t use much.
i have been looking into fasting and came across if.
at the moment, i’ve slipped to just once a week, but i also briskly walk a minimum of twenty miles each week.
it opened my eyes and i have rarely strayed from the basic premise of banting’s regimen (eat fat, grow slim) having been educated in the fatherland, i was also exposed to various natural “cures” such as fasting.
is this because oil doesnt stimulate insulin production (although it might compete slightly with stored body fact as an energy source)?
and i’m thankful for your taking the time to relate your history.
same holds for tea or any other non-caloric beverage.
there is in fact some evidence that they do.
i have had big low carb lunches.
reply hi mike, fascinating stuff.
sorry for the confusion.
i feel good, even better on the fasting days, but i haven’t had the blood work done to show changes.
one day/week i allow myself to not do it.
i find myself completely turned off by television; something about the flashing, flickering screen and the noise is now unappealing.
in humans, however, the situation is different.
it is not a huge problem.
i can imagine when the body is expecting a fast, and then you eat, that it does not take that nicely.
many thanks again for your blog and for your many replies to all of us.
i am excited because i have a lot of weight to lose and i can’t seem to stick to any other diet at the moment either.
i was wondering if you think the follow system would work: sunday:
i’d lost 30 pounds previous to starting.
in research settings animals that are intermittently fasted are fed every other day, so they eat whatever they want for a day, then they are denied food for a day.
however, each time you do it you will feel hunger later in your fast and less intensely.
i had taken measurements a couple of days before starting the if.
i think the timing and variation is a key area for diet exercise sleep etc when trying to mimic paleo “life style” to get the health benefits.
apparently something corrective happens during the 24 hours in which one isn’t eating.
and what other beverages could be consumed during fast days besides water?
if method, but failed to find a good explanation on why it is a healthy practice?
is it possible that my body doesn’t need as much iron/oxygen?
you said “cancer cells cant use ketones for energy and must turn to glucose to grow and reproduce.
i really want to have more children but my fsh has gone up to 15 this year.
since it is the fatty tissue that is painful in this disorder, it would seem to make sense to reduce the amount of such tissue.
if i waited to eat until my tummy said eat it could be days.
best– mrereply dr. eades, art devany has mentioned several times that 15 hours with no food is all it takes to get the benefits of intermittent fasting.
other benefits of note so far: i feel fantastic physically.
my husband and myself are on this kind of if for already several months after several years on the banta diet.
have not had blood tests or any such thing, so i have no idea how much my overall health has been effected.
one thing i have figured out in the last year, is that is my head doesn’t feel too good, if i just stop eating until it feels better (this usually means skipping one or two meals)
if they’re face down in pastries, bread, pasta, cookies, etc. it shouldn’t be a surprise that glucose levels are up.
you’ll need to subscribe (free) to get it.
how did people do the if?
it is logical that our ancestors ate in the evening after dark when there was little else to do other than sleep and well….. cheers hi john– i think you’re right on the money.
so, even though new protein isn’t coming into the body minute by minute from the diet, there is plenty of substrate there in the aa pool to last until the next meal, which is, at most, only 24 hours away.
one of the recent papers published on the less rigid if schedules caught my eye because one of the authors was don laub, who used to be the chairman of the plastic surgery department at stanford.
thanks for the kind words about the books.
on wednesday i ate subway for breakfast, fried mushrooms bacon x2 and eggs x2 for lunch (cooked in a non-stick frying pan
my fast is as honest a fast as i can make it – just coffee (no sugar or cream), iced tea, water, and chicken broth with a little extra pepper on fasting days.
judiblue hi judith– i think the coffee is fine as long as you don’t sweeten it with sugar or put loads of cream in it.
i’ve been reading through the posts and wanted to ask if anyone who is highly active has done if and reported their results?
many tissues turn to fat and ketone bodies for energy: good.
1 or 2 24hr fasts per week create enough of a caloric deficit for weight loss and you get all the other benefits of fasting as well.
i find that i actually eat much less than before!
is this common to go off alcohol ?
are elevated uric acid levels an effect of if?
jimmy moore, author of “livin’ la vida low-carb” livinlavidalowcarb.com livinlowcarbman@charter.net hi jimmy– thanks for the update.
im a 51 year old male, 511, and this year i used the low carb way of eating to drop from a bmi of 27.5 to 23 over the last several months.
” today, i’ll explain how sumo wrestlers gain so much weight…
however, the enzymes and other resources necessary to convert those potential energy sources need to be built up or we will experience hunger long before those reserves are used up.
one downside, is that i did eat a little too much too fast when breaking the fast.
(i am a medical student and have a family to boot!)
some of us have already posted comments here.
i would like to give the if a go but am concerned about weight loss.
or does it seem to work best with people with significant weight to lose?
(which is, i suppose, how paleo man had the energy to make a kill, even when he hadn’t eaten in a while.)
i put on the pounds too and lost my “washboard” abs.
i’ve fasted since last november, so 11.5 months in all.
one  day we would get supper–the next day we would get breakfast and lunch.
you can indeed follow low-carb during the eating periods and eat all you want.
it’s the easiest diet plan i’ve ever done cos i eat whatever i want on my eat day…if i want cake, i’ll have a piece and it makes no difference.
thanks for the great blog!
hi giovanni– i don’t know.
so during the 24 hours of fasting, these muscles would be getting more rest than usual, and that *would* amount to a somewhat reduced metabolic rate.
i want to put it on my desktop as a constant reminder.
i target for one meal a day and that works fine for me.
taking in appx bmr +25%.
this is the way i used to eat back when i was a student.
the other thing, i take a fair amount of fish oil (carlson’s med omega) on a daily basis along with pancreatic enzymes, curcumin, and green tea (in capsules).
example a day 1: breakfast, late lunch/early dinner (same concept, just depends on how you’d phrase it), sleep day 2: breakfast, lunch, dinner, sleep (i.e., a normal day)
anyway, i don’t think if is very good for when your adrenals are compromised.
i never discuss my lifestyle with him because i don’t want to scare him i work out with weights every morning, only taking sunday off (sabbath), i swim laps monday and wednesday nights and bike, treamdil, or some other physical activity on friday and sunday (softball after church sunday).
mrereply ok mike – i didn’t expect to read this one this morning.
most fasted  until 5 or 6 pm on the fast days, then ate, then ate regularly on the eat days.
i had a chicken, spinach, cheese omelet and a sliver of dark chocolate birthday cake with sliced strawberries.
i would include exercise as another way to induce a sort of caloric restriction as well.
for one thing, he knew that his grandparents ate all of the full-fat animal products on their farm and lived into their nineties.
i notice that i am developing muscles in my arms.
bdnf given to depressed humans reduces their depression.
reply i agree with chris above – i have never been able to wake up at 6 and eat a bite before 9am…
bdnf is  neuroprotective against stress and toxic insults to the brain and is  somehow–no one yet knows how, exactly–involved in the insulin  sensitivity/glucose regulating mechanism.
even if paleo-men didn’t have anything to eat and were ‘forced’ to fast intermittently, are we to also assume that they didn’t visit a water hole at all during their ‘no-eating’ periods?
best– mrereply dr. eades: a most interesting subject indeed.
at least they didn’t for us.
but i took the ketogenic cocktail in dr. mccleary’s book and i included a magnesium tablet and my headache vanished.
you name it, i take it.
i’ve been doing: [dinner|breakfast|lunch|small dinner just b4 6pm|fast till 6pm next day] this
there are some interesting studies showing that, in women, at least, increased protein intake brought about significant weight loss.
hi nicholas– as far as i know, increased igf-1 levels don’t cause cancer.
although i haven’t really experienced a “euphoria” that some folks report while fasting, i do feel mentally sharper and i certainly get a euphoric kick out of the first meal i use to break my fast!
i eat without worrying about over eating.
it was all i ever heard, the aoe is most likely responsible for that, i felt a great deal of freedom not having to think about food and saved a bunch of money.
as i began to build muscle from my daily workouts i slowly regained some weight but it was muscle and my clothes still fit.
she was fasting….but the diet does not require you to.
but i just run a timer from my last meal).
i have been on this plan for a week doing 24 hour fast three days a week.
when you do if, do you end up eating the same number of calories overall?
at your bmi=33 (comfortably into the obese range) i’d wager you’d find the weight loss you’re looking for with a strict low carb approach.
while i can certainly appreciate what if is supposed to do to help people reduce their caloric intake, i couldn’t see myself doing this again after this first week unless it gets a whole lot better in the next day or so.
here’s my experience so far, after doing my version of if for 5 days (today is the 6th).
if you do great and improve your health, i’m sure everyone will be asking what new diet you’re following.
i’ve tried it and it’s really not that hard to do.
for five years, i kept myself at 105 pounds by doing this.
i am 165, 22 female, and only 5’2”.
there are days when i feel like i am just “starving” and i am full after a few bites.
what would you suggest?
by the way, i am very impressed by the attention you give to this site.
my skin has cleared up and i have already lost 8 lbs!
he trained at sloan kettering and then met the somewhat infamous dr kelly.
reply i was introduced to if as “daily if”, being – eating everyday, but in a shorter window.
i’ll copy the exact layout from one of your fellow commenters, yvana, comments: day 1 : eat bf & lunch =
thanks for the info.
but i find with having a day of eating for longer hours much easier and pleasant for me.
i’ve been drinking sugar-free squash (checked the nutritional label, only contains trace amounts of anything) and water on fasting days, and as you mentioned in your article (this had only vaguely occurred to me)
thank you very much for all the information that i have read so far.
best wishes hoover hi hoover– my pleasure.
yes, i also remember that from the first edition or printing of the carbohydrate addicts book.
the method seemed a bit confusing at first.
as my wife and i are the only lowcarbers we keep percy’s a special occasion place.
i suffer from dercum’s disease and i’m looking for all i can do to improve my quality of life.
do people sometimes reach a certain weight and no matter what you do it won’t change?
cheers– mrereply hello jaime, i am on if since mid-march this year and lost about 10kg (btw, i am 48 years old).
i now can even go out for an hour walk everyday before dinner.
i am eating what i normally would during this time.
then i get to eat 4 days before doing it again.
it is truly the only method i ever tried that resulted in significant weight loss and lasting weight control.
she had some medical tests that required fasting, and did not eat all day then ate a huge meal at night.
i’m 46 now and struggling to get my figure back.
the regime is simple – eat one day, nothing the next, so including sleeping hours, it works out at 14/34 in terms of hours eating/hours fasting for every 48 hour period.
personally i want to stick to my diet of fruits, steamed vegetables, salads, nuts and seeds.
i’ve looked but can’t find anything in the literature that supports that time period.
if not, then try it my way.
a better option would be based on fatty meat, etc. thus, on this plan, the length of any given fast would be just an hour less than on the adif plan, but the number of fasts would be greater.
i assume my body compensated for the lack of available fuel.
and once started, it anticipates more to come.
with this new-found temperance–and encouraged by my terrific bp–i decided to break the fast by starting a regimen of if, which led me back to this blog post.
thanks for all the research and reporting!!
if i had taken my meds… no telling.
i expected that when eat time rolled around i would consume everything in sight, but i ended up not eating all that much more than if i hadn’t fasted for the previous 24 hours.
but i am all about the health benefits and how i have been feeling and how my body seems to be accepting it that said if one does not need to lose weight is there anything wrong with still if-ing??
being 70 and living away from my adult children and grandchildren, i find them tolerant and admiring even.
i was still in sweden when i read this and the article may not have survive the relocation!
reply interesting dr. eades.
at bmi=23 you’re in the middle of the normal range.
the ultimate goal being eating everyday but all calories in a 4-6 hour window.
did he reveal his “secrets” last year at 113?
if you eat double what you would normally eat, you probably won’t lost much.
if anything, i assume this varies from person to person… so i guess i’ll give it a go and see what happens with my own bod.
the cephalic phase of insulin release can really drop your blood sugar.
however, i am constantly seeing admonitions against diabetics fasting.
i am currently trying my most extreme experiment which is water fasting for five days (i’m done tomorrow).
i suppose the message i take is that if the circumstances so demand it, at least i know that there is benefit in a little fasting but only if the circumstances so demand it.
i read it on tim ferriss’s blog, here: http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/2008/03/03/real-life-extension-caloric-restriction-or-intermittent-fasting-part-2/ .
(the wikipedia definition is actually pretty good)
cheers– mrereply i have read a lot about this and have always wanted to try it but because i have tended toward hypoglycemia, i have hesitated.
by the way, no, i did not if while pregnant.
so if we fast for a day, we end up fasting for about 34 hours and  eating for 14, which isn’t the same as 24 on, 24 off.
the three of them have since may 2003 been on a version of the if in which they consume about 20-50 percent of their estimated daily energy requirements on the fast day and eat whatever they want on the non-fast days.
however, the nagging question for me still remains — any possible stress on the pancreas re: increased glucagon, can that be a pre-ambule for any later pancreas condition etc.
this is the most i have lost in 1 week in over 2 years.
cheers– mrereply hello mr and md i wonder why dietary and nutrition websites dance around the subject of food addiction.
i have for years done low-carb only to end up causing a kidney stone (and not losing much weight at all), so cannot do that anymore.
but this time there was no appetite.
cheers– mrereply mike its timely that you wrote this article.
hi kathy– i’ll be eager to hear.
and i do believe there is a recent study done on humans over a 1 month period where they were fasted every other day, for the entire day and was shown to be beneficial healthwise though they didn’t get over the discomfort and crankiness on fasting days.
how long can this usually be done before a plateau occurs or will a person continue to lose weight consistently and perhaps reach an unhealthy underweight state?
i think i can do it with if.
glad to hear you’ve done so well.
in your next article on fasting could you address this?
this month the cramps and all the other symptoms were greatly relieved, and my period is light and clot free, but it seems to be going on much longer.
i have a long history with weight issues, mostly psychological.
easy to control yourself, no tracking meals and calories.
mrereply how about fasting during the week and eating during the weekend?
davidreply our regimen when we if is the second of the two you described.
thus the if animals eat about the same number of calories overall that the ad lib fed animals eat, but, and this is a huge ‘but,’ the if animals enjoy all the health advantages that the cr animals do, and, in fact, are even healthier than the cr animals.
what about metabolism?
what about chai tea made with either cream or 1% milk?
then, after lunch, we fast until supper.
i was wearing a 42 under by lap over belly.
the first few days weren’t easy
i was following a strict protein power low carb plan, and would routinely go from after dinner[at around 630pm] till close to noon next day without any calorie intake, so had a 16 to 20 hour window each day without any calories.
hi marlene– the only things you can eat (or drink) during the fast portion of the day are food without caloric content.
that may change soon depending on my results, but so far, i’ve dropped from 202 lbs to 195, and i hadn’t been able to make the scale budge in several weeks previously.
anyway, i found that doing the 6pm to 6pm 24 hr fast caused me to obsess and plan all day long about the meal i would get to eat at 6pm and when the time finally arrived, i was starving like a ravenous dog!!
also, please post more often if you can.
same thing in that i can sip on a large mug of hot chai for several hours.
on a side note, yesterday was my eating day.
i get lite exercise but will start walking a couple of evenings each week to juice things up a bit.
eventually i was able to go until 3:00 pm before breaking my fast.
the difference is found in the brains and gi tracts.
you could be re-composing in that you are building muscle mass and losing fat mass.
this one has been really interesting.
i’m trying to get myself back on track.
im dealing with a little nausea in the am, and some mucus expelling from the lungs, bowels, but its all detox and i welcome it.
leaving time for your body to digest ensures that the food you eat will be burned rather than stored as fat.
if primates don’t get enough cholesterol, they can actually become violent.
this seems like a great woe as i’ve wanted to start fasting for some time now.
a whole pizza hut sicilian lasagna pizza?
i work a busy schedule and have always been health conscious.
i have lost 6 pounds so far.
best– mrereply i started this later than some, last weekend, and am easing in gently with the “wimpy” approach laub et al described: 20-50% cals one day (eating one, two or three times, depending on my day), ad lib the other.
he will need to go pt again soon but i am trying to encourage him to do if and to add coconut oil to his diet.
as for me, i wouldn’t worry about it.
i’ve definately noticed a shift in body shape, a little lighter and never bloated!
if diet i do wonder about it.
could you-or some non-eat meaters doing if- recommend non-meat proteins that work similarly.
animals that are intermittently fasted greatly increase the amount of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf) relative to cr animals.
i started 01/16/2007 not eating anything after 6:00 pm but water & daily pills.
i think the very best results are obtained with if if one follows a low-carb diet on the eating days.
dr. eades doesn’t suggest significant weight loss is obtained with if; you just get a number of health benefits from it.
thanks, mollie hi mollie– i think both will probably meet your needs.
the only caveat is that it is only once a day.
cheers– mrereply hello, thank you for the wonderful description and explanation of this scientific fact.
reply hi doc, quick question on peri-workout nutrition.
reply i’m really interested in the idea of intermittent fasting, and i was just wondering, is it okay to drink tea on the fasting days?
hi karen– thanks for the stories of your life as a baker.
she wisely responded, “well, what if it’s too low for you to be taking your medicine?”
keep us all posted as you continue.
i fast every other day, for a total of 36 hours.
thanks for sharing your ideas – john hi john– thanks for sharing your experience.
i discovered that i had a magnesium deficiency which contributed to regular run of the mill headaches.
reply i forgot to express my extreme gratitude to you because when i tried to do fast 5 and judd several times in the past, neither worked for me because i couldn’t get past overeating
best– mrereply hi dr. eades, what about introducing more randomness to it?
i expect the weight loss to slow down eventually but i’m certainly not going to fret about it.
but, if i want, i will have steamed broccoli and a few apples if i need something.
keep me posted as time goes on.
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/11/16/science/17endurancecnd.html?_r=1&hp&ex=1163739600&en=e4dab4e9bfe9a0f6&ei=5094&partner=homepage&oref=login hi blaise– resveratrol is a caloric-restriction mimetic, which means that it provides some of the same positive changes as does caloric restriction.
is there anything like potentially dangerous about if-ing??
i made a huge omelet and filled up easily.
blood pressure: 120/70 – not that impressive, one study showed an average for this diet of 100/60.
it is easy to stick to eating healthy foods without cheating.
probably because someone told me it was unhealthy…i’m going to try it again.
a brief description can be found on its website .reply dr. eades, perhaps this was already addressed years ago (literally) but in your post (i found it through irononline) you wrote, “when researchers restrict the caloric intake of a group of lab animals to about 30 to 40 percent of that of their ad libitum (all they want to eat) fed counterparts … ” the cr animals lived 30 percent longer.
i don’t believe that this is because i’ve built up more will power.
i would want more information on what are the benefits of if beyond my current strategy of filling up my 50-60 gm/day carb allotment with nutrient dense vegetables and fruit.
thanks… hi rudra– i don’t think you have anything to worry about.
ive lost several pant sizes and continue to lose body fat, but not as fast now.
our bodies (including our brains) are sort of giant computers that keep track of all the dieting we have done.
tracking every bite we ate, tracking all the micro nutrients, even trying to figure out when and how much to eat.
there’s also a huge psychological benefit here, too: every day has a great ending.
best– mre it is true though, is it not?
so far i’ve felt pretty hungry on the low cal days, but not impossibly so.
if you go without for one day, you can make up for it on the next.
fasting allows the gut to complete the job of digestion and gives it time to rest.
best– mrereply recently, ive been trying the juddd diet (adcr) by dr. johnson and he includes the following study (by johnson, laub, and others) on his judddd website: http://www.johnsonupdaydowndaydiet.samsbiz.com/content/00/01/53/97/83/userimages/adcr%20article.pdf one thing i noticed was that the study gives a different appraisal than do you regarding bdnf, which was lowered during the adcr diet.
reply i have had adrenal fatigue..
i average 14 to 16 hours a night without eating & drink very little water, maybe a glass a night sometimes.
hi claudia– i’m not sure i understand your question exactly.
if you don’t trust his/her advice, find a physician in whom you have more confidence.
mrereply i have ate this way for years without knowing i was doing my body good; my husband would often harangue me for my eating habits.
the first of sept ’06
hi lisa– i have never treated a patient with dercum’s disease, so have no experience as to whether a low-carb diet or an if regimen would help.
i had black coffee throughout the entire time i was fasting.
the idea of if is so new that no one really knows what is optimal.
and it also keeps you hungry, so you gorge on as much food as possible later in the day.
in the next paragraph you wrote, “it stands to reason that if humans reduced their caloric intake by 30-40 percent for their entire lives, they would also live longer.”
these have all disappeared.
and i hope that someone else, may find out that as well.
for us the 6 pm cutoff worked best.
we try to skip a meal here and there because figure it’s probably good for us.
if not, you’re hdl will indeed fall.
thanks for any advice!
well, there is a better way.
that gives me about 22 hours of fasting every day.
as long as my calorie intake stays at or below 500 i consider it a fast day.
doc i’m a insulin dependant type 2 diabetic rn…yep…i knew better.
also, amongst ankylosing spondylitis patients i talk to (me being one) they sometimes use fasts to get out of a flare.
the hardest part for me is going to bed hungry
mary hi mary– i’m glad to hear of your success.
i am quite stubborn and may do a little juice fasting despite your advice but i will certainly let you know how things go once i start my
but, if you’re willing to put up with a little irritability, hostility and depression, it might be worth cutting your calories by 30 percent for the rest of your long, healthy miserable life.
hi audley– well said.
i dont need to or want to lose weight
i suspect that i could have lost more if i exercised more and continuously.
my body has transformed from a flabby, obese 260 lbs to a muscular 190 lbs.
i have done several 36-hour fasts this year.
so my dinners were based on ‘eat what you want’ concept except for meat and sugar.
hang in there and keep up the good work.
if so, i don’t know why your hdl fell.
it has totally changed my view on food and my weight is steady.
i do have 2 questions.
if i start twittering about this, i’ll add the link on here .
i have been most interested in the subject and tried it off and on for a few days over the past 6 months.
as to your questions… no, coffee, tea, diet drinks, etc. don’t count.
best– mrereply i also advocate the warrior diet ideal, though i fully fast through the day, drinking coffee or water as wanted.
this is a big realization for me.
no carbs=steady blood sugar levels=no hunger.
thanks again and take care!
hi vikingdan– some time in my dim and distant past i think i read the warrior diet.
you eat all day, then go to bed,  wake up in the morning and fast all day, then go to bed.
wondering if that’s bad for the body and insulin levels.
i find it gets easier as i go along too, to the point where i’m kind of indifferent to whether it’s an eating day or a fasting day.
reply i’ve learned for a term ‘intermittent fast’ an hour ago.
most of my experience has been positive, but the one negative seems to coincide with what i’ve seen in a study as the main/only downside to if – increased bp.
best– mrereply above, for shortened eating periods (e.g., eating only between 5 pm and 10 pm), you advised getting at least 80 grams of protein, but ive read that the body can only handle (for muscle and organ maintenance) about 15 to 20 grams in a four-hour period.
we didn’t really go off of it completely.
also, i have nash (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis) and high blood pressure.
i got a little sketchy around lunch, but was otherwise fine.
so, once you get started you should do okay.
i wonder if you or a reader may have some knowledge of it.
i have a primary health concern that i wanted to ask about.
i have a very active-oriented job – on the move a lot – and i work out quite vigorously 4 times per week.
grazing never worked like that for me.
now of course i dont subscribe completely to the 3500 calories equals one pound equation because i know the body plays games with the metabolism when given too many or too few calories.
for me it has never been about losing weight but clearing out the digestive tract and having discipline.
it is kind of sad that the adults in their lives try to break them of their natural instinct.
i don’t have any bloodwork from then, but i did lose a lot of weight and after a bit i actually enjoyed the fasting.
thank you for your time hi vanessa– i would not recommend a 20 day juice fast because juice contains no protein and a whole lot of sugar.
annareply hello, i just got the results of recent blood work.
sometimes i add low carb in and i tend to lose more weight but most of the time i still eat whatever i want.
nealreply i started with only eating breakfast and lunch on sep. 14 as soon as i finished reading your blog.
and don’t worry about you’re kid.
however, i sometimes eat only once a day.
can’t say i don’t think about some ice cream now & then .i’m
my eating schedule is a result of my past work schedule.
this idea of daily fasting, is also supported by dr. mericle’s site, about the need to be in the glucagon state to lose weight, and how fasting is actually the increasing of metabolism.
does that about cover it?
fasting definitely reduces insulin levels.
i eat lots of eggs as a cheap easy protein source.
the nice thing about ifing is that typically people eat enough on the eat days to prevent their metabolic rate from plummeting.
but my waist is 29 inches.
i know that fasting gives the body a chance to heal and ‘clean’ itself so just that makes it worth it i guess.
this usually consists of my fast breaking meal and supper.
i work out with weights, and do moderate cardio, but now need to lose about 60 lbs.
we eat breakfast, then fast until  lunch.
wish everyone good luck from me.
it no doubt makes a difference if you are eating huge numbers of carb calories on you eating days or if you are eating a low-carb diet on your eating days.
i don’t know what your husband’s earlier labs were, but i do know that a drop in triglycerides from 207 to 87 is a good thing and indicates that the ldl particle size has probably shifted to the larger, better kind.
oh wait, double standard, i can’t live without black coffee myself i did want to add one more thing about if to folks who aren’t already low-carbing it.
daniel hi daniel– i don’t see any reason that the random approach wouldn’t work.
if the headaches are serious and continue, you should be checked.
i would go to school without breakfast, not eat lunch, and then gorge myself silly from 3-5pm when i came home.
as a side note i am not doing 24 hour fasts.
this, of course, would still involve it remaining black, unsweetened, but would give variety.
a number of people on the yahoo intermittent fasting group http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/fasting/ have suddenly become aware of the fact that they have very slightly elevated fasting glucose levels.
in regular fasting one goes entirely without food, which is caloric restriction carried to the extreme.
*sigh* lol —– dr. eades, if you had to pick an ‘ultimate nutritional approach to health and longevity’ what would it be?
on  no days would we go entirely without food.
just a great experience.
the only way you’ll know which category you fall into is to give it a try.
one day on, one day off.
i wish that i had done this the same time that i started adding chromium.
i started with a eat-everything-you-want approach but noticed that within my 3-4 h eating window i tended to eat too much junk carbs (chocolate, potatoe chips etc.) which, as i felt it, slowed down the weigh loss considerably.
any non-caloric beverage should be okay.
i must say that i will get a bit of stomach grumbling during the hours my body was used to getting food before the diet but it last maybe 5 minutes and dissipates.
i have not seemed to lose any musce-mass, but have managed to lose inches.
not rocket science really.
just my results from one rat.
reply just to leave an interesting comment.
also i’m just beggining to do strength training 4 mornings a week after nearly a years break, so i like to have a couple of eggs straight after for breakfast.
looked great, felt great.
i’m doing it warrior style so far, skipping bf and lunch.
i began calorie restricion about 10 years ago, about the same time i heard about dr. roy walford and the failed biosphere experiment.
i am already an lc eater and am eager to add if to my routine.
i’ve been reading on fasting in general and i firmly believe that the human body has a tremendous capacity to heal if it is given the chance.
i’m going off the 24hr on off and do will it more sporadically for a while.
and i think it’s okay to continue supplementation on fasting days.
like caloric restriction, intermittent fasting reduces oxidative stress, makes the animals more resistant to acute stress in general, reduces blood pressure, reduces blood sugar, improves insulin sensitivity, reduces the incidence of cancer, diabetes, and heart disease, and improves cognitive ability.
best– mrereply what about vitamin c???reply
i find that the meal is more delicious than the junk i used to eat and it fills me up completely.
whenever i hear someone say that they cannot do if, i wonder if they do it like me.
i will be trying to get pregnant with my next cycle, and would also like to give the if a try.
many also seem to have some luck with a no-starch diet.
i haven’t read through all the responses above, but i’m anxious to know how diabetics respond without eating.
this sort of random eating pattern is something art devany is a big fan of, as it is likely most closely related to how our paleo ancestors ate.
if you are a type ii diabetic i would be most interested in learning how an if regimen works for you.
i started my own version of the if diet.
i didn’t realize it at the time, but i was eating very low carb.
my body’s mass is decreasing regardless of what the scale says.
this article sounds much like something art devany would recommend.
we weren’t doing a hard core study; we were simply evaluating if as a practical means for humans to use to improve their health.
on the times during the day that we ate, we didn’t stick with our  normal low-carb fare; we ate pretty much whatever we wanted, including a fare  amount of higher carb stuff.
well doctor, i am on day four of my ifing!
i am very insulin resitant; i don’t know if i am hypoglycemic or that is what i am feeling.
would this situation change your feelings on it?
that my bg rises too high.
i would leave it alone.
by the way, i already know that the ifing would work for me.
i eat between 5pm-9pm but consume unlimited water and decaf black coffee and tea during the day, so i’m getting a 20 hour fast in every day.
his paternal grandparents lived into their 90s, and three siblings lived to ages 85, 91 and 100.
if you are not getting your bcaas from your food your body will cannibalize itself for the stuff.
cheers– mrereply a few things here.
if sounds quite interesting.
i have an appointment to have those checked again next month some time.
i don’t know the answer to that question.
if you are using a slow acting insulin like humulin n or other 12 to 24 hour product, you can just use this during the fasting periods.
i have, and have always had, low blood pressure.
i want to share this information with my family and friends but i don’t let them know what i am doing yet.
it is hard to say the effects of this, and whether this stems from religion, a lack of food or a health benefit is anyones guess.
i’m feeling down and discouraged today and am starting over on my tuesday and friday 40 hour fasts, hoping to see progress again.
reply hi, my if pattern is really flexible.
i’m a chubby little fella.
i think it’s because since i’m eating when i’m really hungry, it’s very easy to recognize when my hunger is satisfied and i stop eating when i’ve really had enough.
tanya zilberter, phd hi tanya– thanks for the report.
make hearty, healthy breakfasts a habit.
humans are just the opposite.
i’m curious to hear how it all progresses.
reply during my fasting hours i am going to try and avoid preparing food, cooking or messing about the kitchen
i have gone from 206 pounds to 167 pounds.
i didn’t feel hungry during the day any more and my energy is increased.
the studies i posted on previously showed that the starvation response can be initiated by restricting carbohydrates.
mainly, there is this: there is (for me, anyway), a kind of psychological satisfaction that comes from having a meal that is *in no way* restricted, in terms of its actual content.
i have fluxuated from a vege to vegan diet the last few years.
and several slices of granary bread.
however, my lifestyle doesn’t allow for an exact program of eating times due to “required” eating schedule.
a doctor told me i needed to eat protein every 3 hours.
once i begin to feel satiated, i stop eating because i don’t want any more food.
and i didn’t feel hungry at all until lunch time, but that didn’t mean it was doing me any good.
after increasing the protein as you recommend above, feel stronger and quicker by the day (do the pplp sprints or squat-jumps some mornings).
of course, it’s done out of concern and love, which makes it so sad.
i don’t know if the igf-1 increase in mattson’s rats is a total igf-1 or a free igf-1.
back when i was weighing 142 lbs.
yet he gains weight at the drop of a hat.
on my fast day i allow myself all the fruit or vegetables (low glycemic)
-thank you for the great info!
everything else you read is right on.
reply lost 15lbs in one month of if’ing~ body composition is much changed so im sure this is a fat loss as opposed to my former losses of water/muscle/fat.
i heard a physician say on tv that it can kill you if you eat too much protein and drink too little water because of the kidneys failing.
(oddly, the feeling isn’t all that unpleasant after a while — somehow makes you feel more alive and tuned.)
it’s only when i eat well over 5 oz.
i would bet you would sell a ton of books on the subject esp since all of the women in the whi flow fat study were post meno..
i do not think i am overeating in the window so far and i am going to try to do as much low carb as possible.
i’m 57 5’4” about 190 lbs, i was about 200 back then.
reply melissa b., for more info on the kind of scheme you’re thinking about trying, see dr. johnson’s recent “the alternate-day diet” book.
in fact, the preponderance of the data seems to indicate that coffee is protective against diabetes, insulin resistance and all the rest of the so-called diseases of civilization.
low-carb diets have been used to correct kidney damage.
as usual, i’m keen to try this, but i can just imagine the reaction of other people.
i know dr. atkins said do not eat unless you are hungry even breakfast.
since the corrupt fatal drugs allowed (fda) took that off the market while leaving hundreds of dangerous, side effect, death causing pharmaceuticals), i haven’t been able to keep the weight off.
discussion of ketones as fuel reminds me of the natural gas vs oil/gasoline debates!
i am peri-menopausal and was experiencing longer than normal cycles.
since some people like a book to go with their diet, i wrote one, but it’s just as simple as you’ve said.
i mean that i eat little at breakfast and approximately 12-13 hours later i eat a big meal in the evening .do
you just have to try things out and see how you personal respond.
the late dr. atkins claimed that you had to stoke your metabolic furnace every 3 hours with some sort of snack even if you weren’t hungry.
i have not been hungry and so not eating until physically felt hungry.
much easier if it’s just once a day.
but i’m glad i didn’t listen.
i don’t think that’s enough data to recommend if as a blood pressure-raising tool.
i’m pretty sure this came out between 2000-2002.
by cancer patient, i mean someone who has been treated for cancer and is now trying to eat well and maximize his chances of remaining cancer free.
all i know is that when i eat 3 to 5 meals a day with 6-11 carb servings i became a house and i know that i have been healthy and energetic and i am more active than a lot of my 20 year old neighbors because i do what feels right for my body.
plus resveratrol also turned on that gene.
however, if i eat much more than 6 oz meat at a meal, it will easily be 115.
every few days i will fast during the day and take map amino acids and taurine.
i gained well over 200 lbs in less than 2 years, many many years ago.
one of his fellow cronies has had good luck controling lupus with the diet.
i’ve been experimenting with various forms of intermittent fasting consistently since june 1 (2008).
the sumo wrestler myth have you ever wondered how sumo wrestlers gain so much weight?
cr animals don’t produce much more bdnf than do ad libitum fed  animals.
any info would be greatly appreciated as i have already failed ivf and am out of ways to help myself as acupuncture, wheatgrass or chinese herbs are not available here.
you wake up the next morning and eat all day, then go to bed and start again.
i walked 2 miles twice a day(3 mph) and worked out at curves 3 times.
i for one have been running an if diet for the last few weeks tailored around my workouts and body recomposition.
i don’t know what you’re eating when you eat, but you might want to crank up your protein intake a bit.
i do not feel hungry on fasting days and simply forget that i’m doing it, with projects filling in mealtimes.
however, i have been known to start the day without my a.m. fuel up and i survived just fine.
what i love the most about if is when it is time to eat i literally pig-out.
hi cindy– i’m happy to learn of your success.
but i have been eating 2 meals a day.
just takes it a step further.
anyways, later on, as i continued my research, i found that you wrote a second post saying that the if thing wasn’t all that great after all and it seemed that your recommendation had changed.
but the elevation in your case isn’t out of the ordinary.
we tried it at noon and mid afternoon and later in the evening.
fasting itself gives the gi tract time to heal.
this would also include diet sodas and other concoctions.
they fell from 207 to 87.
long-term success depends upon what form of vigilance one can sustain.
i hope i will be ok because i have adrenal fatigue and am pre-diabetic
when i say low carb, i mean incidentals like eggs,occ single olive or a few jalepeno peppers.
for the last 6 weeks, i’ve been eating near purist level pp and 1 month) lowcarb years ago.
plus i increased my fats.
and i last weighed in at 145 lbs ( my weight fluctuates a lot ).
i don’t eat nearly as much when i eat as i thought i would.
(i’ve been prescribed nexium, for which i subbed prilosec on account of “poverty.”
my body is responding better to exercise than in the past.
i generally train from 11am-12pm.
now i am beginning to see the reasonableness of it.
reply ——————————————————————————– when it says working out in a fasted state, does that mean to work out fasting?do
in all cases (at least all the studies i’ve read) most health parameters improved during the fasting period.
anyway i shall keep you posted on my progress.
i’ll certainly address the sleep issue at some point, although it isn’t something in which i have a huge amount of expertise.
i then break the fast around noon with a protein shake, apple, piece of whole wheat bread (10g carbs per slice) w/ a thin layer of peanut butter for taste (maybe a teaspoon)
most of the studies showing health benefits- if not all – were done on people following typical diets on their eating days.
i have just recently changed to eating on every 3rd day now.
mrereply in your 9/19/06 post- #89, you said “cancer cells cant use ketones for energy and must turn to glucose to grow and reproduce.
amazing results in just 30 minutes per week learn the benefits of vitamins, minerals, and supplements user-friendly a-z format the blog of michael r. eades, m.d. © mreades 2012
i wouldn’t worry about it.
no, a meal of lightly steamed (or even heavily steamed, for that matter) vegetables isn’t inherently unhealthy (as long as they aren’t potatoes or other high-starch vegetables); it’s just that most of them don’t contain enough of the necessary amino acids to maintain lean body mass.
reply i have been doing intermittent fasting for 2 years straight the way brad pilon recommends in the book “eat stop eat”.
i am on hydrecortisone tablets…after a pituatery opperation..if i go on the if fast how will it affect my cortisol levels….. i am not surprised at what u say about the if fasting i am a muslim and we are supposed to fast…and the quran states time and time again ….if
in this study, published in the journal medical hypothesis in march of this year, dr. laub along with two other physicians (neither of whom i know) underwent their version of and intermittent fast.
i will be showing this to him immediately as he thinks everyone needs to have three meals a day, everyday.
i hope i’ve clarified things somewhat.
but i don’t think it’s a problem to take them on an every-other-day basis.
i thought about fasting in general, and about if, and found this blog post while doing some research.
i was going to eat earlier than usual because of that
i n a reply he made to a september 15, 2006 post by esther hoff (above), dr. mike said dr. mary does the same thing while if’ing.
this past week which makes me feel i am going in the right direction.
dyan hi dyan– hope you enjoy the book.
then a few months ago, my brother did eat-stop-eat, a diet ebook published by a nutritionist.
in all cases all healthy parameters evaluated improved.
best– mrereply sir what do you know about cancer cells and them not being good (or unable ?) at using ketones to increase the size of the tumours ?
the lab animals that did the if and ate double on eat days got all the health and longevity benefits that the animals did on caloric restriction, but they didn’t lose a lot of weight.
i am beginning to truly believe that homo sapien sapien can exist on meat and fat alone.
i eat a small meal at 5 pm just before leaving work.
hi elizabeth– tell your husband that i did it
i donated a kidney last years.
hi nellie– i understand your frustration.
also, keep an eye on blood pressure.
i think i’d have still lost a fair amount of weight even if i wasn’t running.
i have also read that anorexics (
a book by tim ferriss.
can’t remember who wrote it but the suggestion was that calorie restriction itself might not be generating the health benefits but perhaps it was the fact that caloric restriction makes you hungry and the being hungry sets of beneficial processes.
reply i am a 26 year old mother of a 20 month old, and i hadn’t lost the extra weight i gained from having my son.
i am going to start if but to begin with i will do twice a week (tuesday/friday) going from 6pm-6pm.
i wonder, have you had a chance to post or read any further breakthrough research on the subject of if.
do you have any advice?
[ update on dec 29 2011 ] i’ve completed 14 of these 36-hour fasts and also have been doing shorter fasts where i just skip breakfast and lunch.
enjoy reading information from.
i had md look, and she couldn’t find it either.
and i took away from our if experience is the idea that we don’t have to eat three meals per day.
as to carbs and proteins, i don’t have any recommendations for them on the if other than to get plenty of protein on eating days.
but i don’t seem to get up to the required amount of veggies.
i waited until 5:00pm to eat today and it was easy.
if saga has a long way to go.
cheers– mikereply but isn’t decreased igf-1 bad for muslce growth?
fasting enhances the success of excercise.
hi simon– i was beginning to worry.
i also enjoy the freedom from worrying, measuring, counting points/calories etc.
it just shows that different strategies work for different people.
this is true, but isn’t it also true that the process of digestion itself, involving the hard-working smooth muscles of the gi tract, is pretty metabolically intensive?
i’ve been reading different things lately about the level of protein to take in.
if you’d like to follow along with my progress, you can do so here… http://sardinesforlunch.blogspot.com hi bryan– looks like you’re doing well so far.
just got online and can see that it could have been low blood sugar, low calcium.
if you undertook the if and chose to eat extremely low-carb on your eating days, i think you would have more success.
for example, if we were supposed to start fasting at 6 pm as per our regular schedule but instead had a dinner engagement that evening fat 7:30 pm, we ate the dinner, started fasting at 8:30 (or whenever the dinner was over) and fasted until 8:30 the next evening.
i know others who do the one-meal-per-day routine and do very well with it.
does anyone have any good advice on what more i could be doing to increase my weight loss??
reply sorry to blog on a forum
i have been doing it for almost 2 decades.
since then, i have done better eating low glycemic (got a blood sugar monitor and found i’m
hi dr. e: i absolutely love the idea of the if; it is right up my alley and seems to be very sound!
it also mentions some good studies to back up what you are saying.
i’m so thankful that i read dr. eades’s post!reply
i’ve had my rare steak for breakfast, so i will eat till 6 pm tonight, and then start after 6 pm tomorrow.
devany has also beein toying with the idea, but he emphasizes random fasts much more, which would be more in line with his ideas on the benefits of power laws in energy and metabolism patterns.
you can even tell when you start to cross over into overeating, because the food starts to change flavor.
i feel if i undertook an if regimen i’d lose lean tissue.
now, after eating low carb for 2.5 years, i can honestly say that i’ve gotten most of that eating pattern back.
no problem with the sugar-free gum because it contains no calories.
unfortunately though, i’ve just decided to stop.
may switch to your version (6pm to 6pm every other day) once i get used to not eating whenever i want and being ok with it.
he eats breakfast and lunch but no dinner.
hi margaret– my opinion is that if the fasting glucose levels are up slightly, there isn’t much to worry about.
best– mrereply i have to tell you a story.
hi will– i don’t see any reason an overweight young person shouldn’t give this a whirl.
i’m guessing cr’d animals and humans tend to get a bit quiet and sedate — and miss the benefits of vigorous exercise.
the important thing is to have a single, long period of time without food intake.
i’m wondering if you have suggestions for adapting if for children.
so, it came quite naturally that i would experiment with the two in tandem.
there are certain technical issues having to do with getting rid of urea, a product of protein metabolism, that supposedly sets the protein ceiling at 250 or so grams per day.
no, but the fast could cause a problem with your meds, especially the high blood pressure meds.
i just become a basket case.
it seemed to work – right before the holidays i finally lost those 5 pounds.
as a 37 year old female carrying 30-40 extra pounds who has never taken supplements (though dr. said i could definitely use an iron supplement) can you recommend supplements i may want to be taking while following a non-meat, low-carb if lifestyle.
fast (first 24 hour fast) tuesday: eat as per normal until 4:30 pm wednesday:
thanks, dave hi dave– looks like a lot of your fellow blog readers will be trying to if.
the window of eating has been the key to maintaining any ground ive gained on my overt water fasts.
you can go to pubmed, put in ‘intermittent fast’ and find a bunch.
today i’ve eaten nothing, experienced no lightheadedness (is that a word…) or nausea or headaches, and although my stomach feels a little hungry, not particularly.
the body has to deal with the sugar contained in the meal.
i scan the net regularly, but have not found anything relatively new on the subject.
i started not eating til 6pm
…the subjects were eating, on alternate days, either 900 calories or  2300 calories, averaging 1600, and that body weight was maintained.
my omega 3 to 6 ratio is excellent.
these diets are extremely potent therapeutic tools for weight loss and health improvement, but they often require early medication adjustments.
i’m still interested in trying it just because it seems like, if tolerable, it would be a good way to reduce my overall caloric intake (there’s a guy pushing a diet book based around that scheme).
if you follow a good low-carb diet rigorously, you probably won’t gain as much of an advantage with an if as you would otherwise.
most rodents feed throughout the day and night, so restricting them for 24  hours does just that: it restricts them for 24 hours.
mrereply mattson’s data on i.f. was released several years ago.
as a note it is also caffeine free, not sure if that makes a difference.
i don’t think it would hurt.
but i ignored that fact as i got older and took dieting advice from others.
it’s probably difficult enough for most people to fast just one day, let alone two or three.
thank you for reading… i would like to fast …any advice appreciated dr. eades, i have been on an extremely low carb diet for 18 mths.
mikereply i just started a regimen and wonder if any research has changed since the original post.
hi vanessa– no, artificial sweeteners are not metabolized the same as pure sugar.
i’ve heard that people with health issues like that should not if.reply i tried this for a couple days, for a trial run last week…
once that occurs then i can be more flexible.
perhaps i can use intermittent fasting and get the benefits without losing further weight.
if i’m insulin resist from all the caffeine i’m wondering if the carbs port workout are going to be stored as fat versus filling up my muscles and aiding in my recovery from the heavy lifting.
this i would bascially drink down immediately after my workout.
at 6 p.m. i usually have a dinner consisting of a baked chicken breast with mixed greens & carrots.
i don’t know if that’s the case.
i don’t think the food intake schedule will affect your workouts in a negative way.
i just sort of avoided the early meals.
hi matt– i was just waiting until i got the time to give you a thoughtful answer.
i want to know if if and or low carb can help me to improve fsh levels and or fertility-many have suggested lowfat vegan diets for this but i can’t stick to it and my depression and irritability go way up on that diet.
i have to talk this through with my husband, but i am positive i’ll give this a try over the next weeks, and will keep you informed.
when rats live out their little ratty  lives calorically restricted in their cages they seem to show signs of  depression and irritability.
like some others mentioned, i used to eat like this all the time.
i’m hoping to see some good benefits and continue doing it.
(way too many years ago.)
as a matter of fact i recently put on a few pounds.
i suspect i’m not quite eating enough to compensate on the ad lib days – but it’s been less than a week
thanks, chris (female) sorry for the delay in putting up your comment, but it got caught in my spam filter.
it is just a matter of dosing your insulin to match your liver output.
the idea that we have to worry about getting too much protein is, in my opinion, a myth.
bdnf, as its name implies, is a substance that increases the growth of new  nerve cells in the brain, but it does much more than that.
you eat a pre w/o meal?bcaa/protein shake?
i fear you’re going to have to suck it up and diet through a few weekends to get the weight-loss wheels turning.
words fail me in trying to express my gratfulness to the warrior diet, and all the outspoken people who go out on a limb and state their reality, no matter how much it goes against the grain of the current beliefs.
before i get to the real nitty gritty of how such a thing can be done, let’s look at a method that has been proven in countless research institutions to bring about all the above-mentioned good things.
i have lost 10lbs and my husband has lost 15lbs.
reply don’t know if low-carbing or if will help your particular situation, but i can’t tell you how many patients i’ve lost to pregnancy.
this makes your body store as much fat as possible, instead of burning it.
(i am now fasting one day a week).
i get so nauseus if i eat before 8am
i developed digestive disorders when i was vegetarian and after years of lc, i conquered ibs but heart burn has not improved at all.
if we eat anything and everything we want at all times, our bodies go into blow-off-excess-energy mode.
what am i doing wrong?reply based on the information you’ve provided, i can’t possibly even guess.
i feel less anxious, more centered, calmer and much more detail-oriented.
my wife & i enjoy fine dining and often go out on the weekends.
second, most of the time during fasting, the hormone glucagon,which is the counter-regulatory hormone to insulin, drives gluconeogenesis, not the stress hormone cortisol.
i hope to lose some 40 lbs to get to 200 lbs.
don’t they hurt your kidneys due to too much protein?
could be 15 could be 30.
wellllllllll the exercise itself was exhilarating.
reply hello dr. eades!
of course we don’t know what these personal experiments will have as outcomes, but i doubt much cancer.
thank you ruth hi ruth–
i am taking supplements until i visit my doctor again.
it’s easier for me just to put food out of my mind and go all day long until the next day than to try an “eating window” during the day because i will eat like a 7 foot tall lumberjack during the “window”.
i always hated counting calories and now i don’t do that anymore.
i’ve had no experience with children on the if, so i can’t really make a recommendation.
thanks for the information, dr. eades.
but so far i haven’t lost any weight at all.
on thanksgiving, i plan on forgoing food until dinner time.
i’ve been reading up here http://projectfit.org/iflifeblog/2008/02/27/intermittent-fasting-101-how-to-start-part-i/#comment-3439
i can’t explain why i went off it aside from “sheer laziness and working 120 hours a week while single mom-ing a small child” just made having to worry about planning and cooking too big a pain.
thank you very much, juan march 08 june 08 january 09
most of the work in caloric restriction has been done on rodents, but there is a long term study on rhesus monkeys (17 years at this point) that appears to confirm the rodent data on longevity and health with cr in primates.
you don’t really “drop” pounds on if.
i became pregnant for the first time in 1998 when i told the doctor my eating schedule he insisted i eat according to us guidelines for my babys health and i gained almost 80 lbs in 9 months and had pregnancy complications.
during this meal, we eat all we want quantitatively but we exclude refined carbohydrates and limit saturated fat though recent findings revealed that their bad role is overestimated.
i’d still have to skip that dinner, but since i’m already naturally lasting from noon til 8 or 9pm, eating at 2pm would probably see me through until i was asleep, dreaming about my 2pm brunch!
this would have to have a positive impact on the grocery bill as i doubt you would eat twice as much on non fasting days.
it has been a powerful series of lessons; in fact, empowered is a great way to describe how i view myself now.
since my definition of life extension is a little different, i only look at the benefits and quite frankly, i don’t find if superior than say protein power.
i’d appreciate your clarification the jury is still out on the subject.
if i had to go out and run some game to earth, would i be hungry enough to do so?
get strong, lean and healthy.
and yes, i understand this is a different thing than if all together) can start out with a normal bmi and become severely underweight but that during recovery they gain back the weight very quickly, usually in the form of fat.
thanks, david hi david– i don’t know where art devany got his info on the 15 hours; maybe from a paper i haven’t read.
other that those things, my diet consists of vegetables, a few blueberries, fish, and eggs.
if several months ago and decided to give it a try.
i have a ginger lemon tea and a blueberry tea and i figured with the ginger lemon at the very least, it would help the detox process.
hi fred– thanks for the link.
wasn’t it written by an israeli commando guy?
you need to work through these issues with your physician.
eating in my window every night for the last week has simply continued the cleansing process to a deeper level.
i’m hoping that i will get this straightened out soon.
two years ago, fasting experts on the several internet sites and my naturopath-physician, scolded my ‘diet plan’ and warned me about all that protein that i will lose, over and over again.
please send a comment.
would drinking a protein shake during the fasting portion (say, during the bf or lunch) defeat the whole purpose of this exercise?
i find this easy to do which shocks me.
mary hi mary– glad the intermittent fasting is working for you.
or, on the other hand, should an ifer reasonably be concerned about negatively impacting their intake?
would two, or even three days fasting be better than one i wonder?
but not lots~~still kinda chubby—
if you have previously been on a strict low-carb diet then started an if with a lot of carbs, you could have a short term fluid retention that could both increase your abdominal circumference and mask a real weight loss.
we were very successful on banta but started being worried about missing many essential nutrients.
we weren’t doing a  hard core study; we were simply evaluating if as a practical means for humans  to use to improve their health.
reply google eat stop eat by brad pilon.
the first half of my window is all raw, fruits/veggies.
but i wonder if they are really necessary.
i do have a question though, is it okay to eat sugar-free gum or candy during fast days.
i have heard that if you skip a meal esp breakfast that it will hurt your metabolism and it scares me as even though i have strictly followed a lc diet for 4 years (i am very educated in lc i had two brick and morter lc stores and now have a websitehttp://www.kickthecarbz.com since i had to close my stores)
i prefer those made with splenda, but any non-caloric beverage shouldn’t cause a problem with the if.reply here is something that i have been doing…i add about a tablespoon of mct oil to my morning coffee.
i always enjoy your posts, and appreciate your adventurousness in trying new things.
in all, it’s been a great experience
my metabolism has responded quite well to the combination of low carbing and if.
my question is, since you primarily recommend lc eating, what do you think about my eating style and should i change it when starting the if?
but i am happy with my results so far and will keep it up.
but it takes a while for the food to give me some energy, i can actually feel it kicking in about half way through a workout).
i started several days ago and it has been a breeze.
we do it a little differently, however.
and you experience the symptoms you described.
so i have been eating mostly once a day.
hi rob– i think you’re right on the money.
if i had to make an intelligent guess, i would say that paleolithic man probably ate once per day or maybe even twice every three days.
whey protein works as well.
and i’ll show you why you may be on the very same diet that sumo wrestlers use to gain hundreds of pounds!
best– mrereply i’m experimenting with if (by eating an early supper and then skipping breakfast, so i’m going 18 hours without eating).
juan i would check fasting insulin levels and fasting glucose.
i drink heavy cream in my coffee.
i can’t italicize or set off quotes or do any of the things i normally do in the course of posting.
i wanted to provide an update and ask further questions.
best– mrereply count me in as one trying this approach with a slight modification.
when i break the fast i generally have a heavy resistancing training session and then have a meal of mixed pro/carbs/fat all whole foods
so i usually also have some fruit or veggies or a protein shake if i want more than that one meal this is the best way i have ever found to lose weight without feeling or being deprived hi
or would it be more beneficial to just eat when i had the chance and go back to my original time period?
all the protein structures in the body draw from and add to the amino acid pool.
best– mrereply i am a current lc’er and have been reading up on if.
i’ve been back on strict low carb for 3 weeks now.
glad you enjoyed it.
i also consume fats during my fast by adding coconut oil or mct oil to my coffee.
maybe today’s post will clear up a few other issues.
i believe the liver has a 24 hour supply of potential glucose in the form of easily mobilized glycogen (that contrasts to muscle glycogen that’s less easily mobilized).
it would be much more practical for us to have our fixed fasting days, but since that involves eating for 2 days in a row once a week, does that disturb the body in any way?
the thinking is that as we evolved larger brains something had to give, and what gave was the gi tract, which became smaller.
also, i’ve read comments elsewhere (in the proteinpower.com forum) that you are not convinced there is any health benefit to the if eating pattern … is that true?
but i still couldn’t maintain mon-fri, eating only dinner.
the fasting part occurred because if i thought i’d gained some weight i wouldn’t eat at all for one or two days.
what should be the surprise is that they’re not up more.
if (like thehttp://www.fast-5.com program), with a 4 or 5 hour eating window, and the alternate-day (adif) system you describe.
hi bluebrooke– good luck.
several inconvenient things are supposed to be bad for this condition, including large meals, high protein, and high fat.
hi nean– good luck on your if.
i do kind of agree with him when he suggests folks should “buck up” and drink it black.
much the same way we modern hunters hunt game!
if one just eats 2 meals/day instead of 3 meals/day, without those 2 meals being larger than before, you’ve just cut your calories by one third.
does the latter rule not apply for a fasting regimen?
that was something i had not expected at all so i am not sure if it is due to the dietary lifestyle, the fats or my braces.
i didn’t take anything for it because i didn’t know if paracetamol might be harmful on an empty stomach!
after that i go to work.
i think that both l-glutamine and bcaa supplementation would be helpful.
if you have read anything on the history of childrearing customs throughout the past few centuries in western cultures, you know it’s been pretty appalling anyway.
my waistline hovered between 30” and 32”.
i have high hopes for if…my main reason for doing this is weight loss and to see if the health claims are for real!reply keep us posted.
[that's the current perception from some of the participants] to me it’s still clear mike, but would you mind clarifying your position just a tad for those who are new to protein power but are now wondering what exactly is your advice regarding a comprehensive, sustainable and beneficial nutritional plan?
please make the pain go away!
and then i am supposed to eat again in the morning and at lunch–stopping at 5:00?
i too read the warrior diet and the author recommended eating berries if you got hungry during the day.
hi michelle– i have seen no data on the if used in pregnant women.
i’m still doing pretty much low carb during my eating windows.
of course we get used to almost everything, even to not eating or not sleeping enough, and i wonder how much of that is true effect of if and how much comes from our minds shutting down feelings of hunger as a coping mechanism.
mrereply sorry to post another question mike on the same subject and thanks for the answer btw about not losing muscle mass by adopting an if approach to eating.
i have recently made quite a few lifestyle changes in an effort to get my bg under control, including a low carb diet, stopping smoking and exercise.
i went from 255 lbs to 170 lbs over a 1.5 year timespan w/a slight increase in exercise.
like you, i believe that we humans can do just fine (better than fine, actually) on a diet of meat and fat alone.
however, as i am a nurse my mind keeps questioning, as i am not eating for ~ 34 h every other day (which, again, i have no problem with).
i’m full going to bed, not waking hungry and have found a few extra hours of time during the day because morning isn’t held up by making breakfast, and lunch isn’t an hour long break anymore.
i’ve started dieting 15 years ago, at first to lose 5 pounds and gradually, through those years, 5 pounds turned to 100.
would you be interested?
thanks for writing your books and the blog.
over three years, there were 6 deaths among 60 study subjects and 13 deaths among 60 ad lib-fed controls, non-significant difference.
and while hokmekler(of the wd) did not advocate the low-carb approach, his diet does say to restrict the “bad” carbs, like flour(so he is pro quality carb and foods).
the only thing i ever consumed at campus was coffee.
these feelings carry over to my eating days.
i don’t want to be miserable but this will answer some questions for me.
it is extraordinary how you distill your point and make it effortless to understand!
the gut is “expensive tissue,” after all.
i began binging at all-u-can-eat buffets and really let myself go physically.
ruth hi ruth– thanks for the update.
not yet dx’d myself, but expect to pursue a clinical dx as i compile my own history and seek advice on this matter.
i am diabetic on byetta (unable to tolerate glucophage)
to me, elevated glucose levels seem a major cause for concern.
less planning, shopping, and preparing of food.
cheers– mrereply i started if yesterday.
felt stronger than ever.
you mention coffee as being ok on the fast, which i have been drinking.
although this was observed to be poor eating behaviour i suppose it wasn’t as bad as it was made out to be.
total loss is 100 lbs.)
i will drink vega protein shakes tow meals per day and then dinner at 6.
that’s anorexia, yada yada”.
i started at 125lbs and so far ive only lost 1lb!
i was fascinated, and over the the years had become very calorie restrictive, but i was eating every day.
would if help her at all with her condition?
the loss occurred between age 17 and 19.
and i feel energized and rejuvenated after that workout!
i have a sustained energy boost throughout the day and my mind is clear.
actually i began taking magnesium instead of otc meds for my headaches which worked just as well.
reply i have noticed that you have referred to mct several times…i am at a loss to figure out what this is…could you explain?
i told them that the donuts are fried in partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, and at the time (1986?), i had learned from my bio professor (dr. bob love, great professor) that partially hydrogenated fats were just as ‘bad’ as saturated fats.
at least my skin looks better but i don’t know it’s the fasting or the resveretrol supplements i’ve been taking for the past month starting to kick in.
reply dr. mike, i was doing my regular fast yesterday and had a headache 2 hours before it was time to break my fast.
he mentioned losing “a little” weight because he & his wife “couldnt eat twice as much during the eating days as we would have eaten were we not fasting”.
in humans, however, the  situation is different.
my goal has been and continues to be losing 5 pounds and keeping it off.
mrereply i lost 85 of 100 lbs using a variant of the techniques outlined here.
randy m. hi randy– you can always get some extra protein, which you do need, by including whey protein shakes on your eating days.
i would have to give it some serious thought before i would lay it all at the doorstep of the dawn phenomenon, however.
fasting happens various times of the year and this year (2011) it will happen around aug 1st till 31st.
hi mike i love the idea of the if program, although i don’t really suffer from to many health problems my biggest concern is my weight, i weigh about 215lb i have been this heavy for years and have been tring so many things
i am so far doing the if daily, but may relax some on the weekends (to do family stuff if you know what i mean).
i think this is just one of those thoughts that is repeated over and over and people begin to think it is a fact.
working out intensely requires a lot of blood sugar, since most such workouts are anaerobic.
high ida– glad to hear you’re doing so well.
it’s really weird; i just started fasting (i’m in my 2nd week) on monday’s, wednesday, and friday’s.
thanks and regards, dan hi dan– since there are no rigidly set rules, you can pretty much set it up however works best with your lifestyle.
looks pretty good for 113 and he is still completely lucid (see birthday speech url embedded in article).
a lot of the comments on here seem very doable.
beginning in early january, my wife and i ate no solid foods, but we did allow ourselves to have a few protein shakes every now and then, along with some pureed vegetable soups.
the chemical that the body uses to liberate glycogen and to initiate gluconeogenesis is the stress hormone cortisol, i think.
i do like carbs though, but i so far notice i fill up rather quickly when i end the fast.
also, isn’t is hard on the body and digestive system?
the idea that protein hurts the kidneys is a myth.
your regimen is fine.
do you think me having the sugar from the syrup or blackstrap molasses or juice poses a problem for my future success?
i’m still young and healthy
then eat all day, or until 6pm sat and then not again until 6 pm and so on.
if you like veggies, go for them; if it’s protein you like, have as much as you want.
i used to be totally against fasting until i read the book ‘the miracle of fasting’ by paul and patricia bragg.
i can’t give specific nutritional advice over the internet to people i have never taken care of.
same for the kidneys and most of the other organs.
so some days i eat more than on others.
i don’t buy that idea of it keeping your metabolism up, but i think the reason it helps some lose weight is because they don’t ever spike their blood sugar.
this post sounds great.
i do have a policy of “sociality trumps schedule” so rarely i will eat at 23 or 23 and a half hours if the situation would be best doing that.
i would like to start the if lifestyle, to lose a few pounds (3 to 5), but mostly to increase health and quality of life.
reply i do one 24 hr fast a week and have really relaxed my meal schedule on the fed days, usually skipping breakfast with the exception of the occasional post workout shake.
you, of course, have to pay attention and not read or watch tv while eating.
his bio half-brother, whom we also adopted, eats almost exactly the same stuff and same amounts and is skinny as rail.
when you fast regularly, you build up your ability to convert fats into energy (and in so doing get rid of the toxins that are stored with the fats, you also generate growth hormone, resveratrol and bdnf).
if you want to maximize the good gained from the if, i would recommend that on the eat days a low-carb diet be followed.
what if you only eat breakfast can you lose weight then?
in fact, it probably is more in keeping with our paleolithic past.
thank you very much for your time.
when we do go, we eat like the above mentioned paleolithic hunters.
this is of particular interest for me because i’m currently reading the brain that changes itself (great book on neuroplasticity),and now this get me thinking that if is like putting our brain’s on natural steroids.
i would wager it would be deadly good for kiddlies given they lived in the same enviro as adults ( really i sometimes think i have shite for brains !)
i have learned how i use food to cope with stress and emotions.
there is a difference between absorbing nutrients and absorbing calories.
we modern humans have become acculturated to the three square meals per day regimen.
the one thing about the 3 day fasts is how much better your digestion feels after getting ‘cleared out’.
mon -thurs, and 5-6 days a week of intense exercise.
the gall bladder concentrates cholesterol as part of the bile salts that are squirted out of the gall bladder and mixed in with the fat going down the digestive tract.
how might if affect muscle mass?
i starting eating qod 3 weeks ago to get rid of ~8kg (i have no p.m.history whatsoever) and it works great so far.
i would miss eating like i would miss my wife if she was absent for 24 hours.
if i have health and energy, then longer life’s
did my usual sprinting at my walking session.
but it seems impossible.
trying to do at least one fast a week.
one other note, eating only when hungry is the way to go.
thanks for the informative website, posting and information, as well as “protein power,” all of which have been so helpful in my ongoing quest for health and a thin, lean body!
maybe somebody can benefit from our experience.
i must say, however, that i had been stuck for the longest time at 148 lbs.
the cholesterol helps to make the fat better able to be absorbed.
i have been reading all i can about fasting and really like the idea of intermittent fasting, that will be my next experiment, once my body recovers from this food drought i put myself through.
how long can a person refrain from protein and not sacrifice what you have?
reply dr. eades, i have been following this lifestyle for a month now and love it; i am planning on making it permanent!
but i wish you would do some research into bio identical hormones and thyroid and how the problems leading up to needing these meds affect an older women’s weight and how lc can fight into her life.
i am nearly 6’2″, a man, age 55.i have recently begun intermittent fasting.
morning & late afternoon?
i may have to give this a try, especially for the anti-depression benefit (i’ve been on anti-depressants twice in the past and i want it to go away for good).
i got him started on the idea a couple of years back.
best– mrereply hello dr eades.
but my average daily caloric intake over the last 2 months has been no more than 1500 calories.
but don’t worry about the calories.
i hate to say, but mindlessly eating, or eating because the clock said 8:00 am 12 noon and 5pm
which means, you can’t be very physically active; no one-on-one basketball in the driveway, no running.
anyway, you mentioned you did not know of art devany.
i am doing crossfit and eating lacto paleo.
benefits like gh secretion just for one.
thank you margaret thanks for providing your interesting nutritional history.
i’ve been back and forth on the if issue.
150 recipes from the pbs-tv series maintain a low-carb lifestyle.
the authors infer that this was a good thing, and refer to bdnf as a marker for inflammation, whereas you consider if-diet heightened bdnf levels beneficial to the brain.
this morning it seems its stopping finally.
if it’s lc dieting, then one must be vigilant about carbs.
i posted a few months back on how ketosis stimulates the process of cellular cleansing by removing junk proteins from the cells.
oh and i do eat an occasional avocado on my salad.
that depends on what you eat for breakfast.
this is just my 2 cents.
cheers– mrereply hello, just a quick comment: i have been doing 18 or 20 hr fasting for a couple years.
this system sounds fantastic, but i have a concern.
i do eat oatmeal frequently for breakfast (3 times per week) and eat a couple slices of manna bread from julian bakery a day.
hi imsovain– basically just fooling around with the cutoff times.
generally it was one day of fasting per week.
reply dr. eades, does eating a huge amount of calories (overeating) in one sitting spike insulin levels?
how can i make if when i make heavy workout early in the morning?
but i don’t know you and your specific medical history, so i would advise you to check with your own physician before starting.
[ i left this reply on oct 14 2011 but it never got added to the stream, so i'm trying again - ] hi folks – great post, great replies.
(note: the problem is solved; all links are working.)
insulin goes down: good.
my food is nutritious i rarely ever eat anything “bad” .
best– mrereply great article, very inspirational!
but it was easier for me to eschew food completely for the day rather than have small portions.
cheers– mrereply is there a book to read that would explain all this?
thanks again so much!
he’s quite active, has an excellent lower-carb diet and doesn’t eat massive quantities of food.
before, even though i was low carbing, i was gaining weight.
i’d still believe in a balanced and moderated diet plan.
we generally eat either 1 large meal per day (usually paleo), or compress all our meals into a 4-6 hour window.
what i am enjoying is the anticipation of my meal and the fun in preparing it and the feeling of being satisfied after that meal.
about a week and a half into the fast, my wife suggested that i check my bp.
i wouldn’t think it would be a problem while you’re trying, but once you are pregnant, just to be safe, you should follow your normal diet or whatever diet your ob/gyn recommends.
but surely 24 ratty[*] hours translates into much more than 24 for humans?
i am so sick of making big mistakes with my health and ending up fatter!
(sweetened with stevia).
when in my early phases prior to a 24 hour fast commenced every other day, i fasted from dinner offset through the whole next day to breakfast on day 3.
i think that is because after developing the habit of eating within a scheduled window, you don’t want to waste that time eating cookies and/or chips.
they had “a heart condition”.
lost 7.5 lbs in one week, i understand that much of that is water loss, understanding that the caloric restrictions that would imply.
reply dr. mike, something that i have been pondering is- if the body is in ketosis, and ketosis is as efficient as you say, wouldn’t the body be better equipped to absorb nutrients ?
best– mrereply did my question regarding post #89 get lost in the shuffle, or was it just deemed inappropriate?
there are so many postive testimonies here to the efficacy of if, maybe it’s helpful to hear of someone that struggles in it?
im currently eating only during a five-hour window, from 5 pm to 10 pm (a.k.a.
but, who wants to go all day every other day without food?
and i can swim and run faster than when i was 20.
and btw my blog address is http://www.slowburn.typepad.com hi fred– i don’t think if would affect muscle mass much at all.
i plan to continue a 32 hour fast one day a week and ask my doc for a new blood test in a couple of months.
art can be a bit much at times, but his ideas are great.
reply thanks for the encouragement…i guess i get discouraged easily…i have tried so many things and over the years the weight keeps going up…i will give it another try…especially if it is good for my health.
the first few months that worked really well and i got to a very low bodyfat level without changing my diet.
the new york times bestseller the three-tiered nutrition plan plus meal plans, recipes, kitchen stocking advice, and more gram counts for everything carbohydrates, protein, omega fatty acids, fats and even fiber the quick, easy-to-follow low-carb diet plan 30-day low carb diet solution low-carb recipes that satisfy your comfort food cravings control your weight, improve your health, and enjoy cooking.
dyan if your hgba1c isn’t going up, i wouldn’t worry about it.
i have tried if for the last 4 or so months, moslty grazing on fruit (a couple of apples and bananas, almonds) through the day and then eating a couple of big meals at nite.
it could be your thyroid.
i am a little overweight by about 10kg (don’t know how many lbs) and have an underactive thyriod gland (but taking thyroxine pill 0,1mg every day) which results in me having a slower metabolism (according to gp) although i can feel that i can’t have such a slow metabolism as i tend to eat at least 4/5 times a day because i eat when i feel hungry (the hollow feeling on my stomach)
it’s hereditary and started when i was 18 years old.
reply i have filled my head instead of my stomach today on lunch break.
once you finish 20-30 days fast you find yourself on the uncharted territory again and through re-feeding time, regardless how carefully you eat, pounds mercilessly come back as fast as they were off.
and i don’t allow myself to get stuffed.
workouts on both days went fantastic.
the diet is based on the insulin released for the first 2 lc meals.
reply i read about this on monday of this week and thought i’d give it a try starting tuesday (i fasted on tuesday).
there’s clearly some value to going long(er) periods without food — some sort of metabolic grooving or run-out that the body seems to love.
i also want to add that he is borderline obese, has high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes.
up to a few years ago i had the good habit of fasting on fridays.
keep me posted on the outcome.
hi gaelen– i wouldn’t think there would be much of an impact on hypoglycemia for anyone not on diabetic medicines.
i have been over weight and energy compromised ever since childhood.
hi misty– metabolic rate is primarily a function of body weight.
even with only two meals a day, i find i’m having to stop before i really want to.
i’m sure you’re familiar with the china study book.
any advice is appreciated, dan hi dan– are you forcing the new religion down their throats or are they trying to force the old down yours?
i ate 14 hours later, perhaps not a long enough fast but it really kills me.
i’ll monitor this with my $1750 bioanalogics body comp device and let you know!
now my desire for food when i fast is more taste-based.
i think i will give the if another week.
if it works, keep on.
to my great delight, i am finding one (evening) meal a day works wonderfully for me.
here is a link to the pdf of an american journal of clinical nutrition article written by japanese researchers on the diet of sumo wrestlers.
below youll see my metabolic profile at 0, 3 and 10 months into the intermittent fasting diet.
does it make sense to have fasting and eating days on fixed days of the week?
the hunger is exquisite and the food much more tasty and fulfilling after waiting for it for a while and really looking forward to it.
great, i’d wasted 2 years seeing a psychiatrist for a condition i didn’t even have.
the biggest challenge will be figuring this out when i go back to a regular work schedule next week.
adding a little food during those periods would defeat the purpose.
regarding the current drive (ignoring social encouragement) to eat several times during the day, for hunter-gatherers hunger probably would not have normally led to immediate food consumption, but rather to hunting or gathering, with built-in food consumption delays measured in hours or even days.
most people, even if they are on a higher carb diet (unless they graze all the time) will be producing some ketones at times throughout the day.
you think it’s beneficial in any way?
one of the main contributors, rob wolff from crossfit norcal has written a lot about this way of eating, and could certainly provide you with feedback based on his and many others’ experience.
fortify your thyroid: maximizing the major metabolism hormone hi linda– dr. hyman needs to do a little more research on the sumo wrestlers before he makes the ignorant pronouncements that he does.
thanks, mary hi have been following an if regime for a few months which works very well.
i have been reading a lot about this
i see that you say non caloric drinks are fine
that’s it for now, mary fabulous!
i feel alot better since ive began
the benefits seem fabulous, but it isn’t a practical diet.
so i have switched to more veggies, fruit and low-fat proteins.
it didn’t seem to do him any harm.
as to the hormesis issue…hormesis is the situation in which a small dose of something (usually toxic; radiation, for example) prevents an untoward response from a larger dose.
i know that i had posted that i was able to go 14 hours without eating.
you’ve got the schedule down.
i feel dehydrated no matter how much i drink water.
i am never every hungry in the morn or really most of the day.
hi deb– actually followers of the carbohydrate addicts diet ate very low carb throughout the day, then had a ‘reward meal’ at night, which was, basically, as much food as they could cram in their mouths over a one hour period.
reply curious as to why reference to sirt1 genes that produce sirtuin proteins omitted in your response on september 6.
hi matt– no, i don’t think pritikin is a particularly healthy choice, although if used on an if basis wouldn’t be as bad.
keep me posted on your progress.
in data gathered from humans still living in non-westernized cultures in the last century, it appears that they would gorge after a kill and sleep and lay around doing not much of anything for the next day or so.
best– mikereply wondering if anyone has any updates on if and weightloss.
i’ll fast from then until about 5:00 the next day, and i’ll eat eggs, ground beef or ground italian sausage, and salad.
before this nightly fasting i would binge on treats all evening that got to where i was hooked.
hi mary– thanks for the update.
no, you are not misguided.
i would much rather fast a day or two a week than eat light meals.
they started the low-carb diet and got pregnant within a couple of months.
when these folks got hungry, they went out and hunted and  started the cycle again.
colors also look brighter and more vivid, though, alas, i still need my contact lenses.
it’s been my experience that if works okay for weight loss, but probably not as well as a good low-carb diet.
so, i am going off the if and going to try and figure out just what i need to do.
if you buy into the idea that the paleolithic diet is the optimal diet for us today because it is the diet we were molded by the forces of natural selection to perform best on, then you should probably also buy into the idea that a meal timing schedule more like that of paleolithic mean would provide benefit as well.
when you’re first getting started, it’s easy to eat a little too fast.
i have not lost hoards of weight but one thing i have noticed is that my weight is more responsive to exercise.
all without giving up the foods you  love.
with my last pregnancy i was gestational diabetic and my doctor told me that i would be for every pregnancy after that.
also i was not dehydrated despite the fact that i am not very thirsty and drink very little water.
if i eat once/day and eat all of my protein in one big lump is it all utilized as protein or will some be converted via gluconeogenesis?
on saturday and part of sunday i’ll just eat whatever.
in short, i guess, i can’t really make a call unless i have all the data.
i would run 6 days per week, 3-5 miles and i typically work out 1.5 to 2 hours on the days i work out and they’re always tough workouts.
all you have to do is skip dinner.
i know that i am not doing this
best in health; bmc my partner cherie and i have been doing intermittent fasting since janury 1st, and so far i am down 12lbs.
if my caloric weekly average is 1350 shouldn’t i be losing weight – it worked last fall.
these are women who had become infertile because of their obesity and weren’t practicing birth control as a consequence.
questions though… 1.
it’s interesting that you seem to have more endurance while others report less.
best– mrereply i’ve done lc before but found this page on the ana site.
so, kate, i would add magnesium along with if.reply i came across
i am going to continue doing this to see how it goes and my husband will be joining me in this journey as well.
the best thing i found to get rid of excess skin is keep the protein intake up during the eating days.
then we fast all night.
though it could happen to some individuals.
like caloric restriction, intermittent fasting reduces oxidative stress,  makes the animals more resistant to acute stress in general, reduces blood  pressure, reduces blood sugar, improves insulin sensitivity, reduces the  incidence of cancer, diabetes, and heart disease, and improves cognitive  ability.
what are your thoughts?
the only thing i find odd is my iron levels were low but my energy was high.
did people following the if think (or know if) they ate fewer calories overall during the if?
if so, just skipping food every other day, or even just skipping breakfast, might be a very good way of alleviating allergic problems.
hi peggyjo– no, black coffee won’t mess it up.
but as for the meals—what is your view of diet sodas, loading meals with low-calorie foods so as to meet the 50% goal, etc.?
day 4: fast until 6:00 pm repeat etc.. thanks!
it will pay of big time.
i have no results as yet but will let you know if anyone is interested.
luckily i now feel great on a paleo 2.0 diet – so far
of course, it was all the same- eat 5 or 6 small meals a day.
yes, i developed an eating disorder, not to mention the fact i was constantly thinking about food.
but i found it mentally unsustainable.
something you can look forward to.
i hadn’t seem that one yet.
especially if you notice a drop off in ability when switching.
and it’s good for you.
the only restriction is in when you get to have it.
reply hi dr. eades, i have been reading your blog & every single comment for the past 2 days & nights.
and i know i can eat what i want in only a few hours in most cases.
the freedom from being required to follow rules of eating “three squares at 7 a.m., noon, and 6 p.m., plus snacks” is worth the price of admission for me.
i read your first book many years ago (and wish that i had stuck with your recommendations back then.)
probably low-carb modified intermittent fasting, which is basically what i do myself most of the time.
so i sometimes break the fast a little before bed by eating a handful of raw almonds or a bit of cheese or half of an avocado, something low carb of approx.
so i know where i am starting from and will know if this is working for lowering cholesterol etc.
it is what the name implies, a substance generated in the brain that stimulates the development and growth of new nerve cells.
when rats live out their little ratty lives calorically restricted in their cages they seem to show signs of depression and irritability.
cheers– mrereply hello dr. eades, i enjoy your informative blogs and have just begun reading them since the 2006 winter holidays.
which is, btw, considerably less than one would expect.
i have really enjoyed your site!
i fear that i would have succumbed to the freshly baked donuts way more often than you did.
hi fred– there is no evidence that i’m aware of that implicates coffee as a cause of insulin resistance.
when i am ifing i simple tell people: no thanks, i ate earlier.
cheers– mrereply have been using sld/ shangri-la diet (not a diet, but a theoritic method for lowering the set point, which also suppresses appetite since december 2, 2007, and on february 1, 2007, combined it with judddd/ johnson updaydownday diet (one of the researchers with laub, i believe).
if it’s working for you, then i would stick with it.
should this still work?
turned out to be easy the first day so i started fasting two days a week with the fast days lasting 32 hours.
he has some very impressive stats with remission for stage 4 cancer i think partic pancreatic he ‘prescribes’ a strict paleotype diet for some patients and then strictly veggie diet for others based on a whole slew of variables….some of which seems floored and incredibly so.
best– mrereply dr. eades, this subject more than any other in your blog has piqued my interest.
if then we curtail our food intake, our bodies continue to inefficiently burn calories and we lose weight like crazy.
i’m sure insulin-dependent diabetics could adjust their insulin regimens to accommodate an intermittent fast, but it would require great diligence.
we now often skip lunch and don’t seem any the worse for it.
i’d be interested in your thoughts on the matter.
it makes a difference if it is a low-carb, low-calorie diet or a high-carb, low-calorie diet.
best– mrereply here in south eastern mass.
i can easily see why if would help overfat and out of shape mary smith or junk food gorging joe anderson, but taking me for example, someone with near perfect internal health markers and bodyfat composition for a 45 year young male, could if be detrimental?
i put it to you sir that suggesting that we go without our victuals for some part of the day is an outrageous claim.
i struggle with excessive hunger even while sleeping and i find i need to eat right before bed, but i want to know which will actually work better.
i sense that any if is better than none and that the most one can tolerate is best.
the only obstacle is convincing my husband that i’m not crazy.
and i haven’t lost a pound.
i feel clear headed and surprisingly energized.
(i’d estimate at least a 50% improvement in endurance here; subjective, i know.)
reply just a note to report that today, for the first time in my 39 years, i comfortably did sprints throughout my 45 minute walk.
i’ve tried keeping it under control by eliminating sodium (replacing it with potassium), trying to stay hydrated, consuming cinnamon, doing isometric hand-grip exercises and doing biofeedback breathing exercises.
or does it have to do with the body’s own response (being more sensitive) to storing calories as fat after a long period of under-eating?
they have come off slow about a lb a week but all of it’s been from my belly.
personally any food i label as something i can’t live without is one i should strongly consider living without – are you really a slave to a specific substance like *cream*?
i can’t even imagine eating a whole pizza hut pie.
in their paper these researchers discuss a 1957 paper from the spanish medical literature.
it states that the tea is 0 calories as well, but i was just wondering if it could interfere with the fasting process at all.