plant 8  to 10 feet apart.
the fruits are orange when ripe and the size of a peanut.
durian (durio zybethinus) click image to see full size photo
fruit tree descriptions and photos some information about growing these trees: - abiu (pouteria caimito) click image to see full size photo yellow fruit about the size of a tennis ball.
hawaiian chili pepper tree(capsicum anuum)
few people know that the seeds are surrounded by a delicious pulp.
starts fruting in 2 to 3 years.
likes highland conditions.
can be fruited in a pot.
this fruit ought  to be much more widely planted.
new discussion group with yours truly as moderator.
the tree is `medium to large, slow growing.
cherimoya (annona cherimola) click image to see full size photo wide spreading tree to  about 20 feet tall and 15 feet wide.
will tolerate standing water.
fruit**lover's**nursery featured site: hawaii tropical fruit lovers newsgroup.
a close relative of the tomato, but grows on a small bushy tree.
jackfruit(artocarpus heterophyllus)
it likes filtered sunlight until it is about 3 feet tall, and then  full sun.
a close relative of the mangosteen, this fruit is orange and the size of  a quarter.
on the inside it is yellowish or brownish, soft, with a melting texture.
peanut butter fruit (bunchosia argentea) click image to see full size photo small bushy tree produces fruit that really taste like peanut butter.
(arboles frutales exoticos y  poco conocidos en puerto rico.)
likes morning sun and afternoon shade.
usually has a nipple on one end of the fruit.
click image to see full size photo another relative of the cherimoya, this one is larger and with some fibers.
plant 25 to 30 feet  apart.
on the inside it is yellowish or brownish, soft, with a melting  texture.
it grows on a small bushy tree that is 6 to 8 feet tall.
the plant is a vine so needs a trellis, fence, or tree to climb on.
the tree is small, likes full sun, good drainage.
this small attractive tree has a swollen  base and is easy and fast to grow.
suggest  training on wire,trellis or fence.
- bananas of hawaii varieties poster, 50 varieties!
it is dry and very sweet, kind of like a date.
will tolerate standing  water.
longkong or dokong (lansium domesticum)
it has sections like  a tangerine.
rambutan (nephelium lappaceum)
this is a very sweet fruit, so much so it is sometimes called the "brown sugar" fruit.
likes full sun and good drainage.
this is  a great thirst quencher.
unfortunately in western culture they have gotten a  bad reputation because of their strong odor.
the taste is often described as juicy fruit gum, but  this does not do it justice.
this nut really does taste like chestnuts.
by juan rivero and bryan brunner.
click image to see full size photo small bushy tree from brazil.
plant 25  feet apart.
hybrid jaboticaba (myrciaria caulifloura x) new hybrid type of jaboticaba is much earlier bearing.
a relative of the cherimoya,  this fruit is much bigger and has the added advantage that it is self  pollinating.
- bilimbi (averrhoa bilimbi) click image to see full size photo close relative of the starfruit (see below).
it has sections like a tangerine.
in  south america it is used in a very thirst quenching drink.
books: excellent new book:
gamboge or false mangosteen (garcinia xanthochymus)
it is a  large shade tree, and the leaves turn color like in temperate climat trees.
in mexico this fruit is widely used in juices and in excellent ice creams.
it is slow growin and takes 7 to 10 years to fruit.
a close relative of the lychee.
in south america it is used in a very thirst quenching drink.
- blackberry jam fruit (randia formosa) click image to see full size photo
jackfruit(artocarpus heterophyllus) click image to see full size photo largest fruit of all.
gardeners outside of hawaii growing tropical fruits also welcomed.
the tree is small and attractive.
- mango varieties poster, 143 varieties!
chico sapote or sapodilla (manilkara zapota)
the leaves are used in india in cooking.
and it makes pretty red fruits.
this fruit is a bit bigger than an egg, orange on the outside and on the inside.
monstera (monstera deliciosa) often recognized as a house plant whose leaves have a "swiss cheese" look, it produces a fruit that tastes similar to pineapple.
eggfruit, canistel (pouteria campechiana)
it is a large tree that likes plenty of warmth.
this small to medium sized tree is very heavy bearing.
small to medium sized bushy tree.
plant 10 to 12 feet apart.
mysore raspberry (rubus niveus)
yellow jaboticaba or cabelluda (myrciaria glazioviana, often cofused with  eugenia tomentosa or myrciaria glomerata)
it is a small tree, preferring some shade when  little, then can go into full sun.
the plant is slow growing but will start fruiting  when only 1 foot tall.
you can post on your experience in growing tropical fruits and other topics related to tropical fruits, such as tropical fruit food preparation, places to buy tropical fruits, and places you have visited and experienced tropical fruits.
the tree is large and likes some shade at first, and then full sun.
the most prized fruit of china.
fruits have an excellent taste, texture, and fragrance.
search our site: sitemap search the internet search fruitlovers.com
produces in 3 to 5  years.
excellent resource book:
mamey sapote (pouteria sapota)
passionfruits:  giant passionfruit  (passiflora quadrangularis)
also it has very few seeds, is almost seedless, and fruits  faster than the langsat.
the fruit is produced right on the bark of the tree all up and down the branches.
fruits in about  three years.
plant in full sun good drainage 4 to 8 feet apart.
click image to see full size photo largest of the sapotes, can reach the size of a football.
the  fruit must be totally ripe (orange colored) as otherwise it is very irritant.
this palm grows to 10 feet tall, is very thorny, and produces fruits in large clusters.
this is a great thirst quencher.
likes filtered sunlight, but will also grow in full sun and is medium in growth rate.
trees are fast growing and bear fruit in 2 to 3 years.
when ripe it has a strong cheesy smell.
it is the size of a  tennis ball, purple on the ouside and white on the inside.
similar to the salak or snakeskin fruit from bali, but this one is red skinned on the outside.
in mexico this fruit is  widely used in juices and in excellent ice creams.
the fruit is produced right on the bark of the tree all up and down  the branches.
this fruit is smaller than the lychee, brown on the outside, and has more of a spicy taste than the lychee.
you  can post on your experience in growing tropical fruits and other topics related  to tropical fruits, such as tropical fruit food preparation, places to buy  tropical fruits, and places you have visited and experienced tropical fruits.
the  fruit is red or yellow and has funny looking hairy appendages.
the pods start green, turn yellow, then, orange, and then red.
tree is upright and decorative.
it is brown on the outside, looking a bit simiar to a kiwi.
the taste is often described as juicy fruit gum, but this does not do it justice.
the texture is melting, and like the lychee, it is hard to stop eating them.
it is sweet and a great  thirst quencher.
the fruits are tasty and very hot.
extra large tropical fruit poster new and improved version now has  163 exotic tropical fruits.
tree tomato, tamarillo (cyphomandra betacea)
this is a close relative of the  abiu.
the taste has hints of both grape and orange.
it grows on a small bushy  tree that is 6 to 8 feet tall.
papaya 'sunrise' yellow solo type papaya.
likes filtered sunlight, but will also grow in  full sun and is medium in growth rate.
links to other sites on the web with fruit tree descriptions california rare fruit growers cropexpert: subtropical & tropical contact me by clicking below: e mail enter by clicking the categories below.
convenient seasonal tropical fruit cards plants: tropical fruit and spice tree pricesheet ethnobotanical, timber, palm, and select flowering plants seeds:
needs full sun and good drainage.
this tree takes 3 to 5 years  to bear.
the tree will eventually get to be 20-25 feet tall, but  this takes a very long time as it is very slow growing.
makes a good windbreak.
jaboticaba (myrciaria caulifloura) click image to see full size photo
this is a very sweet fruit, so much so it is sometimes called the  "brown sugar" fruit.
this little hot pepper is a local favorite.
the tree is small to medium sized and produces beautiful white flowers which carpet the ground.
the fruit must be totally ripe (orange colored) as otherwise it is very irritant.
fruits look like small feijoas,  and are 1 inch long and 1/2 inch wide.
kind of like the world  through rose colored glasses.
- convenient seasonal tropical fruit cards plants: - tropical fruit and spice tree pricesheet - ethnobotanical, timber, palm, and select flowering plants seeds: - tropical fruit seeds available information: - tropical fruit tree descriptions - see what our customers think of us - favorite books on tropical fruits
this unusual tree produces a fruit that looks and tastes similar to black grapes.
the football shaped fruit pods hang from the trunk.
starfruit (averrhoa carambola)
it is a black raspberry that is truly tropical and a heavy barer.
large tree likes full sun and good drainage.
the seeds are also very tasty when boiled or roasted the tree is large 30-40 feet tall and fast growing.
not as slow growing as the mangosteen.
home page: books: - excellent new book:
brazilian trees, a guide to the identification and cultivation of brazilian native trees by harri lorenzi.
the fruit is excellent out of hand or can be used any way that grapes are used.
plants require a pollinator as male and female are on seperate plants santol (sandoricum koetjape) click image to see full size photo
in thailand where it was bred it often sells for three  times the amount per kilo of what langsat sells for.
plant in full  sun good drainage 4 to 8 feet apart.
this is a very rare form of mountain apple, which is usually red on exterior and pear shaped.
small to  medium sized bushy tree.
they are juicy and tasty with an apricot-like flavor.
cultural requirements same as regular jaboticaba above.
this large tree produces a bean pod which contains inside of it a jelly  that is at the same time sweet and tart.
so it is an unusual sight.
this fruit is smaller than the lychee,  brown on the outside, and has more of a spicy taste than the lychee.
this palm grows to 15 feet tall, is very thorny, and produces fruits in large clusters.
bilimbi (averrhoa bilimbi) click image to see full size photo close relative of the starfruit (see below).
plant  6 to 8 feet apart.
it is dedicated to the growing of tropical fruits in hawaii.
fruit is  sour and used as a relish or for pickling.
rollinia (rollinia deliciosa) click image to see full size photo
the seeds of this plant is what is used for making chocolate.
fruits are size of a chicken egg or  larger.
a bushy tree with fragrant white flowers.
likes filtered sunlight,but will grow also  in full sun.
the tree is medium to large sized.
plant 30  feet apart.
flowers are beautiful.
exotic fruit trees of puerto rico.
the tree is small to medium sized and prefers filtered sunlight.
this tree takes 3 to 5 years to bear.
white mountain apple or white malay apple (syzigium malaccense) click image to see full size photo
so much so that  in thailand a worker will work all day to be able to buy one fruit.
it has a wonderful pudding taste and consistency.
taste is like a cross between a crunchy sweet apple and a pineapple.
the fruit, which contains the chemical  miraculin, has a miraculous effect on the mouth.
this small attractive tree has a swollen base and is easy and fast to grow.
it also does not contain any bitterness in the latex or around the seeds as  does the langsat.
it is juicy with transparent flesh and a caramel like flavor.
this new hybrid can bear in only 3 years.
plant 30 to 35 feet apart in full sun with good drainage.
this rare form of the fruit is white on exterior and interior and round, and with a similar texture to pears, but crunchy like an apple.
the texture is melting, and like the lychee, it is hard to stop eating  them.
plants require a pollinator as male and female are on  seperate plants santol (sandoricum koetjape) click image to see full size photo
a close cousin of the lychee.
this tree is a close relative of the mangosteen and is often mistakenly  identfied as a mangosteen.
a small bushy tree producing a red fruit that looks like a coffe berry.
it is more tropical than the lychee.
when sliced open they have a star design in the center.
golden apple (passiflora laurifolia) like a lilikoi but orange in color, softer skin, and much sweeter.
it is a black  raspberry that is truly tropical and a heavy barer.
- cherimoya (annona cherimola)
the seeds are also very tasty when boiled or  roasted the tree is large 30-40 feet tall and fast growing.
in southeast asia this is considered the king of fruits.
tolerates standing water.
takes 3 to 5  years to bear.
the fruit, which contains the chemical miraculin, has a miraculous effect on the mouth.
surinam cherry (eugenia uniflora) click image to see full size photo small bushy tree produces lantern shaped cherries much loved by children.
the tree is very attractive with very large leaves covered with a purple velvet.
needs wind protection.
it also does not contain any bitterness in the latex or around the seeds as does the langsat.
the plant is a climber, but can be grown as a ground cover.
monstera (monstera deliciosa) often recognized as a house plant whose leaves have a "swiss  cheese" look, it produces a fruit that tastes similar to pineapple.
the flowers are very fragrant, and the tree is pretty in bloom and when fruiting.
it is quite showy when in flower also.
it is considered essential in making many sauces.
it is the size of a tennis ball, purple on the ouside and white on the inside.
click image to see full  size photo
the fruit is almost the size of a basketball, light green, and very spiny.
the fruits  are tasty and very hot.
papaya 'sunrise' papaya 'sunset', also called kapoho solo red solo type papaya.
they are  prized and quite expensive.
the taste is like pumpkin pie filling, moist and sweet.
(arboles frutales exoticos y poco conocidos en puerto rico.)
when ripe it has a  strong cheesy smell.
now back in stock posters and cards: - fig varieties poster, 126 varieties!
very tolerant of sea  breeze and wind spray.
brazilian flora arecaceae (palms) by harri lorenzi.
a very delicious fruit from southeast asia.
this fruit is also called chocolate pudding fruit because it makes an excellent pudding that looks and tastes like a fine chocolate mousse.
the large green pods hold 20  to 30 nuts and split open when ripe.
wide spreading tree to about 20 feet tall and 15 feet wide.
the tree is small to  medium sized and prefers filtered sunlight.
will get 15 to 20 feet and and 10 feet wide.
takes 3 to 5 years to bear.
the flowers are very fragrant, and the tree is  pretty in bloom and when fruiting.
also it has very few seeds, is almost seedless, and fruits faster than the langsat.
papaya 'waimanalo dwarf yellow solo type papaya on a dwarf tree.
click image to see full size photo yellow fruit about the size of a tennis ball.
it likes filtered sunlight until it is about 3 feet tall, and then full sun.
they really do taste like a blackberry  jam.
very  rare new introduction.
they are juicy and tasty with an  apricot-like flavor.
this small orange fruit is used for making a popular drink in peru.
the fruit grows in clusters like grapes but is yellow on the  ouside.
the football shaped  fruit pods hang from the trunk.
coffee 'kona' type (coffea arabica)
brazilian fruits and cultivated exotics by  harri lorenzi et al. excellent book, now in english in 3 volumes: brazilian trees, a guide  to the identification and cultivation of brazilian native trees by harri  lorenzi.
click image to see full size photo small bushy tree from  brazil.
it has a wonderful milkshake flavor.
fully  ripe when totally soft.
it is very  sweet, and one fruit can make 2 glasses of juice.
two trees are  needed to insure cross pollination.
it needs continuous consistent rain or watering.
click image to see full size photo so called because when cut the fruit has a 5 pointed star shape.
the fruits hand directly from the trunk of the tree.
the tree is very beautiful.
the part that is eaten is the fleshy part surrounding the seed.
few people know that the seeds are  surrounded by a delicious pulp.
plant 25 to 30 feet apart.
small attractive tree.
this fruit ought to be much more widely planted.
bares in only one year.
this fruit is a bit bigger than  an egg, orange on the outside and on the inside.
curry leaf tree (murraya koenigii) small attractive tree.
tamarind (tamarindus indica)
fruit tree  descriptions and photos some information about growing these trees: abiu (pouteria caimito)
- extra large tropical fruit poster new and improved version now has 163 exotic tropical fruits.
likes full sun  and good drainage.
will bare in about 5 years.
it is dedicated to the growing of tropical fruits in  hawaii.
plant in full or partial sun, 10 to 12 feet apart.
the taste is difficult to describe as it is differet from other  fruits.
soursop (annona muricatum)
plant in full sun in wind protected area with  good drainage, 15 to 20 fee apart.
likes cool weather and filtered sunlight.
by juan rivero and bryan brunner.  now back in  stock posters and cards: fig varieties poster, 126 varieties!
this fruit is shaped like a  miniature cucumber and 2 to 3 inches long.
chocolate sapote or black sapote (diospyros digyna)
the tree  is medium to large sized.
jaboticaba (myrciaria caulifloura) click image to see full size photo this unusual tree produces a fruit that looks and tastes similar to black  grapes.
the flowers are white and fragrant
- yellow jaboticaba or cabelluda (myrciaria glazioviana, often cofused with eugenia tomentosa or myrciaria glomerata)
the fruit is red or yellow and has funny looking hairy appendages.
pods of all these different colors hang at the same time, making the tree spectacular looking.
it is sweet and a great thirst quencher.
fruit is sour and used as a relish or for pickling.
fruits look like small feijoas, and are 1 inch long and 1/2 inch wide.
the tree is large 30-40 feet tall, and likes full sun.
can be  fruited in a pot.
regular jaboticaba  can take 8-10 years to fruit.
when  sliced open they have a star design in the center.
the fuit  is sweeter than a tomato and tastes like a cross betwen a tomato and a papaya.
good to pick when the fruits are just starting to turn orange but still hard.
the aztecs revered it as a sacred plant.
this passionfruit is the size of a football.
plant 6 to 8 feet apart.
click image to see full size photo another relative of the  cherimoya, this one is larger and with some fibers.
blackberry jam fruit (randia formosa) click image to see full size photo
noni (morinda citrifolia) rapidly becoming famous for its medicinal properties, this attractive tree produces a yellow fruit about the size of a lemon.
the tree is more of a consistent bearer than the lychee.
starts bearing when small and bears profusely.
the taste is sweet and tangy.
fruits usually weigh 20 to 40 pounds, although fruits of 100 pounds have been recorded.
the  tree is very attractive with very large leaves covered with a purple velvet.
will  get 15 to 20 feet and and 10 feet wide.
the tree is small, likes  full sun, good drainage.
a fruit from the philipines  about the size of an orange and with a flavor reminiscent of citrus.
the  fruits are orange when ripe and the size of a peanut.
kind of like the world through rose colored glasses.
it is a small tree, preferring some shade when little, then can go into full sun.
the pods start green, turn yellow, then,  orange, and then red.
after eating this fruit  everything, especially sour things, taste much better.
a close relative of the mangosteen, this fruit is orange and the size of a quarter.
this is a vine so needs support.
starfruit (averrhoa carambola) click image to see full size photo so called because when cut the fruit has a 5 pointed star shape.
the tree fruits heavily year round.
let ripen fully indoors.
in asia it is often grown under coconuts.
medium gowth rate, usually bears in about three years.
plant 8 to 10 feet apart.
surinam cherry (eugenia uniflora) click image to see full size photo small bushy tree produces  lantern shaped cherries much loved by children.
plant in full sun in wind protected area with good drainage, 15 to 20 fee apart.
it makes a yelow  fruit the size of a tennis ball, which is juicy and tart, but with an  interesting flavor.
the tree is small to medium sized, 12 to 15 feet tall.
regular jaboticaba can take 8-10 years to fruit.
very tolerant of sea breeze and wind spray.
lychee (litchi chinensis)
most loved  fruit of cuba.
the plant is slow growing but will start fruiting when only 1 foot tall.
the fruit is excellent out of hand or can be used any way that grapes  are used.
mango varieties poster, 143 varieties!
likes full or partial sun and good drainage.
fruits look like fuzzy orange marbles.
cocoa or chocolate tree (theobroma cacao) click image to see full size photo
plant 15 feet  apart.
the tree is very hardy and can grow in almost any soil or condition.
this is a very rare form of  mountain apple, which is usually red on exterior and pear shaped.
plant in full or partial sun, 10 to  12 feet apart.
a very delicious fruit from  southeast asia.
langsat or lansones (lansium domesticum)
the large green pods hold 20 to 30 nuts and split open when ripe.
likes full sun, but will take some shade.
most loved fruit of cuba.
the leaves have a bronze color on the under side.
the tree is medium sized and fast growing.
they really do taste like a blackberry jam.
miracle fruit (synsepalum dulcificum) click image to see full size photo
the tree is `medium to  large, slow growing.
this tree is a close relative of the mangosteen and is often mistakenly identfied as a mangosteen.
its leaves are however much longer than those of the  mangosteen and droop down, making the tree very decorative.
naranjilla (solanum quitoense) click image to see full size photo
the part that is eaten is the fleshy  part surrounding the seed.
- chico sapote or sapodilla (manilkara zapota)
it comes into fruit in 6-8 years.
the tree will eventually get to be 20-25 feet tall, but this takes a very long time as it is very slow growing.
it is very sweet, and one fruit can make 2 glasses of juice.
the tree is small and slow growing.
unfortunately in western culture they have gotten a bad reputation because of their strong odor.
it makes a good windbreak and is drought tolerant.
giant passionfruit (passiflora quadrangularis)
fruits are size of a chicken egg or larger.
mangosteen (garcinia mangostana) click image to see full size photo known as the queen of fruits, it is certainly a very delicious and sought after fruit.
it is dry and very sweet, kind  of like a date.
noni (morinda citrifolia) rapidly becoming famous for its medicinal properties, this attractive  tree produces a yellow fruit about the size of a lemon.
yellow solo type papaya on a dwarf tree.
they are prized and quite expensive.
the fruits are purple or green.
good to pick when the fruits are  just starting to turn orange but still hard.
home page: back to entry home page.
very rare new introduction.
a fruit from the philipines about the size of an orange and with a flavor reminiscent of citrus.
the tree is  more of a consistent bearer than the lychee.
new discussion group with yours  truly as moderator.
longan (euphoria longana) click image to see full size photo
brazilian fruits and cultivated exotics by harri lorenzi et al. - excellent book, now in english in 3 volumes:
lemon drop mangosteen or mameyito (rheedia edulis)
fruits in about three years.
does not like to dry out.
plant 20 feet  apart.
this is an improved and much larger version of the above langsat.
it is yellow when ripe.
starapple (chrysophyllum cainito) click image to see full size photo
pods of all these different colors hang at the same time,  making the tree spectacular looking.
malabar chestnut (pachira aquatica)
likes filtered sunlight,but will grow also in full sun.
the taste is somewhat similar, but the texture is more firm than the lychee.
cocoa or chocolate tree (theobroma cacao)
likes filtered sunlight.
the plant is a vine so needs  a trellis, fence, or tree to climb on.
the aztecs  revered it as a sacred plant.
it  needs continuous consistent rain or watering.
this fruit is shaped like a miniature cucumber and 2 to 3 inches long.
naranjilla (solanum quitoense)
a small bushy tree producing a  red fruit that looks like a coffe berry.
the taste is difficult to describe as it is differet from other fruits.
the  fruits hand directly from the trunk of the tree.
it takes 7 to 10 years to start  bearing.
salak, bali, snakeskin fruit (salacca edulis) click image to see full size photo brown thin reptilian like skin  encloses very delicious crunchy fruit.
it comes into fruit in  6-8 years.
this large tree produces a bean pod which contains inside of it a jelly that is at the same time sweet and tart.
this rare  form of the fruit is white on exterior and interior and round, and with a  similar texture to pears, but crunchy like an apple.
the flowers are white.
a relative of the cherimoya, this fruit is much bigger and has the added advantage that it is self pollinating.
mangosteen (garcinia mangostana) click image to see full size photo known as the queen of fruits, it  is certainly a very delicious and sought after fruit.
click image to see full size photo
plants are self pollinating.
it makes a yelow fruit the size of a tennis ball, which is juicy and tart, but with an interesting flavor.
this fruit is also called chocolate pudding fruit because it makes an  excellent pudding that looks and tastes like a fine chocolate mousse.
fruits have an excellent taste, texture,  and fragrance.
fruits usually weigh 20 to 40 pounds, although  fruits of 100 pounds have been recorded.
click image to  see full size photo
the tree likes full sun  but can take some shade.
the tree  is large and fast frowing.
the tree likes full sun but can take some shade.
this palm grows to 10 feet tall, is very thorny, and produces fruits in large  clusters.
it is a  large tree that likes plenty of warmth.
it is a large shade tree, and the leaves turn color like in temperate climat trees.
- brazilian cherry (eugenia dombeyi) click image to see full size photo fruit looks and tastes similar to a bing cherry.
fully ripe when totally soft.
in asia it is often grown under  coconuts.
it bears very heavily, usually in the winter time.
the tree is large and fast frowing.
links to other sites on the web with fruit tree descriptions california rare fruit growers contact me by clicking below: e mail enter by clicking the categories below.
so much so that in thailand a worker will work all day to be able to buy one fruit.
the fuit is sweeter than a tomato and tastes like a cross betwen a tomato and a papaya.
not  as slow growing as the mangosteen.
suggest training on wire,trellis or fence.
after eating this fruit everything, especially sour things, taste much better.
its leaves are however much longer than those of the mangosteen and droop down, making the tree very decorative.
mamey sapote (pouteria sapota) click image to see full size photo largest of the sapotes, can reach the size of a football.
salak, bali, snakeskin fruit (salacca edulis) click image to see full size photo salak, thai (salacca wallichiana) click image to see full size photo brown thin reptilian like skin encloses very delicious crunchy fruit.
bananas of hawaii varieties poster, 50 varieties!
papaya 'sunset', also called kapoho solo red solo type papaya.
click image to see full size  photo largest fruit of all.
the fruit is almost the size of a  basketball, light green, and very spiny.
it likes full sun and good drainage.
the fruitcan be eaten out of hand and is also excellent dried.
rambutan (nephelium lappaceum) click image to see full size photo
air layered starts take about 3 years to start bearing.
it is a beautiful small tree.
well worth the wait as it is a heavy bearing tree.
plant 30 to 35 feet apart in full sun good drainage.
chocolate sapote or black sapote (diospyros digyna) click image to see full size photo
in thailand where it was bred it often sells for three times the amount per kilo of what langsat sells for.
produces in 3 to 5 years.
bears in 3 to 4 years.
the tree is medium sized and likes  full sun and good drainage.
it is  considered essential in making many sauces.
brazilian cherry (eugenia dombeyi) click image to see full size photo fruit looks and tastes similar to a bing cherry.
the tree is small to medium sized and produces beautiful white  flowers which carpet the ground.
this  is a vine so needs support.
the fruit grows in clusters like grapes but is yellow on the ouside.
it takes 7 to 10 years to start bearing.
two trees are needed to insure cross pollination.
it bears very heavily,  usually in the winter time.
it is so tasty that it's hard to stop eating.
very popular in asia for sauces.
usually has a nipple on one  end of the fruit.
this is a close relative of the abiu.
this palm grows to 15 feet tall, is very thorny, and produces fruits  in large clusters.
- excellent resource book:
the tree is medium sized and likes full sun and good drainage.
salak,  thai (salacca wallichiana) click image to see full size photo similar to  the salak or snakeskin fruit from bali, but this one is red skinned on the  outside.
they are sweet with a custard like texture.
the only raspberry that does well in all parts of hawaii.
- exotic fruit trees of puerto rico.
they are sweet with a custard like  texture.
it is brown on the outside, looking a bit simiar  to a kiwi.
air layered starts take about 3  years to start bearing.
peanut butter fruit (bunchosia argentea) click image to see full  size photo small bushy tree produces fruit that really taste like peanut butter.
trees are fast  growing and bear fruit in 2 to 3 years.
the taste is  somewhat similar, but the texture is more firm than the lychee.
it is large and likes full sun and good drainage.