if your child does not meet the ride's height requirement, there is a "rider swap" service available.
in the sixties, walt began looking to  the east coast, for a place with enough space to hold all of the ideas his team  could dream up.
aside from domestic flights on allegiant air, the airport primarily handles flights from the united kingdom and iceland.
character appearances tend to be surprises (to avoid huge lines), so keep a  close eye out.
fortunately, the food is pretty good, top to bottom.
the expected orl code is  assigned to the orlando executive airport, a general-aviation facility located  several miles north of orlando international.
(or, for a fun, free, and sober trip "around the world", try a variety of international coca-cola products atclub cool in the innoventions pavilion.)
disneyquest, a five-story indoor theme park focusing on  interactive "virtual" rides and featuring some of the most innovative  technology at disney world, is also on the west side.
walt died in december 1966, just as the florida  project was coming to fruition.
on the  bright side, though, you'll have plenty of company, the parks are guaranteed to  be open late, and as many rides as possible will be up and running.
double  strollers are $31, or $27/day.
those shows only used the park as a backdrop, though, so they have limited "tourist" value.
you don't have to be staying at the contemporary to enjoy the marina's offerings; you might try waterskiing, wakeboarding, or even parasailing!
the monster they created has endured for over a decade, and it has grown to mythic proportions.
the grand floridian spa & health club, also run by niki bryan spas, will be closing on september 19, 2011, for 18 months, due to nearby construction.
the park is the oldest, most popular, and the most child-friendly, although  many adults love it as well.
hollywood studios and animal kingdom tend to have more structured greetings,  where characters will make scheduled appearances at designated locations, but  stay out of sight of most of the park.
route 306, from downtown disney to poinciana.
when making an adr for one of those restaurants, the agent will ask for a  credit card number; the card willonly be charged for a no-show or a late  cancellation.
you may walk, drive, or ride public transit (in this case, buses, monorails, or ferryboats).
for an extra fee, a cast member will take you and a small group and introduce you to some of the "secrets" behind disney operations.
the dvc resorts are bay lake tower at the contemporary and the villas at the wilderness lodge near the magic kingdom; the boardwalk villas and beach club villas near epcot; the animal kingdom villas near animal kingdom; and old key west and saratoga springs neardowntown disney.
the magnolia and palm courses, which host the pga tour's children's miracle network classic, are in the magic kingdom area, adjacent to the shades of green resort.
if during those first two days you are planning to visit the magic kingdom, plan to do it on friday.
epcot is an "educational park."
it's designed for less-experienced golfers and older children.
if you're booking air travel to orlando, you'll need to remember that mco airport code.
summer (may–october) is hot and sticky and
when making an adr for one of those restaurants, the agent will ask for a credit card number; the card willonly be charged for a no-show or a late cancellation.
[6]: a  free bus service from the airport to the disney-owned resort hotels (prior  reservations required, call 1-407-wdisney).
kissimmee terminal, 103 e dakin ave, +1 407 847-3911.
more than60,000 different pin designs have been produced  since the beginning.
if you need to cancel an adr, use the special cancellations line, +1 407-wdw-cncl (939-2625).
there's enough land here to hold all  the ideas and plans we can possibly imagine."
you need to have a basic schedule in mind, but you should remain flexible in order to account for closed rides, full restaurants, special events, and just changing your mind.
still, it's not your typical amusement park fare; some of them are in fact quite good, and there's a lot of variety to be had.
here you can either transfer to route 37 or walk about 15 minutes to get to universal.
the deluxe villas were created to be part of the disney vacation club, a time-share program created by disney, but when dvc members aren't using them, they're open to the general public.
while these offers are genuine, there is  often a catch.
hopper option, which allows you to enter  multiple theme parks on the same day as many times as you like.
as an alternative, some snack carts serve fairly  large portions (such as smoked turkey legs in the magic kingdom's  frontierland), and have short lines most of the time.
disney's hollywood studios — this park represents the  "hollywood that never was," with attractions themed around movies and  television.
some visitors describe it as a place of  magic, wonder, and fantasy; others speak of fun, excitement, and relaxation;  and still others complain of crowds, artifice, and unrelenting tackiness.
the hotels are perfectly safe in high winds.
if you are planning to visit the other orlando theme parks, you might want to consider getting theorlando flex ticket [33] ($265), which is valid for 14 consecutive days beginning with the first use, and gives unlimited admission to universal orlando resort (both parks), seaworld orlando, and their water parks; or theorlando flex ticket plus ($304), which covers universal, seaworld, and busch gardens, and also includes a free round trip shuttle bus to busch gardens from orlando.
[edit] disney dining plan guests purchasing a disney vacation package with hotel stay are eligible to  participate in thedisney dining plan.
it cannot be refilled in the parks, but during the hot  summer months, you can fill it with water from the many water fountains.
if you take a trip over to disney's boardwalk, you'll find a modern dance club called atlantic dance hall and a dueling-pianos bar called jellyrolls.
[edit] epcot epcot is an "educational park."
[edit] districts walt disney world can be divided into five distinct areas—one for  each of the four theme parks, plus downtown disney.
the most convenient  resort for this purpose is disney's saratoga springs resort, which is right  next door to downtown disney; you can get there via a pedestrian bridge, bus,  or ferry.
attendance figures pick up for that park on saturday.
take route 50 to seaworld and transfer to route 8 which will take you to wet 'n wild, at the intersection of international drive and universal boulevard.
walt disney world also has the world's two most popular water parks,typhoon lagoon and blizzard beach, both heavily themed.
[edit] the magic kingdom cinderella castle, magic kingdom the magic kingdom is the main park, based on the original disneyland  in anaheim, california.
note that there is no bus service to the magic kingdom or epcot from the magic kingdom-area resorts; they are served by the monorail system.
kids and adults alike can give hugs to, take a photo with, or get autographs from many of their favorite disney characters.
for a broader spectrum of entertainment options, the go orlando card
for guests with visual disabilities, linguistic services are in the  form of audiocassette tour guides and braille guidebooks, also available for  rent at guest relations.
you don't have to be staying at the  contemporary to enjoy the marina's offerings; you might try waterskiing,  wakeboarding, or even parasailing!
[12] serves both orlando and  kissimmee, with the latter being closer to walt disney world.
while this is a  very common activity, it is prohibited by disney: the tickets are  non-transferable.
+1 407 827-2847 budget at the doubletree in the hotel plaza.
some people purchase groceries to use during their stay; while there are a couple of places on the property to buy them, better selection and prices are found off property.
if that price seems astonishing, consider that those villas sleep twelve people!
epcot was walt disney's largest, most revolutionary idea yet—a real city, with 20,000 real people living and working within, making use of the most advanced technologies to grow food, provide transport, and enhance quality of life.
at downtown disney, captain jack's marina will rent you a "water mouse" or canopy boat, or take you out for a bass fishing excursion.
the traditional amusement park advice of arriving early and heading to the back of the park first tends to work well, although more and more guests  are starting to catch on, so the benefit may be reduced.
at the yacht club resort (adjacent to the boardwalk), bayside marina offers searaycers, pontoon boats, and a variety of chartered cruises, including  anilluminations fireworks cruise to epcot.
cost:  $35/night for adults and juniors, $12/night for children 3–9 magic your way package plus dining one table-service meal, one quick-service meal, and one snack per person  per night, plus one refillable mug per person.
of course there are character greetings, especially at world showcase, but there are alsokidcot fun stops, which encourage children to work on a craft and interact with cast members who are representing their home countries.
neither one is likely worth it if you buy only a  one-day ticket, but their value goes up sharply as you add more days.
it is divided into two distinct areas, future world and world showcase.
but don't assume that if you've seen one, you've seen them all; on the whole, they are more different than they are alike.
naturalistic animal exhibitions are interspersed, and sometimes integrated, with typical disney rides.
it was an immediate success, single-handedly sparking the development of the orlando area as one of the country's busiest vacation destinations.
still, deciding when to go remains agame of trade-offs: you must decide whether to favor lower crowds or longer park hours, and decide whether you prefer scorching days or chilly nights.
[edit] disney's hollywood studios indy finds an idol disney's hollywood studios (formerly disney-mgm studios) opened in  may 1989 as the third theme park of walt disney world.
it's all aboutsuspension of disbelief: total immersion  into worlds of imagination, art, and history.
fortunately,  the food is pretty good, top to bottom.
simply call, fax, or e-mail with a detailed description  of an item known to be sold anywhere at walt disney world, and they'll look it  up and ship it to you for the normal retail price plus shipping.
most every store has pins for sale, along with lanyards on which to display them.
a few restaurants are so popular that they regularly fill up even during the slowest periods.
there's a way to get just about anything you might need while at walt disney world, although some may be more convenient than others.
the weeks between easter and memorial day are another slow period, as well as the months of august and september; both periods provide a good balance of price, crowds, temperature, and operating hours, but you may need to take the kids out of school if you're bringing them along.
despite it all, most people would agree that the  lines, the crowds, and the prices are worth it for the experience.
this plastic  mug can be refilled at the quick service location at a guest's resort for their  entire length of stay.
without walt to drive the project, the company  board refused to undertake the ambitious epcot plans.
with a multitude of attractions, dining, and shopping, it makes for the perfect side trip.
the  most reliable way to do so is to keep an eye out for cast members wearing pin  lanyards.
with enough effort, he may achieve it.
still, deciding when to go  remains agame of trade-offs: you must decide whether to favor lower  crowds or longer park hours, and decide whether you prefer scorching days or  chilly nights.
and of course the (fairy) godmother of  them all iscinderella's royal table, inside the castle in the magic  kingdom, where little girls can indulge their princess fantasies to their  hearts' content, so long as their parents can actually get reservations.
tickets are sold at  several levels: themagic your way base tickets cover the cost of  visiting one of the four theme parks a day for each day of the ticket.
they do a great job of  getting large numbers of guests from place to place, but they're also quite  comfortable and fun to ride.
it's designed for  less-experienced golfers and older children.
animal kingdom is more of a kid-friendly theme park with many animals that would attract the attention of younger generations as well ascamp minnie-mickey , a special space for youngsters where they can meet all of their favorite characters.
don't feel like you have to leave the kids behind, either; every restaurant on property (except victoria and albert's) welcomes kids and will accommodate them as best as they can.
attendance is lowest in october, november (pre-thanksgiving), december  (pre-christmas), and january.
other than that, just enjoy your respite from the world outside the world.
[edit] pin trading the trading of commemorative pins has been popular at olympic games  for decades.
one of the polynesian's  specialties istonga toast—a deep fried and battered breakfast dish  made from sourdough bread, sprinkled with cinnamon and sugar, and stuffed with  bananas.
[edit] advance dining reservations walt disney world restaurants do not take reservations, per se.
well, neither will walt disney world.
if you are planning to have a day of rest in your vacation, by arriving on thursday you can enjoy two days of parks with reduced crowds and then use sunday to rest.
one possible compromise between the two approaches is to stay at the walt disney world swan or walt disney world dolphin, which offer a  more traditional hotel experience with most of the disney resort benefits  available.
in  the winter, it's often too cold to go to the water parks, and you'll need a  jacket at night.
in-park dining opportunities range from snack carts to the most common fast-food joints to the less common table service restaurants.
in future world, thetest track, a recent addition in which visitors go through the motions of tests for new cars, is probably the most fun, and the most traditionally theme-park-y, of the epcot rides.
— scrooge mcduck finding souvenirs is one of the easiest things to do at walt disney  world; avoiding the expense is considerably harder.
while some people find this attention to detail cloying and artificial, the  vast majority of visitors are happy to immerse themselves in this relaxing,  carefree environment.
each of those add-on  options costs $55 above the cost of your tickets,regardless of how many days  are on your tickets.
the centers are open daily from 4:30pm until midnight, and are well staffed by trained and certified child care personnel.
[10] provides a similar bus service for their passengers, between the walt disney world resort hotels and their terminal at port canaveral.
disney's "big six" (mickey, minnie,  donald, daisy, goofy, and pluto) might be found anywhere in the park—for  example, you might see donald duck in a davy crockett-like outfit in  frontierland.
check the guide map for the park you plan to visit and decide which attractions will be your highest prioritiesbefore you leave for the park.
without it, you could be stuck with nowhere else to go after doing everything you want to do at one park; or you could run out of time to do one last attraction and be unable to come back another day to pick it up.
the service is free of charge, but be sure to factor in delivery times—allow 24 hours for a package to be delivered to your hotel, or about three hours for it to reach the front gate of the park.
these changes may be made at any ticket window or at  the guest relations office inside each theme park as well as the concierge desk  at disney resort hotels.
to save you from having to walk the long distances, there are trams that will shuttle you from the parking lot to the park gates and back (except in the case of the magic kingdom, where the tram will take you to the transportation and ticket center, from which you may take the ferry or the monorail to the park).
now they just varyfrom "moderately  busy" to "completely insane".
dedicated traders carry a supply of common pins for just this purpose.
"here in florida, we have something special we never enjoyed at  disneyland — the blessing of size.
rates run about $12–$25 an hour, depending on time and number of children.
it is served by nearly all major us airlines and a  wide range of international carriers.
all of the  resorts have a gift shop of some sort, but many go further.
the east side, known as downtown disney marketplace, is made up largely of shops and family  restaurants.
northbound trains from miami arrive at the orlando station at 1:43 pm and 7:08 pm; southbound trains from nyc arrive at 10:17 am and 12:55 pm.
service is four times daily, with two trains in either direction.
if you want to get in to any of the restaurants  mentioned above,especially cinderella's royal table, start dialing at  6:55 on the first day you can make the reservation, and keep hitting redial  until you stop getting told they're closed.
sleep this guide uses the following price ranges  for a standarddouble room: budget less than $150 mid-range $150–$250 splurge $250 and up one of the most important choices you must make when planning a walt disney  world vacation iswhether to stay on-site at one of the famed disney  resorts, or off-site at one of countless less expensive but more traditional  hotels.
to make advance dining reservations, do not try to call the restaurants directly.
in some places, walking is the most convenient way to travel from one area to another.
this plastic mug can be refilled at the quick service location at a guest's resort for their entire length of stay.
go to disney's restaurants page  [25], find the restaurant you want to eat at, and see if it has an orange  "book a reservation" button.
he found such a place incentral florida, southwest of the  sleepy city oforlando.
wheelchairs are $12, or $10/day.
finally, the official walt disney world mobile website [21] may be accessed through a mobile phone browser.
you will  never find garbage lying in the streets or bathrooms that are too dirty, and  anything that is damaged is either removed or fixed immediately.
le  cellier in the canada pavilion at epcot has a reputation as the best  steakhouse on the property and so is very popular.
the peak periods for attendance are late december, mid-june to mid-august,  and mid-february to mid-april.
while light on rides,  there are also shows and plenty of animals to view (though the variety of  species seems a bit sparse when compared to many larger city zoos).
the lines at the magic kingdom can be endless, but they always keep moving.
okay, yes, jack sparrow can now be spotted inside thepirates ride, but it's just a cameo appearance.
disney's ears to the world is an audio headset that provides foreign-language translations of the dialogues of selected attractions in french, german, japanese, portuguese, or spanish.
also note that lap children are not permitted on most rides, especially if there are restraining devices.
the magnolia and palm courses, which host the pga tour's children's miracle  network classic, are in the magic kingdom area, adjacent to the shades of  green resort.
adult visitors who do not enjoy rides such as it's a small world, where you sit in vehicles that take you in a circle through a tunnel as animatronic figures sing children's songs to the riders, may want to visit epcot or hollywood studios instead.
you can use these admissions at typhoon lagoon, blizzard beach, disneyquest, espn wide world of sports, or the  nine-holeoak trail golf course.
if anything can be said to fill that gap, it's the buffets, but there are not many around, and most of them feature walk-around characters.
if you are purchasing tickets online, only purchase from authorized brokers; resold tickets are subject to rejection at the gate.
and even beyond the rides, there are stage shows to watch, shops to  browse, characters to meet, and atmosphere to soak in.
as expected, you won't find much official material that addresses the problems you might encounter at walt disney world, but they do offer a good introduction to the resort for first-timers who are trying to get a feel for the place before they go.
the 3-d shooting gallerytoy story mania!
every park has low cost meals in the $3–$4 range for kid meals and $6–$8 for adult meals at the sandwich shops, ethnic specialty nooks, cafeterias, and communal dining halls.
walt disney world also has the world's two most  popular water parks,typhoon lagoon and blizzard beach, both  heavily themed.
by plane why is it mco and not orl?
its location across the street from the hertz and thrifty rental-car lots makes it a tempting top-off-the-tank stop, but be sure you take note of the pump price, which is usually $1.50-$2higher than the local average.
but if you have your heart set on a particular restaurant, or you want to make sure you can eat right at noon or 6pm, you'll want an adr.
two shopping and entertainment districts,downtown disney anddisney's boardwalk, provide extensive shopping, dining, and entertainment options.
the monorail service is limited and only goes to certain areas, all  originating from thetransportation and ticket center (ttc).
people have been victimized, injured, and even (very rarely) killed while visiting walt disney world, but there are plenty of steps you can take to minimize the chance of anything happening.
the bad news is that you'll be packed like sardines next to 50,000 of your new closest friends, you'll wait two hours to go on rides like splash mountain and soarin', and you'll be paying a premium for the privilege.
several of the resorts offer safe and secure children's activity centers , and you don't have to be staying at the resort to take advantage of them!
ridley pearson has an ongoing series of young-adult novels set inside the parks, calledthe kingdom keepers.
if you find yourself in need of a haircut, there are a number of options.
it's a great way to get a feel  for the lay of the land, or just to reminisce about a previous trip.
route 303, from hollywood studios to washington shores.
if your vacation dates are flexible, plan to arrive to the orlando area on thursday.
the same rules and regulations apply here as at the championship courses, except golf carts are prohibited.
disney takes quality very seriously,  and if anything intrudes on your perception of the "show", it gets  fixed quickly.
if you have seven-day tickets, it only  costs about $7.50 a day to add this option; the value of being able to visit  one park in the morning and another in the evening should not be underestimated.
disney's animal kingdom  9,686,000 8  disney's hollywood studios   9,603,000 source: tea/aecom theme index 2010 [2] "i do not make films primarily for children.
disney's hollywood studios (formerly disney-mgm studios) opened in may 1989 as the third theme park of walt disney world.
walt disney had created not  just an amusement park, where children could ride kiddie rides while their  parents watched from a bench, but the world's firsttheme park, a place  where children and grown-ups couldboth have fun, together.
once upon a time,  these options were dismal; each counter service location served the same bland  menu of burgers and chicken fingers, to the point where even the kids were sick  of them by the end of your vacation.
prices range from $295/night for a studio at old key west or saratoga springs during the value season to $2,215/night for a three-bedroom grand villa at the boardwalk or beach club villas during christmas week.
three excellent options arecosmic ray's starlight  cafe in tomorrowland at the magic kingdom, the seasons food court at  the land pavilion inepcot, and flame tree barbecue on discovery island at animal kingdom.
it's a five-minute walk to disney's  polynesian resort, to take the monorail or ferry to the magic kingdom; and from  the polynesian resort it's another five-minute walk to the transportation and  ticket center, to take the monorail to epcot.
if you're going  to watch the parade just to get planning information, though, you might as well  just call disney at+1 407 w-disney and ask for their free vacation  planning video [3].
all four  theme parks and over 20 disney resort hotels are rendered as fully textured 3-d  buildings in a special layer in google earth.
hollywood studios is the location for star wars weekends in may and june.
animal  kingdom is more of a kid-friendly theme park with many animals that would  attract the attention of younger generations as well ascamp minnie-mickey , a special space for youngsters where they can meet all of their favorite  characters.
it's only served at dinner and comes with your choice of two sides.
the five golf courses (see below) are accessible only by car; however, complimentary taxi service is available for guests of disney-owned hotels.
on the other hand, roller  coasters likespace mountain and big thunder mountain railroad provide plenty of thrills, and dark rides like thehaunted mansion and pirates of the caribbean are classics that only the most curmudgeonly would  dismiss.
"signature" restaurants are usually  $$$.
this is the park people think of first when they think of walt  disney world, a place where adventure meets fantasy and history meets the  future.
if that's not to your liking, try the adult breakfast  platter for just $6.29, which has more than enough food to share with others.
walt had grander ideas in mind for this "florida project" of his.
one very informative set of books are theimagineering field guides ; there's one for each of the four parks (plus one for disneyland).
at any time during that interval, you may enter the attraction using a separate, shorter queue.
[edit] by boat walt disney world also has several waterways which are used by ferryboats to transport guests.
for a flat additional fee, the plan allows guests a set number of meals per person per night of their stay.
mickey and minnie and the  gang are the most common of course, at places likechef mickey's in the  contemporary resort, but you might also find mary poppins at 1900 park fare at the grand floridian, or characters from disney junior at hollywood  & vine in hollywood studios.
all except 56 travel via i-4 and downtown disney and serve the downtown disney west side transfer center.
the prices below were accurate as of june 2011 (6.5% florida sales tax not included):"magic your way" online prices days ages 3-9 ages 10+ children under age three are admitted for free.
disney's system for its table-service restaurants is calledadvance dining  reservations (adrs).
among these arekilimanjaro safaris, a jeep  safari past live animal enclosures;kali river rapids, a raft ride  through the deforestation of a tropical rainforest;dinosaur, a time  travel ride which includes close encounters with dinosaurs; and the newest and  most popular ride,expedition everest, a roller coaster that includes an  encounter with the yeti.
the buses are reliable, fairly efficient, and reasonably comfortable, but they can be slow and inconvenient if, for example, you are traveling with young children or strollers.
each has two 18-hole layouts, with whimsical, kid-friendly holes and decor.
in the case of rides, they will re-open after the weather improves, and fastpass tickets will continue to be accepted, even if the printed time interval has expired.
the east side, known as downtown disney marketplace, is made up largely of shops and family restaurants.
that said, climate problems are well known at walt disney world and there  are several means to cope (see"weather" in the stay safe section).
they are usually brief and won't ruin your whole day.
market street food court, caribbean beach resort.
you need to have a basic schedule in mind, but you should remain  flexible in order to account for closed rides, full restaurants, special  events, and just changing your mind.
here, along the new interstate 4, there was plenty of space, far more than would be needed for just a single theme park.
however, what they don't always realize is  that some of the hotels' most delicious and unique foods can be found in their  food courts and smaller dining areas—and they're cheap, too.
this is primarily used by magic  kingdom guests who parked in the lot or are coming from epcot.
the chili fries are also $4.00.
in most cases, the service is direct and non-stop.
some people purchase groceries to use  during their stay; while there are a couple of places on the property to buy  them, better selection and prices are found off property.
walt disney world's first decade passed quickly, and by the time of its "tencennial" celebration in 1981, a new theme park was being built in the space walt had envisioned for epcot.
be aware that during the busiest times of year, lines can be up to two  hours long for the most popular attractions.
for $749, the passport gets you unlimited admission for a year to all eight theme and water parks in both florida and california, plus disneyquest, espn wide world of sports, and the oak trail golf course.
winter  (november–april) is mild and drier.
while some people find this attention to detail cloying and artificial, the vast majority of visitors are happy to immerse themselves in this relaxing, carefree environment.
in fact, each of  the resorts has something a little different that you won't find elsewhere on  the property, and it can be fun to look for those little hidden gems.
the number is equal to  the number of days on your magic your way ticket (or two admissions for one-day  tickets), though they can be used anytime.
the four theme parks are walt disney world's bread and butter.
the magic kingdom hosts two special hard-ticket holiday events, mickey's  not-so-scary halloween party in september and october, and mickey's very  merry christmas party in november and december.
[edit] by bus disney's magical express
if you have a problem standing too long, or if walking on the hot pavement makes your feet ache, renting a wheelchair or ecv can make a big difference.
at the turn of the millennium, disney decided to get in on the act and began creating metallic lapel pins specifically for trading.
these high-end restaurants do tend to be found at the resorts; few people want to go out to a fancy dinner after walking around the parks all day without changing first.
[edit] by car interstate 4 is the most direct driving route into walt disney  world.
with some careful basic planning, an open mind, and a cheerful attitude, a visit to walt disney world can be whatever you want it to be: fulfilling, exciting, relaxing, enlightening, or just plainfun.
guests who want the full disney resort experience without paying for the extra luxuries and amenities at the deluxe resorts will be more than satisfied by the moderate resorts.
but it was not long after disneyland's 1955 opening that walt realized that  the available space inanaheim was too small.
there's also down and out  in the magic kingdom, a science-fiction novel by cory doctorow that  takes place primarily in a future version of the magic kingdom.
[6]: a free bus service from the airport to the disney-owned resort hotels (prior reservations required, call 1-407-wdisney).
not far from epcot is disney's boardwalk, a collection of restaurants, gift shops, and nightlife  spots themed as a 1920's eastern seaboard boardwalk.
simply put, if you can't find something fun to do at walt disney  world, you just aren't trying hard enough.
but to get there from i-4, guests would need to pass through the true centerpiece of the project:epcot, the experimental prototype community of tomorrow.
all you need to do is follow the purple directional signs with black mickey mouse ears to your destination.
generally, visitors enjoy coming to walt disney world for a break from daily life, but that doesn't mean you want to be cut off completely.
they're tasty, but watch out for the  sugar.
there used to be some times of year when the parks were relatively deserted, but not so much anymore.
disney's magical express isnot available here.
[edit] see and do never completed walt disney once said himself that "disneyland will never be  completed."
options can be added even if the ticket has already been used at least once.
many of these promotions require the buyer to tour a time-share  resort and sit through a high-pressure sales pitch for the property prior to  getting the tickets.
however, this site will only contain basic park information like park hours and entertainment schedules, and will only provide limited information about wait times and fastpass return times.
if you're not staying at a disney resort, or aren't coming in via orlando  international or disney cruise line, you do have some other choices.
disney's boardwalk is actually part of a resort, so visitors from other resorts (except swan/dolphin or yacht/beach clubs) will have to travel there via one of the parks.
if during those first two days you are planning to visit the  magic kingdom, plan to do it on friday.
zawadi marketplace at disney's animal kingdom lodge has unique african merchandise not available elsewhere.
purchasing these packages does require booking and staying at a disney owned resort hotel.
moving up the scale, there is a fairly big gap between the counter-service and the lower-end table-service restaurants.
the four championship courses require standard golf attire, and  metal cleats are not allowed.
"a person should set his goals as early as he can and devote all  his energy and talent to getting there.
(fortunately, disney isvery accommodating of special requests, so don't be afraid to ask for the demi-glace to be left off or to substitute fries for the au-gratin potatoes.)
[edit] character dining one of the unique attractions of dining at walt disney world is the  opportunity to interact up-close with favorite characters during disney's character dining meals.
[edit] golf walt disney world is home to four 18-hole championship golf courses,  plus a nine-hole walking course and two differentminiature golf experiences.[22] the lake buena vista and osprey ridge golf courses are in the  downtown disney area; they're the most scenic of the courses.
many off-site resorts do have shuttle service to the disney parks, although the service can be limited, potentially inconvenient, and may carry a fee.
any ticket upgrades must be made within 14 days of the first date of use, and you have to still have some remaining value on the ticket.
without it, you  could be stuck with nowhere else to go after doing everything you want to do at  one park; or you could run out of time to do one last attraction and be unable  to come back another day to pick it up.
you can often feed your whole family for little more than the cost of one expensive entrée at any of the upscale restaurants.
typhoon lagoon and blizzard beach are  served by the downtown disney and animal kingdom routes respectively.
orlando-sanford international airport (iata: sfb)
if you have kids, you may have no choice but to go during these peak  times.
for hearing-impaired guests, assistive listening devices and  captioning (handheld, reflective, or video) are available for selected  attractions.
tee times can be reserved up to 90 days in advance if you're staying at a disney hotel (up to 60 days in advance otherwise).
the whimsical exteriors are a sight to see all by themselves.
the  worst of us is not without innocence, although buried deeply it might be.
of course, you may want to coordinate your trip with a special event .
disney's boardwalk, located next to epcot, is a smaller collection  of nightlife themed as a 1920's eastern seaboard boardwalk.
both parks are big enough to spend several hours sliding, floating, or just  soaking up the sun.
never completed walt disney once said himself that "disneyland will never be completed."
this route is used by resort guests to get to the  magic kingdom or epcot, and by guests visiting one of the resorts.
[7] is a bit farther away from walt disney world than orlando international.
pleasure  island is a more adult oriented section, with upscale restaurants and even a  cigar bar.
that means you can make an adr for the seventh day of your trip 186 days in advance; this is a big perk of staying at a disney hotel.
if you're going to stay off-property, there are scores of options, but be sure to research your selection well.
the cast members at world  showcase in epcot are largely citizens of the featured countries, and so will  be fluent in their native tongues as well as english.
learn to love the ubiquitous walt disney world bus system.
walt disney world is a very safe area, and the company spends a lot of time and money ensuring that it remains so.
and of course the (fairy) godmother of them all iscinderella's royal table, inside the castle in the magic kingdom, where little girls can indulge their princess fantasies to their hearts' content, so long as their parents can actually get reservations.
they sleep six for $265–$410 a night.
other people use a car to avoid the delays that can sometimes affect the public transportation options.
those shows only used the park as a backdrop, though, so they have limited  "tourist" value.
the distance is about half a mile, and takes around 10 minutes.
note that guests staying at a disney-owned hotel are allowed to make adrs  for theirentire trip on the 180th day before they arrive.
they are part of the new orleans  culture and exclusively served at the port orleans resort.
to ensure freshness, carry it in an  insulated lunch box or bag.
[edit] by car if you are staying on-site, a car is not necessary, unless you wish  to travel off-property during your stay.
the hess stations on  disney property do charge market rate for their fuel, unlike a few orlando gas  stations where the cost of fuel is still outrageous despite the recent drop in  gas prices.
disney amenities are virtually nonexistent; only their proximity to downtown disney separates them from the other hotels inlake buena vista.
in the case of rides, they will re-open after the  weather improves, and fastpass tickets will continue to be accepted, even if  the printed time interval has expired.
the disney cruise line
keep in mind  that parades and some shows occur only at specific times, and plan your route  to put you nearby in time to get a seat.
they provide ample food for the money.
+1 407 363-6200 ( wdw.mail.order@disneyworld.com, fax: +1 407 352-6369).
amenities are somewhat limited, though; see the full listing for details.
at downtown disney, captain jack's marina will rent you a "water mouse" or canopy  boat, or take you out for a bass fishing excursion.
campout at walt disney world is set at fort wilderness campground,beach party at walt disney world covers a wide range of activities including the two water parks, andflik's musical adventure is set at disney's animal kingdom.
from there, you can rent a car, take a taxi, order a limo or towncar, or takedisney's magical express
ask a cast member for more information.
the one-way fare is $35 per person, although it's included in the price if you book a land-and-sea vacation package.
you will be able to do more attractions in the first two days  while you are revved up, and then it will allow you to relax and enjoy the park  on the more crowded days.
[edit] watersports walt disney world boasts a number of expansive waterways, and that means boating and other watersports can be a great way to spend a few  hours away from the parks.
world showcase replicates, on a small scale but with great attention to detail, eleven of the world's nations, complete with authentic food and merchandise.
[edit] read enough books have been written about walt disney world to fill a good-sized  bookshelf.
in some cases, it may be a good idea to avoid interstate 4 and instead use turkey lake road, a surface street that parallels i-4 to the west, to travel from walt disney world to seaworld and universal.
there are also countless holiday events at the resorts, theosborne family spectacle of dancing lights at hollywood studios, thecandlelight processional at epcot, and much much more.
prices (one room, two adults and two children) range from $149/night for a standard room in the value season to $250/night for a preferred room during christmas week.
kids and adults alike can give hugs to,  take a photo with, or get autographs from many of their favorite disney  characters.
keep in mind, though, that you'll be doing a lot of walking within the parks, especially at epcot and animal kingdom, so don't tire yourself out  early!
the entire resort goes all-out to decorateeverything, with huge themed christmas trees in each of the parks and each of the resorts, and the spectacularcastle dreamlights draped onto cinderella castle.
many off-site resorts do have shuttle service to the disney parks,  although the service can be limited, potentially inconvenient, and may carry a  fee.
walt disney world's two water parks, blizzard beach near animal kingdom and typhoon lagoon near downtown disney, are the most-visited water parks in the world, with a combined total yearly attendance of almost 4 million.
[edit] disney resorts
over the years, numerous resort hotels and recreational activities were  added to support the increased attendance at the multi-park resort.
at the high-end of disney dining, you'll find some options on par with the  best in the country, including perhaps the fanciest restaurant in all ofcentral  florida, victoria and albert's at the grand floridian.
the fare is $10 per person, or free with the orlando flex ticket plus.
the park is organized in a magic kingdom-like format, with different  continents revolving around the central tree of life.
also grabs big crowds, as does thestar wars-based simulator ride star tours: the adventures continue.
similarly, stores selling knives and swords, such as chef's  knives andkatana swords at the mitsukoshi store in epcot's japan  pavilion, are required to ship the purchase to the buyer's home; these items  will be shipped free of charge to u.s. addresses.
for meatier fare, there's always the yearly walt disney world christmas day parade, which often includes segments  showing the latest and greatest attractions around the world.
golf clubs are available for rent.
world  showcase takes you on a trip around the world as you visit themed pavilions  filled with the art, architecture, people, and products of eleven different  countries.
the weeks between easter and memorial day are another slow period, as well  as the months of august and september; both periods provide a good balance of  price, crowds, temperature, and operating hours, but you may need to take the  kids out of school if you're bringing them along.
whatever you chose to do, your visit is guaranteed to be anexperience, in every sense of the word—one you'll never forget.
cast members with green lanyards will trade only to kids under 13.
gratuities arenot included, but you can charge the tip to your room account with your key to the world card.
(although epcot is the closest park to the boardwalk, using it as an interchange is not recommended, as it would require entering through the main entrance and exiting out the back entrance, thereby costing the admission fee.)
if you miss out on random encounters with the characters, be sure to look intocharacter dining options.
they go  through each park area-by-area and feature great concept images (some rarely  seen), behind-the-scenes details, and tricks of the imagineering trade.
much of the technology was already in use at disneyland—peoplemovers and monorails, for instance—but these would not be amusement rides.
other characters stick to the themed land most appropriate for  their genre: jack sparrow in adventureland, buzz lightyear in tomorrowland, and  so on.
[13] is a public bus service of the central florida regional transportation authority.
don't miss this food court's brownies.
your best way to find people willing to trade is to head to a  dedicated pin kiosk or store, such as the one underneath the sorcerer's hat at  hollywood studios, but there is also ample opportunity for trading while  waiting in lines or while riding the monorail or bus.
whatever you chose  to do, your visit is guaranteed to be anexperience, in every sense of  the word—one you'll never forget.
le cellier also requires two credits, butonly for dinner.
neither one is likely worth it if you buy only a one-day ticket, but their value goes up sharply as you add more days.
walt disney world is enormous, a multi-day resort destination.
will be sealed in a gift box; if the box is opened, the purchase cannot be  carried out of the park.
disney's magical express
disney's system for its table-service restaurants is calledadvance dining reservations (adrs).
walt disney world boasts a number of expansive waterways, and that means boating and other watersports can be a great way to spend a few hours away from the parks.
victoria and albert's is the only restaurant with a $$$$ rating.
interstate 4 is the most direct driving route into walt disney world.
if you don't particularly care where you eat, or are willing to eat early or late, you can probably get by without adrs.
with the water park fun & more option, you receive a number of  admissions to attractions outside the four main parks.
the biggest event there is in march, when the atlanta braves host spring training baseball games, but there are events all year, especially high school and collegiate-level sports.
for more information or assistance,  or to reserve a tee time, call +1 407 wdw-golf (939-4653).
from downtown disney, service is to saratoga springs, old key west, and  the two port orleans resorts.
many people continue to stick with the tried-and-true phone call, though, because the operators can quickly suggest and check for alternatives if your first choices aren't available.
"i like to dive around in my money like a porpoise!
if you are staying at disney's contemporary resort, you will find it quicker to walk to the magic kingdom than to take the ferry or monorail.
the villas offer a more "home-away-from-home" feel, with studios and one-, two-, and even three-bedroom suites available.
the range of characters to be found is enormous.
retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/walt_disney_world "retrieved from " http://wikitravel.org/en/walt_disney_world " categories: huge city articles |
adrs are accepted up to 180 days in advance of the date of the reservation.
smaller ferries  travel to the contemporary, grand floridian, polynesian, fort wilderness  campground, and wilderness lodge.
when you arrive at the restaurant at your reserved time, you will immediately be placed at the top of the waiting list and get the next available table suitable for your party.
one of the resort's most unique and  popular desserts is thezebra domes.
they go through each park area-by-area and feature great concept images (some rarely seen), behind-the-scenes details, and tricks of the imagineering trade.
the bad news is that you'll be packed like sardines next to 50,000 of  your new closest friends, you'll wait two hours to go on rides like splash  mountain and soarin', and you'll be paying a premium for the privilege.
the cast members at world showcase in epcot are largely citizens of the featured countries, and so will be fluent in their native tongues as well as english.
each and every one of the disney resorts is strongly themed, impeccably maintained, and a vacation experience all to itself.
there are infinite  variations possible, but this remains what most people mean when they talk of  "going to disney world".
mara, animal kingdom lodge.
[5], +1 407-825-2001.
the rest of  the boardwalk also stays brightly lit until late at night, with sidewalk cafes,  strolling magicians, and other quaint beach-style nightlife.
(in fact, several rides even take your picture, which will be available for purchase in the shop.)
walt disney world ...and beyond see also walt disney world is a huge city with several district articles  containing sightseeing, restaurant, nightlife and accommodation listings  — consider printing them all.
the oak trail golf course, in the magic kingdom area next to the  magnolia and palm courses, is a nine-hole walking course.
your hotel is only a quick trip away, allowing you to leave the parks when  the crowds (or the sun) get to be too much and take a nap or go for a dip in  one of the hotel pools free parking at the parks if you choose to drive guaranteed admission to the parks (during the busiest of peak times, a park may (rarely) fill up and even guests with tickets may be turned away,  but disney resort guests will still be able to get in) eligibility for the disney dining plan, which can save money on  dining throughout the property ability to make advance dining reservations for your entire trip as early  as 180 days before you arrive disney cast members available to answer your questions free package delivery from disney-operated retail stores to your  hotel free taxi service to the golf courses, if you don't have your own car unique disney-style resort entertainment and theming
parking at the two water parks or downtown disney is free.
if the crowds get too heavy or the weather  gets too hot, smart guests staying on-site head back to their hotels to relax,  grab a snack, or take a swim, then return later in the day.
these pins are not very valuable, so you'll  need to trade up to get the more interesting (and much more rare) pins.
though roy died before the year ended, he had succeeded  in getting his brother's final project off the ground.
+1 407 827-6089 dollar at the regal sun resort in the hotel plaza.
and burrow  through it like a gopher!
it is a high-quality article complete with maps, photos, and great information.
+1 407 583-8000 hertz at shades of green.
cast members are required to trade one-for-one if asked (up to two  per guest per day) and can't refuse a trade based on pin rarity or design  (although they can refuse to accept another copy of a pin they already have  displayed).
also grabs big  crowds, as does thestar wars-based simulator ride star tours: the  adventures continue.
walt disney world uses a four-part "dollar sign" dining price classification system: most counter service restaurants have $ ratings, and most table service restaurants are either $$ or $$$.
most of the dvc resorts are attached to one of disney's deluxe resorts, sharing amenities with the "parent" resort; the others (old key west and saratoga springs) are standalone but have comparable amenities.
even so, the realities of walt disney world can be stark: long lines, sweltering heat, rude guests, and expensive merchandise are common.
trying to adhere to a rigid schedule will only frustrate you and your family, and you're not going to walt disney world to get frustrated, are you?
if you need to cancel an adr, use the special cancellations line,  +1 407-wdw-cncl (939-2625).
counter-service restaurants provide for a hearty lunch.
shop walt  disney world from home!
regular routes: route 50, from the transportation and ticket center, adjacent to  the magic kingdom parking lot, to seaworld and downtown orlando.
in the winter, it's often too cold to go to the water parks, and you'll need a jacket at night.
at the turn of the millennium, disney decided to get in on the act  and began creating metallic lapel pins specifically for trading.
the gold standard among the tours is the keys to the kingdom tour at themagic kingdom, a five-hour tour that includes a peek into the park's utilidors.
warning: purchasing tickets online many tickets sold online through auction websites such as ebay or craigslist are partially used multi-day park-hopper tickets.
realizing that many of its souvenirs such as the giant mickey dolls simply aren't made to be lugged around a theme park all day, disney will save the day with itspackage pickup and package delivery services, available at all disney-run stores.
however, select restaurants will charge a $10  cancellation fee if the reservation is canceled fewer than 24 hours in advance.
and  as long as you avoid thanksgiving week and christmas week, the crowds really  aren't that bad.
[edit] shopping, dining, and nightlife disney's boardwalk
these are not traditional amusement parks, where age is a hindrance to full enjoyment.
the streets are almost sparkling and the buildings look brand new no matter what time of the day or year you are there.
walt disney never would have imagined what walt disney world has become, and it is far removed from his original vision.
the value resorts have basic rooms with exterior entrances and minimal amenities.
disney's hollywood studios is a particularly rich source of  themed merchandise, especially for fans of indiana jones,star wars, and  the muppets.
disneyland was an unmitigated success.
the magic kingdom opened on october 1, 1971, with two hotels, a campground, and twogolf courses nearby.
if you take a trip over to disney's boardwalk, you'll find a modern dance club called atlantic  dance hall and a dueling-pianos bar called jellyrolls.
they're also small enough to carry in your pocket as you tour the parks.
if you're willing to eat early or late.
that is when you really understand walt disney's vision of a place wherekids and parents can have fun together.
and if you just want to have  a drink with dinner, most of the restaurants on property offer at least a few  alcoholic options—though you won't findany in the magic kingdom.
just register your phone at the website and you  can get started; normal text-messaging rates apply.
gratuities arenot included, but you can charge the tip to  your room account with your key to the world card.
with some careful basic planning, an open mind, and a cheerful attitude, a  visit to walt disney world can be whatever you want it to be: fulfilling,  exciting, relaxing, enlightening, or just plainfun.
as with most things, the essence of walt disney world lies near the intersection of those three views.
routes through walt disney worldroutes through walt disney world the best of both worlds
the boardwalk is also home to carnival midway games, tandem bike rentals, theatlantic dance hall, and the espn club.
gas stations along state road 535 (apopka-vineland road) near the downtown disney hotel plaza are notorious for pricing well above the market rate for fuel.
however,  these tickets will expire 14 days after they are first used, so be sure to use  all the days purchased prior to that.
these restaurants are artist's  point, california grill, cinderella's royal table, citricos, flying fish cafe,  fulton's crab house, the hollywood brown derby, jiko-the cooking place,  narcoossee's, wolfgang puck's the dining room, and yachtsman steakhouse, plus  the hoop-dee-doo musical revue, mickey's backyard bbq, and disney's spirit of  aloha dinner shows.
while restaurants that offer character  dining areextremely popular, if you can get a table, you're virtually  guaranteed a few minutes of face time with the characters.
some basic rooms can be had for as little as $240 a night in the value season, but more commonly start at $355/night and go up to $835 or more for the best single rooms.
each and every one of the disney resorts is strongly themed,  impeccably maintained, and a vacation experience all to itself.
the magic kingdom-area resorts each have a small marina with a  selection of recreational boats, but it's the contemporary resort that boasts sammy duvall's watersports.
your wdw resort will also provide a map of the complex.
most importantly, though, none of these rides, shows, and stores just  "sits there".
guests: free shuttle to and from orlando international airport with disney's  magical express your key to the world card serves as your room key, park ticket,  and room-charge card all in one extra magic hours – extra morning and evening hours at  selected parks free and convenient access to the parks via disney transportation:  motor coach, monorail, or water taxis
to travel to downtown disney from a theme park, or vice versa, you must travel to any resort and change buses.
these can be very good times to go; crowds are low and prices are too, but keep in mind that you may find that several rides are shut down for maintenance, and the parks have shorter operating hours.
over the years, numerous resort hotels and recreational activities were added to support the increased attendance at the multi-park resort.
unfortunately, walt disney world, seaworld, and universal are not included in the go orlando card.
guests staying at an on-site resort hotel can have  their purchases delivered to their hotel gift shop, while everyone else can  have their purchases held at the package pick-up window at the front gate of  each theme park.
parents of teenagers can just set them loose in a theme park and trust they'll be all right, but younger kids require more supervision.
these events, which let you stay in the park past the normal closing time, cost more than $50 per person, but tickets are limited so the crowds stay small.
and as long as you avoid thanksgiving week and christmas week, the crowds really aren't that bad.
some attractions have safety restrictions.
these resorts are great for guests with a limited budget, or for families with young kids on whom the sophisticated theming and amenities at the other resorts would be wasted.
if you feel the need for a bit of pampering, walt disney world's spa facilities offer a full array of massage, skin, and nail treatments.
hotel amenities include food courts and swimming pools, but no sit-down restaurants or other on-site recreation options.
especially during the spring and summer, heat is the most likely weather-related issue you'll encounter.
typhoon lagoon water park is nearby.
florida state roads 528 (to the north) and 417 (to the south) link the airport withinterstate 4, which leads directly into walt disney world.
lots of hotels advertise themselves as being close to walt disney world, often with the word "maingate" in their names, but they could be several miles away in reality.
for the lowest possible prices, there is one mcdonald's restaurant on wdw property, at the intersection of buena vista drive and osceola parkway, between blizzard beach and the all-star resort hotels.
in epcot, a popular stunt is called drinking around the world: have  a drink in each of the countries of world showcase.
greyhound terminals: orlando terminal, 555 n john young pkwy, +1 407 292-3424.
recent additions to the park includesoarin', a ride where visitors "hang-glide" through many landscapes, andmission: space , a centrifugal spaceflight simulator.
route 305, from the all-star resorts to kirkman/raleigh.
hotel amenities include food courts, sit-down restaurants (usually), limited room service, swimming pools with extras (such as a slide), and some on-site recreation activities.
but it was not long after disneyland's 1955 opening that walt realized that the available space inanaheim was too small.
the park is themed  around film and television, and features a variety of live shows and  attractions based on some of the most iconic productions in hollywood history.
if you are  purchasing tickets online, only purchase from authorized brokers; resold  tickets are subject to rejection at the gate.
there are three monorail lines: if you are going to epcot from the polynesian resort, you may walk to the transportation and ticket center to get to the epcot monorail; it's usually faster than taking the resort monorail completely through the loop.
you will be able to do more attractions in the first two days while you are revved up, and then it will allow you to relax and enjoy the park on the more crowded days.
route 301, from animal kingdom to pine hills.
the price for this option is variable,  based on the number of days purchased.
adult visitors who do not enjoy rides such as it's a small world, where you sit in vehicles that take you in a circle  through a tunnel as animatronic figures sing children's songs to the riders,  may want to visit epcot or hollywood studios instead.
[edit] tickets warning: purchasing tickets online many tickets sold online through auction websites such as ebay or  craigslist are partially used multi-day park-hopper tickets.
the peak periods for attendance are late december, mid-june to mid-august, and mid-february to mid-april.
a whole new world walt disney world and google earth have teamed up to create a comprehensive, state-of-the-art 3-dvirtual tour of the resort.
wdw recommends kid's nite out [31], +1-800-696-8105, but other equally reliable services operate in the area as well.
the number is equal to the number of days on your magic your way ticket (or two admissions for one-day tickets), though they can be used anytime.
[1], you can explore human  innovation and cooperation; enjoy rides both thrilling and enchanting; relax  and recuperate on the beach or the golf course; and discover an entire resort  where children and adults can have fun—together.
the magic kingdom does have the widest variety of characters, though; everyone frommickey mouse tocaptain jack sparrow.
here, along the new interstate 4, there  was plenty of space, far more than would be needed for just a single theme  park.
alas, it was not to be.
while restaurants that offer character dining areextremely popular, if you can get a table, you're virtually guaranteed a few minutes of face time with the characters.
instead, epcot center would be a sort of "permanent world's fair",  combiningfuture world, made up of grand pavilions devoted to human  progress, with aworld showcase of meticulously detailed recreations of  foreign lands.
you can book condos or home rentals for large groups, which allows  you to cook meals making dining costs even cheaper and lodging costs very  cheap.
while some of the slower, more intellectual attractions may be over the heads of the youngest visitors, the park still has plenty to keep them entertained.
in-park dining  opportunities range from snack carts to the most common fast-food joints to the  less common table service restaurants.
they both include the deluxe dining plan, preferred fireworks  viewing, unlimited access to select recreational activities, tours, and a  portrait session.
the value resorts only have simple food courts, but the dining options expand as you go up the price scale.
many of these tours go into backstage areas where guests are not normally allowed, although children may be restricted from these to avoid spoiling the "magic".
considering where you are.
seecharacter dining  in the eat section, below.
you might need to use both  hands!
saturdays do draw in more annual pass holders  to the park, but that is the major day that people either arrive or leave the  area.
and even beyond the rides, there are stage shows to watch, shops to browse, characters to meet, and atmosphere to soak in.
depending on your point of origin, theflorida turnpike can be  quite useful.
to travel to downtown disney from a theme park, or  vice versa, you must travel to any resort and change buses.
finally, downtown disney west side is home to amc theatres, house of  blues, and the exclusive cirque du soleil showla nouba.
note: operating once  every half-hour, this route is a viable option for getting from the airport to  the resort and back, but only for travelers with patience; the trip lasts  roughly an hour and ten minutes.
though the fastpass system works well, it is not available for all attractions.
the stops are, in  order: transportation and ticket center, polynesian, grand floridian, magic  kingdom, and contemporary.
for verizon customers with android phones or iphones, disney mobile magic is an interactive theme park map application complete with features such  as games, messages from disney characters, and finding wait times for rides.
the application may be acquired at the verizon media store[18], the itunes app  store[19], or by texting "magic" to 2777 from a verizon phone.
visit orlando gas prices [15] to find the local average price and get addresses for other handy gas stations.
all walt disney world transit vehicles are wheelchair-accessible, and there is no additional fee to use any of them.
there are ways to avoid the worst elements (namely by carefully choosing when  to visit) and customer service is almost universally impeccable, even (or  perhaps especially) when things go wrong.
it may be rented at guest  relations, but there are a limited number of them available; a $25 deposit will  be collected and refunded upon return.
florida residents who provide proof of residence get discounts of  varying degrees, but they can't purchase beyond a 7-day ticket (meaning that  florida residents who ask for the discount can't purchase 8-, 9-, or 10-day  tickets).annual passes are also available for frequent visitors or  residents.
several of the restaurants there, especially in pleasure island and on the west side, have full-service bars;raglan road in particular is really more an irish pub than a restaurant.
disney's ears to the world is an audio headset that provides  foreign-language translations of the dialogues of selected attractions in  french, german, japanese, portuguese, or spanish.
then there's the food and the merchandise, which can be pricey, but not too bad
the distance is about half a mile, and takes around  10 minutes.
in addition, all of the restaurants at downtown disney, even those run by outside companies, also accept the dining plan.
the moderate resorts have basic rooms with exterior entrances.
certainly downtown disney is still a vibrant and active place at night.
maybe  do some shopping, have a quiet meal, or get away from the kids and go out  dancing.
you won't find dirt or peeling paint or run-down mechanics at a disney  park, not even at the oldest attractions.
gourmands, sun-worshippers, world travelers, thrill-seekers, comedy-lovers,  film devotees, sports fans, club-hoppers, and history buffs will all find  plenty of ways to have a great time.
adrs are essential for these.
instead, epcot center would be a sort of "permanent world's fair", combiningfuture world, made up of grand pavilions devoted to human progress, with aworld showcase of meticulously detailed recreations of foreign lands.
on the bright side, though, you'll have plenty of company, the parks are guaranteed to be open late, and as many rides as possible will be up and running.
these pins are not very valuable, so you'll need to trade up to get the more interesting (and much more rare) pins.
walt disney world restaurants do not take reservations, per se.
international drive [36] is orlando's dynamic tourist corridor.
several of the restaurants there, especially in pleasure island and on  the west side, have full-service bars;raglan road in particular is  really more an irish pub than a restaurant.
if you run into problems, just drop by thewalt disney world car care center on world drive, near the magic kingdom toll plaza.
ten lynx routes provide service between walt disney world and the surrounding area.
many off-resort hotels offer shuttle service to the  parks, but the schedules may not be convenient.
especially for kids, character greetings are one of the most exciting reasons to visit disney world.
some kids like to bring or purchase a special autograph book in  which the characters can inscribe their names.
the dining plan is available at three different levels (prices are approximate): the magic your way premium and platinum packages also include deluxe dining.
the five golf courses (see below) are accessible only by car; however,  complimentary taxi service is available for guests of disney-owned hotels.
still, it's wise to take common-sense precautions; even disney can't account for every contingency.
these events, which let you  stay in the park past the normal closing time, cost more than $50 per person,  but tickets are limited so the crowds stay small.
seelake buena vista and kissimmee for off-property listings.
epcot center opened in 1982, and was followed by a combination  theme park and movie studio calleddisney-mgm studios in 1989, and then by disney's animal kingdom, a zoological theme park, in 1998.
call disney dining at +1 407 wdw-dine (daily 7am-10pm et)  to make all of your reservations.
without walt to drive the project, the company board refused to undertake the ambitious epcot plans.
(or, for a fun, free, and  sober trip "around the world", try a variety of international  coca-cola products atclub cool in the innoventions pavilion.)
check the weather forecast for lake buena vista, fl from noaa.
if a dietary restriction requires you to bring your own food into the parks, it is permissible to do so, on the condition that it does not require heating or any other kind of preparation.
among the attractions are a few exceptional thrill rides, most notably the twilight zone tower of terror (which drops you 13 stories) and the rock 'n' roller coaster starring aerosmith (which launches you 0–60  in 2.8 seconds).
everything at walt disney world is carefully constructed and choreographed to maintain your perceptions of visiting an idealized world.
in fact, each of the resorts has something a little different that you won't find elsewhere on the property, and it can be fun to look for those little hidden gems.
best of all, some of the hotel restaurants have  disney character greetings.
one possible compromise between the two approaches is to stay at the walt disney world swan or walt disney world dolphin, which offer a more traditional hotel experience with most of the disney resort benefits available.
for guests with visual disabilities, linguistic services are in the form of audiocassette tour guides and braille guidebooks, also available for rent at guest relations.
expect to wait up to fifteen minutes for a bus to your destination, and another ten to thirty minutes to get there—possibly longer during the busy season.
on top of this, you can add thepark
the tourist-humor explanation is that mco stands for "mickey and company", but the abbreviation actually comes from the airport's original name, mccoy air force base.
epcot, disney's hollywood studios, and the five resorts in  between (swan & dolphin, yacht & beach clubs, and boardwalk) are  connected by walkways, as is downtown disney to disney's saratoga springs  resort.
of course, you can also get by without adrs if you decide to only eat at counter-service restaurants (which don't take reservations at all).
rank park attendance (2010)
if you are staying at disney's contemporary resort, you will find it  quicker to walk to the magic kingdom than to take the ferry or monorail.
walt disney world, located in lake buena vista, florida, near orlando, is the flagship of disney's worldwide theme park empire.
[edit] disney's animal kingdom disney's animal kingdom, a member of the association of zoos and  aquariums, is a wildlife discovery park, a mix between a zoo and a theme park.
cost: $86–90/night for adults and juniors, $24–26/night for  children 3–9 the magic your way premium and platinum packages also include deluxe  dining.
in some places, walking is the most convenient way to travel from  one area to another.
you'll be  using it a lot, especially if you didn't bring a car.
and toss it up and let it hit me on the head!"
similarly, stores selling knives and swords, such as chef's knives andkatana swords at the mitsukoshi store in epcot's japan pavilion, are required to ship the purchase to the buyer's home; these items will be shipped free of charge to u.s. addresses.
the various resort hotels,  and the attractions and restaurants found within, are grouped with the nearest  park.
call disney dining at +1 407 wdw-dine (daily 7am-10pm et) to make all of your reservations.
if  you have an extra $250 to spend, consider renting a private cabana for the day;  they come with towels, lockers, a cabana attendant, and all the bottled water  you can drink.
in addition, a remote area of the property that started as lake buena vista shopping village evolved into the disney village marketplace, and eventually expanded to becomedowntown disney , an adult-oriented shopping and entertainment district.
some "signature" restaurants, plus the dinner shows, require two table-service credits for one meal.
amtrak's [8] silver service miami–new york city routes serveorlando and kissimmee.
with the water park fun & more option, you receive a number of admissions to attractions outside the four main parks.
it is, by far, the most popular theme park resort in the world.
the orlando area is as far from the coasts as anyplace in the state, so hurricane-related closures are very rare.
for meatier fare, there's always the yearly walt disney world christmas day parade, which often includes segments showing the latest and greatest attractions around the world.
florida residents who provide proof of residence get discounts of varying degrees, but they can't purchase beyond a 7-day ticket (meaning that florida residents who ask for the discount can't purchase 8-, 9-, or 10-day tickets).annual passes are also available for frequent visitors or residents.
[11] is the big dog in the area; in fact, disney contracts with them to run the magical express and the disney cruise line buses.
guests purchasing a disney vacation package with hotel stay are eligible to participate in thedisney dining plan.
[edit] resort dining all of the disney resorts have at least one restaurant, ranging from food  courts and buffets all the way up to award-winning table-service restaurants.
if you or a family member is an employee or retiree of the united states department of defense, including the military, you're in luck.
in epcot, a popular stunt is called drinking around the world: have a drink in each of the countries of world showcase.
the spa is operated byniki bryan spas [23].
route 304, from downtown disney to rio grande.
for the lowest possible prices, there is one mcdonald's restaurant  on wdw property, at the intersection of buena vista drive and osceola parkway,  between blizzard beach and the all-star resort hotels.
another option is to stay at a hotel in thedowntown disney hotel plaza; they're fairly generic and have few disney amenities, but they're just across the street from downtown disney.
a side benefit of this option is locking in your  admission price for your next visit(s).
he had his park, but he and his imagineers were constantly coming up with new ideas, ideas that just weren't going to fit inside disneyland.
sometimes you just want to get away from the theme parks for a while.
a "snack" as part of the dining plan is a single  prepackaged item, piece of fruit, or soft drink at any counter-service, snack  cart, or merchandise location.
— walt disney [edit] theme parks
there is also no direct bus service between the theme parks and downtown disney.
walt had grander ideas in mind for this "florida project" of  his.
hollywood studios and animal kingdom tend to have more structured greetings, where characters will make scheduled appearances at designated locations, but stay out of sight of most of the park.
disney resort guests (those staying on-site at disney hotels) are usually best served by getting package deals that include both lodging and admission.
likewise,  service to epcot and disney's hollywood studios from the epcot-area resorts is  by ferry or walking.
on the other hand, staying off-property can have its own perks.
each of those add-on options costs $55 above the cost of your tickets,regardless of how many days are on your tickets.
the tourist-humor explanation is that mco stands for  "mickey and company", but the abbreviation actually comes from the  airport's original name, mccoy air force base.
thegrand canyon  concourse on the fourth floor of disney's contemporary resort, underneath  the monorail platform, has several specialty shops selling merchandise such as  jewelry, sundries, and housewares.
like all of central florida, the climate at walt disney world is humid  and subtropical.
the magic kingdom opened on october 1, 1971, with two hotels, a campground,  and twogolf courses nearby.
at the walt disney world resort [1], you can explore human innovation and cooperation; enjoy rides both thrilling and enchanting; relax and recuperate on the beach or the golf course; and discover an entire resort where children and adults can have fun—together.
restaurants frequently get cancellations, so don't be afraid to ask if that popular restaurant you've had your eye on has an opening tomorrow, especially if you're willing to eat early or late.
disney has also made a few full-length features based on various rides in the parks—the fourpirates of the caribbean films being by far the best—but don't expect the rides to have much of anything to do with the films.
for many visitors, a vital part of the walt disney world  "experience" is staying at one of the 24 disney-owned and -operated  resorts.
most people, when visiting other hotels, make reservations at the resorts' buffets and sit-down restaurants.
prices in this category vary widely.
the contemporary resort, coronado springs, the grand floridian, and the yacht and beach clubs also have hair salons.
on top  of this, you can add thepark
disney's magical express isnot available  here.
for table service, you'll find the menus tend  to be surprisingly limited; although the food is generally good, if your party  has a lot of picky eaters you may have trouble finding a restaurant everyone  can agree on.
on the other hand, inclement weather could work to your advantage, as it drives some visitors away from outdoor areas, or out of the parks entirely.
a theme park would be built, of course—amagic kingdom on the north end of the property.
it's disappointing but necessary for safety.
service is four times daily, with two trains  in either direction.
one option for avoiding these  lines is the free service known asfastpass, available only at select  attractions.
likewise at check-out; you can get into the parks all day on the day of your departure, so just leave your bags with bell services and pick them up before you leave for the airport.
you'll need to arrange some sort of transportation—be it rental car, municipal bus, or one of the many area shuttle services (see infobox)—to get to these other attractions, but they are certainly worth a look if you have the time, or if you just want to get away from disney for a while.
on the other hand, roller coasters likespace mountain and big thunder mountain railroad provide plenty of thrills, and dark rides like thehaunted mansion and pirates of the caribbean are classics that only the most curmudgeonly would dismiss.
magic kingdom parade at the walt disney world resort
live performances may be either delayed or canceled outright.
luxurious suites are available at most of the resorts, starting at over $1,000/night and going up from there.
epcot, disney's hollywood studios, and the five resorts in between (swan & dolphin, yacht & beach clubs, and boardwalk) are connected by walkways, as is downtown disney to disney's saratoga springs resort.
how do they get the  star on top?
some tours and special events have unique pins that can only be obtained by  participants.
a theme park  would be built, of course—amagic kingdom on the north end of the  property.
and remember that it's hot inside those character costumes;  sometimes the character has to leave even if there are people still waiting to  say hello.
the lands are, starting from the main entrance and going clockwise around cinderella castle: main street usa, adventureland, frontierland, liberty square, fantasyland, and tomorrowland.
it is, by far, the most  popular theme park resort in the world.
the disney-owned resorts offer complimentary taxi vouchers for their guests traveling to the golf courses.
disney has also made a few full-length features based on various rides in  the parks—the fourpirates of the caribbean films being by  far the best—but don't expect the rides to have much of anything to do  with the films.
the platinum package adds to that a spa treatment, a fireworks cruise, and more.
today, pleasure island's nightclubs are but a memory, but that  doesn't mean adults can't have some grown-up fun after dark.
roy changed the project's name to walt disney world ; this new resort would be a tribute to walt's vision, but would never really be the fulfillment of it.
note that guests staying at a disney-owned hotel are allowed to make adrs for theirentire trip on the 180th day before they arrive.
epcot was to be a place where the imagineers' ideas  were put to practical use, for the betterment of all mankind.
and if it's  peak season, better safe than sorry; without an adr you may find yourself  searching high and low for a table even at 8pm.
when you enter the magic kingdom, and the entrance tunnels give way to the vista of main street, with cinderella castle at the far end, you'reraising the curtain on a new production—and you're the featured player.
le cellier in the canada pavilion at epcot has a reputation as the best steakhouse on the property and so is very popular.
when you enter the magic kingdom, and  the entrance tunnels give way to the vista of main street, with cinderella  castle at the far end, you'reraising the curtain on a new  production—and you're the featured player.
getting around walt disney world by car is not much of a problem.
cast members, who usually are multilingual, will be available here to answer any questions you may have.
be flexible, though—once you've  hit your priority attractions, you can go back and pick up more if you have  time remaining.
long-distance bus company greyhound
another fun option, if you can find it, is 1990'sthe muppets at walt disney world, which was intended as a precursor to disney's purchase of themuppets (which finally happened in 2004).
there are also the bigger stories to be found in each  themed land, and in the park as a whole.
if there's a character your child really wants to see, you can ask at guest relations if they know of any upcoming appearances, but nothing is ever guaranteed.
if you visit just two of these attractions  during your trip, the cost of the option will be covered by the money you save  on admission.
they're  also small enough to carry in your pocket as you tour the parks.
expect to wait up to fifteen minutes for a bus to your  destination, and another ten to thirty minutes to get there—possibly  longer during the busy season.
many of these tours go into backstage areas where guests are not normally  allowed, although children may be restricted from these to avoid spoiling the  "magic".
if you don't particularly care where  you eat, or are willing to eat early or late, you can probably get by without  adrs.
the abc commissary at hollywood studios has a  surprisingly international menu, andtoy story pizza planet in the same  park has arcade games to pass the time.
walt disney world can be divided into five distinct areas—one for each of the four theme parks, plus downtown disney.
finally, the official walt disney world mobile website [21] may be accessed  through a mobile phone browser.
downtown disney marketplace has several shopping  and eating establishments and is tailored towards a family setting.
last but not least, walt disney world is featured in three "disney  sing along songs" titles.
this route runs  on the outer rail, counter-clockwise around seven seas lagoon.
disney's animal kingdom, a member of the association of zoos and aquariums, is a wildlife discovery park, a mix between a zoo and a theme park.
it is divided into two  distinct areas, future world and world showcase.
trying to adhere to  a rigid schedule will only frustrate you and your family, and you're not going  to walt disney world to get frustrated, are you?
florida state roads 528 (to the  north) and 417 (to the south) link the airport withinterstate 4, which  leads directly into walt disney world.
epcot was walt disney's largest, most revolutionary idea yet—a real  city, with 20,000 real people living and working within, making use of the most  advanced technologies to grow food, provide transport, and enhance quality of  life.
there  are three monorail lines: express: this route travels from the transportation and ticket  center (adjacent to the magic kingdom parking lot) to the magic kingdom gates  and back, without stopping at the resorts.
there are ways to avoid the worst elements (namely by carefully choosing when to visit) and customer service is almost universally impeccable, even (or perhaps especially) when things go wrong.
other people use a  car to avoid the delays that can sometimes affect the public transportation  options.
when entering epcot this way, the monorail makes a  nice loop in the park before arriving at the station, giving a great aerial  view of future world and the world showcase.
these high-end  restaurants do tend to be found at the resorts; few people want to go out to a  fancy dinner after walking around the parks all day without changing first.
star articles | hasdocent
for everyone else, affordable deals can be found at the downtown disney hotel plaza located adjacent to the downtown disney marketplace.
gourmands, sun-worshippers, world travelers, thrill-seekers, comedy-lovers, film devotees, sports fans, club-hoppers, and history buffs will all find plenty of ways to have a great time.
keep in mind that parades and some shows occur only at specific times, and plan your route to put you nearby in time to get a seat.
two shopping and entertainment districts,downtown disney anddisney's boardwalk, provide extensive shopping, dining, and  entertainment options.
adrs are also a good idea for any of the dinner shows, andany meal featuring the disney characters.
singles and couples  without children who think a walt disney world vacation is just for kids ignore  the many "adult" entertainments available throughout the resort.
the magic kingdom hosts two special hard-ticket holiday events, mickey's not-so-scary halloween party in september and october, and mickey's very merry christmas party in november and december.
you can also trade with your fellow guests, and here things can get interesting.
there are magic your way premium and magic your way platinum packages available as well; they add some interesting luxury options to your vacation package.
strollers, wheelchairs, and electric convenience vehicles (ecvs) are readily available to rent at the entrance to each park.
(although epcot  is the closest park to the boardwalk, using it as an interchange is not  recommended, as it would require entering through the main entrance and exiting  out the back entrance, thereby costing the admission fee.)
wide world of sports complex is nearby.
bear in mind that the hours between noon and 2pm are generally considered the "peak" dining time in the parks.
many attractions, especially the most popular ones, route their exit queues directly into a merchandise store, usually one themed to the attraction.
it was an immediate success, single-handedly  sparking the development of the orlando area as one of the country's busiest  vacation destinations.
[edit] tours each of the theme parks offers at least one tour, some of which are  very popular.
best of all, some of the hotel restaurants have disney character greetings.
the theming is bold and colorful—kidslove the larger-than-life decorations—but not particularly evocative of any particular environment.
roaring fork, wilderness lodge.
the sheer number of attractions—including rides, stage shows, parades, and fireworks displays—at walt disney world's four theme parks can be intimidating to guests.
if your schedule allows any flexibility at all, you should avoid these peak periods.
you can do anearly check-in starting at 8am; leave your bags with bell services and they'll be delivered to your room when it's ready.
while they're not  exactly a good place to dance the night away, they do offer a more intimate,  relaxed atmosphere and plenty of adult beverages.
most importantly, though, none of these rides, shows, and stores just "sits there".
the park is themed around film and television, and features a variety of live shows and attractions based on some of the most iconic productions in hollywood history.
the 1990s-era revival ofthe mickey mouse club (the one that gave britney spears and justin timberlake their starts) was filmed entirely at the production facilities inside disney-mgm studios (now hollywood studios).full house, roseanne, family matters, and sabrina the teenage witch are among the sitcoms (mostly on disney-owned abc) with episodes showing the characters visiting walt disney world.
the seas with nemo & friends is great fun for fans of finding nemo, too.
all four theme parks have an information center known as guest relations , near the main entrance.
if you want to stay dry, rain ponchos and umbrellas are sold throughout the parks.
during the slowest times of  the year, you may find you don't have any problem walking up to a restaurant  and getting a seat within 15-30 minutes.
— walt disney the most important thing to understand about the walt disney world resort  is that it was designed to befun for everyone.
it can get everywhere!
[11] is the big dog in the area; in fact, disney contracts  with them to run the magical express and the disney cruise line buses.
note that there is no bus service to the magic kingdom or epcot from the  magic kingdom-area resorts; they are served by the monorail system.
[edit] water parks walt disney world's two water parks, blizzard beach near animal  kingdom and typhoon lagoon near downtown disney, are the most-visited  water parks in the world, with a combined total yearly attendance of almost 4  million.
[edit] spas and health clubs
they both include the deluxe dining plan, preferred fireworks viewing, unlimited access to select recreational activities, tours, and a portrait session.
theauto train, which can carry both passengers and automobiles, serves nearbysanford non-stop from lorton, virginia (near washington, d.c.).
you may need to offer several more common pins to get your hands on a single rare pin.
disney's boardwalk is actually part of a resort, so visitors from other  resorts (except swan/dolphin or yacht/beach clubs) will have to travel there  via one of the parks.
the  seas with nemo & friends is great fun for fans of finding nemo,  too.
disney's hollywood studios is a particularly rich source of themed merchandise, especially for fans of indiana jones,star wars, and the muppets.
many first-time visitors try to do too much during their stay.
the new park would be calledepcot center, though it bore little resemblance to walt's original plans.
singles and couples without children who think a walt disney world vacation is just for kids ignore the many "adult" entertainments available throughout the resort.
persons susceptible to motion sickness or having high blood pressure or heart, neck, or back problems should also avoid riding as these conditions are easily aggravated.
the boardwalk is  also home to carnival midway games, tandem bike rentals, theatlantic dance  hall, and the espn club.
a "snack" as part of the dining plan is a single prepackaged item, piece of fruit, or soft drink at any counter-service, snack cart, or merchandise location.
this section covers only those resorts that are not owned/operated by disney, but are located on disney property.
if you're going to watch the parade just to get planning information, though, you might as well just call disney at+1 407 w-disney and ask for their free vacation planning video [3].
but to get there from i-4, guests would need to pass through the true  centerpiece of the project:epcot, the experimental prototype  community of tomorrow.
happily, this has all changed in the last 15 years or so.
cast members with knowledge ofamerican sign language can be identified by the appropriate symbol on their name tags, and interpreters are available by appointment.
alternatively, you can also take lynx route 50 to seaworld from the transportation and ticket center or downtown disney westside.
don't make the mistake of staying away just because you don't have kids.
in future world, thetest track, a recent  addition in which visitors go through the motions of tests for new cars, is  probably the most fun, and the most traditionally theme-park-y, of the epcot  rides.
if a dietary restriction requires you to bring your own food into the  parks, it is permissible to do so, on the condition that it does not require  heating or any other kind of preparation.
likewise, service to epcot and disney's hollywood studios from the epcot-area resorts is by ferry or walking.
the resort has changed dramatically over the years, and many things have come and gone like magic.
however, select restaurants will charge a $10 cancellation fee if the reservation is canceled fewer than 24 hours in advance.
of course, if you do have kids, the best part of your walt disney world  vacation is in experiencing the parks through their eyes.
the bus routes are set up to facilitate travel from a resort to a park, but  not from one resort to another or from one park to another.
the prices below were accurate as of june 2011 (6.5% florida sales tax not included): "magic your way" online prices days   ages 3-9  ages 10+ total  per day  total  per day 1  $79  $79.00   $85  $85.00 2  $155  $77.50  $168  $84.00 3  $214  $71.33  $232   $77.33 4  $224  $56.00  $243  $60.75 5  $232  $46.40  $251  $50.20 6  $240  $40.00  $259  $43.17 7  $248  $35.43  $267  $38.14 8   $256  $32.00  $275  $34.38 9  $264  $29.33  $283  $31.44 10  $272   $27.20  $291  $29.10 children under age three are admitted for free.
disneyquest, a five-story indoor theme park focusing on interactive "virtual" rides and featuring some of the most innovative technology at disney world, is also on the west side.
please see each district's sleep section for details on individual hotels.
the disney-owned resorts offer complimentary taxi vouchers for  their guests traveling to the golf courses.
note that the fastpass queues may bypass some  or all of the scenery and theming found in the longer lines, which for some  guests is a significant part of the disney experience.
(it's no coincidence that these events are scheduled during otherwise-slow  periods for the parks.)epcot has two months-long events: the epcot  international flower & garden festival runs from march to mid-may, and  theepcot international food & wine festival runs from october  through mid-november.
you can buy three  beignets for $2.99 or six for $4.29.
be sure to bring an actual i.d. with you when purchasing  beverages.
northbound trains from miami arrive at the orlando station  at 1:43 pm and 7:08 pm; southbound trains from nyc arrive at 10:17 am and 12:55  pm.
for hearing-impaired guests, assistive listening devices and captioning (handheld, reflective, or video) are available for selected attractions.
it's usually best to have a plan going in.
for table service, you'll find the menus tend to be surprisingly limited; although the food is generally good, if your party has a lot of picky eaters you may have trouble finding a restaurant everyone can agree on.
mears transportation
[edit][add listing] buy troublesome souvenirs bear in mind that snowglobes, a very popular gift item found at walt  disney world, maynot be brought into an airplane cabin, under department  of homeland security regulations concerning the transport of liquids, gels, and
realizing that many of its souvenirs such as the giant mickey dolls simply  aren't made to be lugged around a theme park all day, disney will save the day  with itspackage pickup and package delivery services, available  at all disney-run stores.
an adr is sort of like a restaurant fastpass.
[edit] by foot a whole new world walt disney world and google earth have teamed up to create a  comprehensive, state-of-the-art 3-dvirtual tour of the resort.
[32] provides round-trip shuttle service to busch gardens from various locations in the orlando area.
gas stations along state road 535 (apopka-vineland road) near the  downtown disney hotel plaza are notorious for pricing well above the market  rate for fuel.
if you are traveling with a stroller, you must take your child out of the stroller, then fold it and hand-carry it onto the vehicle.
at the other parks, character appearances are somewhat rarer.
however, for sheer chutzpah, you gotta hand it to suncoast energys,  located on state road 436 (semoran boulevard), just outside the orlando  international airport.
most resorts have five bus routes originating from them, providing direct service toall four theme parks and downtown disney.
from epcot and disney's hollywood studios, service is to the swan/dolphin,  yacht/beach club, and boardwalk.
captain cook's, polynesian resort.
several car rental agencies have locations on walt disney world property: there are three hess gas stations within the resort: at the car care center on world drive, on buena vista drive near the entrance to hollywood studios, and on buena vista drive across from downtown disney.
two large water parks were added in 1989 and in 1995.
most resorts have  five bus routes originating from them, providing direct service toall four  theme parks and downtown disney.
you will never find garbage lying in the streets or bathrooms that are too dirty, and anything that is damaged is either removed or fixed immediately.
deluxe resorts feature well-appointed rooms with interior entrances and extensive theming to match the resort.
visit orlando gas prices [15] to find the local average price and  get addresses for other handy gas stations.
[edit] in-park dining food is easier than easy to find in all four theme parks.
billboards along interstate highways in florida and even southern georgia promote the availability of cut-rate admission tickets for walt disney world and other central florida theme parks.
make sure you (and especially your kids) don't trade these pins away without getting something really nice in return—but even then, think very carefully.
for an extra fee, a cast member will take you and a small group  and introduce you to some of the "secrets" behind disney operations.
visiting walt disney world is a very expensive affair.
please note that all disney hotel rooms and other indoor areas are 100% smoke-free.
ecvs are $50, with a $20 refundable deposit.
there are also the bigger stories to be found in each themed land, and in the park as a whole.
while this is a very common activity, it is prohibited by disney: the tickets are non-transferable.
disney price seasons (lowest to highest cost) disney has created an incredible variety of themed resorts over the years, each one offering a unique experience to guests, ranging from the basic services and colorful decor at the three all-star resorts, to the opulence and luxury of the disney's grand floridian resort and spa, to the rustic, wooded charm of disney's fort wilderness resort and campground.
[edit] history disneyland was an unmitigated success.
it is also possible to get to universal via the lynx system, but it involves making transfers.
[edit] by bus disney buses learn to love the ubiquitous walt disney world bus system.
all except 56 travel via i-4 and downtown  disney and serve the downtown disney west side transfer center.
inclement weather can often lead to the temporary closure of outdoor rides and live performances.
disney's deluxe resorts and the deluxe villas fall into this category, the largest by far.
that means you  can make an adr for the seventh day of your trip 186 days in advance; this is a  big perk of staying at a disney hotel.
world showcase replicates, on a small scale but with great attention  to detail, eleven of the world's nations, complete with authentic food and  merchandise.
the oak trail golf course, in the magic kingdom area next to the magnolia and palm courses, is a nine-hole walking course.
both wheelchairs and ecvs are  accommodated in most theater and stage attractions.
if you're already on your vacation, you can visit guest relations at any  park or downtown disney, or even your hotel concierge, to book your adrs.
there are a few things to keep in mind when purchasing alcohol at wdw: there are no alcoholic beverages for sale in the magic kingdom.
however, these tickets will expire 14 days after they are first used, so be sure to use all the days purchased prior to that.
simply insert your park ticket into the machine, and you'll get a  fastpass ticket with a time interval stamped on it.
while they're not exactly a good place to dance the night away, they do offer a more intimate, relaxed atmosphere and plenty of adult beverages.
the moderate resorts are caribbean beach near hollywood studios; port orleans-riverside and port orleans-french quarter near downtown disney; and coronado springs near animal kingdom.
they are ideal for guests who want a more traditional hotel experience while still being right in the middle of disney property.
kids looking for autographs won't want to misscamp minnie-mickey at animal kingdom, though; there are always at least a few characters there happy to meet some young guests.
children not meeting the minimum height requirement and pregnant women are not permitted to experience these attractions.
finding souvenirs is one of the easiest things to do at walt disney world; avoiding the expense is considerably harder.
don't miss the cheesy but fun gran fiesta tour starring the three  caballeros ride in the mexico pavilion, or the extravagant maelstrom ride in the norway pavilion.
atepcot, the around the world at epcot tour is a great chance  to try out segway vehicles, and there are several tours atthe seas with nemo  & friends that take you into the huge aquarium to get up close to the  animals who live there.
the one that takes the cake iscinderella's royal table, inside the castle in the magic kingdom, which is usually booked solid within minutes of reservations opening.
route 302, from the magic kingdom resorts to rosemont.
it is organized around the central landmark of  cinderella castle, with various "lands" arrayed around a central hub.
but they  also run their own shuttle buses and town cars that can take you to any of the  local attractions or hotels.
blizzard beach, a  water park themed as a melting ski resort, is nearby.
shades of green , near the magic kingdom has rooms starting at $93, depending on the employee's pay grade.
[34] is available in increments of 1, 2, 3, 5, or 7 days and gives free admission and express entry to a number of attractions in and around orlando and kissimmee.
even just walking around, you will likely encounter bottlenecks where there are  huge masses of people, and they all seem to be going to the same place you are.
a golf cart must be used, but it is included in your greens fee.
if you are going to epcot from the polynesian resort, you may walk to the  transportation and ticket center to get to the epcot monorail; it's usually  faster than taking the resort monorail completely through the loop.
to use the dining plan, simply present your key to the world card to  your server.
in most cases, cancellations can be accommodated without penalty,  especially if done in advance.
the entire resort goes all-out to  decorateeverything, with huge themed christmas trees in each of the  parks and each of the resorts, and the spectacularcastle dreamlights draped onto cinderella castle.
if you are planning to have a day of rest in your vacation, by arriving on  thursday you can enjoy two days of parks with reduced crowds and then use  sunday to rest.
you'll be using it a lot, especially if you didn't bring a car.
tee times can be  reserved up to 90 days in advance if you're staying at a disney hotel (up to 60  days in advance otherwise).
if you have a tent, camper, or motorhome, perhaps the best value on disney property is atfort
to save you from having to  walk the long distances, there are trams that will shuttle you from the parking  lot to the park gates and back (except in the case of the magic kingdom, where  the tram will take you to the transportation and ticket center, from which you  may take the ferry or the monorail to the park).
moving up the scale, there is a fairly big gap between the counter-service  and the lower-end table-service restaurants.
the buses are reliable, fairly efficient, and reasonably comfortable, but  they can be slow and inconvenient if, for example, you are traveling with young  children or strollers.
resort: this route runs parallel to the express route, clockwise on  the inner rail, and stops at all the resorts it passes.
each  of its four theme parks is big enough to occupy visitors for a full day (and  often two, depending on crowds).
if anything can be said to fill  that gap, it's the buffets, but there are not many around, and most of them  feature walk-around characters.
these changes may be made at any ticket window or at the guest relations office inside each theme park as well as the concierge desk at disney resort hotels.
[24] has a facility at the walt disney world dolphin near epcot, and there's also the buena vista palace hotel & spa at the downtown disney hotel plaza.
summer (may–october) is hot and sticky and winter (november–april) is mild and drier.
the rental cabins at fort wilderness (near the magic kingdom) have full kitchens, plumbing, and maid service.
the passport may be purchased at any guest relations location.
enough books have been written about walt disney world to fill a good-sized bookshelf.
for many visitors, a vital part of the walt disney world "experience" is staying at one of the 24 disney-owned and -operated resorts.
as expected, you won't find much official material that  addresses the problems you might encounter at walt disney world, but they do  offer a good introduction to the resort for first-timers who are trying to get  a feel for the place before they go.
(fortunately, disney isvery accommodating of special  requests, so don't be afraid to ask for the demi-glace to be left off or to  substitute fries for the au-gratin potatoes.)
in june through september,late afternoon thundershowers are very common; plan accordingly.
downtown disney — for more "grown-up" activities,  downtown disney has shopping, nightclubs, restaurants, and unique  entertainment.
but walt's brotherroy o. disney insisted the project as a whole go forward, starting with the magic kingdom.
in exchange for planning ahead, though, you will get to meet and  take pictures with the characters, making for a memorable experience.
from  shades of green (a military-only resort)
in most cases, cancellations can be accommodated without penalty, especially if done in advance.
mears  transportation
rank  park  attendance  (2010) 2  disneyland (anaheim, ca)   15,980,000 3  tokyo disneyland  14,452,000 7
if you're sure you're going to use the benefits  these packages provide, they may just be worth the extra cost.
most every store has pins for sale, along with  lanyards on which to display them.
from shades of green (a military-only resort)
even if you park-hop, you only have to pay once per day; simply show a same-day receipt to avoid paying a second fee.
each has two 18-hole layouts,  with whimsical, kid-friendly holes and decor.
sometimes, parents want to spend some time for themselves at walt disney world, be it going to a fancy dinner, enjoying some alcoholic beverages, or even sneaking another ride on space mountain without the kids tagging along.
after buying up over 27,000 acres (11,000 ha) of land on the sly, walt  announced his ambitiousdisney world plans to the world.
company jargon frames every aspect of customer service as part of the  "show": employees are "cast members", visitors are  "guests", and every prop and costume must be completely  "in-character" while "on-stage" (visible to guests).
once upon a time, these options were dismal; each counter service location served the same bland menu of burgers and chicken fingers, to the point where even the kids were sick of them by the end of your vacation.
at epcot, for  instance, you'll generally only find characters who hail from one of the themed  foreign lands of world showcase—mulan in the china pavilion, for example.
even just walking around, you will likely encounter bottlenecks where there are huge masses of people, and they all seem to be going to the same place you are.
most people, when visiting other hotels, make reservations at the resorts'  buffets and sit-down restaurants.
two large  water parks were added in 1989 and in 1995.
there is a $25 fee for each adult beyond two per room.
the four theme park lots are huge, and are divided into subsections; this  is to enable you to remember your car's location.
one of the unique attractions of dining at walt disney world is the opportunity to interact up-close with favorite characters during disney's character dining meals.
during the slowest times of the year, you may find you don't have any problem walking up to a restaurant and getting a seat within 15-30 minutes.
multi-day tickets do not have to be used on consecutive days.
strollers will usually need to be left outside; most attractions have a designated stroller parking area.
traveling to walt disney world represents a major pilgrimage for many  american families.
options  can be added even if the ticket has already been used at least once.
a deluxe resort's decor is evocative and all-encompassing, with as much attention paid to detail as at any of the disney theme parks.
just register your phone at the website and you can get started; normal text-messaging rates apply.
wilderness (near the magic kingdom), where you can rent a campsite for as little as $43 a night.
epcot center opened in 1982, and was followed by a combination theme park and movie studio calleddisney-mgm studios in 1989, and then by disney's animal kingdom, a zoological theme park, in 1998.
walt disney world, located in lake buena vista, florida, near orlando, is  the flagship of disney's worldwide theme park empire.
[10] provides a similar bus service for their  passengers, between the walt disney world resort hotels and their terminal at  port canaveral.
if you have kids, you may have no choice but to go during these peak times.
in my  work i try to reach and speak to that innocence, showing it the fun and joy of  living; showing it that laughter is healthy; showing it that the human species,  although happily ridiculous at times, is still reaching for the stars."
or he may find something that is even more rewarding.
epcot was to be a place where the imagineers' ideas were put to practical use, for the betterment of all mankind.
all resorts now offerfree wi-fi in each guest room (free wired access at fort wilderness campsites) and in selected common areas.
some visitors describe it as a place of magic, wonder, and fantasy; others speak of fun, excitement, and relaxation; and still others complain of crowds, artifice, and unrelenting tackiness.
it is organized around the central landmark of cinderella castle, with various "lands" arrayed around a central hub.
disney classifies their cheapest options as value resorts.
i make them for the  child in all of us, whether we be six or sixty.
double strollers are $31, or $27/day.
on the other hand, if spectator sports are more your speed, you may want to check out theespn wide world of sports, a state-of-the-art sports complex nearhollywood studios.
the disney parks have rides, sure, but many of them are quite sedate  and can be enjoyed by everyone, not just those with a high tolerance for  thrills.
they are a layer of yellow cake  topped with mocha-chocolate mouse, covered in white chocolate ganache and  painted over with milk chocolate ganache stripes to resemble a zebra.
the centerpieces of walt disney world are the four theme parks: the magic kingdom, epcot, disney's hollywood studios, and disney's animal kingdom.
most of the resort hotels have their own lounges as well.
some, including kid's nite out, offer 24/7 service.
in june through september,late afternoon thundershowers are very common;  plan accordingly.
don't feel like you have to leave the kids behind, either; every restaurant on  property (except victoria and albert's) welcomes kids and will accommodate them  as best as they can.
the service is free of charge, but be sure to factor in  delivery times—allow 24 hours for a package to be delivered to your  hotel, or about three hours for it to reach the front gate of the park.
for those who wish to visit the florida mall,  this is the most direct option.
ano-expiration option can be added to any multi-day ticket with at least one day remaining; with this option, the ticket expires when the last purchased day is used, which can be months or even years after the initial use.
[9] has proven to be a very popular option  for guests staying at disney resort hotels; it provides free transportation to  and from the airport.
"signature" restaurants are usually $$$.
on the bright side, this does make it easier to find merchandise with a  particular theme.
the expected orl code is assigned to the orlando executive airport, a general-aviation facility located several miles north of orlando international.
most often, character greetings will happen in the parks, in particular the magic kingdom, but they can happen just about anywhere!
though roy died before the year ended, he had succeeded in getting his brother's final project off the ground.
cast members are required to trade one-for-one if asked (up to two per guest per day) and can't refuse a trade based on pin rarity or design (although they can refuse to accept another copy of a pin they already have displayed).
the magic kingdom has the most kid-friendly attractions and most of the  classic rides beloved by kids-at-heart.
you can use these admissions at typhoon lagoon, blizzard beach, disneyquest, espn wide world of sports, or the nine-holeoak trail golf course.
one of the most important choices you must make when planning a walt disney world vacation iswhether to stay on-site at one of the famed disney resorts, or off-site at one of countless less expensive but more traditional hotels.
the magic kingdom-area resorts each have a small marina with a selection of recreational boats, but it's the contemporary resort that boasts sammy duvall's watersports.
blizzard beach brings to life the absurdity of what would happen if a ski  resort suddenly melted, while typhoon lagoon makes use of the runoff from a  tropical storm for sliding and floating fun.
most interesting is the harmony barber shop on main street u.s.a. in the magic kingdom; first haircuts are their specialty, but anyone can walk in for a trim.
your best way to find people willing to trade is to head to a dedicated pin kiosk or store, such as the one underneath the sorcerer's hat at hollywood studios, but there is also ample opportunity for trading while waiting in lines or while riding the monorail or bus.
the magic kingdom — based on the original disneyland in  california, this is the oldest and most popular park of the complex; in fact,  with over 17 million visitors annually, it's the most-visited single theme park  in the world.
[edit] by monorail monorail coral walt disney world's monorail system is one of its signature  attractions, and it's not even inside one of the parks.
the biggest event there is in march, when the  atlanta braves host spring training baseball games, but there are events all  year, especially high school and collegiate-level sports.
restraining devices may prevent persons of certain body shapes or sizes from riding.
you can also find free wi-fi at the wide world of sports and a very few select locations around the parks.
[edit] get around walt disney world resort overview map getting around walt disney world is easy and often fun.
if your kids are too young for the activity centers, or you want to stay out past their bedtime, you can getin-room babysitting.
speaking of christmas, the month of december may just be the most  magical time of year at walt disney world.
both friday and saturday are transition days for park visitors,  especially in the summer months.
despite the closures at pleasure island, don't think walt disney world is completely devoid of nightclubs these days.
the grand floridian spa & health club, also run by niki bryan  spas, will be closing on september 19, 2011, for 18 months, due to nearby  construction.
there is also no direct bus service between the theme  parks and downtown disney.
at the bottom you'll find portable food carts and fast counter-service (or "quick-service" in disney's parlance) options.
the resort has changed  dramatically over the years, and many things have come and gone like magic.
copies will not suffice.
while light on rides, there are also shows and plenty of animals to view (though the variety of species seems a bit sparse when compared to many larger city zoos).
often overlooked during a walt disney world vacation—whether due to time constraints or just lack of knowledge—are several recreational activities that have nothing to do with theme parks and rides.
(in fact, several  rides even take your picture, which will be available for purchase in the  shop.)
the same rules and regulations  apply here as at the championship courses, except golf carts are prohibited.
or, if a change in travel  plans will not allow the user to utilize all purchased days prior to the  ticket's expiration date, the "no-expiration" option can be purchased  for the remaining days.
another option is to stay at a hotel in thedowntown disney hotel  plaza; they're fairly generic and have few disney amenities, but they're  just across the street from downtown disney.
despite it all, most people would agree that the lines, the crowds, and the prices are worth it for the experience.
theauto train, which can carry both passengers and  automobiles, serves nearbysanford non-stop from lorton, virginia (near  washington, d.c.).
while these offers are genuine, there is often a catch.
a few examples: disney premier passport visiting both walt disney world and the disneyland resort in the same year has now become easier with thedisney premier passport [46].
on the other hand, inclement weather could work to your  advantage, as it drives some visitors away from outdoor areas, or out of the  parks entirely.
these can be very good times to go; crowds are  low and prices are too, but keep in mind that you may find that several rides  are shut down for maintenance, and the parks have shorter operating hours.
disneyland resort — home of the original disneyland, in anaheim ,california disneyland resort paris — near paris in france hong kong disneyland — the newest member of the global disney empire tokyo disney resort — near tokyo in japan, where the magic first reached new shores and shanghai disneyland — near shanghai in china, of course — is now under construction!this is a star article.
this is where the most action is after dark.
all four theme parks and over 20 disney resort hotels are rendered as fully textured 3-d buildings in a special layer in google earth.
as an alternative, some snack carts serve fairly large portions (such as smoked turkey legs in the magic kingdom's frontierland), and have short lines most of the time.
even if you park-hop, you only have to pay once  per day; simply show a same-day receipt to avoid paying a second fee.
the park is the oldest, most popular, and the most child-friendly, although many adults love it as well.
both wheelchairs and ecvs are accommodated in most theater and stage attractions.
each onetells a story, in much the same way that  disney's animated films do, and each is crafted with the utmost care and  attention to detail.
if there's a character your child really wants to see, you can  ask at guest relations if they know of any upcoming appearances, but nothing is  ever guaranteed.
if  you run into problems, just drop by thewalt disney world car care center on world drive, near the magic kingdom toll plaza.
naturalistic animal exhibitions are interspersed, and sometimes integrated,  with typical disney rides.
atepcot, the around the world at epcot tour is a great chance to try out segway vehicles, and there are several tours atthe seas with nemo & friends that take you into the huge aquarium to get up close to the animals who live there.
the walt disney company is a multinational media conglomerate, so video  productions featuring walt disney world are ubiquitous.
epcot has a bit of a reputation as a more "grown-up" park.
check out  some of these hidden gems: boardwalk to go, boardwalk inn.
the miniature golf courses are fantasia gardens, across the street from the walt disney world swan hotel in theepcot resort area, and winter summerland, right next to blizzard beach.
there are also countless holiday events at the  resorts, theosborne family spectacle of dancing lights at hollywood  studios, thecandlelight processional at epcot, and much much more.
the magic kingdom is the main park, based on the original disneyland in anaheim, california.
a few restaurants are so popular that they regularly fill up even during  the slowest periods.
prices (one room, two adults and two children) range from $82/night for a standard room in the value season to $160/night for a preferred room during christmas week.
if you will be arriving from a cruise atport canaveral , florida state road 528 gets you to i-4, with orlando international airport and the turnpike en route.
ano-expiration option can be added  to any multi-day ticket with at least one day remaining; with this option, the  ticket expires when the last purchased day is used, which can be months or even  years after the initial use.
campout at walt disney world is set  at fort wilderness campground,beach party at walt disney world covers a  wide range of activities including the two water parks, andflik's musical  adventure is set at disney's animal kingdom.
[edit] other the walt disney world speedway is located south of the magic kingdom  and offers both indy car and nascar-style racing experiences, although neither  is cheap.
happily, this has all changed in the last  15 years or so.
we're all in this together perhaps not surprisingly, the eight most visited theme parks in the world are all affiliated with walt disney parks and resorts, and walt disney world's four theme parks all appear in that top eight.
all of the disney resorts have at least one restaurant, ranging from food courts and buffets all the way up to award-winning table-service restaurants.
the traditional amusement park advice of arriving early and heading to the back of the park first tends to work well, although more and more guests are starting to catch on, so the benefit may be reduced.
for non-verizon phones, a text-message interface [20] is available; ride  wait times, character appearances, park hours, and exclusive offers can all be  sent directly to your phone.
the park is organized in a magic kingdom-like format, with different continents revolving around the central tree of life.
surprisingly, not much fiction has been written about the parks themselves.
your children will enjoy so many games, crafts, and activities that they won't even care you're off having fun without them.
spanish speakers will not have any problems navigating the resort.
each onetells a story, in much the same way that disney's animated films do, and each is crafted with the utmost care and attention to detail.
it's available at the kona café for $10.99, served with  strawberry compote and your choice of ham, bacon, or sausage.
several television programs have filmed on-location at the resort.
kids looking for autographs won't want  to misscamp minnie-mickey at animal kingdom, though; there are always at  least a few characters there happy to meet some young guests.
these restaurants are artist's point, california grill, cinderella's royal table, citricos, flying fish cafe, fulton's crab house, the hollywood brown derby, jiko-the cooking place, narcoossee's, wolfgang puck's the dining room, and yachtsman steakhouse, plus the hoop-dee-doo musical revue, mickey's backyard bbq, and disney's spirit of aloha dinner shows.
the deluxe resorts are for guests who want the ultimate in disney hospitality, with luxury-hotel amenities and signature disney experiences.
the small stands usually sell pre-packaged treats and snacks.
disney's boardwalk, located next to epcot, is a smaller collection of nightlife themed as a 1920's eastern seaboard boardwalk.
room service, where available, also takes two table-service credits,  except for pizza delivery.
mickey and minnie and the gang are the most common of course, at places likechef mickey's in the contemporary resort, but you might also find mary poppins at 1900 park fare at the grand floridian, or characters from disney junior at hollywood & vine in hollywood studios.
traveling to walt disney world represents a major pilgrimage for many american families.
if you visit just two of these attractions during your trip, the cost of the option will be covered by the money you save on admission.
wheelchairs can be brought up to the loading area of most rides, where you'll  usually need to transfer to the ride vehicle.
strollers will usually need  to be left outside; most attractions have a designated stroller parking area.
of  course there are character greetings, especially at world showcase, but there  are alsokidcot fun stops, which encourage children to work on a craft  and interact with cast members who are representing their home countries.
however, there are no parking lot trams available, so be prepared to walk.
in exchange for planning ahead, though, you will get to meet and take pictures with the characters, making for a memorable experience.
the most convenient option is disney's hollywood studios,  which has two connections to the boardwalk: walking or ferry.
adrs are also a good idea for any of the dinner  shows, andany meal featuring the disney characters.
it's a five-minute walk to disney's polynesian resort, to take the monorail or ferry to the magic kingdom; and from the polynesian resort it's another five-minute walk to the transportation and ticket center, to take the monorail to epcot.
revisit the walt disney world of the past atwalt dated world [16] or yesterland
if your schedule allows any flexibility at all, you should avoid these peak  periods.
you can also trade with your fellow guests, and here things can get  interesting.
mail can be dropped off at locations just inside each theme park's gates.
aside from  domestic flights on allegiant air, the airport primarily handles flights from  the united kingdom and iceland.
the spa is operated  byniki bryan spas [23].
to use the dining plan, simply present your key to the world card to your server.
the application may be acquired at the verizon media store[18], the itunes app store[19], or by texting "magic" to 2777 from a verizon phone.
alcohol purchased at selected gift  shops (such asweinkeller in epcot's germany pavilion in world showcase)
roy changed the project's name to walt disney world ; this new resort would be a tribute to walt's vision, but would never really  be the fulfillment of it.
walt disney world's monorail system is one of its signature attractions, and it's not even inside one of the parks.
unless  crowds are unusually small, this is a sure-fire recipe for burnout and  exhaustion.
the trading of commemorative pins has been popular at olympic games for decades.
most of the resorts have exercise facilities; at the value resorts, though, you'll have to be content with just using a jogging path or swimming in the pool.
some kids like to bring or purchase a special autograph book in which the characters can inscribe their names.
in the  summer, you also get to listen to the kids complain about the heat.
for  example, a base ticket (no park-hopping) can be upgraded to include  park-hopping by paying the $55 cost for the option.
in addition, a remote area of the  property that started as lake buena vista shopping village evolved into the  disney village marketplace, and eventually expanded to becomedowntown disney , an adult-oriented shopping and entertainment district.
btg serves many quick foods like  corn dogs and chicken sandwiches, but one of its tastiest items is the cheese  and/or chili fries.
future world features eight  indoor pavilions, each one focused on a specific area of human achievement or  endeavor.
purchasing these  packages does require booking and staying at a disney owned resort hotel.
there is also an inherent risk to you as a buyer, because you  don't know for certain how many days remain on the ticket.
it's a great way to get a feel for the lay of the land, or just to reminisce about a previous trip.
you can also add thewater park fun & more option, which grants admission to the two disney water parks as well as other attractions.
thespa at disney's saratoga springs near downtown disney recalls the heyday of saratoga springs, new york, with its healing mineral baths.
three excellent options arecosmic ray's starlight cafe in tomorrowland at the magic kingdom, the seasons food court at the land pavilion inepcot, and flame tree barbecue on discovery island at animal kingdom.
other cast members throughout the property may also be bi- or tri-lingual; any such cast members can be identified by language signs on their name tags, representing the languages they speak .
simply insert your park ticket into the machine, and you'll get a fastpass ticket with a time interval stamped on it.
walt disney world does not close down due to rain, though some outdoor rides and attractions may temporarily do so.
disney's "big six" (mickey, minnie, donald, daisy, goofy, and pluto) might be found anywhere in the park—for example, you might see donald duck in a davy crockett-like outfit in frontierland.
[edit] get in welcome!
future world explores human achievements in pavilions dedicated to  communication, imagination, conservation, and more.
the most convenient option is disney's hollywood studios, which has two connections to the boardwalk: walking or ferry.
[9] has proven to be a very popular option for guests staying at disney resort hotels; it provides free transportation to and from the airport.
too good to be true?
check-in time at disney resorts is 3pm (4pm for the all-star resorts), and check-out time is 11am—but don't fret if your flight schedule doesn't match up.
the miniature golf courses are fantasia gardens, across the street  from the walt disney world swan hotel in theepcot resort area, and winter  summerland, right next to blizzard beach.
ecvs are $50,  with a $20 refundable deposit.
the drinking age for alcohol in walt disney world (and all of  florida, for that matter) is 21.
it is served by nearly all major us airlines and a wide range of international carriers.
be aware that during the busiest times of year, lines can be up to two hours long for the most popular attractions.
each $3.29 brownie is frosted and cut in squares roughly four  inches wide and half an inch thick, making them well worth the price.
note that you are responsible for your own transportation to/from the pickup point.
like all of central florida, the climate at walt disney world is humid and subtropical.
[12] serves both orlando and kissimmee, with the latter being closer to walt disney world.
all walt disney world  transit vehicles are wheelchair-accessible, and there is no additional fee to  use any of them.
cost: $52–54/night for  adults and juniors, $15–16/night for children 3–9 (price depending  on season) magic your way package plus deluxe dining three meals (table- or quick-service) and two snacks per person per  night.
the park hopper option in particular is often overlooked, but it's strongly recommended because of the flexibility it offers.
lodging and food costs are indisputably cheaper—often significantly so, with frequent discounts.
other characters stick to the themed land most appropriate for their genre: jack sparrow in adventureland, buzz lightyear in tomorrowland, and so on.
live performances may be either delayed  or canceled outright.
all dining plans also include a resort refillable drink mug.
adrs are accepted up to 180 days in advance  of the date of the reservation.
the parking fee at the four theme park lots is $14 for most vehicles (campers and trailers are $15; buses and tractor trailers are $18).
however, for sheer chutzpah, you gotta hand it to suncoast energys, located on state road 436 (semoran boulevard), just outside the orlando international airport.
if none of that strikes your fancy, check out some of the lesser-known activities: golf, tennis, boating, race car driving, spas and health clubs, backstage tours, sporting events, character dining, and much more.
a side benefit of this option is locking in your admission price for your next visit(s).
be sure to book service ahead of time, though!
the price for this option is variable, based on the number of days purchased.
you may need to offer several more common pins to get your hands  on a single rare pin.
but in the end, no matter  what the outcome, he will know he has been alive."
among these arekilimanjaro safaris, a jeep safari past live animal enclosures;kali river rapids, a raft ride through the deforestation of a tropical rainforest;dinosaur, a time travel ride which includes close encounters with dinosaurs; and the newest and most popular ride,expedition everest, a roller coaster that includes an encounter with the yeti.
this route  serves as wdw's primary public transit connection tointernational drive [14], the main tourism corridor within the city of orlando.
[24] has a facility at the walt disney world dolphin near epcot, and there's also the buena vista palace hotel & spa at the  downtown disney hotel plaza.
check  the guide map for the park you plan to visit and decide which attractions will  be your highest prioritiesbefore you leave for the park.
the five golf courses can be reached only via car or, in some limited  cases, walking.
as of june 2009, you can book adrs online.
there are magic your way premium and magic your way platinum packages available as well; they add some interesting luxury options to your  vacation package.
there's also down and out in the magic kingdom, a science-fiction novel by cory doctorow that takes place primarily in a future version of the magic kingdom.
cast members with knowledge ofamerican sign language can be  identified by the appropriate symbol on their name tags, and interpreters are  available by appointment.
future world features eight indoor pavilions, each one focused on a specific area of human achievement or endeavor.
the one-way fare is $35 per person, although it's included in  the price if you book a land-and-sea vacation package.
the best feature of a disney admission ticket is its flexibility.
it may be rented at guest relations, but there are a limited number of them available; a $25 deposit will be collected and refunded upon return.
company jargon frames every aspect of customer service as part of the "show": employees are "cast members", visitors are "guests", and every prop and costume must be completely "in-character" while "on-stage" (visible to guests).
ten lynx routes provide service between walt disney  world and the surrounding area.
you can book condos or home rentals for large groups, which allows you to cook meals making dining costs even cheaper and lodging costs very cheap.
this service enables one person to wait with the child while another goes on the ride; afterwards the person waiting with the child may board the ride without having to wait in line.
call the child 'innocence'.
there are a number of perks that are available only to disney resort hotel
at any time during that  interval, you may enter the attraction using a separate, shorter queue.
it makes for a great afternoon or evening snack.
most visitors fly into orlando international airport (iata: mco )
they are  originally made and served in boma, the resort's buffet restaurant.
unless crowds are unusually small, this is a sure-fire recipe for burnout and exhaustion.
in addition, all of the restaurants at  downtown disney, even those run by outside companies, also accept the dining  plan.
note that the fastpass queues may bypass some or all of the scenery and theming found in the longer lines, which for some guests is a significant part of the disney experience.
prices can go even higher for the new pirate-themed rooms at caribbean beach and club-level rooms and suites at coronado springs.
that is when  you really understand walt disney's vision of a place wherekids and parents  can have fun together.
the complete list of attractions where it is accepted may be found here[35].
but if you have your heart set on a particular restaurant, or you want to  make sure you can eat right at noon or 6pm, you'll want an adr.
there are seven franchised or independent hotels in the downtown disney hotel plaza.
or, to really get into the spirit, drop your postcard in a real vintage mailbox on main street u.s.a.; cast members pick up such mail daily.
these pins are thusvery rare and highly coveted.
the value resorts only have simple food courts, but the dining options expand  as you go up the price scale.
the "typical" visit involves flying into orlando  international airport, busing to an on-site disney hotel, spending about a week  without leaving disney property, and returning home.
parking is free, though, for guests staying at any of the on-site disney resorts (your key to the world card serves as your parking ticket), or who have a valid annual pass.
walt died in december 1966, just as the florida project was coming to fruition.
however, for  those of you on a budget, you can also get tonga toast at captain cook's food  court for only $5.09.
any ticket upgrades must be made within 14 days of the  first date of use, and you have to still have some remaining value on the  ticket.
the gold standard among the tours is the keys to the kingdom tour at  themagic kingdom, a five-hour tour that includes a peek into the park's  utilidors.
[7] is a  bit farther away from walt disney world than orlando international.
valet parking is available at deluxe resorts (see the sleep section) for $12/day.
visitors from higher latitudes are often surprised by the sheerintensity of the summer sun in florida, which can rise to within a few degrees of straight overhead in june and july.
many attractions,  especially the most popular ones, route their exit queues directly into a  merchandise store, usually one themed to the attraction.
from there, you can rent a car, take a  taxi, order a limo or towncar, or takedisney's magical express
even so, the realities of walt disney world can be stark:  long lines, sweltering heat, rude guests, and expensive merchandise are common.
be prepared for strict enforcement of this  rule; anybody caught drinking underage, even with parents, may be subject to  ejection from the property and criminal prosecution.
disney takes quality very seriously, and if anything intrudes on your perception of the "show", it gets fixed quickly.
don't miss the cheesy but fun gran fiesta tour starring the three caballeros ride in the mexico pavilion, or the extravagant maelstrom ride in the norway pavilion.
guests staying at an on-site resort hotel can have their purchases delivered to their hotel gift shop, while everyone else can have their purchases held at the package pick-up window at the front gate of each theme park.
for non-verizon phones, a text-message interface [20] is available; ride wait times, character appearances, park hours, and exclusive offers can all be sent directly to your phone.
essentially, when you make an adr, you are reserving a spot on the restaurant's  waiting list.
and the dj atbongos cuban cafe will keep you dancing throughout the evening.
for more information or assistance, or to reserve a tee time, call +1 407 wdw-golf (939-4653).
saturdays do draw in more annual pass holders to the park, but that is the major day that people either arrive or leave the area.
le cellier also requires two credits, butonly for  dinner.
the walt disney world speedway is located south of the magic kingdom and offers both indy car and nascar-style racing experiences, although neither is cheap.
each of the theme parks offers at least one tour, some of which are very popular.
you can  only have one fastpass at a time, so you won't avoidevery line, but it  can still be a great time-saver.
it is also  possible to walk to the ttc from disney's wilderness lodge, which is not  connected to the monorail.
from the magic kingdom, large ferries transport guests to the  transportation and ticket center, adjacent to the parking lot.
after years of guest grumbling, internet access has improved significantly.
but one of his guiding  principles was to "keep moving forward", and disney world has done  just that, becoming the largest and most popular theme park resort complex in  the world.
the newest tour offering is thewild africa trek atanimal kingdom, which will let you go on-foot into some remote areas of the  park's african savanna and forest.
the five golf courses can be reached only via car or, in some limited cases, walking.
here you can also find orlando's two other world-famous theme parks: it's not just about orlando, either; central florida is packed with attractions from coast to coast.
bear in mind that the hours between noon  and 2pm are generally considered the "peak" dining time in the parks.
the monster  they created has endured for over a decade, and it has grown to mythic  proportions.
but one of his guiding principles was to "keep moving forward", and disney world has done just that, becoming the largest and most popular theme park resort complex in the world.
of course, you'll be given a pager in case there's an emergency, and you can call at any time to check up on your kid.
[edit] understand we're all in this together perhaps not surprisingly, the eight most visited theme parks in the world  are all affiliated with walt disney parks and resorts, and walt disney world's  four theme parks all appear in that top eight.
there are a number of options.
walt disney world is home to four 18-hole championship golf courses, plus a nine-hole walking course and two differentminiature golf experiences.[22] the lake buena vista and osprey ridge golf courses are in the downtown disney area; they're the most scenic of the courses.
the walt disney company is a multinational media conglomerate, so video productions featuring walt disney world are ubiquitous.
go to disney's restaurants page [25], find the restaurant you want to eat at, and see if it has an orange "book a reservation" button.
another good source of information is the official youtube channel of walt disney parks and resorts
however,  guests on the go can buy a four-pack at mara for $3.69 during lunch and dinner.
spanish is also very common in florida, and the us as a  whole.
it's a small world, after all walt disney world and verizon wireless have teamed up to introduce a number of amenities formobile phone users.
ridley pearson has an ongoing series of young-adult novels set inside the  parks, calledthe kingdom keepers.
but walt's brotherroy  o. disney insisted the project as a whole go forward, starting with the  magic kingdom.
disney's animal kingdom — something of a mix between a zoo  and a theme park, animal kingdom features naturalistic live animal exhibits  alongside more traditional disney amusement rides.
[edit] climate check the weather forecast for lake buena vista, fl from noaa.
help wikitravel grow by contributing to an article.
what's a parent to do?
unless you live nearby, four days is considered thebare minimum length of visit to even begin to experience the resort; some people stay as long as two weeks and still bypass some attractions.
if you are staying at a hotel off disney property, on the other hand, a car  is strongly recommended.
consider what you may be  missing if you choose to get a fastpass.
yes, there are many similarities between walt disney world and the original disneyland in california, as well as the other disneylands around the world.
+1 407 938-9585 [edit] fuel there are three hess gas stations within the resort: at the car care center  on world drive, on buena vista drive near the entrance to hollywood studios,  and on buena vista drive across from downtown disney.
edit [edit][add listing] eat lighting up the night at downtown disney "hot dogs!
walt disney never would have imagined what walt disney world has become,  and it is far removed from his original vision.
[edit] parking the parking fee at the four theme park lots is $14 for most vehicles  (campers and trailers are $15; buses and tractor trailers are $18).
today, pleasure island's nightclubs are but a memory, but that doesn't mean adults can't have some grown-up fun after dark.
the importance of adrs cannot be understated.
after buying up over 27,000 acres (11,000 ha) of land on the sly, walt announced his ambitiousdisney world plans to the world.
if you find yourself eating lunch within this time frame, expect to wait 30  minutes to an hour in line before being served, unless you have a reservation  at a table service restaurant.
of course, you can also get by without adrs if you decide to only eat at  counter-service restaurants (which don't take reservations at all).
keep in mind, though, that florida department of health regulations prohibit disney's culinary cast members from preparing, or even handling, foods brought in by guests.
for example, a base ticket (no park-hopping) can be upgraded to include park-hopping by paying the $55 cost for the option.
it cannot be refilled in the parks, but during the hot summer months, you can fill it with water from the many water fountains.
he had his park, but he and his imagineers were constantly coming up with new ideas, ideas that just  weren't going to fit inside disneyland.
[edit] sporting activities often overlooked during a walt disney world vacation—whether due to  time constraints or just lack of knowledge—are several recreational  activities that have nothing to do with theme parks and rides.
the "wine and dine" option offered in previous years is no  longer available.
on the bright side, this does make it easier to find merchandise with a particular theme.
while  some of the slower, more intellectual attractions may be over the heads of the  youngest visitors, the park still has plenty to keep them entertained.
every park has low cost meals in the $3–$4 range for kid meals and  $6–$8 for adult meals at the sandwich shops, ethnic specialty nooks,  cafeterias, and communal dining halls.
needless to say, these opportunities are extremely popular; for all practical purposes, advance reservations are required.
last but not least, walt disney world is featured in three "disney sing along songs" titles.
at epcot, for instance, you'll generally only find characters who hail from one of the themed foreign lands of world showcase—mulan in the china pavilion, for example.
seecharacter dining in the eat section, below.
to make advance dining reservations, do not try to call the  restaurants directly.
one option for avoiding these lines is the free service known asfastpass, available only at select attractions.
that's when kids areon break from school .
disney prides themselves on customer service and friendliness.
the dining plan is available at three different levels (prices are  approximate): magic your way package plus quick-service dining two quick-service meals and one snack per person per night.
other cast members  throughout the property may also be bi- or tri-lingual; any such cast members  can be identified by language signs on their name tags, representing the  languages they speak .
zawadi marketplace at disney's animal  kingdom lodge has unique african merchandise not available elsewhere.
in the sixties, walt began looking to the east coast, for a place with enough space to hold all of the ideas his team could dream up.
why is it mco and not orl?
the one that takes the cake  iscinderella's royal table, inside the castle in the magic kingdom,  which is usually booked solid within minutes of reservations opening.
getting around walt disney world is easy and often fun.
if you have an extra $250 to spend, consider renting a private cabana for the day; they come with towels, lockers, a cabana attendant, and all the bottled water you can drink.
both parks are big enough to spend several hours sliding, floating, or just soaking up the sun.
a golf cart  must be used, but it is included in your greens fee.
essentially, when you make an adr, you are reserving a spot on the restaurant's waiting list.
unless you live nearby, four days is  considered thebare minimum length of visit to even begin to experience  the resort; some people stay as long as two weeks and still bypass some  attractions.
the platinum package adds to that a spa treatment, a  fireworks cruise, and more.
if you're stuck at home and dying to get some merchandise from the parks, you're in luck: like everything else, food is expensive at walt disney world.
route 111, from the transportation and ticket center to the  florida mall and orlando international airport.
hot dogs!" — mickey mouse, from the  karnival kid (1929) like everything else, food is expensive at walt disney world.
hurricanes, though, are a different story.
if your vacation dates are flexible, plan to arrive to the orlando area on  thursday.
the theming is straightforward but fun and evocative of the appropriate time and place, from the louisiana bayou at port orleans-riverside to the warm caribbean colors of the caribbean beach.
you won't find dirt or peeling paint or run-down mechanics at a disney park, not even at the oldest attractions.
and if you just want to have a drink with dinner, most of the restaurants on property offer at least a few alcoholic options—though you won't findany in the magic kingdom.
the cost is $11.50 per hour per child, with a two-hour minimum; dinner is included if the kids are there between 6pm and 8pm.
victoria and albert's at thegrand floridian also strongly suggests adrs so that you can get a menu  customized to your tastes.
[2] the most important thing to understand about the walt disney world resort is that it was designed to befun for everyone.
recent additions to the park includesoarin', a ride where  visitors "hang-glide" through many landscapes, andmission: space , a centrifugal spaceflight simulator.
each of its four theme parks is big enough to occupy visitors for a full day (and often two, depending on crowds).
there are infinite variations possible, but this remains what most people mean when they talk of "going to disney world".
that said, climate problems are well known at walt disney world and there are several means to cope (see"weather" in the stay safe section).
its location across the street from the hertz and  thrifty rental-car lots makes it a tempting top-off-the-tank stop, but be sure  you take note of the pump price, which is usually $1.50-$2higher than  the local average.
most often, character greetings will happen in the parks, in particular the  magic kingdom, but they can happen just about anywhere!
routes 300–306 are commuter routes with very limited service: route 300, from downtown disney to downtown orlando.
some tours and special events have unique pins that can only be obtained by participants.
unlike most ordinary water parks, each has a unique central theme.
room service, where available, also takes two table-service credits, except for pizza delivery.
however, there  are no parking lot trams available, so be prepared to walk.
as  with most things, the essence of walt disney world lies near the intersection  of those three views.
the value resorts are all-star movies, all-star sports, and all-star music near animal kingdom; and art of animation and pop century near hollywood studios.
the disney parks have rides, sure, but many of them are quite sedate and can be enjoyed by everyone, not just those with a high tolerance for thrills.
the walt disney world swan and walt disney world dolphin, located nearepcot and not far from hollywood studios, have most of the amenities of disney resorts but are operated by starwood hotels, under the westin and sheraton banners (respectively).
deluxe hotels might provide copies of the localnewspaper, the orlando sentinel; ask at the front desk.
you can often feed your whole family for little more than the cost of one  expensive entrée at any of the upscale restaurants.
their prices are quite reasonable, though, considering their location.
the "wine and dine" option offered in previous years is no longer available.
to ensure freshness, carry it in an insulated lunch box or bag.
you'll get your key to the world card, so you can go enjoy the parks right away.
if you find yourself eating lunch within this time frame, expect to wait 30 minutes to an hour in line before being served, unless you have a reservation at a table service restaurant.
although none of the resorts can really be called cheap—in fact, most of them are luxurious and priced accordingly—the least expensive resorts have rooms for as little as $82 a night in the off-season.
visitors from higher latitudes are  often surprised by the sheerintensity of the summer sun in florida,  which can rise to within a few degrees of straight overhead in june and july.
in the summer, you also get to listen to the kids complain about the heat.
the "typical" visit involves flying into orlando international airport, busing to an on-site disney hotel, spending about a week without leaving disney property, and returning home.
children must be potty trained and be between the ages of 4 and 12 (inclusive).
make sure you (and especially your kids) don't trade these pins away without  getting something really nice in return—but even then, think very  carefully.
keep in mind, though, that you'll be doing a lot of walking within the parks, especially at epcot and animal kingdom, so don't tire yourself out early!
if you will be arriving from a cruise atport canaveral , florida state road 528 gets you to i-4, with orlando international  airport and the turnpike en route.
keep in mind, though, that florida department of  health regulations prohibit disney's culinary cast members from preparing, or  even handling, foods brought in by guests.
as in most places in the united states, english is the default  language throughout the walt disney world resort.
be flexible, though—once you've hit your priority attractions, you can go back and pick up more if you have time remaining.
but they also run their own shuttle buses and town cars that can take you to any of the local attractions or hotels.
it's all aboutsuspension of disbelief: total immersion into worlds of imagination, art, and history.
one of the specialty foods here are thebeignets, medium-sized fried  french donuts covered in powdered sugar.
all you  need to do is follow the purple directional signs with black mickey mouse ears  to your destination.
then there's the food and the merchandise, which can be pricey, but not too bad considering where you are.
walt disney world also has several waterways which are used by ferryboats to transport guests.
if you're already on your vacation, you can visit guest relations at any park or downtown disney, or even your hotel concierge, to book your adrs.
alcoholic beverages may not be consumed outside of, or even removed from,  their designated places of purchase (i.e., alcohol purchased in disney's  hollywood studios cannot leave the park).
getting started is easy.
this causes attendance figures to be down, making it a perfect day to  visit the parks.
spanish is also very common in florida, and the us as a whole.
the deluxe resorts are the contemporary, the wilderness lodge , thepolynesian, and the grand floridian near the magic kingdom; theboardwalk inn, the yacht club, and the beach club near epcot, and the animal kingdom lodge near animal kingdom.
the above warning applies to the following attractions: stitch's great escape in the magic kingdom has the same restrictions, except for the prohibition on pregnant women.
speaking of christmas, the month of december may just be the most magical time of year at walt disney world.
many people continue to stick with the  tried-and-true phone call, though, because the operators can quickly suggest  and check for alternatives if your first choices aren't available.
+1 407 938-0600 u-save at the best western in the hotel plaza.
[17] (scroll down to the section labeled "yester  world")
if you know of something that has changed, pleaseplunge forward and help it grow!
downtown disney is just what the doctor ordered: an outdoor  shopping, dining, and entertainment paradise, geared primarily toward adults.
you may walk,  drive, or ride public transit (in this case, buses, monorails, or ferryboats).
valet parking is available at deluxe resorts (see the sleep section) for  $12/day.
as an alternative, the shop will have the package  delivered to the front gate or to your on-site resort hotel free of charge, or  you can arrange for shipping back home for a fee.
all resorts have coin-operated laundry facilities, daily maid service, and at least one shop selling basic essentials and sundries.
route 56, from the transportation and ticket center to the osceola  square mall in kissimmee.
inclement weather can often lead to the temporary closure of outdoor rides  and live performances.
also keep in mind that guests in wheelchairs have first priority when boarding.
attendance is lowest in october, november (pre-thanksgiving), december (pre-christmas), and january.
maybe do some shopping, have a quiet meal, or get away from the kids and go out dancing.
studios have a kitchenette; the suites have full kitchens, and the largest ones, grand villas, have full dining rooms.
if none of that strikes your fancy, check out some of  the lesser-known activities: golf, tennis, boating, race car driving, spas and  health clubs, backstage tours, sporting events, character dining, and much more.
among the attractions are a few exceptional thrill rides, most notably the twilight zone tower of terror (which drops you 13 stories) and the rock 'n' roller coaster starring aerosmith (which launches you 0–60 in 2.8 seconds).
there is a $10 fee for each adult beyond two per room.
this is particularly true when you might be arriving from miami  or other points south.
cast members, who usually are multilingual, will  be available here to answer any questions you may have.
or, if a change in travel plans will not allow the user to utilize all purchased days prior to the ticket's expiration date, the "no-expiration" option can be purchased for the remaining days.
(it's no coincidence that these events are scheduled during otherwise-slow periods for the parks.)epcot has two months-long events: the epcot international flower & garden festival runs from march to mid-may, and theepcot international food & wine festival runs from october through mid-november.
no alcoholic beverages may be brought in to any of the theme parks.
the bus routes are set up to facilitate travel from a resort to a park, but not from one resort to another or from one park to another.
[edit][add listing] drink once upon a time, pleasure island was a hot and happening nightspot,  right on disney property—and after a certain hour you knew there'd be no  kids around.
the most reliable way to do so is to keep an eye out for cast members wearing pin lanyards.
blizzard beach brings to life the absurdity of what would happen if a ski resort suddenly melted, while typhoon lagoon makes use of the runoff from a tropical storm for sliding and floating fun.
the  counter-service restaurants are on par with most chain fast-food joints in  quality, but significantly more expensive in price.
if you purchase a snowglobe and will be traveling by air, ask your  sales representative for one of two options: package it securely so you can  place it in checked luggage, or have it shipped back to your home for a fee.
if you are staying at a hotel off disney property, on the other hand, a car is strongly recommended.
if you are traveling with a stroller, you must take your child  out of the stroller, then fold it and hand-carry it onto the vehicle.
if you purchase a snowglobe and will be traveling by air, ask your sales representative for one of two options: package it securely so you can place it in checked luggage, or have it shipped back to your home for a fee.
sometimes overlooked by shoppers are the various resorts.
food is easier than easy to find in all four theme parks.
although none  of the resorts can really be called cheap—in fact, most of them are  luxurious and priced accordingly—the least expensive resorts have rooms  for as little as $82 a night in the off-season.
these are disney's moderate resorts.
the four championship courses require standard golf attire, and metal cleats are not allowed.
don't make the  mistake of staying away just because you don't have kids.
walt disney world lies at the heart of an archetypal floridian paradise , with enough attractions and activities outside of disney property to fill a good-sized book.
sassagoula floatworks and food factory, port orleans-french quarter .
the sheer number of attractions—including rides, stage shows,  parades, and fireworks displays—at walt disney world's four theme parks  can be intimidating to guests.
the rest of the boardwalk also stays brightly lit until late at night, with sidewalk cafes, strolling magicians, and other quaint beach-style nightlife.
this route travels between the transportation and ticket  center and the epcot gates.
if you're not staying at a disney resort, or aren't coming in via orlando international or disney cruise line, you do have some other choices.
the most convenient resort for this purpose is disney's saratoga springs resort, which is right next door to downtown disney; you can get there via a pedestrian bridge, bus, or ferry.
if you are staying on-site, a car is not necessary, unless you wish to travel off-property during your stay.
a single stroller rents for $15, or $13/day for multi-day rentals.
also keep in mind that guests in wheelchairs  have first priority when boarding.
it's a small world, after all walt disney world and verizon wireless have teamed up to introduce a number  of amenities formobile phone users.
and remember that it's hot inside those character costumes; sometimes the character has to leave even if there are people still waiting to say hello.
the newest tour offering is thewild africa trek atanimal kingdom, which will let you go on-foot into some remote areas of the park's african savanna and forest.
depending on your point of origin, theflorida turnpike can be quite useful.
you can only have one fastpass at a time, so you won't avoidevery line, but it can still be a great time-saver.
lodging and  food costs are indisputably cheaper—often significantly so, with frequent  discounts.
the new park would be calledepcot  center, though it bore little resemblance to walt's original plans.
for verizon customers with android phones or iphones, disney mobile magic is an interactive theme park map application complete with features such as games, messages from disney characters, and finding wait times for rides.
still, it's not your  typical amusement park fare; some of them are in fact quite good, and there's a  lot of variety to be had.
simply put, if you can't find something fun to do at walt disney world, you just aren't trying hard enough.
walt disney world's first decade passed quickly, and by the time of its  "tencennial" celebration in 1981, a new theme park was being built in  the space walt had envisioned for epcot.
the magic kingdom does  have the widest variety of characters, though; everyone frommickey mouse tocaptain jack sparrow.
at the yacht club resort (adjacent to the boardwalk), bayside marina offers searaycers, pontoon boats, and a variety of chartered cruises, including anilluminations fireworks cruise to epcot.
typhoon lagoon and blizzard beach are served by the downtown disney and animal kingdom routes respectively.
if you want to get in to any of the restaurants mentioned above,especially cinderella's royal table, start dialing at 6:55 on the first day you can make the reservation, and keep hitting redial until you stop getting told they're closed.
this strategy can easily save you time, fuel, and aggravation.
the lands are, starting from the main entrance and going clockwise around  cinderella castle: main street usa, adventureland, frontierland, liberty  square, fantasyland, and tomorrowland.
if the parks do end up closed for high winds, though, your resort hotel will make sure you stay entertained, sometimes with special appearances from the disney characters.
however, what they don't always realize is that some of the hotels' most delicious and unique foods can be found in their food courts and smaller dining areas—and they're cheap, too.
the counter-service restaurants are on par with most chain fast-food joints in quality, but significantly more expensive in price.
perhaps the greatest  perk of staying at disney's contemporary resort is the monorail station located  conveniently in the atrium.
check out some of these hidden gems: once upon a time, pleasure island was a hot and happening nightspot, right on disney property—and after a certain hour you knew there'd be no kids around.
most of the entertainment activities are found ondowntown disney west side ; the featured attraction is the cirque du soleil show la nouba .
the disney dining plan is accepted at any disney-run restaurant on the property except victoria and albert's.
despite the closures at pleasure island, don't think walt disney world is  completely devoid of nightclubs these days.
both friday and saturday are transition days for park visitors, especially in the summer months.
if the crowds get too heavy or the weather gets too hot, smart guests staying on-site head back to their hotels to relax, grab a snack, or take a swim, then return later in the day.
downtown disney is just what the doctor ordered: an outdoor shopping, dining, and entertainment paradise, geared primarily toward adults.
and if it's peak season, better safe than sorry; without an adr you may find yourself searching high and low for a table even at 8pm.
all of the resorts have a gift shop of some sort, but many go further.
the abc commissary at hollywood studios has a surprisingly international menu, andtoy story pizza planet in the same park has arcade games to pass the time.
if your trip is in the late summer or early fall, you'll soon learn about thedaily afternoon thundershowers.
hopper option, which allows you to enter multiple theme parks on the same day as many times as you like.
thegrand canyon concourse on the fourth floor of disney's contemporary resort, underneath the monorail platform, has several specialty shops selling merchandise such as jewelry, sundries, and housewares.
you can also  add thewater park fun & more option, which grants admission to the  two disney water parks as well as other attractions.
[edit] meet the characters especially for kids, character greetings are one of the most  exciting reasons to visit disney world.
if you're sure you're going to use the benefits these packages provide, they may just be worth the extra cost.
chili and cheese fries are  $4.50.
downtown disney is  divided into three sections.
you can get a basket ofcheese fries for $4.00.
disney resort guests (those staying on-site at disney hotels) are  usually best served by getting package deals that include both lodging and  admission.
there is also an inherent risk to you as a buyer, because you don't know for certain how many days remain on the ticket.
certainly downtown disney is still a vibrant and active place at  night.
they do a great job of getting large numbers of guests from place to place, but they're also quite comfortable and fun to ride.
much of the technology was already in use at  disneyland—peoplemovers and monorails, for instance—but these would  not be amusement rides.
deluxe resorts will have more extensive "health club" facilities—in particular, the grand floridian's health club, attached to the spa, is quite spacious.
everything at walt disney world is carefully constructed and  choreographed to maintain your perceptions of visiting an idealized world.
billboards along interstate highways in florida and even southern georgia  promote the availability of cut-rate admission tickets for walt disney world  and other central florida theme parks.
parking is  free, though, for guests staying at any of the on-site disney resorts (your key  to the world card serves as your parking ticket), or who have a valid annual  pass.
many people treat these more as souvenirs than commodities.
the four theme park lots are huge, and are divided into subsections; this is to enable you to remember your car's location.
dedicated traders carry a supply of common pins for just  this purpose.
many off-resort hotels offer shuttle service to the parks, but the schedules may not be convenient.
[17] (scroll down to the section labeled "yester world")
at the high-end of disney dining, you'll find some options on par with the best in the country, including perhaps the fanciest restaurant in all ofcentral florida, victoria and albert's at the grand floridian.
[edit] prices walt disney world uses a four-part "dollar sign" dining price  classification system: $: $14.99 and under $$$: $30 – $75.99 $$$$: $76+ most counter service restaurants have $ ratings, and most table service  restaurants are either $$ or $$$.
[edit] when to visit there used to be some times of year when the parks were relatively  deserted, but not so much anymore.
at the bottom you'll find portable food carts and fast counter-service (or  "quick-service" in disney's parlance) options.
the  1990s-era revival ofthe mickey mouse club (the one that gave  britney spears and justin timberlake their starts) was filmed entirely at the  production facilities inside disney-mgm studios (now hollywood studios).full  house, roseanne, family matters, and sabrina the teenage  witch are among the sitcoms (mostly on disney-owned abc) with  episodes showing the characters visiting walt disney world.
now they just varyfrom "moderately busy" to "completely insane".
for a flat additional fee, the  plan allows guests a set number of meals per person per night of their stay.
the streets  are almost sparkling and the buildings look brand new no matter what time of  the day or year you are there.
[edit] rent several car rental agencies have locations on walt disney world property: alamo and national, which are both owned by the same  company, have dual locations in three places: wdw car care center (near the magic kingdom toll plaza), +1 407 824-3470 walt disney world dolphin hotel, +1 407 934-4930 buena vista palace (in the downtown disney hotel plaza), +1 407 827-6363 avis at the hilton in the hotel plaza.
epcot — a sort of "permanent world's fair", epcot  is dedicated to both international culture and technological innovation.
however, this site will only contain basic park  information like park hours and entertainment schedules, and will only provide  limited information about wait times and fastpass return times.
at  disney's boardwalk, look for thewyland galleries, with underwater-themed  prints and paintings, featuring the work of the artist wyland.
when you arrive at the restaurant at your reserved time, you will  immediately be placed at the top of the waiting list and get the next available  table suitable for your party.
this is particularly true when you might be arriving from miami or other points south.
he found such a place incentral florida, southwest of the sleepy city oforlando.
if you're stuck at home and dying to get some merchandise from the parks,  you're in luck: walt disney world mail order, ☎
this causes attendance figures to be down, making it a perfect day to visit the parks.
another fun option,  if you can find it, is 1990'sthe muppets at walt disney world,  which was intended as a precursor to disney's purchase of themuppets (which finally happened in 2004).
the various resort hotels, and the attractions and restaurants found within, are grouped with the nearest park.
if you have seven-day tickets, it only costs about $7.50 a day to add this option; the value of being able to visit one park in the morning and another in the evening should not be underestimated.
if you have a problem standing too long, or if walking on the hot pavement  makes your feet ache, renting a wheelchair or ecv can make a big difference.
as in most places in the united states, english is the default language throughout the walt disney world resort.
there is a $15 fee for each adult beyond two per room.
source: tea/aecom theme index 2010
thespa  at disney's saratoga springs near downtown disney recalls the heyday of  saratoga springs, new york, with its healing mineral baths.
[13] is a public bus service of the central florida regional  transportation authority.
if you miss out on random encounters with the characters, be sure to look  intocharacter dining options.
they're  quite hefty, so be careful when picking one up.
one of this food  court's specialties is therotisserie chicken in the bridgetown broiler  section.
at disney's boardwalk, look for thewyland galleries, with underwater-themed prints and paintings, featuring the work of the artist wyland.
on the other hand, if spectator sports are more your speed, you may want to  check out theespn wide world of sports, a state-of-the-art sports  complex nearhollywood studios.
it is also possible to walk to the ttc from disney's wilderness lodge, which is not connected to the monorail.
tickets are sold at several levels: themagic your way base tickets cover the cost of visiting one of the four theme parks a day for each day of the ticket.
the monorail service is limited and only goes to certain areas, all originating from thetransportation and ticket center (ttc).
the hess stations on disney property do charge market rate for their fuel, unlike a few orlando gas stations where the cost of fuel is still outrageous despite the recent drop in gas prices.
florida state road 417 connects the airport to interstate 4.
restaurants frequently get cancellations, so don't be afraid to ask if that  popular restaurant you've had your eye on has an opening tomorrow, especially
more than60,000 different pin designs have been produced since the beginning.
these  are not traditional amusement parks, where age is a hindrance to full  enjoyment.
walt disney had created not just an amusement park, where children could ride kiddie rides while their parents watched from a bench, but the world's firsttheme park, a place where children and grown-ups couldboth have fun, together.
character appearances tend to be surprises (to avoid huge lines), so keep a close eye out.
victoria and albert's at thegrand floridian also strongly suggests adrs so that you can get a menu customized to your tastes.
attendance figures pick up for that  park on saturday.
many of these promotions require the buyer to tour a time-share resort and sit through a high-pressure sales pitch for the property prior to getting the tickets.
wheelchairs can be brought up to the loading area of most rides, where you'll usually need to transfer to the ride vehicle.
troublesome souvenirs bear in mind that snowglobes, a very popular gift item found at walt disney world, maynot be brought into an airplane cabin, under department of homeland security regulations concerning the transport of liquids, gels, and aerosols.
you'll find a variety of live shows and attractions based on  disney, pixar, and lucasfilm productions.
of course, if you do have kids, the best part of your walt disney world vacation is in experiencing the parks through their eyes.
hotel amenities include multiple full-service and casual restaurants, often with character dining; full room service; extensive pool and beach facilities with plenty of extras; numerous on-site recreation activities; and valet parking.
[edit] by train amtrak's [8] silver service miami–new york city  routes serveorlando and kissimmee.
consider what you may be missing if you choose to get a fastpass.