if you take your pictures early in the  morning or too late in the afternoon, the colour may be yellow.
in other circumstances one needs to use a zoom that covers the range from 40 to 100 mm, in order to take clean full-frame pictures.
others argue that only action-shots  (at least one wheel must not touch the earth) are unique.
you must have at least 'some' sun, and the sun must  light up the fuselage from the side.
others argue that only action-shots (at least one wheel must not touch the earth) are unique.
boeing 767 caravelle concorde dc 8 dc 10 md 11 tristar fokker all information on the aircraft can be found on the fuselage and the tail, so be sure to take your photo from the side, in a way that all titles and the registration are fully visible, and not faded by the reflections from the sun.
as distinct from prints, which may be reproduced in unlimited ways, good aviation slides (and colour negatives) can be valuable collectors-items, especially when the depicted subject is very old or rare.
for shots on the apron, when  the photographer is free to move, a standard 50mm-lens is excellent.
the time to take landing-shots is very limited, and each photo is different from the other ...
if you do use another film, understand  that your possibilities of exchanging or trading slides will be very limited.
you must have at least 'some' sun, and the sun must light up the fuselage from the side.
all information on the aircraft can be found on the fuselage and the tail,  so be sure to take your photo from the side, in a way that all titles and the  registration are fully visible, and not faded by the reflections from the sun.
avoid using  your camera in the hours close to midday, generally the sun will be too high in  the sky and the lower parts of the fuselage will not be properly lit.
photo pages what is a good slide ?
one good habit to get into is to line yourself up with the main landing gear  and this position should yield great results for most aircraft allowing you a  full view of the colour scheme and the registration.
in order to make a good-looking photo or slide, do not use your camera in  poor weather-conditions.
one word about the film to use - without giving an opinion on which slide-film gives the best results, the fact is that a large majority of photographers use kodachrome 25 or 64.
if you do use another film, understand that your possibilities of exchanging or trading slides will be very limited.
jan laporte & joseph pries
casslides lists west  airbus 300 airbus 310 airbus  319 airbus 320 airbus 321 airbus 330 airbus 340 bae  146 bae 1-11 boeing 707 boeing 727 boeing 737 boeing  747 boeing 757 boeing 767 caravelle concorde dc 8  dc 10 md 11 tristar fokker cas slides lists east  antonov 12 antonov 124 ilyushin 18 ilyushin 62 ilyushin  76 tupolev 134 tupolev 154 back to the intro what is a good slide?
it is the one that gives the most information on  the individual aircraft and it's the one that satisfies the most from an  aesthetically point of view.
the time to take  landing-shots is very limited, and each photo is different from the other ...
when the plane sits on the apron area, no clutter or fences may obstruct your  view of the aircraft and all doors must be closed and stairs must be removed.
what is a good photo ?
whether one is making photos or slides,  every aviation photographer wants to make the best possible picture.
casslides lists west airbus 300 airbus 310 airbus 319 airbus 320 airbus 321 airbus 330 airbus 340 bae 146 bae 1-11 boeing 707 boeing 727 boeing 737
most collectors prefer the aircraft standing on the apron, or on a taxi- or runway, taken from a good photo-position.
boeing 767 caravelle concorde dc 8 dc 10 md 11 tristar fokkercasslides lists west airbus 300 airbus 310 airbus 319 airbus 320 airbus 321 airbus 330 airbus 340 bae 146 bae 1-11 boeing 707 boeing 727 boeing 737
for shots on the apron, when the photographer is free to move, a standard 50mm-lens is excellent.
this  inconvenience will become more troublesome the closer one approaches the  equator.
also, be sure to always focus your shot perfectly and make sure that you are lined up properly with the horizon because no one likes to look at a crooked photo.
most aviation-photographers use a 35mm camera.
avoid using your camera in the hours close to midday, generally the sun will be too high in the sky and the lower parts of the fuselage will not be properly lit.
in order to make a good-looking photo or slide, do not use your camera in poor weather-conditions.
if you take your pictures early in the morning or too late in the afternoon, the colour may be yellow.
as distinct from prints, which may be reproduced in unlimited ways, good  aviation slides (and colour negatives) can be valuable collectors-items,  especially when the depicted subject is very old or rare.
one good habit to get into is to line yourself up with the main landing gear and this position should yield great results for most aircraft allowing you a full view of the colour scheme and the registration.
most collectors prefer the aircraft standing on the apron, or on a taxi- or  runway, taken from a good photo-position.
in other  circumstances one needs to use a zoom that covers the range from 40 to 100 mm,  in order to take clean full-frame pictures.
when the plane sits on the apron area, no clutter or fences may obstruct your view of the aircraft and all doors must be closed and stairs must be removed.
this inconvenience will become more troublesome the closer one approaches the equator.
also, be sure to always focus your shot perfectly and make sure that  you are lined up properly with the horizon because no one likes to look at a  crooked photo.
one word about the film to use - without giving an opinion on which  slide-film gives the best results, the fact is that a large majority of  photographers use kodachrome 25 or 64.
boeing 747 boeing 757