flowers are produced in spring in rather  large quantity for such a diminutive plant.
this lovely gem is a beautiful variety of hollyhock with fully-double, scarlet flowers on sturdy stems.
a good noninvasive substitute for the common milkweed, a. syriaca, in the garden.
[ more information ] acorus gramineus 'variegatus' common name: variegated sweet flag variegated sweet flag has grass-like foliage with a slowly spreading growth habit.
renowned for their incredibly  uniform growth and extended flowering habits, these columbines are also prized  for their dwarf stature, only reaching 12-16” tall.
this is a good choice for shade gardens, woodland  gardens, rock gardens and naturalized areas.
flowers are attractive to  early butterflies and other beneficial pollinators.
[ more information ] acinos alpinus common name: rock thyme, alpine calamint clusters of tubular purplish flowers appear at the end of each stem from late may through early june.
the beauty of this plant lies in the contrast of the purple spathe and the elegant white spadix.
it is slightly earlier than 'wood's blue'.
it is  commonly called dutchman's pipe because the unusual, 2" long flowers look  something like dutch smoking pipes.
especially in spring, the small, slow-growing, garden tree displays  outstanding, glowing color.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'pink lanterns' common name: wild columbine a shorter version of the species, this pink-flowered form of wild columbine is delicate and lovely.
this well-branched japanese maple has a  moderate growth habit and a broad crown in maturity, so it is appropriate for  shading small courtyards and patios.
blood red flowers, perhaps the deepest red of any cultivar, are borne above bronze foliage in early summer.
great for planters and in the  rock garden.
[  more information ] aquilegia olympica common name:  columbine this beautiful columbine species is rare in cultivation.
cardinals, chipmunks and squirrels eat the red, winged "helicopter" fruits.
tough and easy to grow, this sultry beauty is the right choice for perennial borders and woodlands alike.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky rose' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap a floriferous cultivar with deep rose flowers, ‘winky rose’ will certainly brighten up your garden -without even wearing rose-colored glasses!
combines well with other spring-blooming perennials such as polemonium, sisyrinchium and mertensia.
[ more information ] astilbe simplicifolia 'aphrodite' common name:
this great cultivar was first discovered in the garden of its namesake  m. jobert in verdun, france, in 1858.
though flowers are not as showy as florists' chrysanthemums, the numerous small, button-like, golden yellow flowers appear as a welcome burst of color in the late-autumn landscape.
[ more information ] allium  cernuum common name: nodding onion easy to identify by its  distinctive, nodding, pastel lilac-pink flowers in late spring, nodding onion  thrives in challenging sites such as hot sun and gravely soil.
great foundation shrub.
very hardy and drought tolerant once established.
its deep roots tenaciously hold the soil making it a great erosion buffer.
select plant type: view all types fern grass, sedge, carex perennial  shrub shrub: deciduous shrub: evergreen tree: deciduous tree: evergreen vine botanical name     common name a b c d e f g h
[ more information ] aquilegia chrysantha 'yellow queen' common name: golden columbine ‘yellow queen’ is a bushy, clump-forming perennial cultivar that typically grows 18-36” tall and features large (2-3”), upward facing, fragrant, bright yellow flowers with long, outward curving spurs.
this achillea is a vigorous grower that will quickly form a dense weed-blocking mat.
bronze-pink  foliage is more pronounced in early spring.
an excellent cut flower!
benefits: [ more information ] - nectar and sometime host plant for monarch butterflies - great nectar source for many other butterflies - thrives in sun in average or dry soil - deer resistant asclepias verticillata common name: horsetail milkweed a widely adaptable and tough native is a deer-resistant food for larval butterflies.
an agastache mexicana hybrid.
found in deciduous woods and along roadsieds of the eastern us.
one of the most adaptable  of the anemones.
star astilbe a heavy flowering selection, ‘white sensation’ certainly lives up to its name.
[ more information ] alcea rugosa common name: russian hollyhock a robust species of hollyhock from russia and ukraine with clear-yellow flowers on hairy stems above deeply-lobed leaves.
the starry, chartreuse flowers are held above the foliage in spring and make long-lasting cut flowers.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] acer  palmatum 'crimson queen' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple sculptural, cascading branches and finely dissected, colorful leaves make this  classic selection one of the finest of the deep red laceleafs.
[ more information ] acer palmatum  'butterfly' common name: variegated japanese maple this  vase-shaped tree has small, dainty, variegated (blue-green and white) leaves  with a light tinge of pink.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'honorine jobert' common name: japanese anemone ‘honorine jobert’ is a vigorous, fibrous-rooted, compact japanese anemone hybrid which typically grows 3-4’ tall, spreading by creeping rhizomes.
[ more information ] actaea rubra common name: red baneberry red baneberry is a  lovely woodland native with fine-textured foliage and a light and airy texture.
hollyhock exquisite double-flowered variety of hollyhock with peachy-yellow flowers  blushed with pink.
evergreen in mild winter regions.
slightly nodding flowers in late spring gracefully dance in the slightest breeze.
in the fall numerous flower stalks rise to 4 or 5 feet and each is covered with 1" pink daisy-like flowers.
upright with a beautiful formal appearance that really stands out in the shady garden.
‘mckana’s  giant’ has all the best qualities of its popular predecessor, but boasts  even larger flowers on robust plants (reaching nearly 3’ tall).
it is perhaps best utilized as a small  area ground cover.
amelanchier laevis is found in moist woods and meadows, but tolerates most any garden situation.
this lovely gem is a beautiful variety  of hollyhock with fully-double, scarlet flowers on sturdy stems.
the nectar of the flowers are attractive to all butterflies, but the plant specifically also serves as the host plant for monarch butterfly larvae.
‘woodside strain’ is a  knock-out cultivar that sports purple, blue, and sometimes white flowers atop  lush foliage marbled in gold and cream.
it is an extremely robust and vigorous plant that is well suited for naturalizing.
flowers are slightly nodding and have beautifully long spurs; great for cut flowers.
fluffy flower plumes are branched and droop at the tips for an elegant appearance.
native to all states east  of the rockies, but not found in louisiana.
[ more information ] amsonia x 'blue ice' common name: blue star this long-blooming, compact amsonia selected from  a. tabernaemontana seedlings at white flower farm is possibly a hybrid with the  taxonomically challenged a. montana or perhaps with the asian rhazya orientale.
makes excellent cut flowers in both dried and fresh  arrangments.
benefits: [ more information ] - grows quickly - provides dense shade - grows well in moist soil - host plant for pipevine swallowtail butterfly armeria juniperifolia common name: pyrenees sea thrift
foliage has a lacy effect, hence the cultivar name, and makes an effective accent throughout the growing season.
the outside of the spathe is usually green or purple and the inside is usually striped purple and greenish white, though considerable color variations exist.
the leaves of asarum have a spicy fragrance when crushed, but shouldn't be eaten.
if that weren’t enough, in autumn, the leaves transition to a brilliant mixture of gold, orange, and rust tones.
also a great addition to  containers!
it is strikingly  beautiful and is well-suited a formal or wild garden, as well as a natural  meadow.
the hood of the spathe is deep chocolate color,  while the white to yellow spadix is almost entirely enclosed.
a vigorous and  trouble-free grower, it is an excellent choice for the middle or back of the  border.
deeply-cut, arching, glossy green, spiny, thistle-like leaves (2-3' long) form an ornamental mound of long-stalked, basal foliage which usually remains attractive throughout the growing season.
this is a long-lived tree that grows relatively slowly.
orange to red fall foliage is spectacular and long lasting.
protect this maple from  intense sunlight.
a ground-hugging, creeping plant that is quite useful as a ground  cover or for containers.
a robust grower with very few pest or pathogen  problems.
[ more information ] asarum canadense common name: wild ginger wild ginger is a native spring wildflower that makes a lovely groundcover with its satiny, heart-shaped leaves.
it is a cross between a. coccinea and a. rupestris, hybridized by richard dufresne of north carolina.
deep red and yellow nodding flowers top blue-green foliage  for many weeks in spring.
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'coronation gold' common name: yarrow clear yellow flowers arise from sturdy stems from june-august.
[ more information ] about us : gateway garden club :
a stronger, more statuesque sister of aster 'prince' that will thrive in average soil in sun or part shade, but shows best foliage coloration in full sun.
pollinated by ants, its unique purplish brown flowers appear beneath the leaves in spring.
championed by panayoti kelaidis of the denver botanic gardens.
its vigorous, multi-branched habit produces sturdy limbs and rigid twigs, and the autumn show of red, yellow, and orange will take your breath away.
new england aster selected many years ago in germany, this new england aster produces warm, deep pink blooms without interruption for 4-6 weeks, beginning in early september.
more compact than the species, 'corbett' is about a foot tall and heavily branched, sporting many flowers on a single plant.
a great  choice for a spiky texture in mixed containers!
it's wonderful for xeriscaping, in coastal areas, fall and winter cut stems and restoration.
large, upward facing flowers  are also great as long lasting cut flowers.
that japanese beetles don't like - - for email marketing you can trust gift cards garden center hours mon-sat 9-5 sun 10-5 directions our plants welcome to gateway garden center's plant database.
[ more information ] armeria maritima 'rubrifolia' common name: seathrift, common thrift a low-growing, clump-forming, compact plant featuring small, rosy-pink flowers in tight, globular clusters atop wiry, unbranched, 6-10" stems rising up from a dense, rounded mat of stiff, grass-like, purplish-red leaves, which slowly spread to 12" wide.
the bluish foliage is deeply cut and fern-like.
the large flowers, in comparison to its diminuative foliage, arise in late spring to early summer and completely envelop the foliage for an unforgettable show.
the roots are edible and can be used as a flavoring like ginger.
aster 'lady in black' is an elegant 3-4' mound of purplish- black strappy leaves smothered in red-centered tiny white daisies in late summer and early fall.
[ more information ] amorpha  canescens common name: leadplant amorpha canescens is a small  shrubby plant that is graced with long spikes of clear purple flowers from july  to september.
[ more information  ] anemone blanda 'white splendour' common name: grecian  windflower ‘white splendour’ features lovely, single, daisy-like flowers  (to 2”) with showy, creamy white sepals and yellow centers on plants  reaching a height of only 4-6”.
[ more information ] agastache rugosa 'honey bee blue' common name: true to name, this selection is a magnate for bees, butterflies, and other beneficial insects, with intense blue flowers and aromatic gray-green foliage.
hummingbirds love it!
‘mckana’s giant’ has all the best qualities of its popular predecessor, but boasts even larger flowers on robust plants (reaching nearly 3’ tall).
it bears single white flowers (2-3” across) with  yellow centers on graceful, wiry stems over attractive dark green foliage  mounds.
it is upright, somewhat shrubby and quite cold tolerant.
it is a vigorous, fibrous-rooted, compact grower that reaches a maximum height of 3’ tall and spreads by creeping rhizomes.
sweet flag likes boggy conditions and can be grown in shallow water at pond edge, but is also at home in an average garden, though less vigorous.
in containers it benefits from one or two early cut backs.
the flower  structure consists of the spadix (jack), which is an erect spike containing  numerous inconspicuous flowers, and the sheath-like spathe (pulpit), which  encases the lower part of the spadix and then opens to form a hood extending  over the top of the spadix.
selected by goodness grows nursery in lexington, ga, it  is an excellent selection for the heat and humidity of the southeast, and has  done beautifully here in pennsylvania as well.
the fine-textured foliage provides a dark green backdrop for the clusters of white flowers that appear in june and july.
[ more information ] anemone sylvestris common name: snowdrop anemone delicate nodding white flowers in late spring atop lustrous green dense foliage.
benefits: first tree to bloom, drawing all kinds of pollinators insect eating birds visit the tree to feed on the pollinators seeds are great food for birds and chipmunks provides cover and nest sites for all kinds of birds outstanding fall color and grows in wet soil [ more information  ] acer saccharum common name: sugar maple sugar maple has a dense, rounded crown and is one of the trees responsible for  giving new england its reputation for spectacular fall color, as the medium  green leaves turn brilliant yellow or red-orange in autumn.
in containers it benefits from one or two early  cut backs.
cardinals, chipmunks and squirrels eat the red, winged "helicopter"  fruits.
tough and easy to grow, this beauty is the right choice for perennial borders and woodlands alike.
it is commonly called dutchman's pipe because the unusual, 2" long flowers look something like dutch smoking pipes.
makes an excellent cut flower, but care should be taken not to get any sap on open wounds.
easy, dependable and very drought tolerant once established.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky rose' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap a floriferous cultivar with deep rose flowers, ‘winky rose’  will certainly brighten up your garden -without even wearing rose-colored  glasses!
it is shorter than other selections at 18" and  a very vigorous grower.
the series was named  for their upward-facing flowers (as if they are “winking” at you).
the tips of the sepals have a delicately ragged  appearance.
[ more information ] anchusa azurea 'loddon royalist' common name: italian alkanet a coarse textured, clump-forming perennial with airy terminal spikes of  deep blue, flowers (to ¾”) which resemble forget-me-nots in  general appearance.
the cheery flowers of this plant are a vibrant magenta-red and are excellent cut and dried flowers.
blue flowers in spring on 6" tall spikes are a favorite of bees and the earliest butterflies.
staking may be  necessary, especially to keep plants upright after a rain.
the jack-in-the-pulpit  is a spring woodland wildflower usually growing 1- 2' tall.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'black scallop' common name: bugleweed black scallop  is a stoloniferous, mat-forming, bugleweed cultivar that is noted for its (1)  dark maroon-purple leaves with scalloped margins, (2) fragrant dark violet  flowers and (3) compact but spreading habit.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'bronze beauty' common name:
[more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'august light' common name: false spirea ‘august light’ is noted for its scarlet red flowers.
yellow-green leaves brighten shadier spots through  summer, before putting on orange and red hues in fall.
a beautiful cut flower!
'massachusetts' flowers and fruits abundantly and is a  disease-resistant selection with smaller leaves than the species.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'burgandy glow' common name: bugleweed like all ajugas, 'burgundy glow' makes for an excellent ground cover in sun or  shade.
typical bluish-purple ajuga flowers appear in spring on spikes rising slightly above the foliage to 3" tall.
it has been billed as a running painted fern, but we have found it to be mostly green with red tones along the stem.
contact us sign up for gateway email - - - all plants - plant finder - fern - grass, sedge, carex - perennial - shrub - shrub: deciduous - shrub: evergreen - tree: deciduous - tree: evergreen - vine - - - building a pond - tap water basics - aquatic plants - pumps - filtration - cleaning your pond - fish - - - - gardening links & resources - how much
spadix like flowers appear in june and  july, followed by dark berries.
[ more information  ] agastache x 'golden jubilee' common name: definately a wow! plant.
it has been highly popular in european gardens ever since and remains the most popular and highly sought after white anemone today.
this is the most compact of the group,  with a tight rounded habit.
though native to rocky woods and slopes, wild columbine thrives in average or even moist garden conditions.
fireland' is a  vigorous grower with brick red flowers that fade to deep orange throughout the  summer.
long, cascading branches produce spring foliage that is bright crimson and summer foliage that turns dark, purple-red and retains its color even in hot, humid summers.
found in woods and dry meadows.
[ more information ] amelanchier  laevis common name: allegheny serviceberry allegheny serviceberry  is a native tree for all seasons.
excellent addition to the rock garden.
it starts blooming in early july and continues until late september on wiry 24-36” stems.
they retain the strong red, even tolerating the heat of  summer, although shaded inner leaves may appear green.
artostaphyllos is lovely draped over the edge of a wall  or large rock.
in fall,  older leaves exhibit a deep bronze coloring while the younger leaves contrast  well with lighter hues of rose.
lilac flowers appear on 4-6" flower spikes and form a breathtaking  wave of color in spring.
beautiful  in the garden or naturalized in a meadow.
[ more information ] arbutus menziesii common name: pacific madrone this tree has it all - colorful exfoliating bark, white flowers that attract hummingbirds and native woodland butterflies, bright red berries that feed the birds and other woodland critters in the fall and winter.
[ more  information ] ajuga reptans 'silver queen' common name: ajuga 'silver queen' is a very attractive ground cover with variegated  foliage.
its upright habit produces a large shrub or a small tree, either of which boasts bright green bark.
its leaves play occasional host to the larvae of viceroy, striped hairstreak, and canadian tiger swallowtail butterflies.
benefits: [ more information ] - compact plant that makes an excellent hedge and provides cover for wildlife -
the series was named for their  upward-facing flowers (as if they are “winking” at you).
striking salmon-red flowers arise nearly 2’ tall and contrast well against the dark green leaves.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'color flash' common name: false spirea like all astilbes, ‘color flash’ bears beautiful flowers.
[ more information ] amelanchier alnifolia common name: western serviceberry clusters of fragrant white flowers emerge in early april just before the small, light-green, oval leaves appear attracting clouds of nectar seeking native butterflies.
[ more information ] agastache x 'blue fortune' common name: anise hyssop selected for its profusion of long lasting, deep violet blue flower spikes, that appear from july to september and fragrant foliage.
as with other agastaches, very attractive to hummingbirds and butterflies of all types.
leaves age to light green with new fronds appearing throughout the season.
the incredibly popular winky series of columbines have become cherished garden favorites in recent years.
[ more information ] acer shirasawanum 'aureum' common name: golden fullmoon maple the golden full moon maple is highly regarded for its beautifully shaped, colorful leaves.
the licorice-scented foliage enhances the charm of the flowers  when used in seasonal arrangements.
as heralds of spring, grecian windflowers are one of the earliest  flowers to emerge each year, just when cabin fever is the strongest!
this is a long-lived tree that grows  relatively slowly.
in spring, the soft, pendant chartreuse leaves on this small, rounded tree  sport dramatic edges of persimmon red, an effect that looks like many dainty  leaf-hands with brightly painted "nails", in summer, the foliage  continues to demand attention as it develops wide, deep-red margins and  light-cream centers.
stems of  the compact 'pretty belinda' do not tend to flop as much as some of the taller  a. millefolium cultivars.
a superb rock garden, wall garden, container, and trough garden plant.
flowers are ruffled like a petticoat and are nearly twice the size of many japanese anemones.
drought tolerant once established.
a vigorous and trouble-free grower, it is an excellent choice for the middle or back of the border.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'mckana's giant' common name: hybrid  columbine the mckana series of columbine hybrids were originally released in the  mid-1950s and have been highly popular ever since, bearing large flowers in a  kaleidoscope of pastel colors on tall, upright plants.
great for stabilizing pond edges or filling a boggy area.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'rose creek' common name: abelia one of  the smallest abelias to date.
larger flowers than many cultivars of  ajuga, the floral display is not only stunning, it is a magnate for butterflies  and bees.
a strong growing low mound of bushy foliage covered in lavender blue flowers in mid fall.
'summer wine' is a vigorous grower with deep  wine-colored flowers that fade to rose pink throughout the summer.
this is the larval  host plant for the blue and black pipevine swallowtail butterfly.
perfect for  the back of the border, as an accent plant, or for cutting gardens.
the relatively large flowers appear in late summer to early fall.
easy, dependable and very drought  tolerant once established.
[ more information ] achillea x 'fireland  (feuerland)' common name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree  garden plant that spreads easily to fill available space.
reddish-pink flower  bracts are held through fall and winter.
'red sunset' is one of the best cultivars available, with outstanding orange to red fall color.
the  nectar attracts butterflies and other pollinators.
when happy aruncus can be a formidable garden plant, reaching a spread of 6 feet or more.
no insect or pest problems with these babies.
reddish-pink flower bracts are held  through fall and winter.
'summer wine' is a vigorous grower with deep wine-colored flowers that fade to rose pink throughout the summer.
flowers are slightly nodding and have beautifully long spurs;  great for cut flowers.
the  elegant, mounding plant produces a dense, broadly spreading structure that  makes a dramatic impact near water, on a bank or in a courtyard scene.(iseli  nursery)  [ more information ] acer palmatum 'emperor one' common name: japanese maple
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'pretty belinda' common name: yarrow noted for its lilac-pink flowers, ferny aromatic foliage, and compact size, this selection would make a wonderful addition to your garden.
[ more information ] achillea x 'fireland (feuerland)' common name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree garden plant that spreads easily to fill available space.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'nigra' common name:
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'little lanterns' common name: canadian columbine replacing canyon vista as our compact red-stemmed selection, little lanterns is short in stature, but free with flowers.
this tough,  floriferous beauty is a must for every perennial border, with very few pest or  pathogen problems.
commonly called dutchman's pipe because the unusual, 2" long, yellowish-green flowers (each flaring at the calyx mouth to form 3 brownish-purple lobes) superficially resemble dutch smoking pipes.
naturalizes by root runners.
as with other forms of lady ferns there is so much variability with spore production that it is necessary to produce this form in tissue culture, so its clones are identical to the parent.
perfect for the back of the  border, as an accent plant, or for cutting gardens.
a robust and competitive plant  that brightens up woodland edges and shady corners of the garden.
the wider-than-tall cultivar performs beautifully by a water feature or enriching a japanese style garden.(iseli nursery)
leaves appear in spreading rosettes that form a  3-4" tall foliage carpet that may spread over time to 36" wide.
another superior cultivar in the mickel collection ™.
agastache 'blue fortune' is long flowering, heat and drought  tolerant, as well as insect and disease resistant.
it is one of the most floriferous of the achillea cultivars, presenting a solid block of red in early summer.
the exquisite double blooms appear as if several  flowers are set inside one other; flower appearance lends the whimsical air of  a ruffled ballerina's dress to your garden.
plants may be cut back to basal foliage after bloom.
this cultivar bears lovely blue and white, bi-colored flowers.
benefits: [ more information ] - first tree to bloom, drawing all kinds of pollinators - insect eating birds visit the tree to feed on the pollinators - seeds are great food for birds and chipmunks - provides cover and nest sites for all kinds of birds - outstanding fall color and grows in wet soil acer saccharum common name: sugar maple sugar maple has a dense, rounded crown and is one of the trees responsible for giving new england its reputation for spectacular fall color, as the medium green leaves turn brilliant yellow or red-orange in autumn.
its unusual purple-brown flowers lie mostly concealed beneath foliage.
[ more information ] anchusa azurea 'loddon royalist' common name: italian alkanet a coarse textured, clump-forming perennial with airy terminal spikes of deep blue, flowers (to ¾”) which resemble forget-me-nots in general appearance.
an  excellent choice for a hot dry site, especially if it's windy.
bred (a. foeniculum x a. rugosa) and selected by gert fortgens of the arboretum trompenberg, in rotterdam.
typical bluish-purple ajuga flowers appear in spring on spikes  rising slightly above the foliage to 3" tall.
native to coastal regions in the northern hemisphere, these tough little plants are salt and cold tolerant.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans  'jungle beauty' common name: bugleweed huge, shiny,  mahogany-purple leaves form an 8" mound of attractive foliage, topped with  deep blue spikes, to 10" in may.
the bright red leaves of 'fireglow' have a luminescent  quality and the best summer color retention of all upright, red palmatums.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'party dress' common name: japanese anemone ‘party dress’ will certainly add an extra spark of glamour to your garden.
japonica 'pamina' common name: japanese anemone 'pamina' is an excellent japanese anemone cultivar that bears semi-double,  lavender to rose-pink flowers with yellow centers in late summer and fall.
armitage  [ more information ] arisaema sikokianum common name: gaudy jack
semi-evergreen glossy green foliage with white  fragrant flowers on a very compact shrub.
planted in groups, it is a lovely groundcover and it combines well with other  woodland natives such as wild ginger and wood ferns.
a tough, deer-resistant plant with aromatic leaves.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'chater's newport  pink' common name: hollyhock beautiful variety of hollyhock with fully-double, pink flowers on sturdy  stems.
if you do not see a specific plant, please call us at 302-239-2727 to inquire about availability.
[ more information ] asclepias incarnata 'ice ballet' common name: white swamp milkweed a marvelous long-blooming, bright white selection of swamp milkweed.
compact size, good health and hardiness also recommend this tree.
in mass plantings, the flower effect can be very dramatic, like a blue wave.
leaves appear in spreading rosettes that form a 3-4" tall foliage carpet that may spread over time to 36" wide.
it also has a dense, twiggy branch  structure that works as the harp frame.
an  easy-to-grow clump forming native warm saeson grass with incredible golden  copper fall color.
it blooms later than most other arendsii hybrids.
it is perhaps best noted for its deeply-cut, dark purplish-black  leaves on branched, dark stems.
a most wonderful species, the tubers produce two leaves, each composed of three leaflets and an incurved contorted spathe which looks like a striped helmet.
[more information ] aconitum carmichaelii 'arendsii' common name: monkshood one of the tallest monkshoods, easily standing at 4’ in flower, plants bear large flowers of an intense blue in september and october on sturdy, self-supporting stems.
great foundation plant.
japonica 'september charm' common name: japanese anemone ‘september charm’ certainly lives up to its name, producing numerous single, creamy rose-pink flowers with yellow centers on nodding stems to 3’ tall.
[ more information ] astilbe chinensis 'maggie daley' common name: chinese astilbe an excellent perennial for lightly shaded areas.
also charming when planted in smaller clumps as specimens positioned in the perennial border.
the sweetly fragrant, tubular flowers in whorls bloom on erect, salvia-like  spikes atop 2'-3' stems.
[ more information ] acer circinatum common name: vine maple this maple is perfect for a small garden!
plants form tufts of foliage that are attractive all year.
[ more  information ] alyssum wulfenianum common name: madwort a wonderful spreading plant for the rock garden that is covered in bright  yellow flowers in june.
the light pink color combines beautifully with other early and mid spring plants like phlox divaricata and iris cristata.
this alpine plant  is native to the higher elevations of persia (modern day iran) and is a  wonderful addition to a sunny rock garden, wall garden, or planted in front of  a perennial border.
very hardy and  drought tolerant once established.
unique and beautiful!
the nectar attracts butterflies and other pollinators.
striking warm rosy orange verticillate flowers with silvery foliage  sets this plant apart.
the dense  foliar pubescence gives the leaves a velvety appearance that is soft to the  touch, and is especially pretty after a soft rain when the captured water  droplets glisten in the sun.
[  more information ] anemone palmata common name:  cyclamen-leaved anemone an unusual species in the american landscape, this anemone bears  golden-yellow flowers with golden centers, which is a rare color combination in  the genus.
[ more information ] aster ericoides 'snow flurry' common name: heath aster a very low dense carpeting groundcover that is smothered with 1/2" single white flowers with gold centers in september.
- groundcover planting guide - tips for great tomatoes - cultivating lush lilacs - gardening in deer country - deer resistant plants - plants
strong-growing and dependable, the lady ferns are great garden plants.
[ more information ] armeria maritima 'dusseldorf pride' common name: seathrift, common thrift a low-growing, clump-forming, compact plant featuring small, carmine-red flowers in tight, globular clusters atop wiry, unbranched, 6-10" stems rising up from a dense, rounded mat of stiff, grass-like, dark green leaves, which slowly spread to 12" wide.
we have grown this select form anonymously for many years and have deemed it worthy of a name.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'richard ahrens' common name: japanese anemone this beautiful and vigorous garden jewel produces long-lasting single and semi-double blooms that open bright pink and soften to blushed-white as the season progresses.
it is one of the most floriferous of  the achillea cultivars, presenting a solid block of red in early summer.
discovered and developed by richard p. wolfe, media, pennsylvania.
flowers from  june to frost.
benefits: [ more information ] - attracts butterflies and a variety of native bees - - drought tolerant - - clean foliage all season - - does not need to be staked - aster lateriflorus 'lady in black' common name: calico aster who can resist plants with great names?
combines well  with other spring-blooming perennials such as polemonium, sisyrinchium and  mertensia.
[ more information ] aster divaricatus common name: (eurybia divaricata) woodland aster asters are the backbone of many late summer and fall landscapes.
though flowers are not as showy  as florists' chrysanthemums, the numerous small, button-like, golden yellow  flowers appear as a welcome burst of color in the late-autumn landscape.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'gaiety' common name: bugleweed ajuga 'gaiety'  is similar to a. 'burgundy glow', but exhibits much deeper burgundy foliage  hues.
[ more information ] actaea rubra common name: red baneberry red baneberry is a lovely woodland native with fine-textured foliage and a light and airy texture.
crimson fall color and scarlet, winged seeds add extra interest to  this sturdy garden standard.
originally collected from coastal rhode island.
[ more information ] anemone  tomentosa 'robustissima' common name: grapeleaf anemone ‘robustissima’ grows 24-30” tall and produces a plethora  of single, light pink flowers with yellow centers beginning in august.
although often hidden by the flowers, you will soon discover a favorite springtime passion of kneeling down to catch a glimpse of the flowers (which are quite attractive up close).
consider cutting back plant stems to lateral flower  buds after initial flowering to tidy the planting and encourage repeat bloom.
compact size, good health and hardiness also  recommend this tree.
[ more information ] aconitum x 'blue lagoon' common name: dwarf monkshood a dwarf hybrid monkshood that has violet-blue flowers borne above the attractive foliage.
when in full flower,  plantings can produce a striking floral display, however this cultivar is  primarily grown for its foliage and dwarf size.
this hardy and disease resistant plant has been used as a source for the reeds in woodwind instruments.
individual flowers are nearly 4” wide and are most  vivid when plants are placed in front of light-colored walls or fences.
the vanilla-scented flowers last well in water and attract butterflies and hummingbirds.
its light green leaves are round,  wide and lobed offering superb cover and nesting sites for many native birds.
this  long-flowering cultivar has a compact habit with sturdy stems.
a pioneer soil stabalizing plant that does well in poor, infertile areas and surprisingly in floodplains.
[ more information ] aster oblongifolius 'october skies' common name: aromatic aster shorter, bushier, bluer sister of 'raydon's favorite'.
[  more information ] amelanchier canadensis common  name: shadblow one of the first native trees with showy flowers to  bloom, serviceberry has slightly fragrant, white flowers in drooping clusters  that are quite conspicuous because they appear before the leaves emerge.
in late spring and early summer lightly scented, delicate white flowers appear above the foliage.
slow to establish, but then spreads rapidly.
benefits: [ more information ] - nectar and sometime host plant for monarch butterflies - great nectar source for many other butterflies - thrives in sun in average or dry soil - deer resistant asclepias tuberosa 'gay butterflies' common name: butterfly weed ‘gay butterflies’ is a beautiful butterfly weed cultivar that produces a profusion of flowers in fiery shades of red, orange, and yellow from june through july.
[ more information ] aster x 'wood's purple' common name: purple wood's aster aster 'wood's purple' has perfectly clean foliage, and is loaded with single, clear purple flowers in late summer and early fall.
small white flowers bloom in early april providing early nectar for local  native bees and butterflies.
'wood's blue' has perfectly clean foliage, and in the early fall it is covered with clear medium blue flowers with gold centers.
its lacy leaves resemble those of astilbe and its similar needs make it a great native substitute.
as a mediterranean plant, mt. atlas daisy requires excellent drainage, and are ideally suited for hot, sunny, and dry rock gardens, trough gardens, rock walls, or rock crevices.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'corbett' common name: wild columbine versatile and easy to grow, 'corbett' is a charming selection of our native columbine with delicate light yellow flowers.
leaves mature to deep, rich purple and retain their color well, even during the heat of summer.
small, sweet, blue berries ripen in summer and are loved by songbirds.
great for planters and rock gardens or for naturalizing in semi-shady  woodlands.
‘silberkissen’ is even more compact than the species with mats only reaching 3-4” tall and spreading 9-12” wide, with grayish leaves covered in silvery hairs.
larger flowers than many cultivars of ajuga, the floral display is not only stunning, it is a magnate for butterflies and bees.
[ more information ] achillea  x 'moonshine' common name: moonshine yarrow silver foliage with 3'  tall stems topped with broad sulphur-yellow flower heads.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] acer palmatum 'tamukeyama' common name: laceleaf leaf  japanese red maple first listed in 1710 in japan, this extremely vigorous  cultivar of superior quality has survived the test of time.
very floriferous and  attracts butterflies and other pollinators.
a vigorous grower for moist, rich soils.
[  more information ] amsonia hubrichtii common name:  thread-leaf blue star
this alpine plant is native to the higher elevations of persia (modern day iran) and is a wonderful addition to a sunny rock garden, wall garden, or planted in front of a perennial border.
blue fortune is a hybrid of species native to the us and korea.
bright  green bark and a graceful, elegant form carry the show in winter.
inside the spathe nests the lovely, pestle-shaped spadix, easily visible in  early spring.
and the grand finale comes in fall with brilliant oranges, yellows  and reds as the leaves prepare to drop.
an old-fashioned favorite that  is grown for its large, heart-shaped, densely overlapping leaves (6-12"  long) which can quickly cover an arbor or trellis with attractive, glossy, deep  green foliage.
[ more information ] aster novae-angliae 'vibrant dome' common name: vibrant dome new england aster vibrant, hot-pink, star-shaped flowers with yellow center accents adorn lance-shaped green foliage through autumn.
silver and gold is often primarily grown for its foliage, which works well in containers, in the perennial border, or as a ground cover.
the leaves are nearly as divided as laceleaf  cultivars, and the fall display of reds and golds is as dramatic as any.
foliage emerges bronze but tends to turn dark green with a reddish tint as the summer progresses.
excellent as a shady rock garden naturalizer, it also is quite content in average garden conditions.
self sows  readily where happy.
glossy evergreen  leaves with white fragrant flowers june to frost on a compact shrub.
[more information ] aconitum carmichaelii 'arendsii' common name: monkshood one of the tallest monkshoods, easily standing at  4’ in flower, plants bear large flowers of an intense blue in september  and october on sturdy, self-supporting stems.
a consistent groundcover with interesting texture.
an early pinch keeps it more compact in pots.
commonly called dutchman's pipe because the unusual, 2"  long, yellowish-green flowers (each flaring at the calyx mouth to form 3  brownish-purple lobes) superficially resemble dutch smoking pipes.
‘clementine red’ bears vibrant fuchsia-red flowers that are irresistible to butterflies and hummingbirds!
a favorite of butterflies and hummingbirds.
in mid summer its fruits ripen to brilliant violet pink, aging to deep blue purple when fully ripe.
[ more information ] andropogon virginicus common name: broom sedge an easy-to-grow clump forming native warm saeson grass with incredible golden copper fall color.
plants are for sale at our hockessin retail store only, based on  availability.
star astilbe one of the larger cultivars of this typically-dwarf species, ‘aphrodite’ lives up to its greek-goddess namesake with an elegance and whimsy perfect for any semi-shady spot.
one of the bestasarum specimens for use as a ground cover -especially for filling in troublesome, shady spots.
prized for its compact  size, extended bloom time, and large flowers.
, the lady ferns are great garden plants.
it is strikingly beautiful and is well-suited a formal or wild garden, as well as a natural meadow.
italian alkanet is great for the back of the border or as  an accent plant and adds a wonderful splash of color in the late spring/early  summer garden.
the relatively large, saucer-shaped flowers are held above the basal, kidney-shaped foliage on diminutive 6” stems.
great for rock  gardens or for naturalizing in woodland areas.
numerous pendant flowers in shades of red and yellow cover the plant in late spring.
found in the humus-rich woodlands and moist woods of eastern north america.
it also has a long flowering season (from august to late september).
with a more upright habit than other mounding types, it is among the  largest, so its handsome stature can be used to make a dynamic contribution to  larger garden spaces, serving as a focal point or part of a mixed planting.
small, numerous, creamy white (with a purple tinge), strongly fragrant flowers appear in late summer to early fall in long, bottlebrush-like, terminal racemes resembling fluffy spires (to 24" long).
this deciduous woody vine is an old-fashioned favorite grown for its large, heart-shaped, glossy green leaves (6-12" long) which can quickly cover sun porches, verandas, pillars, posts, trellises, arbors, fences or walls.
then in fall, the foliage turns a magnificent array of intense colors; brilliant scarlet shading into purple.
[ more information ] achillea x 'apple  blossom' common name: yarrow soft rosy-pink flowers begin in late  spring and attract butterflies.
[  more information ] aquilegia flabellata 'mini-star' common name: fan columbine ‘mini-star’ is a very compact columbine that typically only  grows to 6-9" tall.
hollyhock another beautiful variety of hollyhock in the chater’s series, this  plant has fully-double, purplish-red flowers on sturdy stems.
the bi-ternate to tri-ternate foliage is somewhat suggestive of meadow rue (thalictrum).
and the grand finale comes in fall with brilliant oranges, yellows and reds as the leaves prepare to drop.
italian alkanet is great for the back of the border or as an accent plant and adds a wonderful splash of color in the late spring/early summer garden.
[ more information ] adiantum pedatum common name: maidenhair fern dainty bright green fronds are held  aloft on shiny black stems creating a light, airy texture in the woodland  garden.
clump forming with  excellent drought tolerance once established.
bears single daisy-like flowers (1” across) with yellow centers and white 'petals' with red undersides.
benefits from a little shade in production to  protect leaf color.
this somewhat compact, clump-forming japanese anemone hybrid features large (3”), soft pink, semi-double flowers held above the mounded, dark-green foliage on graceful, wiry stems.
the attractive, mounding, juniper-like foliage slowly spreads to form a densely-tufted mat idealy suited for rockeries, wall gardens, or planters.
looks fantastic in a gallon!
great as an edging plant  or as a ground cover when planted en masse.
‘woodside strain’ is a knock-out cultivar that sports purple, blue, and sometimes white flowers atop lush foliage marbled in gold and cream.
it is beautiful when naturalized in a  woodland setting and will self sow freely when happy.
flowers from june to frost.
hardiness beyond zone 6 is unknown.
[ more information ] astilbe chinensis 'visions' common name: chinese astilbe ‘visions’ is a compact cultivar which features a foliage mound (to 9” tall) of bronze-green leaves and thick panicles of raspberry flowers on 12-15” tall stems in late spring to early summer.
flowers also are a favorite of pollinators such as  bees and butterflies!
[ more information ] asclepias incarnata common name: swamp milkweed one of the most beautiful of native perennials with clusters of upturned pink flowers in june and july.
[ more information ] athyrium nipponicum 'regal red' common name: japanese painted fern handsome and ruffled, this high-color selection has been a much requested japanese painted fern.
the soft fern-like foliage forms a dense mat  that looks great especially if spent flowers are removed.
with a more upright habit than other mounding types, it is among the largest, so its handsome stature can be used to make a dynamic contribution to larger garden spaces, serving as a focal point or part of a mixed planting.
another great variety of hollyhock in the  chater’s series, this plant has fully-double, yellow flowers on sturdy  stems.
flowers are attractive to early butterflies and other beneficial pollinators.
in mass  plantings, the flower effect can be very dramatic, like a blue wave.
as heralds of spring, grecian windflowers are one of the earliest flowers to emerge each year, just when cabin fever is the strongest!
[ more information ] achillea x 'apple blossom' common name: yarrow soft rosy-pink flowers begin in late spring and attract butterflies.
[ more information ] astilbe x rosea 'peach blossom' common name:
[ more information ] aster novae-angliae 'purple dome' common name: new england aster a naturally compact form with deep purple flowers in august and september.
clusters of spring blooming white to pinkish flowers provide loads of nectar for pollinators.
[ more information ] athyrium filix-femina 'victoriae' common name: victoria lady fern "this is the most spectacular of all cultivars in its magnificent frond architecture.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'mardi gras' common name: variegated abelia semi-evergreen glossy green, white, and pink variegated foliage with white  fragrant flowers on a compact shrub.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'fanal' common name: false spirea first introduced in 1933, ‘fanal’ remains today one of the most popularastilbe cultivars.
prized for its compact size, extended bloom time, and large flowers.
bred for compact habit, long bloom period and heavy flowering, all of the woods asters are outstanding pot crops and should be used far more often as a sturdy perennial alternative for mums.
the light pink color combines  beautifully with other early and mid spring plants like phlox divaricata and  iris cristata.
small, green spring leaves are decorated with red margins; summer leaves are light green; fall changes them again to yellow–orange with an occasional touch of red.(iseli nursery)
the beautiful foliage extends the  interest of this fine columbine well beyond the flowering season.
in fall, bright-red foliage  glows against the lowering sun, and in winter, the distinctive tree shows off  bare branches and a silhouette typical of a red dissectum.(iseli nursery)
breathtaking when planted en masse for an airy swathe of baby pink in your late spring garden.
[ more information ] aconitum carmichaelii 'cloudy' common name: monkshood an  interesting new monkshood cultivar with bi-colored flowers of blue and white.
if planted in well-drained soil of average moisture, these tough plants are long-lived and can become semi-woody at the base.
this deciduous woody vine is an old-fashioned favorite grown for its large,  heart-shaped, glossy green leaves (6-12" long) which can quickly cover sun  porches, verandas, pillars, posts, trellises, arbors, fences or walls.
found in the humus-rich woodlands and moist woods of  eastern north america.
bearing exquisite, rosy-purple flowers in dense clusters atop 3’-4’ tall plants, this outstanding selection of the native swamp milkweed will be an enchanting addition to your garden.
this somewhat compact, clump-forming japanese anemone hybrid features large  (3”), soft pink, semi-double flowers held above the mounded, dark-green  foliage on graceful, wiry stems.
native to southern russia, turkey, and the caucuses.
[ more  information ] alcea rosea 'nigra' common name:
ferns provide seasonal cover and hiding places for ground frequenting birds such as ovenbirds, waterthrushes, wood thrushes, robins and carolina wrens.
the soft fern-like foliage forms a dense mat that looks great especially if spent flowers are removed.
if you do not see a  specific plant, please call us at 302-239-2727 to inquire about availability.
like all astilbes, this fine specimen lends a refined presence to semi-shady perennial borders and graceful flowers flutter in the slightest early summer breeze.
[ more information ] armeria maritima 'bloodstone' common name: seathrift, common thrift
features pure white, snapdragon-like flowers enclosed by spiny, mauve-purple bracts and arranged in vertical rows on substantial flower spikes which rise well above the foliage mound to 3-4' tall.
the stems and twigs are reddish; the buds are red; and, in fall, the  leaves turn orange-red.
perfect for the back of the border, as an accent plant, or  for cutting gardens.
an old-fashioned favorite that is grown for its large, heart-shaped, densely overlapping leaves (6-12" long) which can quickly cover an arbor or trellis with attractive, glossy, deep green foliage.
a most wonderful species, the tubers produce two  leaves, each composed of three leaflets and an incurved contorted spathe which  looks like a striped helmet.
[ more information ] actaea simplex 'black negligee' common name: purple-leaved  bugbane 'black negligee' is a purple-leaved bugbane that typically grows  to 4-5' tall.
[ more information ] aster cordifolius common name: blue wood aster clouds of blue flowers in early fall in shade!
[ more information ] aster x frikartii 'monch' common name: frikart's aster elegant, cool lavender-blue single flowers with gold centers occur on upright, freely branching stems.
introduced by fratelli gilardelli nursery,  near milan, italy.
[ more information ] aster laevis 'bluebird' common name: smooth aster 'bluebird' is a superlative selection of the native smooth aster introduced by dr. richard lighty of themt.
[ more information ] acorus americanus common name: sweetflag acorus americanus is a hardy perennial swamp or bog  plant with sweet, spicy-scented leaves.
the tri-ternate, almost fern-like, basal green foliage has a bluish  tinge and superficially resembles that of meadow rue (thalictrum).
in spring, the leaves of this vigorous tree emerge deep purple-red.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'catherine deneuve' common name: false spirea named for the elegant french actress and model, this beautiful astilbe is a medium-sized hybrid cultivar that features large, dense, conical panicles of carmine-rose flowers on upright stems (2.5 to 3’ tall).
flowers appear on wiry stems from late summer until frost.
[ more information ] allium cernuum common name:
its light green leaves are round, wide and lobed offering superb cover and nesting sites for many native birds.
delicate and lacy with arching fronds and feathery texture, athyrium filix-femina is a strong-growing and dependable garden plant.
flowers produced in prostrate corymbs.
flowers bloom late spring to early summer and make for great cut flowers.
an easy and rewarding production plant, it has very few pest or pathogen problems.
flowering most profusely from august to september, this garden favorite  continues to flower sporadically until frost.
[  more information ] acer palmatum 'kamagata' common name:  kamagata japanese maple
if it gets consistent moisture, it may reach 5 feet.
fruit for the birds, nectar for insects, cover for wildlife and multi-season beauty.
'loddon royalist' is a greatanchusa cultivar that  typically grows to 3' tall.
it is lovely when used at woods edge and it can provide a dense screen beneath a high canopy.
this specimen is equally beautiful when planted en masse for a large swathe of red in spring or planted in smaller clumps as specimens positioned in the perennial border.
hollyhock beautiful variety of hollyhock with fully-double, pink flowers on sturdy stems.
the glossy foliage turns brilliant red in autumn, making it a terrific alternative to the non-native, burning bush (euonymus alatus).
[ more  information ] achillea x lewisii 'king edward' common  name: dwarf wooly yarrow excellent choice for a rock garden, or in pockets  on a stone wall.
in fall, the rediscovered tree's foliage, which is bold and more coarsely dissected than other selections, changes to scarlet.
[ more information ] aster novae-belgii common name: new york aster local midatlantic native of moist to wet meadows.
this mound-forming, rhizomatous perennial is  prized for its attractive, variegated foliage which lasts all season.
the king of native grasses, big bluestem has handsome gray to blue-green stems in spring turning to green alternating with deep red in summer then to coppery red in fall.
great foundation  shrub.
plants also show off a chorus of leaf color in shades of pink to orange to yellow that changes from spring through fall.
[ more information ] achillea x 'oertel's rose' common name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree garden plant that spreads easily to fill available space.
the color is more intense with some direct sun, preferably morning or late afternoon.
attracts butterflies of all kinds.
named for the nearby small town of corbett.
the licorice-scented foliage enhances the charm of the flowers when used in seasonal arrangements.
coccinea common name: kidney vetch, woundwort produces a plethora of blooms in late spring that appear bicolored with clusters of bright red claw-shaped flowers surrounded by wooly, yellow calyxes.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'black scallop' common name: bugleweed black scallop is a stoloniferous, mat-forming, bugleweed cultivar that is noted for its (1) dark maroon-purple leaves with scalloped margins, (2) fragrant dark violet flowers and (3) compact but spreading habit.
prominent red seeds also contribute to the show.
attractive bluish-green foliage is covered with silky hairs.
[ more information ] astilbe chinensis 'pumila' common name: chinese astilbe
the leaves  make a woolly mass only an inch or two high.
beautiful in the garden or naturalized in a meadow.
bears single  daisy-like flowers (1” across) with yellow centers and white 'petals'  with red undersides.
the stems and twigs are reddish; the buds are red; and, in fall, the leaves turn orange-red.
reaching only  6-8” tall and thriving in poor soil in full sun, it is perfect for the  sunny rock garden and containers.
its vigorous, multi-branched habit  produces sturdy limbs and rigid twigs, and the autumn show of red, yellow, and  orange will take your breath away.
great for  rock gardens or for naturalizing in woodland areas.
the tri-ternate, almost fern-like, basal green foliage has a bluish tinge and superficially resembles that of meadow rue (thalictrum).
[ more information ] astilbe simplicifolia 'white sensation' common name:
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'silver queen' common name: ajuga 'silver queen' is a very attractive ground cover with variegated foliage.
in fall, the creamy margins become a blazing  magenta.
foliage mounds typically rise to 18” high, with foliage emerging reddish bronze and maturing to dark green.
the classic monkshood of your grandmother’s garden, this proven garden favorite is perfect for cutting gardens, perennial borders, and cottage gardens.
[ more  information ] agastache x 'black adder' common name:  black adder hyssop the second fantastic agastache given to us by coen  jansen
[ more information ] aquilegia olympica common name: columbine this beautiful columbine species is rare in cultivation.
‘arendsii’ is one of  the best late flowering monkshoods.
the colorful fall foliage is a blend of orange,  gold, red and green.
dense clusters of glossy red fruit follow the flowers.
glossy evergreen leaves with white fragrant flowers june to frost on a compact shrub.
this popular,  long-lived perennial with a woody base reaches 4-5’ tall!
forming clumps of arrowhead-shaped leaves that slowly spread to form dense ground-hugging colonies, it is a great groundcover.
[ more information ] acanthus spinosus common name: spiny bear's breeches this species of bear's breeches is a clump-forming perennial which is grown as much for its attractive foliage as for its architecturally bold flower spikes.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'little lanterns' common name: wild columbine 'little lanterns' is a compact columbine that only grows 10" tall.
very hardy and drought  tolerant once established.
flowers are mostly  blue with petals bleeding to clear white at the tips.
dark red dominates the fall leaf color, and distinctive, almost black, bark stands out in winter.
an  easy and rewarding production plant, it has very few pest or pathogen problems.
it is beautiful when naturalized in a woodland setting and will self sow freely when happy.
tiny,  two-lipped, dark violet flowers (typical of the mint family) appear in late  spring on flower spikes that rise above the foliage.
makes an  excellent cut flower, but care should be taken not to get any sap on open  wounds.
much underused in average gardens conditions!
benefits: [ more information ] - attracts butterflies and hummingbirds - host and nectar plant for monarch butterflies - lovely vanilla fragrance - thrives in sun in average or moist soil - deer resistant asclepias incarnata 'cinderella' common name: swamp milkweed
especially in spring, the small, slow-growing, garden tree displays outstanding, glowing color.
[ more information ] aethionema grandiflorum common name: persian stonecress mounding plants with bluish-green foliage are covered with clusters of pink flowers for many weeks in late spring.
[ more information ] aquilegia formosa common name: western columbine deep red, horned nodding flowers with yellow centers float above bright  green foliage on long, thin stems for weeks starting in late april.
amelanchier can be grown as a small tree pruned to become a densely branched shrub.
it is drought tolerant once established, but will grow taller and faster in consistently moist soils.
plants are robust and produce some of the largest spathes relative to the overall size of the plant in this genus.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'inaba shidare' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple one of the most vigorous of the laceleafs, this dense, cascading tree displays large, rich, purple-red leaves that hold their color well through summer.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'chocolate chip' common name: bugleweed ajuga 'valfredda', or chocolate chip, is a bugleweed cultivar that is most noted for its extremely dwarf habit and its chocolate foliage.
the deep blue to purple, and sometimes pink flowers are highlights of the late season wildflower garden.
more compact than the species,  'corbett' is about a foot tall and heavily branched, sporting many flowers on a  single plant.
amazingly colorful fall foliage show!
aquilegia is best planted where the fading  leaves will be camouflaged by foliage of later emerging plants such as  heuchera, woodland asters or ferns.
reddish-pink bracts remain through the fall and winter.
dark red dominates the  fall leaf color, and distinctive, almost black, bark stands out in winter.
(iseli  nursery)  [ more information ] acer palmatum 'inaba shidare' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple one of the most vigorous of  the laceleafs, this dense, cascading tree displays large, rich, purple-red  leaves that hold their color well through summer.
the  series was named for their upward-facing flowers (as if they are  “winking” at you).
flowers can be used  fresh for arrangements or harvested and dried for later use.
the beauty of this  plant lies in the contrast of the purple spathe and the elegant white spadix.
this cultivar is shorter than the species and less likely to require staking.
just like its beautiful namesake, ‘cinderella’ captivates all onlookers with its beauty when it begins to flower in mid-summer.
in rich soil and bright shade it will spread by shallow rhizomes to  form a dense groundcover.
an excellent  cut flower!
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'dorothy rose' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap 'dorothy rose' bears delightful rose-pink flowers that arise 18-24” above bluish-green foliage.
stems of the compact 'pretty belinda' do not tend to flop as much as some of the taller a. millefolium cultivars.
[ more information ] asclepias purpurascens common name: purple milkweed an exceptionally lovely native that is all too rare in cultivation
seed pods are great in dried arrangements if picked just before opening.
its long bloom time and attractiveness to butterflies make leadplant a great native substitute for butterfly bush (buddleia).
an  agastache mexicana hybrid.
prized for its tight,  compact habit (only 15” tall), prolific-flowering, and upward-pointing  flowers.
japanese red maple a deservedly popular japanese maple, this robust,  upright tree has large, deep red leaves that push bright red in spring.
flowers appear on wiry stems above an attractive foliage mound of trifoliate dark green leaves.
with gorgeous, double rose-pink flowers (to 2”) produced  prolifically from late summer until fall on tall stems (36-38” high),  this cultivar can’t be beat.
[ more information ] achillea x 'terra cotta' common name: yarrow another ernest pagel introduction, with pronounced silvery foliage.
dark purplish red flowers in thick panicles bloom in early summer atop branching stems rising to 42” tall.
[more information ] achillea x 'summer wine' common  name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree garden plant that spreads easily  to fill available space.
this is an outstanding plant, in flower from june until killing frost.
[  more information ] anemone hupehensis var.
edward goucher abelia member of the honeysuckle family.
an erect, clump-forming plant that that bears deep rose pink, mildly fragrant flowers (1/4” wide) in substantial clusters (3-4” wide).
[ more information ] aster laevis 'bluebird' common name: smooth aster smooth aster, symphyotrichum laeve, has big cone-shaped clusters of violet-blue flowers with golden yellow centers that appear on the top half of a vase shaped clump.
this selection has lustrous foliage with superior red color in the fall - abundance of large glossy fruit provides late season berries for birds - prolific flowers provide nectar in spring for early butterflies and pollinators - tolerant of a wide range of conditions including wet or poor soils aronia melanocarpa 'viking' common name: viking black chokeberry upright and multi-branched, this plant's dark green, glossy leaves serve as the backdrop for heads of dainty white flowers in may that are a key native insect nectar source.
[  more information ] anemone blanda 'blue star' common  name: grecian windflower ‘blue star’ is a superb cultivar with large (2.5”),  daisy-like flowers with showy, intensely blue sepals.
[ more information ] aquilegia chrysantha  'yellow queen' common name: golden columbine ‘yellow queen’ is a bushy, clump-forming perennial cultivar  that typically grows 18-36” tall and features large (2-3”), upward  facing, fragrant, bright yellow flowers with long, outward curving spurs.
being stoloniferous, new plantlets emerge in spring and should  be thinned for best results.
it typically forms a dense foliage mound to 18-24" tall that spreads over time by rhizomes to as much as 36" wide.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'chater's yellow' common name:
it remains compact in a container with an early pinch and is in flower from july to frost.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] acer palmatum 'rising sun' common name: japanese red maple rising sun' is a recent iseli  selection with uncommonly large, heavily textured leaves---up to 8"  across---that give the tree a tropical look.
[ more information ] acorus gramineus 'variegatus' common name: variegated sweet flag variegated sweet flag has  grass-like foliage with a slowly spreading growth habit.
leaves are varyingly described as dark maroon-purple to near black, which gets the point across that these leaves are in fact very dark in color.
hybridized by the legendary nick nicou, of branford, ct.
edible berries resemble blueberries in size and color and can be used in jams, jellies and pies.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'cattleya' common name: false spirea ‘cattleya’ is a tall cultivar which features large panicles of bright orchid pink flowers on upright stems (to 3.5’ tall).
in fall, the creamy margins become a blazing magenta.
flowers can be used fresh for arrangements or harvested  and dried for later use.
it also has a long flowering season (from  august to late september).
flowers are quite attractive on close inspection, but are usually hidden from view by the foliage.
swamp red maple grows faster than norway and sugar maples, but slower than silver maple.
this particular cultivar blooms later than otherastilbe .
[ more information ] actaea racemosa common name: black cohosh, fairy candle
silver and  gold is often primarily grown for its foliage, which works well in containers,  in the perennial border, or as a ground cover.
leaves  mature to deep, rich purple and retain their color well, even during the heat  of summer.
flowers in shades of blue and purple in early fall, which is late august and early september here in pa.
even so, it is a lovely and vigorous plant with delicate bright green fronds; a lively groundcover that is very easy to grow and not at all fussy; a deciduous, noninvasive creeper that fills in quickly, but doesn't take over.
(iseli nursery) [ more information ] acer japonicum 'aconitifolium' common name: fernleaf fullmoon maple a low branched, small garden tree with deeply cut leaves, the fernleaf fullmoon maple is dark-green in summer.
it bears single white flowers (2-3” across) with yellow centers on graceful, wiry stems over attractive dark green foliage mounds.
[ more information ] achillea x 'paprika' common name: yarrow intense red flowers  surround bright yellow centers.
‘clementine red’ bears vibrant fuchsia-red flowers that  are irresistible to butterflies and hummingbirds!
[ more information ] adiantum pedatum common name: maidenhair fern dainty bright green fronds are held aloft on shiny black stems creating a light, airy texture in the woodland garden.
the relatively large, saucer-shaped flowers are held above the  basal, kidney-shaped foliage on diminutive 6” stems.
(iseli nursery)  [  more information ] acer palmatum 'bloodgood' common  name:
a low maintenance groundcover for bright shade!
‘arendsii’ is one of the best late flowering monkshoods.
[ more information ] andropogon gerardii common name: the king of native grasses, big bluestem has handsome gray to blue-green stems in spring turning to green alternating with deep red in summer then to coppery red in fall.
it will bloom more  in full sun, but have a more open and graceful habit in shade.
its lacy leaves resemble those of astilbe and its similar needs make it a great  native substitute.
it will bloom more in full sun, but have a more open and graceful habit in shade.
the foliage is deeply cut and fern-like.
foliage emerges  bright crimson, deepens to burgundy in summer and finishes with brilliant  scarlet in fall, maintaining its color despite summer heat and humidity.
[ more information ] agastache rupestris common name: rock anise hyssop licorice plant, so nicknamed by dr. allan armitage, of the university of georgia for the deliciously scented foliage - mmmm - rub the foliage!
a ground-hugging, creeping plant that is quite useful as a ground cover or for containers.
[ more information ] adiantum pedatum common name: northern maidenhair fern dainty  bright green fronds are held aloft on shiny black stems creating a light, airy  texture in the woodland garden.
this small, bushy japanese maple produces a dense array of branches and finely textured foliage, qualities that make it ideal for courtyard plantings, containers and bonsai.
a stately  and elegant fir tree.
foliage  coloration is most pronounced in moist sunny sites.
this tough, floriferous beauty is a must for every perennial border, with very few pest or pathogen problems.
blue flowers on 6" spikes arise above the foliage in late spring.
flowering  earlier than most columbines, the flowers are produced in abundance atop  compact, vigorous plants in late spring.
thin, nearly black stems are topped with clouds of white flowers in early fall.
it is also smaller than most of the hybrids, but it still  typically stands between 24” and 30” tall.
beautiful color contrast when  inter-planted with grape hyacinths (muscari).
unlike many other asters, this one has perfectly clean foliage.
in rich soil and bright shade it will spread by  shallow rhizomes to form a dense groundcover.
[ more information ] acanthus mollis common name: common bear's breeches the  glossy leaves of this plant, carved into the temple columns of ancient greece,  are a fitting backdrop to the beautiful flower spikes of white and purple that  arise in late spring.
a beautiful performer for late season color.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'clementine red' common name:  european columbine, granny's nightcap this wonderful selection belongs to the clementine series of columbines  that boast large, spurless flowers that have a stronger resemblance to double clematis or waterlilies (nymphaea) than to traditional  columbines.
it is also smaller than most of the hybrids, but
[ more information ] agastache x 'firebird' common name: anise hyssop 'firebird' is a  prolific bloomer, covered with deep orange red flowers from mid summer until  frost.
the unique coloration of the flowers add much to the charm  of the plant; in appearance, flowers almost look dipped in red blood, and for  the imaginative plant connoisseur, they can almost evoke mental images of  classical mythological stories of lore.
its leaves play occasional host to  the larvae of viceroy, striped hairstreak, and canadian tiger swallowtail  butterflies.
[ more  information ] alcea rosea 'chater's purple' common name:
it is drought  tolerant once established, but will grow taller and faster in consistently  moist soils.
glossy abelia semi-evergreen glossy  leaves.
a beautiful solution for a dry sunny slope!
[ more information ] andropogon gerardii common name: big bluestem
clump forming with excellent drought  tolerance once established.
flowers give rise to very  flavorful, purple-black, berrylike fruits relished by both songbirds and  people.
native to china, korea and japan.
the flowers are inconspicuous and the plants are grown mainly for their foliage.
[ more information ] athyrium filix-femina 'lady in red' common name: lady fern strong-growing and dependable
the most colorful fern around with subtle shades of green, purple and red on a grey-blue background.
[ more information ] aronia arbutifolia 'brilliantissima' common name: (photinia pyriflolia) red chokeberry this deciduous shrub has it all!
[ more information ] aster divaricatus common name: white wood aster produces a fairtland of glistening of small white daisies in september and october.
directions our plants welcome to gateway garden center's plant database.
[ more information ] agastache x 'red fortune' common name: anise hyssop similar to blue fortune only in name, the "red" version is still a  worthy plant in spite of its misfortunate moniker, with its continuous  flowering and numerous deep rose flower spikes beginning in late june and  continuing until the first hard frost.
[ more information ] agastache rugosa 'honey bee blue' common name: true to name, this selection is a magnate for bees, butterflies, and other  beneficial insects, with intense blue flowers and aromatic gray-green foliage.
the leaves are nearly as divided as laceleaf cultivars, and the fall display of reds and golds is as dramatic as any.
a fine introduction from the mt. cuba center.
much more perennial in habit than other hollyhock species.
flowers give way to prominent spindle-shaped seed pods in late summer that split open when ripe to release numerous silky-tailed seeds for wind dispersal.
this is a good, frisky new fern from john mickel of bradford, ct.
[ more information ] arbutus  menziesii common name: pacific madrone this tree has it all - colorful exfoliating bark, white flowers that  attract hummingbirds and native woodland butterflies, bright red berries that  feed the birds and other woodland critters in the fall and winter.
the needles are flat and thick with a notch in the end  and when crushed they emit an orange-peel fragrance.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'deutschland' common name: false spirea ‘deutschland’ features a foliage mound (to 18” tall) of lustrous green leaves and upright panicles of pure white flowers on stems rising to 2’ tall in late spring.
bright white fragrant flowers held on graceful arching branches from june to frost.
makes an excellent cut flower, but care should be taken not to get any sap on  open wounds.
slightly nodding flowers in late  spring gracefully dance in the slightest breeze.
great for stabilizing pond edges or filling a  boggy area.
it typically forms a foliage mat to only 2" tall of tiny, shiny, oval leaves (1/2" across) which are chocolate with burgundy highlights.
for us this  has been a very reliable returner when given good drainage.
selected by goodness grows nursery in lexington, ga, it is an excellent selection for the heat and humidity of the southeast, and has done beautifully here in pennsylvania as well.
the elegant, mounding plant produces a dense, broadly spreading structure that makes a dramatic impact near water, on a bank or in a courtyard scene.(iseli nursery)
sturdy stems support bright peach flowers that slowly turn to rich hues of earthy reds and oranges.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] acer japonicum 'aconitifolium' common name: fernleaf fullmoon  maple a low branched, small garden tree with deeply cut leaves
three fingered seed heads top tall stems in august.
[ more information ] alchemilla mollis 'auslese' common name: lady's mantle green to  bright chartreuse flowers appear in clusters above scalloped, grey-green  foliage late spring through summer.
like all astilbes, this fine specimen lends a refined presence to semi-shady perennial borders and graceful flowers flutter in the slightest summer breeze.
[ more information ] amelanchier alnifolia common name: western  serviceberry clusters of fragrant white flowers emerge in early april just before the  small, light-green, oval leaves appear attracting clouds of nectar seeking  native butterflies.
a breathtaking flush of new fronds appears in the spring, with new leaves appearing throughout the season for a continuously fresh look.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'kamagata' common name: kamagata japanese maple
[ more information ] armeria maritima 'alba' common name: seathrift, common thrift beautiful white flowers, rare for the species, make for excellent cut and dried flowers.
reddish-pink flower bracts are retained in fall and winter.
harpstring japanese maple the name 'koto-no-ito' means "harp strings", a reference to the string-like quality of this japanese maple's narrow, deeply divided leaf lobes.
this selection from the new england wildflower society features red stems, making it a great choice to combine with purple-leaved plants.
although the  flowers make interesting conversation pieces, they are usually hidden by the  dense foliage and are somewhat inconspicuous.
[ more information ] achillea x 'oertel's rose' common name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree garden plant that spreads  easily to fill available space.
great for edging perennial borders!
it's not unusual to see two or three butterflies on a single flower at the same time.
the dense foliar pubescence gives the leaves a velvety appearance that is soft to the touch, and is especially pretty after a soft rain when the captured water droplets glisten in the sun.
deeply-cut,  arching, glossy green, spiny, thistle-like leaves (2-3' long) form an  ornamental mound of long-stalked, basal foliage which usually remains  attractive throughout the growing season.
[ more information ] asclepias tuberosa common name: butterfly weed
the starry, chartreuse flowers are held above the  foliage in spring and make long-lasting cut flowers.
graceful flowers flutter in the slightest breeze and make for great cut flowers.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'little richard' common name: abelia semi-evergreen dwarf version of abelia xgrandiflora.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis common name: wild columbine red flowers with yellow centers hang like drifts of softly illuminated lanterns in april and may.
new leaves  are bronze in color in early spring.
grecian windflower ‘white splendour’ features lovely, single, daisy-like flowers (to 2”) with showy, creamy white sepals and yellow centers on plants reaching a height of only 4-6”.
its upright habit produces a  large shrub or a small tree, either of which boasts bright green bark.
this selection appreciates afternoon shade.
a strong bloomer, it will quickly recover from a trim. a. barberi x  a. mexicana.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'darwin's dream' common name: false spirea ‘darwin’s dream’ is a compact, upright, mounded astilbe that features deep pink, branched flower plumes in early summer to 18” tall.
bright green bark and a graceful, elegant form carry the show in winter.
renowned for their incredibly uniform growth and extended flowering habits, these columbines are also prized for their dwarf stature, only reaching 12-16” tall.
'massachusetts' flowers and fruits abundantly and is a disease-resistant selection with smaller leaves than the species.
[ more information  ] aquilegia x 'biedermeier' common name: hybrid columbine a graceful, old fashioned diminuative perennial with flowers in shades of  pink, purple, light blue and white.
typically grows 24-30” tall.
if planted in well-drained soil of average moisture, these  tough plants are long-lived and can become semi-woody at the base.
[ more information ] athyrium filix-femina 'lady in red' common name: red-stemmed lady fern 'lady in red' has sultry red stems surrounded by bright green, lacy fronds.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'queen charlotte' common name: japanese anemone
although having the  classical columbine form, large (to 3”) flowers are bright yellow and,  from a distance, can be mistaken for daffodils.
it is shorter than other selections at 18" and a very vigorous grower.
the intoxicating double flowers appear more like dahlias than columbines.
as you browse the database, use the garden planner to create a  printable list of plants that interest you.
the king of native grasses, big  bluestem has handsome gray to blue-green stems in spring turning to green  alternating with deep red in summer then to coppery red in fall.
it typically forms a foliage mat to only 2" tall of  tiny, shiny, oval leaves (1/2" across) which are chocolate with burgundy  highlights.
the familiar  two-winged "helicopter" fruit is a favorite food of chipmunks, and  they store it away in winter larders.
[ more information ] arundo donax 'variegata' common name:
many spectacular soft yellow  flowers are produced in early to mid summer to a maximum height of only  6"-8".
beautiful and long-lasting as a filler in autumn flower arrangements!
self sows readily where happy.
bright white fragrant flowers held on graceful arching branches from  june to frost.
a hardy, reliable ground cover that is equally at home in sun or nearly full shade.
[ more information ] agastache x 'pink  panther' common name: anise hyssop tall flower spikes, beginning  in mid-summer and continuing until frost, are a big draw for butterflies and  hummingbirds.
[more information ] athyrium x 'ghost' common name: ghost fern from the garden of virginia's nancy swell comes this stunning lady fern with silver-white fronds and a decidedly upright habit.
depressus 'silberkissen' common name: mt. atlas daisy mt. atlas daisy is a charming alpine plant originating from the romantic cliffs of the atlas mountains in morocco, and forms a compact, spreading mat of fern-like divided grayish green leaves.
long summer bloom period.
leaves are varyingly described as  dark maroon-purple to near black, which gets the point across that these leaves  are in fact very dark in color.
small, sweet, blue berries ripen in summer and are loved by  songbirds.
it is also a compact cultivar that typically only reaches 15-18” in height.
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'coronation  gold' common name: yarrow clear yellow flowers arise from sturdy  stems from june-august.
foliage has a lacy effect, hence the cultivar  name, and makes an effective accent throughout the growing season.
[ more information ] ajania pacifica common name: silver and gold
the slightly nodding flowers appear in late spring and arise to approximately 14” tall.
[ more information ] andropogon  gerardii common name: big bluestem
yellow-green leaves brighten shadier spots through summer, before putting on orange and red hues in fall.
[ more information ] acer shirasawanum  'aureum' common name: golden fullmoon maple the golden full moon  maple is highly regarded for its beautifully shaped, colorful leaves.
the fronds work well in cut flower arrangements, providing lasting color and soft texture.
hollyhock an elegant variety of hollyhock with fully-double flowers in a mixture of  colors including white, yellow, pink and red.
consider cutting back plant stems to lateral flower buds after initial flowering to tidy the planting and encourage repeat bloom.
[ more information ] asclepias tuberosa 'hello yellow' common name: butterfly weed this cultivar of butterfly weed features flat-topped clusters (umbels) of bright yellow flowers atop upright stems (2-3’ tall) with narrow, lance-shaped leaves.
[ more information ] aruncus dioicus common name: goat's beard giant 20" plumes white flowers bloom starting in may above deep green, highly textured, astilbe-like foliage.
a robust grower with very few pest or pathogen problems.
it is an ideal nectar source for all types of butterflies and the preferred food source for monarch butterfly larvae.
another great variety of hollyhock in the chater’s series, this plant has fully-double, yellow flowers on sturdy stems.
new fronds arise gracefully from the crown all season long, keeping plants from getting worn looking.
long, cascading  branches produce spring foliage that is bright crimson and summer foliage that  turns dark, purple-red and retains its color even in hot, humid summers.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'whirlwind' common name: japanese anemone ‘whirlwind’ is an exceptional hybrid anemone selection with large (4”), semi-double, pure white flowers with twisted tepals tinged in green.
variegated giant reed
native to the mediterranean regions of southwest europe and northwest africa, this species requires well drained soils and will not survive the winter with wet feet.
[ more information ] anemone tomentosa 'robustissima' common name: grapeleaf anemone ‘robustissima’ grows 24-30” tall and produces a plethora of single, light pink flowers with yellow centers beginning in august.
like all the wood's asters, it is a wonderful container plant, with a compact habit and unstoppable clear pink flowers with gold centers.
it is a cross between a. coccinea and a. rupestris, hybridized by  richard dufresne of north carolina.
it is a bushy, clump-forming perennial that features  short-spurred (incurved), nodding flowers with light to sky blue sepals and  white petals.
it's still blooming at thanksgiving  here!
full to filtered sun produces the best look.
the bluish foliage is  deeply cut and fern-like.
benefits from a little shade in production to protect leaf color.
[ more information ] amelanchier canadensis common name: shadblow one of the first native trees with showy flowers to bloom, serviceberry has slightly fragrant, white flowers in drooping clusters that are quite conspicuous because they appear before the leaves emerge.
swamp red maple grows faster than  norway and sugar maples, but slower than silver maple.
[ more information ] asarum canadense common name: wild ginger, canadian ginger wild ginger is a native spring wildflower that occurs in rich woodlands and wooded slopes.
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'pretty belinda' common name: yarrow noted for its lilac-pink flowers, ferny aromatic foliage, and compact  size, this selection would make a wonderful addition to your garden.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'whirlwind' common name: japanese anemone ‘whirlwind’ is an exceptional hybrid anemone selection with  large (4”), semi-double, pure white flowers with twisted tepals tinged in  green.
nodding onion found on ledges, in dry meadows, gravel, rocky or wooded slopes, this delicate onion has gently nodding pink flowers in late spring.
harpstring japanese maple the name 'koto-no-ito' means "harp  strings", a reference to the string-like quality of this japanese maple's  narrow, deeply divided leaf lobes.
we are in the process of building our database therefore it is far from complete.
protect this maple from intense sunlight.
this well-branched japanese maple has a moderate growth habit and a broad crown in maturity, so it is appropriate for shading small courtyards and patios.
introduced by ernst pagels.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'edward goucher' common name: edward  goucher abelia member of the honeysuckle family.
[ more information ] acanthus mollis common name: common bear's breeches the glossy leaves of this plant, carved into the temple columns of ancient greece, are a fitting backdrop to the beautiful flower spikes of white and purple that arise in late spring.
its short  stature, delicate color and mid spring bloom time make it an ideal companion  for spring bulbs!
lady fern is tolerant of drought, but survives by allowing foliage to die back until the next season.
an intense cherry glow appears in fall.
rose astilbe attractive foliage mounds (to 18” tall) of rich, medium green leaves and wide panicles of peach-pink flowers that typically arise to 2-3’ tall in late spring.
[ more information ] amelanchier laevis common name: allegheny serviceberry allegheny serviceberry is a native tree for all seasons.
basically a stemless plant, it features two downy, heart- to kidney-shaped, handsomely veined, dark green, basal leaves (to 6" wide).
very tolerant of a wide variety of soils and light levels, it is easy to grow.
the wider-than-tall  cultivar performs beautifully by a water feature or enriching a japanese style  garden.(iseli nursery)
a robust and competitive plant that brightens up woodland edges and shady corners of the garden.
this tall vased-shaped wildflower has large 1" diameter blue flowers held in cloud-like clusters at the tips of the arching branches.
new leaves are bronze in color in early spring.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'butterfly' common name: variegated japanese maple this vase-shaped tree has small, dainty, variegated (blue-green and white) leaves with a light tinge of pink.
this great cultivar was first discovered in the garden of its namesake m. jobert in verdun, france, in 1858.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'tsuma gaki' common name: tsuma gaki japanese red maple (red nail)
[  more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'black barlow' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap ‘black nora’ is a beautiful dark-purple (nearly black)  columbine that is similar in form to the highly popular double-flowering  cultivar ‘nora barlow’.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'pink lanterns' common name: wild  columbine a shorter version of the species, this pink-flowered form of  wild columbine is delicate and lovely.
named for tierra del fuego, the land of fire.
[ more information ] adiantum pedatum common name: northern maidenhair fern dainty bright green fronds are held aloft on shiny black stems creating a light, airy texture in the woodland garden.
[more information ] alcea rosea 'powder puffs' common  name:
it is a bushy, clump-forming perennial that features short-spurred (incurved), nodding flowers with light to sky blue sepals and white petals.
a graceful and long lived native plant with very fine foliage, clusters of steel blue flowers in may and june on an upright, bushy plant.
[ more information ] aster tataricus 'jindai' common name: tatarian daisy large leaves (to 2') emerge in the spring and provide a bold backdrop for earlier blooming perennials.
also a great addition to containers!
, the  fernleaf fullmoon maple is dark-green in summer.
[ more information ] aquilegia flabellata 'cameo' common name: fan columbine a dwarf columbine that only reaches 5-6” tall, ‘cameo’  sports large 1.5” blooms in shades of white, blue, and pink.
a stately and elegant fir tree.
in rich soil and bright shade it will spread by shallow rhizomes to form a dense groundcover.
deep red and yellow nodding flowers top blue-green foliage for many weeks in spring.
it typically forms a foliage mound of medium green leaves to 18” high.
[ more  information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'silver anniversery' common name: variegated abelia semi-evergreen glossy green and cream edge  variegated foliage with white fragrant flowers on a compact shrub.
[ more information ] aconitum napellus common name: common monkshood
they are quite interesting so be sure to look behind the dense foliage, which usually hides them.
lilac flowers appear on 4-6" flower spikes and form a breathtaking wave of color in spring.
flowers are darker on the outside than their inside, making  them even more endearing.
small, green spring leaves are  decorated with red margins; summer leaves are light green; fall changes them  again to yellow–orange with an occasional touch of red.(iseli nursery)  [  more information ] acer palmatum 'kotonoito' common  name:
[ more information ] asarum europaeum common name: european wild ginger
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'burgandy glow' common name: bugleweed like all ajugas, 'burgundy glow' makes for an excellent ground cover in sun or shade.
found throughout the tallgrass prairie, sky blue aster is found in a wide variety of locations from wet meadows to dry gravel outcrops.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis  'little lanterns' common name: canadian columbine replacing canyon  vista as our compact red-stemmed selection, little lanterns is short in  stature, but free with flowers.
just call it a dwarf 'tutti frutti' and enjoy it.
perfect for the back of the border, as an accent plant, or for cutting  gardens.
great for rock, wall, and trough gardens, as well as a welcome addition to winter/spring planters.
they retain the strong red, even tolerating the heat of summer, although shaded inner leaves may appear green.
chartruse coleus-like foliage is incredible on its own, but the blue bottlebrush flowers in mid summer top it off beautifully.
[ more information ] amsonia hubrichtii common name: thread-leaf blue star
flowers give rise to very flavorful, purple-black, berrylike fruits relished by both songbirds and people.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'queen charlotte' common name:  japanese anemone
easy to grow in containers, overwinters well in cold frames if protected from  heavy rain and snow melt.
amelanchier can be grown as a small tree pruned to become a  densely branched shrub.
occurs naturally in rich rocky woods, north-facing  slopes, cliffs, ledges, pastures, and roadside banks.
the beautiful foliage extends the interest of this fine columbine well beyond the flowering season.
(iseli nursery) [ more information ] acer palmatum 'crimson queen' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple sculptural, cascading branches and finely dissected, colorful leaves make this classic selection one of the finest of the deep red laceleafs.
this small, bushy japanese maple produces a dense  array of branches and finely textured foliage, qualities that make it ideal for  courtyard plantings, containers and bonsai.
it typically grows to a total height (foliage plus flowering spikes) of 4-6', but under optimum conditions can reach 8' tall.
[ more information ] anemone palmata common name: cyclamen-leaved anemone an unusual species in the american landscape, this anemone bears golden-yellow flowers with golden centers, which is a rare color combination in the genus.
this achillea is a vigorous grower that will  quickly form a dense weed-blocking mat.
flowers bloom late spring to early summer.
[ more information ] achillea x 'moonshine' common name: moonshine yarrow silver foliage with 3' tall stems topped with broad sulphur-yellow flower heads.
, black adder boasts numerous bottlebrush flowers of vivid blue from mid  summer to frost on a compact, rounded plant.
consider this elegant tree for a dramatic entry planting in full sun or light shade.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'corbett' common name: yellow wild columbine profuse show of butter yellow lantern flowers from april to may.
a variegated columbine!
[  more information ] arctostaphylos uva-ursi 'massachusetts' common name: common bearberry common bearberry is an evergreen  groundcover that is suited to sandy or other well-drained soils with acidic ph.  it can be a marvelous solution for a difficult site since it grows where few  other plants are happy.
flower color softens to lighter shades of purple with age.
in  fall, the rediscovered tree's foliage, which is bold and more coarsely  dissected than other selections, changes to scarlet.
in fall, older leaves exhibit a deep bronze coloring while the younger leaves contrast well with lighter hues of rose.
[more information ] alcea rosea 'powder puffs' common name: hollyhock an elegant variety of hollyhock with fully-double flowers in a mixture of colors including white, yellow, pink and red.
[ more information ] aquilegia flabellata 'mini-star' common name: fan columbine ‘mini-star’ is a very compact columbine that typically only grows to 6-9" tall.
hollyhock exquisite double-flowered variety of hollyhock with peachy-yellow flowers blushed with pink.
flowering goes on for many weeks.
makes an excellent cut flower, but care should be taken not to  get any sap on open wounds.
one of the most garden-worthy native selections out there.
bred (a. foeniculum x a.  rugosa) and selected by gert fortgens of the arboretum trompenberg, in  rotterdam.
[ more information ] astilbe chinensis 'purpurkerze' common name: chinese astilbe ‘purpurkerze’ is a tall upright cultivar that forms a foliage mound (to 24” tall) of dark green leaves.
taquetii 'superba' common name: chinese astilbe this giant astilbe is a bold, very tall plant which features a dark green foliage mound to 24” tall and large, dense panicles of deep lilac flowers on hairy stems rising 4-5’ tall.
flowers give way to prominent 3-6” long seed “pods” (technically follicles) that are valued in dried flower arrangements.
hollyhock striking hollyhock with deep purplish-maroon, nearly black, flowers on 4-6’ spikes.
[ more information ] asclepias curassavica common name: blood flower asclepias curassavica is a tender perennial that grows upright and tall with spiraling lanceolate leaves.
very hardy  and drought tolerant once established.
a large, upright, clump-forming grass which makes a striking addition to both herbaceous and shrub borders.
great as an edging plant or as a ground cover when planted en masse.
in april and may it has beautiful white flowers that are delicately scented and provide nectar for the season's early bees and butterflies.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'etna' common name: false spirea
patent held by future plants.
[ more information ] asarum splendens common name: chinese wild ginger splendid indeed!
[ more information ] allium cernuum common name: nodding onion easy to identify by its distinctive, nodding, pastel lilac-pink flowers in late spring, nodding onion thrives in challenging sites such as hot sun and gravely soil.
very hardy and will self sow.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'chater's newport pink' common name:
[ more information ] aster oblongifolius 'raydon's favorite' common name: aromatic aster medium blue, fine textured single ray flowers in september and october, aromatic foliage.
a graceful and long lived native plant with very  fine foliage, clusters of steel blue flowers in may and june on an upright,  bushy plant.
sturdy stems support bright peach flowers that slowly turn to  rich hues of earthy reds and oranges.
select plant type: view all types fern grass, sedge, carex perennial shrub shrub: deciduous shrub: evergreen tree: deciduous tree: evergreen vine botanical name common name a b c d e f g h
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'corbett' common name: wild columbine versatile and easy to grow, 'corbett' is a charming selection of our native  columbine with delicate light yellow flowers.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'chater's purple' common name: hollyhock another beautiful variety of hollyhock in the chater’s series
prefers average to dry locations, and is a butterfly magnet.
great for rock gardens or for naturalizing in woodland areas.
the hood of the spathe is deep chocolate color, while the white to yellow spadix is almost entirely enclosed.
inside the spathe nests the lovely, pestle-shaped spadix, easily visible in early spring.
flowers appear over a long summer bloom period.
this specimen is equally beautiful when planted en masse for a large swathe of white to brighten a shady spot or when planted in smaller clumps as specimens positioned in the perennial border.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'dorothy rose' common name: european  columbine, granny's nightcap 'dorothy rose' bears delightful rose-pink flowers that arise 18-24”  above bluish-green foliage.
an excellent choice for containers, raised  beds and rock gardens.
this is good news for the gardener because it will be happy in any sunny location!
the compact, mounding habit of this sport of aster 'purple dome' has proven mildew resistance.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'fireglow' common name: japanese red maple
flowering earlier than most columbines, the flowers are produced in abundance atop compact, vigorous plants in late spring.
an excellent choice for containers, raised beds and rock gardens.
blooms in mid- to late-summer, extending the flowering season of astilbes past their typical season.
great for planters and rock gardens or for naturalizing in semi-shady woodlands.
brilliant red fall color is striking.
this deciduous, woody, climbing vine is an  eastern american native which typically occurs in the wild in rich, moist woods  and along streams.
native to the  mediterranean regions of southwest europe and northwest africa, this species  requires well drained soils and will not survive the winter with wet feet.
contact us 7277 lancaster pike · hockessin, de 19707 | phone: 302-239-2727 | produced byclarity connect, inc.
often  re-flowers in fall when spent flowers are removed.
in april and may it has beautiful white  flowers that are delicately scented and provide nectar for the season's early  bees and butterflies.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'origami blue & white' common name: hybrid columbine a beautiful selection that produces large 3”, blue and white flowers with long spurs from late spring into early summer.
the soft, fern-like foliage forms a dense weed-blocking carpet, especially when spent flowers are removed, to continue the aesthetic value of this low-maintenance gem even after the flowering has finished.
[ more information ] acanthus spinosus common name: spiny bear's breeches this species of bear's breeches  is a clump-forming perennial which is grown as much for its attractive foliage  as for its architecturally bold flower spikes.
new england aster 'purple dome' is a compact bushy plant with a profusion of dark purple, semi-double flowers which cover the plant entirely from september thru october.
introduced by fratelli gilardelli nursery, near milan, italy.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'tamukeyama' common name: laceleaf leaf japanese red maple first listed in 1710 in japan, this extremely vigorous cultivar of superior quality has survived the test of time.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information  ] acer palmatum 'orange dream' common name: orange dream  japanese maple unusual and infrequently found in the trade, this japanese  maple cultivar offers both unique form and color.
the intoxicating double flowers appear more  like dahlias than columbines.
[ more  information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky red-white' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap ‘winky red-white’ boasts radiant red and white, bi-colored  flowers.
[ more information ] abies balsamea 'nana' common name: dwarf balsam fir [ more information ] abies  nordmanniana common name: nordmann fir dense pyramidal form of fir  tree whose branches tend to droop fully clothing the base of the tree.
[ more information ] agastache x 'purple haze' common name: this decidedly hardy agastache brings a new color palette with its long racemes of smoky blue violet flowers that never seem to stop coming.
this mound-forming, rhizomatous perennial is prized for its attractive, variegated foliage which lasts all season.
semi-evergreen, procumbent habit makes this an ideal specimen for any hot, dry nook, especially in rock gardens, wall gardens, along sidewalks, or in containers.
it is perhaps best noted for its deeply-cut, dark purplish-black leaves on branched, dark stems.
the numerous small, creamy white, fragrant flowers appear in long, terminal racemes resembling fluffy spires (typically 1-2' long) rising well above the foliage on wiry stems.
a strong bloomer, it will quickly recover from a trim. a. barberi x a. mexicana.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida  'party dress' common name: japanese anemone ‘party dress’ will certainly add an extra spark of glamour to  your garden.
the leaves make a woolly mass only an inch or two high.
it came our way from canyon creek nursery, via roger rache, then of the berkley botanic gardens's eastern us section.
[ more information ] aster novae-angliae 'alma potschke' common name: new england aster bright rose pink flowers in early fall, september for us here in pennsylvania.
[ more  information ] anthyllis vulneraria var.
found in arkansas in 1942 by leslie  hubricht.
although you might initially overlook her as simply “ordinary”… wait until she blooms!
the noteworthy ornamental tree will command attention in gardens large and small.
highly tolerant of drought and poor soils.
its 8-10" blades form fans like those of iris and will remain evergreen in warmer climates.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'peaches 'n dreams' common name:
an excellent choice for a hot dry site, especially if it's windy.
oertel's rose' is rosy pink with good strong  color that is slow to fade.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'edward goucher' common name:
in spring, the leaves of this vigorous tree  emerge deep purple-red.
[ more information ] aster azureus common name: sky blue aster this hardy native plant lights up the autumn garden with it's brilliant pale blue blooms.
the white woodland aster is a terrific ground cover and is especially valuable because it grows so well in dry shade.
it has been highly popular in european  gardens ever since and remains the most popular and highly sought after white  anemone today.
[ more information ] athyrium nipponicum 'pictum' common name: japanese painted fern
the unique, divided leaves have a tinge of red in spring, stay green during summer and change to yellow in fall.
[ more information ] athyrium x 'branford rambler' common name: running lady fern
excellent as a shady rock garden naturalizer, it also is quite content in  average garden conditions.
armitage [ more information ] arisaema sikokianum common name: gaudy jack
one of its most endearing traits is its tendency to ramble around the shaded garden once established, forming a lush colony that carpets the ground.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'gaiety' common name: bugleweed ajuga 'gaiety' is similar to a. 'burgundy glow', but exhibits much deeper burgundy foliage hues.
this deciduous, woody, climbing vine is an eastern american native which typically occurs in the wild in rich, moist woods and along streams.
found in arkansas in 1942 by leslie hubricht.
it is one of the incredibly popular winky series of columbines that  have become cherished garden favorites in recent years.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] achillea  millefolium 'apricot delight' common name: yarrow vibrant  salmon-pink flowers are consistent in color and resistant to fading.
[ more information ] andropogon virginicus common name: broom sedge
staking is helpful by late summer if you forget to pinch.
a tremendous performer!
foliage is scented when crushed.
although having the classical columbine form, large (to 3”) flowers are bright yellow and, from a distance, can be mistaken for daffodils.
it typically grows to a total height  (foliage plus flowering spikes) of 4-6', but under optimum conditions can reach  8' tall.
nodding  onion found on ledges, in dry meadows, gravel, rocky or wooded slopes,  this delicate onion has gently nodding pink flowers in late spring.
- bill cullina [ more information ] asclepias syriaca common name: common milkweed this native classic is best known as a food of larval monarch butterflies (along with it's siblings a. incarnata and a. tuberosa).
semi-evergreen shrub with very fragrant light pink flowers.
willow-like leaves are 4-5" long.
flower plumes are more upright in this cultivar as compared to the more typical arching habit of other selections.
[ more information ] aconitum fischeri common  name: azure monkshood dark azure-blue flowers appear in mid-late summer  and continue into early fall, making this a perfect companion plant for  japanese anemones and ‘autumn joy’ sedums.
easy to grow as long as the soil is loose and rich.
this  cultivar bears lovely blue and white, bi-colored flowers.
very floriferous and attracts butterflies and other pollinators.
this adorable rock garden gem epitomizes the whimsical charm of alpine plants.
in late spring and early summer lightly scented, delicate  white flowers appear above the foliage.
flowers give way to clusters of bright  red berries in late summer that are attractive to mammals and many songbirds.
perfect for the  back of the border, as an accent plant, or for cutting gardens.
japonica 'prince henry' common name: japanese anemone this lovely anemone boasts deep rose, semi-double flowers with star-shaped petals.
it still typically stands between 24” and 30” tall.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky red-white' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap ‘winky red-white’ boasts radiant red and white, bi-colored flowers.
tolerates shade, but blooms better in the sun.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'silver anniversery' common name: variegated abelia semi-evergreen glossy green and cream edge variegated foliage with white fragrant flowers on a compact shrub.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'rheinland' common name: false spirea ‘rheinland’ typically forms a dark green foliage mound (to 9-12” tall) with open panicles of clear pink flowers appearing on upright, reddish stems (to 24” tall).
its 8-10" blades  form fans like those of iris and will remain evergreen in warmer climates.
grows only about 5-8” tall and up to 20” wide.
this long-blooming, compact amsonia selected from a. tabernaemontana seedlings at white flower farm is possibly a hybrid with the taxonomically challenged a. montana or perhaps with the asian rhazya orientale.
flowers  are great for summer bouquets and can add whimsical charm to any arrangement.
introduced by ernst  pagels.
its deep  roots tenaciously hold the soil making it a great erosion buffer.
this is a critical late season nectar source for butterflies, especially for monarchs, as they stock up for their long migration to mexico.- prarie nursery [ more information ] aster novae-angliae 'alma potchke' common name: (symphyotrichum n.a.)
a bright color for the fall garden, it provides nectar for butterflies and cover for birds and other small animals.
small,  numerous, creamy white (with a purple tinge), strongly fragrant flowers appear  in late summer to early fall in long, bottlebrush-like, terminal racemes  resembling fluffy spires (to 24" long).
its long bloom time and attractiveness to butterflies make  leadplant a great native substitute for butterfly bush (buddleia).
it  typically forms a dense foliage mound to 18-24" tall that spreads over  time by rhizomes to as much as 36" wide.
staking may be necessary, especially to keep plants upright after a rain.
attractive, bronze foliage is most vivid in the cooler temperatures of spring and fall but looks great all year.
the unique coloration of the flowers add much to the charm of the plant; in appearance, flowers almost look dipped in red blood, and for the imaginative plant connoisseur, they can almost evoke mental images of classical mythological stories of lore.
it is one of the incredibly popular winky series of columbines that have become cherished garden favorites in recent years.
[ more information ] athyrium filix-femina common name: lady fern handsome crowns of feathery fronds are typical of lady ferns.
great for edging  perennial borders!
sweet flag likes boggy conditions and can be grown in shallow water at pond  edge, but is also at home in an average garden, though less vigorous.
it is quite floriferous and flowers from august to late  september.
then in fall, the foliage  turns a magnificent array of intense colors; brilliant scarlet shading into  purple.
[ more information ] anemone hupehensis var.
this is the most compact of the group, with a tight rounded habit.
it also has a dense, twiggy branch structure that works as the harp frame.
found in swamps, thickets and damp woods east of the rockies.
[ more information ] asclepias incarnata common name: swamp milkweed swamp milkweed has big heads of rose pink, sweetly scented flowers.
[ more information ] agastache astromontana common name: anise hyssop it delights with sweetly scented foliage and rosy pink spikes that seem to last forever - the calyces are the same color as the petals and last long after the flowers have dropped.
a tough, drought-tolerant native with intense orange flowers in mid to late summer.
i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w y-z all abelia xgrandiflora common name: glossy abelia semi-evergreen glossy leaves.
attracts many varieties of butterfly and is especially attractive to monarchs.
the  flowers are inconspicuous and the plants are grown mainly for their foliage.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis 'little lanterns' common name:  wild columbine 'little lanterns' is a compact columbine that only  grows 10" tall.
[ more information ] achillea x 'paprika' common name: yarrow intense red flowers surround bright yellow centers.
great for planters and in the rock garden.
clear white flowers and dark green foliage make the colors of the hundreds of visiting butterflies glisten in the sunlight.
small white flowers bloom in early april providing early nectar for local native bees and butterflies.
clear white single flowers top out at 18" from mid spring to early summer.
a quick and easy pot crop for fall sales.
[ more information ] agastache x 'golden jubilee' common name: definately a wow! plant.
however, its most remarkable attribute is the fact that its luxuriant dark green leaves are marbled with silver markings, reminiscent ofcyclamen foliage.
like all astilbes, this fine specimen lends a refined presence to semi-shady perennial borders and its graceful flowers flutter in the slightest late spring or early summer breeze.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'black barlow' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap ‘black nora’ is a beautiful dark-purple (nearly black) columbine that is similar in form to the highly popular double-flowering cultivar ‘nora barlow’.
[ more information ] aconitum carmichaelii 'cloudy' common name: monkshood an interesting new monkshood cultivar with bi-colored flowers of blue and white.
the soft  fern-like foliage forms a dense mat that looks great especially if spent  flowers are removed.
found from new hampshire to north carolina, west to minnesota and arkansas.
leaves are bluish-green with cream mottling.
the fruit ripens in late summer and persists through winter.
depressus 'silberkissen' common name: mt.  atlas daisy mt. atlas daisy is a charming alpine plant originating from the romantic  cliffs of the atlas mountains in morocco, and forms a compact, spreading mat of  fern-like divided grayish green leaves.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'erica' common name: false spirea ‘erica’ is a tall hybrid cultivar which features open, narrow panicles of soft pink flowers on upright stems (to 3’ tall).
it is really the queen of green", according to dr. john mickel former curator of ferns at the new york botanical garden and author of "ferns for american gardens".
[ more information ] aconitum fischeri common name: azure monkshood dark azure-blue flowers appear in mid-late summer and continue into early fall, making this a perfect companion plant for japanese anemones and ‘autumn joy’ sedums.
[ more  information ] agastache x 'blue fortune' common name:  anise hyssop selected for its profusion of long lasting, deep violet blue  flower spikes, that appear from july to september and fragrant foliage.
perfectly clean foliage makes for easy maintenance in production and in the landscape.
blooms profusely from august until frost.
flowers can be used fresh for arrangements or harvested and dried for later use.
this cultivar was named for the popular orchid genus.
european wild ginger is an excellent, low-growing groundcover for the woodland garden, with glossy, dark green, evergreen, kidney-shaped leaves (2-3” wide).
flowers are generally a richer yellow than those of the species and appear in spring.
flowers bloom mid- to late- summer.
in spring, the soft, pendant chartreuse leaves on this small, rounded tree sport dramatic edges of persimmon red, an effect that looks like many dainty leaf-hands with brightly painted "nails", in summer, the foliage continues to demand attention as it develops wide, deep-red margins and light-cream centers.
new leaves emerge a vivid electric-green color in early spring and mature to a painter’s palette of burgundy, purple, and green throughout the summer.
beautiful color contrast when inter-planted with grape hyacinths (muscari).
large, upward facing flowers are also great as long lasting cut flowers.
attractive to butterflies and other nectar-loving insects.
[ more information ] agastache x 'red fortune' common name: anise hyssop similar to blue fortune only in name, the "red" version is still a worthy plant in spite of its misfortunate moniker, with its continuous flowering and numerous deep rose flower spikes beginning in late june and continuing until the first hard frost.
a good strong grower and a totally new look and use for asters!
this superb selection has fronds whose pinnae (leaflets) crisscross to form x's and has crested pinnae tips.
(iseli nursery)  [ more information ] acer  palmatum 'garnet' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple rich,  red-purple foliage distinguishes this vigorous, spreading laceleaf, and its  large, broadly dissected leaves maintain their color well despite heat and  humidity.
spotted by richard simon of bluemont nurseries, monkton, md.
spadix like flowers appear in june and july, followed by dark berries.
[ more information ] alcea rosea 'chater's scarlet' common name: hollyhock a flower that is truly scarlet-red!
flowering is later than many other asters and this species often provides brilliant color until frost.
an  intense cherry glow appears in fall.
flowers are great for summer bouquets and can add whimsical charm to any arrangement.
[ more  information ] agastache astromontana common name: anise  hyssop it delights with sweetly scented foliage and rosy pink spikes that  seem to last forever - the calyces are the same color as the petals and last  long after the flowers have dropped.
mid to late summer blooms are lavender-purple.
[ more information ] acer rubrum  'autumn flame' common name: red maple [ more information ] acer rubrum 'red sunset' common name: red maple dense clusters of red flowers in late winter offer nectar early in the season.
it  is a vigorous, fibrous-rooted, compact grower that reaches a maximum height of  3’ tall and spreads by creeping rhizomes.
[ more information ] anemone blanda 'blue star' common name: grecian windflower ‘blue star’ is a superb cultivar with large (2.5”), daisy-like flowers with showy, intensely blue sepals.
new foliage in bronze in early spring.
[ more information ] asclepias tuberosa common name: butterfly weed butterfly weed produces many bright orange, flat-topped flower clusters in early june.
flowering most profusely from august to september, this garden favorite continues to flower sporadically until frost.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'jungle beauty' common name: bugleweed huge, shiny, mahogany-purple leaves form an 8" mound of attractive foliage, topped with deep blue spikes, to 10" in may.
(iseli nursery) [ more information ] acer palmatum 'garnet' common name: lace leaf japanese red maple rich, red-purple foliage distinguishes this vigorous, spreading laceleaf, and its large, broadly dissected leaves maintain their color well despite heat and humidity.
three fingered  seed heads top tall stems in august.
great for the rock garden!
new growth is bronze tinted, then dark green as it matures.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'bridal veil' common name: false spirea the archetypal white astilbe, this beautiful gem brightens up any shady spot.
tolerates a variety of soil types and moisture levels, and it needs no staking in full sun.
[ more  information ] aconitum napellus common name: common  monkshood the classic monkshood of your grandmother’s garden, this  proven garden favorite is perfect for cutting gardens, perennial borders, and  cottage gardens.
undemanding by nature, it is ideal for most any sunny garden spot and is a great container plant.
the familiar two-winged "helicopter" fruit is a favorite food of chipmunks, and they store it away in winter larders.
a favorite of  butterflies and hummingbirds.
flowers are followed by attractive slender seed pods (to 4” long) which split open when ripe and release to the wind silky-haired seeds.
blue flowers on 6" spikes arise above the foliage  in late spring are a magnate for butterflies and bees.
thousands of flowers per plant - a butterfly's dream!
it has survived wet and  dry, and warm and cold winters in pennsylvania where it has been in the ground  since spring 2000.
[ more information ] aquilegia flabellata 'cameo' common name: fan columbine a dwarf columbine that only reaches 5-6” tall, ‘cameo’ sports large 1.5” blooms in shades of white, blue, and pink.
being stoloniferous, new plantlets emerge in spring and should be thinned for best results.
flowering from late  summer until fall, it is a superb addition to the perennial border or woodland  garden.
[ more information ] achillea x lewisii 'king edward' common name: dwarf wooly yarrow excellent choice for a rock garden, or in pockets on a stone wall.
somewhat drought tolerant when established.
[ more information ] alyssum wulfenianum common name: madwort a wonderful spreading plant for the rock garden that is covered in bright yellow flowers in june.
reaching only 6-8” tall and thriving in poor soil in full sun, it is perfect for the sunny rock garden and containers.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'richard ahrens' common name: japanese  anemone this beautiful and vigorous garden jewel produces long-lasting single and  semi-double blooms that open bright pink and soften to blushed-white as the  season progresses.
they are quite interesting so be sure to  look behind the dense foliage, which usually hides them.
, purple milkweed has intense rose pink flowers for several weeks in early to mid summer, followed by the attractive pods of silky seeds typical of the genus.
[ more information ] agastache x 'purple haze' common name: this decidedly hardy  agastache brings a new color palette with its long racemes of smoky blue violet  flowers that never seem to stop coming.
a hybrid of a. x  'taygeta' and a. clypeolata, introduced by alan bloom in the 1950's.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky blue-white' common name:  european columbine, granny's nightcap the incredibly popular winky series of columbines have become cherished  garden favorites in recent years.
flowers appear on wiry stems  above an attractive foliage mound of trifoliate dark green leaves.
artostaphyllos is lovely draped over the edge of a wall or large rock.
chinese wild ginger is an outstanding foliage plant for the shady woodland garden or for edging the border.
clumps are dense and upright.
deep purple-brown flowers hide among the leaves in spring.
[ more information ] achillea x 'terra cotta' common name: yarrow another ernest pagel introduction, with pronounced  silvery foliage.
hollyhock striking hollyhock with deep purplish-maroon, nearly black, flowers on  4-6’ spikes.
andropogon gerardii can be found in moist meadows and along side roads and rivers from canada to mexico.
[ more information ] actaea simplex 'black negligee' common name: purple-leaved bugbane 'black negligee' is a purple-leaved bugbane that typically grows to 4-5' tall.
the classical features of  this plant make it the perfect addition to cottage gardens; it is equally at  home planted at the back of the border, as an accent plant, or in cutting  gardens.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'mckana's giant' common name: hybrid columbine the mckana series of columbine hybrids were originally released in the mid-1950s and have been highly popular ever since, bearing large flowers in a kaleidoscope of pastel colors on tall, upright plants.
makes an excellent cut  flower, but care should be taken not to get any sap on open wounds.
foliage emerges bright crimson, deepens to burgundy in summer and finishes with brilliant scarlet in fall, maintaining its color despite summer heat and humidity.
[ more information ] alcea  rugosa common name: russian hollyhock a robust species of hollyhock from russia and ukraine with clear-yellow  flowers on hairy stems above deeply-lobed leaves.
though closely related to spiraea, goat's beard more closely resembles a giant astilbe.
with gorgeous, double rose-pink flowers (to 2”) produced prolifically from late summer until fall on tall stems (36-38” high), this cultivar can’t be beat.
[ more information ] aquilegia formosa common name: western columbine deep red, horned nodding flowers with yellow centers float above bright green foliage on long, thin stems for weeks starting in late april.
the foliage boasts a burgundy hue in spring.
robust and vigorous, alchemilla mollis 'auslese' prefers full sun to part shade and has a wonderfully uniform habit.
it features a foliage mound to 6” tall of dark green leaves and thick, stiff panicles of lilac-pink flowers on 9-12” tall stems in early to mid-summer.
prized for its tight, compact habit (only 15” tall), prolific-flowering, and upward-pointing flowers.
introduced by holbrook farm.
easy to grow in containers, overwinters well in cold frames if protected from heavy rain and snow melt.
japonica 'september charm' common name: japanese anemone ‘september charm’ certainly lives up to its name, producing  numerous single, creamy rose-pink flowers with yellow centers on nodding stems  to 3’ tall.
excellent addition to the  rock garden.
forms tufts of tiny, fragrant,  semi-evergreen leaves reaching only 6” tall.
perfect for the back of the border, as an accent plant, or for cutting gardens.
[ more information ] agastache x 'pink panther' common name: anise hyssop tall flower spikes, beginning in mid-summer and continuing until frost, are a big draw for butterflies and hummingbirds.
it is quite floriferous and flowers from august to late september.
cup-shaped, purplish brown flowers (1" wide) appear in spring on short, ground-level stems between the two leaves.
[ more information ] asteromea mongolica common name: japanese aster tough and easy to grow, this enchanting aster cousin is covered in hundreds of double white flowers from mid-summer to frost.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'rose creek' common name: abelia one of the smallest abelias to date.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'woodside strain' common name: european columbine,  granny's nightcap finally!
easy to grow as long as the soil is  loose and rich.
foliage may show more green than bronze in very dense shade or during very hot, humid times.
found at water's edge from nova scotia to virginia to washington to alaska.
[ more information ] alchemilla mollis 'auslese' common name: lady's mantle green to bright chartreuse flowers appear in clusters above scalloped, grey-green foliage late spring through summer.
[ more information ] amorpha canescens common name: leadplant amorpha canescens is a small shrubby plant that is graced with long spikes of clear purple flowers from july to september.
the soft, fern-like foliage forms a dense weed-blocking carpet, especially when  spent flowers are removed, to continue the aesthetic value of this  low-maintenance gem even after the flowering has finished.
this long-flowering cultivar has a compact habit with sturdy stems.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'origami yellow' common name: hybrid columbine another beautiful columbine in the origami series.
[ more information ] acer rubrum 'autumn flame' common name: red maple [ more information ] acer rubrum 'red sunset' common name: red maple dense clusters of red flowers in late winter offer nectar early in the season.
reddish-pink flower bracts are held through fall and winter.
plants are robust  and produce some of the largest spathes relative to the overall size of the  plant in this genus.
flowers face outwards, are slightly nodding, and are produced in profusion for 4-6 weeks in late spring and early summer.
[ more information ] acer palmatum  'tsuma gaki' common name: tsuma gaki japanese red maple (red nail)
it has been hardy for us in the  ground and in containers for 5 years now and has proven to be a reliable  production plant as well.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida  'origami yellow' common name: hybrid columbine another beautiful columbine in the origami series.
its small green leaves have silver grey backs and often appear to be edged in silver.
robust and stoloniferous with deep pink clusters of fragrant flowers in june and july, followed by lovely pods of silky seeds in october.
bugleweed excellent ground cover that spreads to approximately 3' wide and only reaching a height of 4-6" tall.
i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w y-z all abelia  xgrandiflora common name:
blue flowers on 6" spikes arise above the foliage in late spring are a magnate for butterflies and bees.
edible berries resemble blueberries in size and color and can be used  in jams, jellies and pies.
[ more information ] alchemilla mollis common name: lady's mantle lady's mantle is  an excellent clump-forming perennial that will grow almost anywhere.
blue flowers in spring on 6" tall spikes are a favorite of bees and the  earliest butterflies.
it features tricolored foliage with shades of cream, pink, and green.
blooms from late spring into mid summer.
amelanchier laevis is found in moist  woods and meadows, but tolerates most any garden situation.
the beautifully delicate, airy flowers of this woodland native arise elegantly above the foliage in june and july.
planted in groups, it is a lovely groundcover and it combines well with other woodland natives such as wild ginger and wood ferns.
as with other  agastaches, very attractive to hummingbirds and butterflies of all types.
bring your list to gateway and we  will help you with your plant selections.
[ more information ] anemone sylvestris common  name: snowdrop anemone delicate nodding white flowers in late spring atop  lustrous green dense foliage.
foliage may show more green than bronze in very dense shade or during very hot,  humid times.
though native to rocky woods and slopes, wild columbine thrives  in average or even moist garden conditions.
found at water's edge from nova scotia to  virginia to washington to alaska.
bring your list to gateway and we will help you with your plant selections.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'snowdrift' common name: false spirea ‘snowdrift’ features a foliage mound to 18” tall of deeply-cut, medium green leaves and wide, feather-like panicles of pure white flowers on erect stems typically rising to 24” tall in late spring.
striking warm rosy orange verticillate flowers with silvery foliage sets this plant apart.
lovley naturalized in shade, average, and dry soil.
[ more information ] anemone x hybrida 'honorine jobert' common name: japanese anemone ‘honorine jobert’ is a vigorous, fibrous-rooted, compact  japanese anemone hybrid which typically grows 3-4’ tall, spreading by  creeping rhizomes.
the incredibly popular winky series of columbines have become  cherished garden favorites in recent years.
occurs naturally in rich rocky woods, north-facing slopes, cliffs, ledges, pastures, and roadside banks.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'white gloria' common name: false spirea typical of the astilbes in the gloria series, this early-flowering specimen features compact flower plumes that are less airy than is typical of other astilbes.
whatever its parentage, blue ice blooms longer and stronger than the species  and forms a dense, compact mound of dark green leaves that turn brilliant  yellow in the fall.
[ more information ] alchemilla mollis common name: lady's mantle lady's mantle is an excellent clump-forming perennial that will grow almost anywhere.
japonica 'pamina' common name: japanese anemone 'pamina' is an excellent japanese anemone cultivar that bears semi-double, lavender to rose-pink flowers with yellow centers in late summer and fall.
aquilegia is best planted where the fading leaves will be camouflaged by foliage of later emerging plants such as heuchera, woodland asters or ferns.
this popular, long-lived perennial with a woody base reaches 4-5’ tall!
attractive, bronze foliage is most vivid in the cooler  temperatures of spring and fall but looks great all year.
bronze-pink foliage is more pronounced in early spring.
oertel's rose' is rosy pink with good strong color that is slow to fade.
[ more information ] aquilegia  x hybrida 'origami blue & white' common name: hybrid columbine a beautiful selection that produces large 3”, blue and white flowers  with long spurs from late spring into early summer.
(iseli  nursery)  [ more information ] acer palmatum 'omurayama' common name: omurayama japanese maple spectacular color, highly dissected  foliage and an elegant, cascading habit distinguish 'omurayama' as one of the  best of the japanese maples.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'clementine red' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap this wonderful selection belongs to the clementine series of columbines that boast large, spurless flowers that have a stronger resemblance to double clematis or waterlilies (nymphaea) than to traditional columbines.
can rapidly grow to 20-30'.
a great nuturalizer under trees, at the edge of woods, or as a filler among hostas and astilbes, which look pretty rough by september.
occurs in dry fields and roadsides in most of the us.
[ more information ] acinos alpinus common name: rock thyme, alpine calamint clusters of tubular purplish flowers appear at the end of each stem from  late may through early june.
spreads by stolons, but is not invasive.
[ more information ] acorus americanus common name: sweetflag acorus americanus is a hardy perennial swamp or bog plant with sweet, spicy-scented leaves.
many spectacular soft yellow flowers are produced in early to mid summer to a maximum height of only 6"-8".
[ more information ] aquilegia x 'biedermeier' common name: hybrid columbine a graceful, old fashioned diminuative perennial with flowers in shades of pink, purple, light blue and white.
[ more information ] ajuga  reptans 'chocolate chip' common name: bugleweed ajuga 'valfredda',  or chocolate chip, is a bugleweed cultivar that is most noted for its extremely  dwarf habit and its chocolate foliage.
[ more information ] agastache x 'firebird' common name: anise hyssop 'firebird' is a prolific bloomer, covered with deep orange red flowers from mid summer until frost.
it remains compact in a container with  an early pinch and is in flower from july to frost.
native to all states east of the rockies, but not found in louisiana.
chartruse coleus-like foliage is incredible on its  own, but the blue bottlebrush flowers in mid summer top it off beautifully.
reddish-pink flower bracts are retained in  fall and winter.
flowers are generally a richer yellow than those of the species and appear in  spring.
it's still blooming at thanksgiving here!
, this plant has fully-double, purplish-red flowers on sturdy stems.
one of the most adaptable of the anemones.
renowned for their incredibly uniform growth  and extended flowering habits, these columbines are also prized for their dwarf  stature, only reaching 12-16” tall.
this primrose path introduction has excellent groundcover potential.
the sweetly fragrant, tubular flowers in whorls bloom on erect, salvia-like spikes atop 2'-3' stems.
this selection resolves a few grievances that some have expressed about aquilegia canadensis by having consistantly shorter stature and more intense color than the species.
it grows about 3’ tall and was bred by german nurseryman, wilhelm pfitzer.
green pods full of seeds with silky white hairs follow the flowers.
prefers  average to dry locations, and is a butterfly magnet.
during much of the growing  season, this plant serves as an excellent ground cover featuring  silver-margined leaves with silvery undersides (to 2" long).
in mid summer its fruits ripen to brilliant violet pink,  aging to deep blue purple when fully ripe.
forms tufts of tiny, fragrant, semi-evergreen leaves reaching only 6” tall.
with feathery, dark red flower plumes above dark green foliage, ‘etna’ is a welcome addition to any garden.
[ more information ] ajuga reptans 'bronze beauty' common name: bugleweed excellent ground cover that spreads to approximately 3' wide and only reaching  a height of 4-6" tall.
semi-evergreen shrub with  very fragrant light pink flowers.
, black adder boasts numerous bottlebrush flowers of vivid blue from mid summer to frost on a compact, rounded plant.
[  more information ] arisaema ringens common name:
[ more information ] aster novae-angliae common name: new england aster tall and majestic, new england aster rules the prairie in autumn.
[ more information ] aster x 'woods light blue' common name: blue wood's aster this member of the wood's aster group has the typical low rounded habit and profuse blooming associated with all three.
this fern really prefers shade and will stand up with all fronds perpendicular to the ground in full sun.
it is perhaps best utilized as a small area ground cover.
[ more  information ] acer palmatum 'fireglow' common name:  japanese red maple
it is an extremely robust and  vigorous plant that is well suited for naturalizing.
flowers are ruffled like a petticoat and are  nearly twice the size of many japanese anemones.
divide in fall or early spring.
found by rick darke and skip march at the jin dai botanical garden.
it's wonderful for  xeriscaping, in coastal areas, fall and winter cut stems and restoration.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'bloodgood' common name: japanese red maple a deservedly popular japanese maple, this robust, upright tree has large, deep red leaves that push bright red in spring.
received award of garden merit from the royal horticultural society.
flowers emerge in spring, followed by red berries in fall, and are a welcome and beautiful addition to shade or woodland gardens.
in fall, bright-red foliage glows against the lowering sun, and in winter, the distinctive tree shows off bare branches and a silhouette typical of a red dissectum.(iseli nursery)
makes an excellent container plant.
makes excellent cut flowers in both dried and fresh arrangments.
found in the humus-rich woodlands  and moist woods of eastern north america.
it is shorter than the species and has deep dark shining mahogany stems.
[  more information ] agastache rupestris common name: rock  anise hyssop licorice plant, so nicknamed by dr. allan armitage, of the  university of georgia for the deliciously scented foliage - mmmm - rub the  foliage!
the outside of the spathe is usually green or  purple and the inside is usually striped purple and greenish white, though  considerable color variations exist.
it blooms earlier than most asters, starting in early august.
[ more information ] asclepias tuberosa 'hello yellow' common name: butterfly weed hello yellow butterfly weed produces many golden yellow, flat-topped flower clusters in early june.
[ more information ] agastache x 'tutti frutti' common name: hyssop 'tutti frutti' has bright lavender pink flowers all summer.
mostly basal, compound glossy dark green leaves form a dense, fern-like foliage mound (to 10” tall).
'regal red' combines beautifully with red-purple heucheras such as 'plum pudding' and blue sedges like carex platyphylla or c. 'blue zinger'.
blue fortune is a hybrid of  species native to the us and korea.
this hybrid was introduced  more than a half century ago to commemorate the coronation of queen elizabeth  ii and, fittingly, it is a regal addition to every garden.
[ more information ] aquilegia canadensis common name: wild columbine red flowers with  yellow centers hang like drifts of softly illuminated lanterns in april and  may.
the slightly nodding flowers appear in late  spring and arise to approximately 14” tall.
the needles are flat and thick with a notch in the end and when crushed they emit an orange-peel fragrance.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'music white' common name: hybrid columbine a regal member of the popular music mix selection of columbines, ‘music white’ bears large, clear white flowers on stems rising 2-3’ tall.
[ more information ] arctostaphylos uva-ursi 'massachusetts' common name: common bearberry common bearberry is an evergreen groundcover that is suited to sandy or other well-drained soils with acidic ph. it can be a marvelous solution for a difficult site since it grows where few other plants are happy.
blooms late into the fall, well after the first frosts.
- how much stone do you need?
delicate and lacy with arching fronds and dark red stems at maturity.
this is a good choice for shade gardens, woodland gardens, rock gardens and naturalized areas.
new  foliage in bronze in early spring.
the bi-ternate to tri-ternate foliage is somewhat suggestive of  meadow rue (thalictrum).
the pinnules also twist a little giving the frond a "fluffed" up look.
[ more information ] astilbe chinensis var.
this deciduous fern is vigorous and easy to grow.
as a mediterranean  plant, mt. atlas daisy requires excellent drainage, and are ideally suited for  hot, sunny, and dry rock gardens, trough gardens, rock walls, or rock crevices.
irresistable, a really tremendous plant.
flowers give way to clusters of bright red berries in late summer that are attractive to mammals and many songbirds.
armitage [ more information ] arisaema triphyllum common name: jack-in-the-pulpit the jack-in-the-pulpit is a spring woodland wildflower usually growing 1- 2' tall.
we are in the process of  building our database therefore it is far from complete.
[  more information ] aethionema grandiflorum common name:  persian stonecress mounding plants with bluish-green foliage are covered  with clusters of pink flowers for many weeks in late spring.
[ more information ] asclepias incarnata 'soulmate' common name: swamp milkweed ‘soulmate’ is a fine selection of the native swamp milkweed and typically grows 3-3.5’ tall.
the tips of the sepals have a delicately ragged appearance.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'woodside strain' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap finally!
this plant loves partially to fully shaded woodland areas, is easy to grow, very adaptable and is a huge nectar source for native butterflies and hummingbirds.
no  insect or pest problems with these babies.
the spathe forms a funnel-shaped tube ending in a long, narrow projection.
consider this elegant tree for a dramatic entry planting in full sun  or light shade.
plants  also show off a chorus of leaf color in shades of pink to orange to yellow that  changes from spring through fall.
a hybrid of a. x 'taygeta' and a. clypeolata, introduced by alan bloom in the 1950's.
occurs in floodplains and wet meadows.
fantastic flower in arrangements too, easier to grow and lasts longer than baby's breath.
[ more information ] anemone canadensis common name: meadow anemone a  strong growing plant that needs room to move.
[ more information ] agastache x 'black adder' common name: black adder hyssop the second fantastic agastache given to us by coen jansen
during much of the growing season, this plant serves as an excellent ground cover featuring silver-margined leaves with silvery undersides (to 2" long).
individual flowers are nearly 4” wide and are most vivid when plants are placed in front of light-colored walls or fences.
the numerous small, creamy white, fragrant flowers appear in long,  terminal racemes resembling fluffy spires (typically 1-2' long) rising well  above the foliage on wiry stems.
much more perennial  in habit than other hollyhock species.
hollyhock a cheery must for every garden!
however, this fantastic new cultivar is most noted for its beautiful foliage color.
[ more information ] abies balsamea 'nana' common name: dwarf balsam fir [ more information ] abies nordmanniana common name: nordmann fir dense pyramidal form of fir tree whose branches tend to droop fully clothing the base of the tree.
the  noteworthy ornamental tree will command attention in gardens large and small.
leaves emerge tinged with red but mature to dark green.
the foliage boasts a  burgundy hue in spring.
this semi-shade lover's huge flower plumes attracted masses of native insects and butterflies to the garden wile its easy care nature makes it a shade gardening natural for any landscape.
'red sunset' is one of the best cultivars available,  with outstanding orange to red fall color.
thrives in full sun or part shade.
divide in fall or  early spring.
[ more information ] aconitum x  'blue lagoon' common name: dwarf monkshood a dwarf hybrid  monkshood that has violet-blue flowers borne above the attractive foliage.
flowers  face outwards, are slightly nodding, and are produced in profusion for 4-6  weeks in late spring and early summer.
[ more information ] anemone canadensis common name: meadow anemone a strong growing plant that needs room to move.
grows only about 5-8” tall and up to 20”  wide.
flowers emerge in spring, followed by red  berries in fall, and are a welcome and beautiful addition to shade or woodland  gardens.
[ more information ] aster x 'wood's pink' common name: pink wood's aster aster wood's pink is virtually mildew and rust free.
its short stature, delicate color and mid spring bloom time make it an ideal companion for spring bulbs!
this is the larval host plant for the blue and black pipevine swallowtail butterfly.
[ more information ] abelia xgrandiflora 'mardi gras' common name: variegated abelia semi-evergreen glossy green, white, and pink variegated foliage with white fragrant flowers on a compact shrub.
it has survived wet and dry, and warm and cold winters in pennsylvania where it has been in the ground since spring 2000.
aster laevis is a great source of nectar for migrating monarchs and other late season butterflies.
[ more information ] anemone blanda 'white splendour' common name:
forms a compact, weed-blocking mat that grows  equally well below shrubs, around rocks, or in troublesome shady locations.
[ more information ] aster cordifolius 'avondale' common name: wood aster this selection of the native wood aster is a prolific bloomer and carpets the shade garden with light blue in early fall, when little else blooms and the hostas are in decline.
the  beautifully delicate, airy flowers of this woodland native arise elegantly  above the foliage in june and july.
[ more information ] astilbe x arendsii 'europa' common name: false spirea named for a beautiful phoenician princess from greek mythology, ‘europa’ is an early blooming hybrid cultivar which bears airy plumes of pale pink flowers reaching 2’ high.
[ more information ] aquilegia x hybrida 'music white' common name: hybrid columbine a regal member of the popular music mix selection of columbines,  ‘music white’ bears large, clear white flowers on stems rising  2-3’ tall.
[ more information ] aquilegia vulgaris 'winky blue-white' common name: european columbine, granny's nightcap the incredibly popular winky series of columbines have become cherished garden favorites in recent years.
armitage  [ more information ] arisaema  triphyllum common name: jack-in-the-pulpit
plants will self-sow and the seedlings will bloom the  second year.
the series was named for their upward-facing flowers (as if they are “winking” at you).
a hardy, reliable ground cover that is equally at home  in sun or nearly full shade.
agastache 'blue fortune' is long flowering, heat and drought tolerant, as well as insect and disease resistant.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'emperor one' common name: japanese maple
andropogon gerardii can be found in moist meadows  and along side roads and rivers from canada to mexico.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'omurayama' common name: omurayama japanese maple spectacular color, highly dissected foliage and an elegant, cascading habit distinguish 'omurayama' as one of the best of the japanese maples.
as you browse the database, use the garden planner to create a printable list of plants that interest you.
flowers also are a favorite of pollinators such as bees and butterflies!
the classical features of this plant make it the perfect addition to cottage gardens; it is equally at home planted at the back of the border, as an accent plant, or in cutting gardens.
[  more information ] acer griseum common name: paper bark  maple plant a specimen of the beautiful paperbark maple where its many  features will provide drama throughout the year: in winter, massive branches  that thicken with age display exquisitely peeling, orange-copper bark; in  spring and summer, trifoliate leaves of rich green provide shade; and in fall,  they change to brilliant red.
excellent golden fall color.
swamp milkweed grows naturally in wet soil but also grows well in regular garden soil.
'loddon royalist' is a greatanchusa cultivar that typically grows to 3' tall.
tiny, two-lipped, dark violet flowers (typical of the mint family) appear in late spring on flower spikes that rise above the foliage.
the exquisite double blooms appear as if several flowers are set inside one other; flower appearance lends the whimsical air of a ruffled ballerina's dress to your garden.
fireland' is a vigorous grower with brick red flowers that fade to deep orange throughout the summer.
often re-flowers in fall when spent flowers are removed.
flowering from late summer until fall, it is a superb addition to the perennial border or woodland garden.
as heralds of spring, grecian windflowers are one of the earliest flowers to  emerge each year, just when cabin fever is the strongest!
when in full flower, plantings can produce a striking floral display, however this cultivar is primarily grown for its foliage and dwarf size.
japonica 'prince  henry' common name: japanese anemone this lovely anemone boasts deep rose, semi-double flowers with  star-shaped petals.
feathery, bright white flower plumes are held above rich, glossy green foliage in summer.
it has been hardy for us in the ground and in containers for 5 years now and has proven to be a reliable production plant as well.
flowers are mostly blue with petals bleeding to clear white at the tips.
it typically forms a foliage mound to 12-20” tall and as wide with panicles of fluffy deep scarlet red flowers appearing in summer on upright stems rising to 30-36” tall.
features pure white,  snapdragon-like flowers enclosed by spiny, mauve-purple bracts and arranged in  vertical rows on substantial flower spikes which rise well above the foliage  mound to 3-4' tall.
makes an excellent cut flower, but care  should be taken not to get any sap on open wounds.
berries appear in summer and ripen to black in fall and are feasted on by songbirds.
benefits: nectar plant for butterflies and other pollinators seed source for songbirds provides nesting material for birds grows in sun or dry shade great ground cover [ more information ] aster divaricatus 'eastern star' common name: white wood aster
(iseli nursery) [ more information ] acer palmatum 'orange dream' common name: orange dream japanese maple unusual and infrequently found in the trade, this japanese maple cultivar offers both unique form and color.
semi-evergreen, procumbent habit  makes this an ideal specimen for any hot, dry nook, especially in rock gardens,  wall gardens, along sidewalks, or in containers.
[more information ] achillea x 'summer wine' common name: yarrow common yarrow is a carefree garden plant that spreads easily to fill available space.
renowned for their  incredibly uniform growth and extended flowering habits, these columbines are  also prized for their dwarf stature, only reaching 12-16” tall.
[ more information ] aruncus dioicus common name: goats beard aruncus dioicus is a fantastic native with large, fine textured feathery blooms in late spring.
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'apricot delight' common name: yarrow vibrant salmon-pink flowers are consistent in color and resistant to fading.
this is an essential plant if you want to attract a variety of butterflies to your property, especially monarchs.
flowers are produced in spring in rather large quantity for such a diminutive plant.
[ more information ] achillea millefolium 'red velvet' common name: yarrow deep cherry-red flowers on 20" stems are great for dried and cut flowers.
[ more information ] athyrium filix-femina common name: lady fern handsome crowns of feathery fronds are typical of this genus.
introduced by  west coast growers, but seed for this selection originated in massachusetts.
this selection resolves a few grievances  that some have expressed about aquilegia canadensis by having consistantly  shorter stature and more intense color than the species.
although the flowers make interesting conversation pieces, they are usually hidden by the dense foliage and are somewhat inconspicuous.
a pioneer soil stabalizing plant that does well in poor,  infertile areas and surprisingly in floodplains.
semi-evergreen glossy green foliage with white fragrant flowers on a very compact shrub.
plants will self-sow and the seedlings will bloom the second year.
its small green leaves have silver grey backs and often appear  to be edged in silver.
you can pinch back the young shoots in june for denser habit and more flowers, but it is not essential.
this cultivar was named for the heather genus of the same name and similar flower color.
the dark violet red interior of each 'regal red' frond is contrasted by bright silver edges making each leaflet distinct and creating an overall tapestry effect.
[ more information ] amsonia x 'blue ice' common name: blue star
(iseli nursery) [ more information ] acer palmatum 'rising sun' common name: japanese red maple rising sun' is a recent iseli selection with uncommonly large, heavily textured leaves---up to 8" across---that give the tree a tropical look.
[ more information ] anacyclus pyrethrum var.
‘silberkissen’ is even more  compact than the species with mats only reaching 3-4” tall and spreading  9-12” wide, with grayish leaves covered in silvery hairs.
flowers close in the evenings and on cloudy days, and are borne in late spring and early summer.
eye-popping with solidago 'golden fleece'.
clump forming with excellent drought tolerance once established.
it works well as a container plant if soil is kept sufficiently moist.
[ more information ] anthyllis vulneraria var.
flowers close in the evenings and on  cloudy days, and are borne in late spring and early summer.
great for container growing!
forms a compact, weed-blocking mat that grows equally well below shrubs, around rocks, or in troublesome shady locations.
foliage coloration is most pronounced in moist sunny sites.
plants are for sale at our hockessin retail store only, based on availability.
crimson fall color and scarlet, winged seeds add extra interest to this sturdy garden standard.
flowers are very attractive to butterflies as a nectar source and this plant serves as a food source for the larval stage of monarch butterflies.
[ more information ] andropogon gerardii common name: the king of  native grasses, big bluestem has handsome gray to blue-green stems in spring  turning to green alternating with deep red in summer then to coppery red in  fall.
introduced by west coast growers, but seed for this selection originated in massachusetts.
blood flower is a milkweed and thus contains a milky sap that exudes from the foliage when cut or damaged.
the flower structure consists of the spadix (jack), which is an erect spike containing numerous inconspicuous flowers, and the sheath-like spathe (pulpit), which encases the lower part of the spadix and then opens to form a hood extending over the top of the spadix.
clear white single flowers top  out at 18" from mid spring to early summer.
it grows about 3’ tall and was bred by german nurseryman,  wilhelm pfitzer.
the bright red leaves of 'fireglow' have a luminescent quality and the best summer color retention of all upright, red palmatums.
we are sorry that we do not ship or accept orders over the internet.
the unique, divided leaves have a tinge  of red in spring, stay green during summer and change to yellow in fall.
robust and vigorous, alchemilla mollis  'auslese' prefers full sun to part shade and has a wonderfully uniform habit.
the colorful fall foliage is a blend of orange, gold, red and green.
the flowers, in small scarlet red and orange umbels, are very bright and showy, and wonderful at attracting monarch butterflies.
reaching between 15 and 20 inches, a. 'vibrant dome' performs best in fertile, well-drained soil in full sun to part shade.
[ more information ] acer palmatum 'kotonoito' common name:
flowers are darker on the outside than their inside, making them even more endearing.
typically forms a foliage mound to 12-15” high.
whatever its parentage, blue ice blooms longer and stronger than the species and forms a dense, compact mound of dark green leaves that turn brilliant yellow in the fall.
[ more information ] arisaema ringens common name: japanese cobra lily
this dwarf variety spreads more quickly than most other chinese astilbes.
a beautiful cut  flower!
this hybrid was introduced more than a half century ago to commemorate the coronation of queen elizabeth ii and, fittingly, it is a regal addition to every garden.
[ more information ] aster novae-angliae 'purple dome' common name: ( symphyotrichum n.a.)
[ more information ] aristolochia macrophylla common name: dutchman's pipe
this plant  loves partially to fully shaded woodland areas, is easy to grow, very adaptable  and is a huge nectar source for native butterflies and hummingbirds.
a great choice for a spiky texture in mixed containers!
numerous pendant flowers in shades of red and  yellow cover the plant in late spring.
coccinea common  name: kidney vetch, woundwort produces a plethora of blooms in late spring that appear bicolored with  clusters of bright red claw-shaped flowers surrounded by wooly, yellow calyxes.
it starts blooming in early july and continues until late  september on wiry 24-36” stems.
for us this has been a very reliable returner when given good drainage.
[ more information ] acer griseum common name: paper bark maple plant a specimen of the beautiful paperbark maple where its many features will provide drama throughout the year: in winter, massive branches that thicken with age display exquisitely peeling, orange-copper bark; in spring and summer, trifoliate leaves of rich green provide shade; and in fall, they change to brilliant red.