turn off your phone, turn off the music, turn off the dvd you wanted to watch as you fall asleep.
remember what your mama taught you and focus more on fruits, vegetables, water, and whole grains than coffee, energy drinks, fried food, and pizza.
in fact, when things  get stressful, sleep is often the first thing to get trimmed from the to-do  list of many college students.
you can feel accomplished instead of stressed about all you have to do.
- relax for a few minutes before going to bed.
try listening to some relaxing music to help you focus on calming down instead of everything going on around you.
reading your cell phone, checking email, texting friends, and doing all kinds of brain-busy tasks can interfere with your ability to truly relax and rewind.
while music can help, silence can  sometimes be even better.
they're cheap, they're easy to find at any drugstore  (or even the campus bookstore), and they can block out the noise from your  residence hall -- and your noisy, snoring roommate.
it may seem like mission:impossible, but  reducing your stress can help you sleep.
being physically healthy can help you sleep better, too.
- lower your stress.
if your body is in a funk, it can be hard to sleep at  night.
- avoid energy drinks.
additional resources for sleep-deprived students how to sleep better in college 7 ways to get a quick energy boost in college how to find time to exercise when you're in school reducing college stress how to reduce college stress 5 ways to relax for under $5 how to handle the stress of finals week related articles exercise and sleep - morning exercise improves sleep running and weight loss - improve your sleep habits how to get a good night's sleep - how to sleep better healthy habits to relieve college stress better sleep - healthy habits for better sleep kelci lynn lucier sign up for my newsletter headlines related searches campus bookstore sound of  silence energy drinks desk lamp relaxing music water juice explore  college life  must reads 2012 readers' choice awards on academic probation?
they're cheap, they're easy to find at any drugstore (or even the campus bookstore), and they can block out the noise from your residence hall -- and your noisy, snoring roommate.
remember what your mama taught you and focus more on fruits, vegetables,  water, and whole grains than coffee, energy drinks, fried food, and pizza.
what to know 10 ways to reduce college stress 7 unique valentine's day gifts college student's guide to spring break most popular
reading your cell  phone, checking email, texting friends, and doing all kinds of brain-busy tasks  can interfere with your ability to truly relax and rewind.
while music can help, silence can sometimes be even better.
sometimes, turning out the outside world can be challenging.
sure, you needed that energy boost to make it  through your evening class.
or, if you're crashing in the afternoon, close the blinds to help darken the room.
true, your roommate may need to be up all night  writing the paper, but ask him or her to use a desk lamp instead of the main  light for the room.
10 tips to help college students sleep use earplugs.
turn off your phone, turn off the music, turn off the  dvd you wanted to watch as you fall asleep.
you can feel accomplished instead of stressed about all you  have to do.
sure, you needed that energy boost to make it through your evening class.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
appreciate the sound of silence.
try listening to some relaxing music to help  you focus on calming down instead of everything going on around you.
but getting some exercise or eating a piece of fruit would have worked better than that energy drink -- and not kept you from sleeping later.
additional resources for sleep-deprived students - how to sleep better in college - 7 ways to get a quick energy boost in college - how to find time to exercise when you're in school reducing college stress related articles - how to reduce college stress - 5 ways to relax for under $5 - how to handle the stress of finals week - exercise and sleep - morning exercise improves sleep - running and weight loss - improve your sleep habits - how to get a good night's sleep - how to sleep better - healthy habits to relieve college stress - better sleep - healthy habits for better sleep kelci lynn lucier college life guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches campus bookstore sound of silence energy drinks desk lamp relaxing music water juice explore college life must reads most popular - 2012 readers' choice awards - on academic probation?
if you can't lower your overall stress level, try finishing a project or task -- no matter how small -- before you crawl into bed.
listen to relaxing music -- softly.
try water, juice, or any  other caffeine-free option instead.
that cup of coffee you had at 4:00  p.m. could very well be keeping you up 8 hours later.
try to get some exercise during the day -- not too close to when you want to sleep, of course, but even a brisk walk to your morning classes for 30 minutes in the morning will help you later that night.
- appreciate the sound of silence.
- avoid caffeine in the afternoon.
that cup of coffee you had at 4:00 p.m. could very well be keeping you up 8 hours later.
true, your roommate may need to be up all night writing the paper, but ask him or her to use a desk lamp instead of the main light for the room.
sign up - college life - your first year - money & expenses - academic life discuss in my forum tips to help college students sleep 10 small things can make a big difference
10 tips to help college students sleep - use earplugs.
- about.com - people & relationships - college life college life search free college life newsletter!
what to know - 10 ways to reduce college stress - 7 unique valentine's day gifts - college student's guide to spring break see more about: - 12 easy meal ideas - valentine's day guide - 7 unique valentine's day gifts - 8 steps for strong time management - college partner gift ideas by category - staying healthy in college - handling college stress - time management skills - before you arrive - academic life - co-curricular life - health & wellness - dating - study abroad - living off-campus - living on-campus - money & finances - back on the homefront - graduation & beyond - reviews & recommendations - glossary college life - about.com - people & relationships - college life - health & wellness - college students and sleep -- tips to help college students sleep - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
relax for a few minutes before going to bed.
time management skills (jack hollingsworth / getty images) college students and sleep don't often go together.
or, if you're crashing in the afternoon, close the blinds  to help darken the room.
avoid energy drinks.
a part of the new york times company.
- listen to relaxing music -- softly.
if you can't lower your overall stress  level, try finishing a project or task -- no matter how small -- before you  crawl into bed.
by kelci lynn lucier, about.com guide see more about: (jack hollingsworth / getty images) - staying healthy in college - handling college stress - time management skills college students and sleep don't often go together.
so when you finallydo find the time to  sleep, how can you make sure you can sleep well?
sometimes, turning out the  outside world can be challenging.
try to get some exercise during the day -- not too close to when you want to  sleep, of course, but even a brisk walk to your morning classes for 30 minutes  in the morning will help you later that night.
try water, juice, or any other caffeine-free option instead.
so when you finallydo find the time to sleep, how can you make sure you can sleep well?
try reading a magazine for a few minutes, meditating, or just resting quietly with no electronics -- you might be surprised at how quickly you end up catching some zzzzz's.
try reading a  magazine for a few minutes, meditating, or just resting quietly with no  electronics -- you might be surprised at how quickly you end up catching some  zzzzz's.
avoid caffeine in the afternoon.
in fact, when things get stressful, sleep is often the first thing to get trimmed from the to-do list of many college students.
it may seem like mission:impossible, but reducing your stress can help you sleep.
if your body is in a funk, it can be hard to sleep at night.
but getting some exercise or eating a piece of  fruit would have worked better than that energy drink -- and not kept you from  sleeping later.