open 7 days a week for you!
the ideal planting area should receive 5 hours of morning sun and be shaded from direct afternoon summer sun.
that adds an extra contrast to the foliage in all  its stages of color, whether the red-tinged appearance of new spring growth,  the bright green of summer, or the eye-popping gold of fall.
to ensure a constant supply, tree farms plant up to 3 new seedlings for each tree harvested.
posted at 12:04 pm in container gardening, education, general gardening, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) is your turf tired and yellowing?
enviro raindrops: we've all seen garden soil so dry that water literally rolls off the top without even wetting the surface.
this relationship assists in nutrient uptake,  plant health, and resistance to environmental stresses such as heat and drought  stress.
this year, we will have american grown noble fir, douglas fir and new this year the nordmann fir.
get them in the ground this weekend and you'll still be able to enjoy the color.
however, there are some exceptions such as peaches, pomegranates, and plums.
a simple drip-irrigation will help.
sweet olives will mature to 8 to 10 feet high, and 6 feet wide, so be sure to provide plenty of space, or plan on pruning away lower limbs to create a tree form.
the color on these is gorgeous!
we have a fresh, new  selection of pottery in stock now.
nordmann firs are the preferred christmas tree of europe and feature long, full, lush, dark green foliage that is soft to the touch.
if you have longingly admired the autumn brilliance of japanese maples, but have too much sun for them to thrive in your garden, this sumac could provide that late season color you desire.
little maintenance  is required after establishment other than an early summer and a fall  application of a balanced, slow release fertilizer liketexas
follow up with an application of a slow-release fertilizer just after labor day.
they perform especially well in the drought tolerant garden.
it’s perfect for covering walls, sturdy arbors or screens.
avocados perform best with a  partner for cross-pollination, so allow room for two (or get a tree for your  neighbor).provide a western or south western exposure to provide  radiant heat in the colder months.
right now, most of the roses are blooming.
there are dwarf varieties of many favorites available,  such as peaches ‘bonanza’ and ‘bonfire’.
1"-1.5" of water per week minimum.
follownhg’s first year care  guide  to get them off to a successful start.
our archived newsletters here are an excellent resource as we try to offer fresh, timely information each year.
they will grow in full sun, but will also perform well with a few hours of afternoon shade.
mature trees are 15’ to 20’  tall and as wide, so allow plenty of space.
they also absorb carbon dioxide, create oxygen, are  biodegradable, can be recycled as mulch and provide refuge for wildlife.
water thoroughly and apply a 2”- 3” layer of mulch.
water every corner of your garden!
all fruit trees will benefit from a feeding ofespoma tree-tone, and how often will depend on the variety of tree.
well, i could say "everything!".
i have planted and loved all three of these.
plant these scented beauties this now and start to enjoy fragrance this fall!
you'll love these evergreen  shrubs beautiful, glossy foliage that drips with clusters of small, creamy  white blooms.
mulchwell wherever you plant.
plant avocados in a hole as deep as the root ball and double the width in  native soil.
it’s a scent you’ll come to find very familiar  and look forward to each season.
although it requires at least two years to establish, the rewards are worth it!
here at north haven gardens we have the best christmas  trees in town.
fruit trees require 6 or more hours of sun a day, but may not require as much space as you think.
'pomegranate' is absolutely gorgeous and in stock now.
after choosing from all the exciting fruit tree varieties at north  haven gardens that perform well in our area, you can have your  backyard orchard planted in no time.
posted at 11:00 am in garden design, general gardening, plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) photo credit: forest & kim starr osmanthus fragrans, or sweet olive, is a heavily fragrant part-shade shrub.
make sure you have the proper hose  lengths to reach every area of your garden.
these sumacs belong to a small class of deciduous shrubs native to eastern  north america.
avocado trees are in stock now!
if you are planting in a prepared bed,  amend with compost or composted cotton burrs, and expanded shale.
if it's dry past 2 knuckles, you must water asap.
dig your hole twice  as wide and just as deep as the root ball.
some folks may also be concerned with how many trees they can fit in their yard and still get fruit.
is water just sitting on top of your  soil?
water regularly with deep infrequent waterings.
these are some tough roses that need minimal maintenance.
we have a huge selection of perennials and annuals for sun and shade.
it develops a  substantial trunk and limbs with age, and climbs by aerial rootlets that attach  to flat surfaces.
if you are planting in a prepared bed, amend with compost or composted cotton burrs, and expanded shale.
posted at 11:00 am in garden design, general gardening, plant now, trees  & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) plant now!
our best recommendation for  all roses is to amend the soil with at least 2 bags ofvital earth ready  rosemix and feed with nhg organic rose food.
this year, we will have american grown noble fir, douglas fir and new this  year the nordmann fir.
posted at 01:52 pm in garden design, plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (1) | reblog (0)
smaller varieties  of japanese maples also work well in containers.
photo credit: fine gardening the sumac ‘tiger’s eye’ matures to a 6 foot tall and wide mound comprised of  feathery, light  leaves on furry, coral stems.
perennial  verbenais glowing.
it’s important to acclimate trees to our soils as quickly as possible.
it’s sweet, orange-scented blossoms permeate the cool fall and spring air.
christmas trees are a renewable american resource.
beds amended with compost and expanded shale.
open 7 days a week for  you!
here at north haven, we knoow you love to eat fresh  edibles grown in your own backyard.
to top it off, each tree has it's own name tag, so you can adopt  one with a name you love!
nikki posted at 05:55 pm in education, garden design, general gardening, perennials & annuals, plant now, roses, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) japanese maples are magnificent small trees to help create your zen garden along with water features, buddha statues and shaded sitting areas.
some folks may also be concerned with how many  trees they can fit in their yard and still get fruit.
with our extreme  temperatures, you will need to offer supplemental water every few days, and in  some case daily (tomatoes!), to new plantings.
plus,  shrubs, fruit trees, herbs, vegetables, trees, vines.
or, container plants that have reached a state of dryness so severe that the media has shrunk away from the sides of the pot and water merely flows out the sides without actually watering the plant.
plant avocados in a hole as deep as the root ball and double the width in native soil.
plant these scented beauties this now and start to enjoy fragrance
to ensure a constant supply, tree farms plant up to 3 new  seedlings for each tree harvested.
posted at 01:18 pm in container gardening, growing fruits, growing  vegetables, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) plant now: golden fall color!
right now, thesociety  garlic (above) is blooming gracefully.
not only will you be devouring the mouth-watering fruits of your labor for years to come, you will also have delightful blooming trees to decorate your yard early next spring.
here at north haven gardens we have the best christmas trees in town.
we carry plant  nannies that can help and the gilmore plant  & deck sprinkler system as well.
there are dwarf varieties of many favorites available, such as peaches ‘bonanza’ and ‘bonfire’.
decorate your home with the real thing this year for a “green” holiday!
atree gator is perfect to keep it  consistently watered for it's first summer.
with harvest time just around the corner, many are dreaming of fresh fruit and homemade pies.
a 6am start is  ideal.
hydrangeas are so lovely in the shaded garden.
since the trunks are  susceptible to sun scald, you’ll want to wrap the exposed portion of the  trunks during summer months to avoid damage.
during late december, you should spray withorganic dormant oilto help head off any pest problems that might otherwise develop later in the season.
give it root stimulator such as superthrive at time of planting, and once each month for the  first 12 months.
agrispon is a concentrate and can be easily applied using a hose-end sprayer.
once you’ve selected your site, plant into native soil, or  usenorth haven organic potting soil in containers.
09/13/2011 plant fruit trees now!
it’s worth noting that most fruit trees can easily be kept pruned to the gardener’s desired height.
they can also be used as a container specimen to stunning effect.
nikki posted at 05:55 pm in education, garden design, general gardening,  perennials & annuals, plant now, roses, trees & shrubs | permalink |
it sports glossy, heart-shaped leaves and lacecap flowers that, in maturity, give a the vine tiered effect.
when added to an existing maintained  landscape on a regular schedule, it enhances necessary nutrients in the soil,  allows for better water absorption, encourages root growth, and promotes  overall plant health.
climbing hydrangea (hydrangea anomala petiolaris) is a deciduous woody vine that performs well in dappled shade.
it sports glossy, heart-shaped leaves and lacecap  flowers that, in maturity, give a the vine tiered effect.
these  are some tough roses that need minimal maintenance.
during late december, you should spray withorganic  dormant oilto help head off any pest problems that might otherwise  develop later in the season.
our archived newsletters here are an  excellent resource as we try to offer fresh, timely information each year.
feed with espoma holly-toneand it'll offer gorgeous color spring, summer and  fall.
top off the container design with  2"-3" of mulch.
why not plant your very own urban orchard this weekend?
however, there are some exceptions such as peaches,  pomegranates, and plums.
it  positively glows in the landscape through fall.
purple is such a glorious  color in any garden.
the best time to water is during the early morning hours.
remember when planting you’ll want  to deeply water the newly installed tree, and monitor its water needs  throughout the first year.
we are here 7 days a week to help keep your plants hydrated.
each one is given a fresh cut at delivery, then sprayed with an all-natural anti-transpirant to help the tree hold moisture.
or, container plants that have reached a state of dryness so severe that the  media has shrunk away from the sides of the pot and water merely flows out the  sides without actually watering the plant.
we have two organic options in-store that will reduce heat stress on your plants, therefore easing your stress, too!
plus, fresh trees and greens will never sit  in a landfill for centuries after disposal!
but don’t let the graceful, delicate appearance of this cultivar fool you;rhus typhina ‘bailtiger’ is a stellar performer in a north texas garden, and now is the time to plant them!
trees should be covered once temperatures reach the 20s.
posted at 12:30 pm in trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) sun mon tue wed thu fri sat 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10  11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
applycloud cover in may to prevent leaf scorch due to our warm summer temperatures.
that adds an extra contrast to the foliage in all its stages of color, whether the red-tinged appearance of new spring growth, the bright green of summer, or the eye-popping gold of fall.
we’re  very happy to introduce‘joey,’ ‘lila,’ and  ‘poncho.’all are variants of the mexican avocado, with  fruits about 6 to 8 ounces in size.
and, the scabiosa is exploding purple!
atree gator is perfect to keep it consistently watered for it's first summer.
add root stimulator when you plant and monthly thereafter for the first year.
when you purchase your tree from us, we'll give the trunk another fresh cut and net it for you for safe travels.
it’s a scent you’ll come to find very familiar and look forward to each season.
'pomegranate' is absolutely gorgeous and in  stock now.
nordmann firs are the preferred christmas tree of europe  and feature long, full, lush, dark green foliage that is soft to the  touch.
the glorious, gold fall foliage of sumac ‘ tiger’s eye’is a true eye-catcher and crowd-pleaser.
and, the scabiosa is exploding  purple!
hydrangeas are so lovely  in the shaded garden.
climbing hydrangea prefers rich, well-drained acid soil conditions, so  amend garden beds with plenty of expanded shale and back to earth acidified  compost.
follownhg’s first year care guide to get them off to a successful start.
whatever space in the  garden you want to enjoy more, we'll help you get there.
especially if you plant any of theknockout series in red, pink and yellow.
but, the next year and each year since, it has gotten fuller and bloomed bigger.
local artisans in these regions use the leaves and stems of many  varieties to make dyes.
we have a  variety of mulches available.
each tree is  lovingly hung from our roof and set in it's own bucket of fresh water.
applied to a neglected landscape or to trouble spots  in the yard, it reduces plant stress, enables and encourages root growth,  allows for enhanced water uptake, and reduces runoff/waste.
posted at 05:59 pm in growing fruits, growing vegetables, plant now, trees  & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0)
but, the next year and each year since, it has gotten fuller and  bloomed bigger.
mature trees are 15’ to 20’ tall and as wide, so allow plenty of space.
the bare winter  branches are very sculptural and architectural.
additionally, a biologically active soil has better granular structure, and better water absorption.
the u.s. christmas tree industry creates as many as100,000 u.s. jobs each year.
add a water want to the hose to get  the water where it's needed most, at the base of the plants.
get them in the ground this weekend and you'll still be able to enjoy  the color.
agrispon is a concentrate and can be easily  applied using a hose-end sprayer.
smaller varieties of japanese maples also work well in containers.
we also deliver  and set up trees in select areas of dallas.
with harvest time just around the  corner, many are dreaming of fresh fruit and homemade pies.
avocados perform best with a partner for cross-pollination, so allow room for two (or get a tree for your neighbor).provide a western or south western exposure to provide radiant heat in the colder months.
sweet olives will mature to 8 to 10 feet high, and 6 feet wide, so be sure  to provide plenty of space, or plan on pruning away lower limbs to create a  tree form.
more arriving through spring.
posted at 11:40 am in container gardening, education, general gardening, perennials & annuals, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) avocado trees are in stock now!
take a look at our japanese maple list here.
follow up with an  application of a slow-release fertilizer just after labor day.
agrispon forms a symbiotic relationship between the plant and the soils.
if your neighborhood has a lot of fruit trees, they  may cross-pollinate each other, allowing you to cheat a bit.
summer watering tips for plants this article was taken from our july-august 2007  newsletter.
applycloud cover in may  to prevent leaf scorch due to our warm summer temperatures.
right now, most of the roses are  blooming.
including at 8am on saturdays.
the ideal planting area should receive 5 hours of morning sun and be  shaded from direct afternoon summer sun.
it’s sweet, orange-scented blossoms permeate the cool  fall and spring air.
plus, shrubs, fruit trees, herbs, vegetables, trees, vines.
in winter, mulch trees above the graft union on the trunk; mulch should be cleared away once danger of freeze is past.
every home lucky enough to have some shade should have at least one japanese maple.
we’re very happy to introduce‘joey,’ ‘lila,’ and ‘poncho.’all are variants of the mexican avocado, with fruits about 6 to 8 ounces in size.
our best recommendation for all roses is to amend the soil with at least 2 bags ofvital earth ready rosemix and feed with nhg organic rose food.
nothing says “holiday” more than fragrant and fresh christmas  trees, wreaths and garland.
they have a reputation for their ability to adapt to a  wide range of soil types, although they perform best inwell-drained
at planting time, add a root  stimulator such ascarl pool root activator.
decorate your home with the real thing this year  for a “green” holiday!
add root stimulator when you plant and  monthly thereafter for the first year.
they will grow in full sun, but will also  perform well with a few hours of afternoon shade.
add soil moist or koko chipsto retain moisture.
since the trunks are susceptible to sun scald, you’ll want to wrap the exposed portion of the trunks during summer months to avoid damage.
plus, fresh trees and greens will never sit in a landfill for centuries after disposal!
add 2"-3" of mulch to all plantings, including  veggies, shrubs, trees, etc.
is your turf tired and yellowing?
when added to an existing maintained landscape on a regular schedule, it enhances necessary nutrients in the soil, allows for better water absorption, encourages root growth, and promotes overall plant health.
little maintenance is required after establishment other than an early summer and a fall application of a balanced, slow release fertilizer liketexas
posted at 11:40 am in container gardening, education, general gardening,  perennials & annuals, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) 06/08/2011 delicious, homegrown avocados for you!
the first year i had it in the garden it was not the graceful plant i had imagined.
prune  around valentine's day (we always offer a class on pruning right before then).
it’s important to acclimate trees  to our soils as quickly as possible.
or,  plant with pinks and whites for a softer palette.
you can spin the trees around completely so you know exactly what they will look like in your home.
place into the hole and backfill with existing soil.
the  u.s. christmas tree industry creates as many as100,000 u.s. jobs each year.
once you’ve selected your site, plant into native soil, or usenorth haven organic potting soil in containers.
photo credit: fine gardening the sumac ‘tiger’s eye’ matures to a 6 foot tall and wide mound comprised of feathery, light leaves on furry, coral stems.
it’s  worth noting that most fruit trees can easily be kept pruned to the  gardener’s desired height.
if you are  planting as a specimen or hedge, you can plant directly into the native  soil.
posted at 05:08 pm in garden design, plant now, trees & shrubs |  permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) 11/19/2010 go fresh, not fake this holiday season!
this is one of my favorite plants!
remove any broken branches,  lightly tip them to promote fullness, and shape as desired.
these sumacs belong to a small class of deciduous shrubs native to eastern north america.
remove any broken branches, lightly tip them to promote fullness, and shape as desired.
here at north  haven gardens, we loveespoma holly tone.
it’s perfect for covering walls, sturdy arbors or  screens.
this species is little known to us americans, but is rumored to be the best christmas tree around.
to top it off, each tree has it's own name tag, so you can adopt one with a name you love!
they perform especially  well in the drought tolerant garden.
give it root stimulator such as superthrive at time of planting, and once each month for the first 12 months.
a biostimulant applied to soils  that are low in microbial activity.
lots of colors and varieties.
here at north haven gardens, we loveespoma holly tone.
but, i'll narrow it down for you.
they have a reputation for their ability to adapt to a wide range of soil types, although they perform best inwell-drained beds amended with compost and expanded shale.
this species is little  known to us americans, but is rumored to be the best christmas tree around.
water regularly with deep  infrequent waterings.
the first year i had it in the garden it was not the graceful plant i had  imagined.
when you purchase your tree from us, we'll give the  trunk another fresh cut and net it for you for safe travels.
when mixed with water, enviro  raindrops overcomes the surface resistance of dry soil particles and  allows water to seep in.
purple is such a glorious color in any garden.
other  space-saving options include container growing, growing on an espalier, and  columnar apples that grow full size fruits on very narrow trees.
christmas trees are a renewable  american resource.
the bare winter branches are very sculptural and architectural.
each tree is lovingly hung from our roof and set in it's own bucket of fresh water.
prune around valentine's day (we always offer a class on pruning right before then).
if your neighborhood has a lot of fruit trees, they may cross-pollinate each other, allowing you to cheat a bit.
they will dry out  much faster.
they have supurb needle retention.
planting new color containers?
climbing hydrangea  (hydrangea anomala petiolaris) is a deciduous woody vine that performs  well in dappled shade.
is water just sitting on top of your soil?
its true that most trees  require a cross pollinator, and those that don’t will still produce more  heavily with one.
don't forget containers and hanging baskets.
whatever space in the garden you want to enjoy more, we'll help you get there.
after the first year, fertilize spring, summer, and fall with espoma citrus-tone to keep them healthy.
apply root stimulator such ashiyield root stimulator every 4 weeks during the first 12 months.
climbing hydrangea prefers rich, well-drained acid soil conditions, so amend garden beds with plenty of expanded shale and back to earth acidified compost.
right now, my personal favorites are'coral bark' and 'bloodgood' (above).
its true that most trees require a cross pollinator, and those that don’t will still produce more heavily with one.
each one is given a fresh cut at delivery, then sprayed with an  all-natural anti-transpirant to help the tree hold moisture.
tee , and some shaping.
after choosing from all the exciting fruit tree varieties at north haven gardens that perform well in our area, you can have your backyard orchard planted in no time.
if you have longingly admired the autumn brilliance of japanese maples, but  have too much sun for them to thrive in your garden, this sumac could provide  that late season color you desire.
plant into existing beds or build new ones amended withexpanded shale and lots of acidified compost.
when mixed with water, enviro raindrops overcomes the surface resistance of dry soil particles and allows water to seep in.
additionally, a biologically active soil has better granular structure,  and better water absorption.
visit the store to see what varieties are in stock now.
it's a great contrast alongside oranges and yellows.
trees  should be covered once temperatures reach the 20s.
they perform best as a unique specimen plant in  well-amended beds where they will receive no more than 4 hours of morning sun.
these  can be run any time of day.
they perform best as a unique specimen plant in well-amended beds where they will receive no more than 4 hours of morning sun.
place into the hole and backfill  with existing soil.
here at north haven, we knoow you love to eat fresh edibles grown in your own backyard.
every home lucky enough to  have some shade should have at least one japanese maple.
if you are planting as a specimen or hedge, you can plant directly into the native soil.
you can  spin the trees around completely so you know exactly what they will look like  in your home.
tree gator bags are a great drip irrigation bag  that is perfect for newly planted trees.
beginning in the second year after planting, around the last week of august, give them a cleanup with your hand pruners.
a biostimulant applied to soils that are low in microbial activity.
this article was taken from our july-august 2007 newsletter.
agrispon forms a symbiotic relationship  between the plant and the soils.
not only will you be devouring the  mouth-watering fruits of your labor for years to come, you will also have  delightful blooming trees to decorate your yard early next spring.
remember when planting you’ll want to deeply water the newly installed tree, and monitor its water needs throughout the first year.
at planting time, add a root stimulator such ascarl pool root activator.
japanese maples are slow growing, have many different growth habits, a  huge variety of leaf shapes, and spectacular fall color that ranges from golden  yellow to fiery red.
posted at 11:13 am in container gardening, education, general gardening, plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0)
mulch retains moisture in the soil, regulates soil  temperature (cooler in summer, warmer in winter), decomposes into the soil over  time to increase soil health, and gives your garden a finished look.
posted at 12:04 pm in container gardening, education, general gardening,  trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) 07/01/2011 heat stressing you and your plants?
use soaker hoses to provide a slow drip watering.
you'll love these evergreen shrubs beautiful, glossy foliage that drips with clusters of small, creamy white blooms.
sweet olive photo credit: forest & kim starr osmanthus fragrans, or sweet olive, is a heavily fragrant  part-shade shrub.
they can also be used as a  container specimen to stunning effect.
posted at 01:52 pm in garden design, plant now, trees & shrubs |  permalink | comments (1) | reblog (0) 07/15/2011 stay hydrated!
enviro raindrops: we've all seen garden soil so  dry that water literally rolls off the top without even wetting the surface.
local artisans in these regions use the leaves and stems of many varieties to make dyes.
posted at 05:59 pm in growing fruits, growing vegetables, plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0)
we also deliver and set up trees in select areas of dallas.
we have a fresh, new selection of pottery in stock now.
why not plant your  very own urban orchard this weekend?
posted at 01:18 pm in container gardening, growing fruits, growing vegetables, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) photo credit: growing is beautiful
this relationship assists in nutrient uptake, plant health, and resistance to environmental stresses such as heat and drought stress.
no need to amend the soil.
applied to a neglected landscape or to trouble spots in the yard, it reduces plant stress, enables and encourages root growth, allows for enhanced water uptake, and reduces runoff/waste.
the seasons bring golden leaves  in autumn, and reveal peeling shaggy bark when dormant in winter.
sumac 'tiger's eye' photo credit: growing is beautiful
get out there and test your  soil.
fruit trees require 6 or more hours of sun a day, but may not require as  much space as you think.
right now, thesociety garlic (above) is blooming gracefully.
posted at 05:08 pm in garden design, plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) nothing says “holiday” more than fragrant and fresh christmas trees, wreaths and garland.
it positively glows in the landscape through fall.
they also absorb carbon dioxide, create oxygen, are biodegradable, can be recycled as mulch and provide refuge for wildlife.
perennial verbenais glowing.
in winter, mulch trees above the graft union  on the trunk; mulch should be cleared away once danger of freeze is past.
drink coffee...water plants!
the seasons bring golden leaves in autumn, and reveal peeling shaggy bark when dormant in winter.
feed with espoma holly-toneand it'll offer gorgeous color spring, summer and fall.
comments (0) | reblog (0) 03/11/2011 instant serenity: japanese maples japanese maples are magnificent small trees to help create  your zen garden along with water features, buddha statues and shaded sitting  areas.
or, plant with pinks and whites for a softer palette.
beginning in the second year after planting, around the last week of  august, give them a cleanup with your hand pruners.
although it requires at least two years to establish,  the rewards are worth it!
but don’t let the  graceful, delicate appearance of this cultivar fool you;rhus typhina  ‘bailtiger’ is a stellar performer in a north texas garden, and now is the time to plant them!
wouldn’t this be fantastic as a vine for shaded areas?
they provide showy, elegant flowers in late spring  through midsummer above glossy green foliage.
posted at 12:30 pm in trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0)
they provide showy, elegant flowers in late spring through midsummer above glossy green foliage.
visit the store to see what  varieties are in stock now.
dig your hole twice as wide and just as deep as the root ball.
it develops a substantial trunk and limbs with age, and climbs by aerial rootlets that attach to flat surfaces.
all fruit trees will benefit from a  feeding ofespoma tree-tone, and how often will depend on the  variety of tree.
posted at 11:13 am in container gardening, education, general gardening,  plant now, trees & shrubs | permalink | comments (0) | reblog (0) 02/24/2011 climbing hydrangeas: romantic, lush and pretty
other space-saving options include container growing, growing on an espalier, and columnar apples that grow full size fruits on very narrow trees.
we have two organic options in-store that will reduce heat stress on your  plants, therefore easing your stress, too!
japanese maples are slow growing, have many different growth habits, a huge variety of leaf shapes, and spectacular fall color that ranges from golden yellow to fiery red.
what's pretty at nhg?