esthetics aside, a tidy garden is  generally not a desirable environment for pests and disease.
fungal diseases, such as verticillium wilt, anthracnose or cankers can  infect dogwoods, and honeysuckles and lilacs are prone to powdery mildew.
individual moisture and nutrient requirements will vary from one shrub to another.
full shade - plants can thrive with less than 4 hours of sun.
for details about the by-law visit the  pesticide by-law page on toronto public health's web site at  www.city.toronto.on.ca/pesticides or www.toronto.ca/health.
for answers to horticultural questions contact the toronto master gardeners' info line at the toronto botanical garden (416) 397-1345 (mon. to fri.
for these reasons it is important  to clean up decaying plant material and remove any weeds as they appear and  before they set seed.
shrubs have no defined maximum height.
most shrubs adapt well to either sun or  shade; however, some may produce fewer flowers in a shady location.
shrubs may be used in foundation plantings, hedges, shrub borders, rock gardens, as specimen plants, groundcovers and in mixed borders with perennials.
attract wildlife, birds and insects for food source, habitat, nesting  material.
begin by selecting plants that are well suited to the existing growing conditions of your site; native plants are always a good choice.
the viburnum leaf beetle quickly skeletonizes the foliage of any viburnum  it attacks; two of the most popular varieties, the fragrant snowball viburnum  and the highbush cranberry are its usual targets.
factsheets are produced by the toronto master gardeners in association with the toronto botanical garden.
they provide introductory information about a broad range of horticultural topics and are intended for personal use and study purposes.
in addition to their growth habit (height, width, form), shrubs are chosen for characteristics, such as: once established, shrubs require very low maintenance.
common pests, such as aphids, leafminers, caterpillars, beetles, borers or scale may attack, but the viburnum family, is often the most seriously damaged by insects each year.
this beetle was introduced  from europe in 1996, and it has no natural predators in canada.
some  examples are: spray infested plants with water, to wash off aphids and spider mites.
in addition to their growth habit (height, width, form), shrubs are chosen  for characteristics, such as: foliage (colour, form, texture)
maintenance once established, shrubs require very low maintenance.
the toronto botanical garden weston family library is an excellent source for horticultural information.
diseased plant material (including infected deciduous leaves shed in the  fall) should be removed and burnt, or disposed of in the garbage, but never  composted.
777 lawrence avenue east toronto, on m3c 1p2 tel.
shrubs,  such as lilacs, benefit from deadheading, because this process will help the  plant put more of its energy into growth, rather than seed formation.
these shrubs will produce new growth during the rest of the growing  season.
some beneficial insects, that  are predators to other insects, include ladybugs and lacewings, which feed on  aphids, scales, mealybugs and mites, and parasitic wasps, which feed on aphids,  whiteflies and caterpillars.
pruning out diseased branches promptly and proper sterilization of your work tools will also help to eliminate or minimize the spread of disease.
due to the restrictions on pesticide use, this fact sheet only references organic controls.
in this factsheet, the recommended shrubs range in height from 2 ft to 10  ft, like a sunny site and are deciduous, meaning they shed their leaves in the  fall.
over-crowded plants become stressed trying to  compete with neighbouring plants for light, nutrients and moisture and are more  susceptible to disease, due to poor air circulation.
another important, but often missed consideration, is the shrub's size at  maturity.
should your gardening group or organization wish to use multiple copies we ask that you inform the toronto botanical garden at info@torontobotanicalgarden.ca.
mulching will help reduce the need for watering  and weeding.
it is always advisable to find out the exact pruning  requirements because there are variations within the same family of shrubs.
there are many effective non-chemical methods of controlling insects.
for these reasons it is important to clean up decaying plant material and remove any weeds as they appear and before they set seed.
these are the late flowering  shrubs, like hydrangeas, and should be pruned in late fall or early spring,  before growth begins.
these shrubs will produce new growth during the rest of the growing season.
pests and diseases shrubs, in general, are easy to grow and have fewer insect and disease  problems than many other plants.
the viburnum leaf beetle quickly skeletonizes the foliage of any viburnum it attacks; two of the most popular varieties, the fragrant snowball viburnum and the highbush cranberry are its usual targets.
the most common mistake made when pruning flowering shrubs, is pruning at  the wrong time.
checking mature height and width will tell you the amount of space  the shrub will need for optimum growth.
if the soil was properly amended, at the time they were planted they will only require a feeding in early spring, either with a top-dressing of well-rotted manure or a water-soluble fertilizer, to meet their basic needs.
shrubs are pruned for many reasons, including shaping, reducing size, removal of broken and diseased branches, thinning, rejuvenation and increasing flower and fruit production.
the first group blooms on new wood and produces flowers on this year's growth.
uses shrubs may be used in foundation plantings, hedges, shrub borders, rock  gardens, as specimen plants, groundcovers and in mixed borders with perennials.
in this factsheet, the recommended shrubs range in height from 2 ft to 10 ft, like a sunny site and are deciduous, meaning they shed their leaves in the fall.
spring pruning can be performed as soon as the temperatures rise around the freezing mark and are guaranteed not to plunge dramatically.
conditions to take into consideration  are the amount of sun/shade, acidity or alkalinity of the soil, whether the  soil is primarily clay, loam or sand and proximity of other plants and  associated root competition.
print version description shrubs are woody perennials that produce multiple stems, shoots and  branches from the base of the plant.
soil amendments such as compost, bonemeal  and manure applied in the growing season help to reduce the need for chemical  fertilizers.
look for disease-resistant varieties.
insect control due to the restrictions on pesticide use, this fact sheet only references  organic controls.
many of these insects can be purchased at garden centers for use as a natural insect control.
creating such habitats is  another form of biological control.
diseased plant material (including infected deciduous leaves shed in the fall) should be removed and burnt, or disposed of in the garbage, but never composted.
creating a natural habitat in your garden will encourage wildlife such as  birds, toads, and snakes that feed on insects.
this beetle was introduced from europe in 1996, and it has no natural predators in canada.
closely monitor all plants for any signs of disease or pest problems.
generally, they survive winter without dying back to the ground as herbaceous perennials do, although there are a few exceptions.
questions may be e-mailed to pesticide@toronto.ca.
do not over-fertilize.
considerations related to choice when selecting a shrub, it is important to check that it is hardy in our  climate; the hardiness zone, usually located on the plant's tag, indicates the  minimum winter temperature the shrub can tolerate.
begin by selecting plants that are well suited to the existing growing  conditions of your site; native plants are always a good choice.
common pests, such as aphids, leafminers,  caterpillars, beetles, borers or scale may attack, but the viburnum family, is  often the most seriously damaged by insects each year.
ipm uses four general control methods: sanitation good sanitation practices are important.
traps may be used for slugs, snails and earwigs physical barriers, such as plant collars, act as deterrents to cutworms biological controls insects have predators, parasites and pathogens as natural enemies.
mulching will help reduce the need for watering and weeding.
some beneficial insects, that are predators to other insects, include ladybugs and lacewings, which feed on aphids, scales, mealybugs and mites, and parasitic wasps, which feed on aphids, whiteflies and caterpillars.
questions may be  e-mailed to pesticide@toronto.ca.
this approach can be used in the care of ornamental shrubs.
fall interest with fruit or berries and colourful foliage.
esthetics aside, a tidy garden is generally not a desirable environment for pests and disease.
date revised: november 18, 2007
conditions to take into consideration are the amount of sun/shade, acidity or alkalinity of the soil, whether the soil is primarily clay, loam or sand and proximity of other plants and associated root competition.
since our focus is on ornamental shrubs for sun, it is important to look at how light conditions are classified.
416-397-1354 www.torontobotanicalgarden.ca ornamental shrubs for sun print version shrubs are woody perennials that produce multiple stems, shoots and branches from the base of the plant.
links toronto botanical garden is a volunteer-based, charitable organization whose purpose is to inspire passion, respect and understanding of gardening, horticulture, the natural landscape and a healthy environment.
fungal diseases, such as verticillium wilt, anthracnose or cankers can infect dogwoods, and honeysuckles and lilacs are prone to powdery mildew.
make sure that your plants are watered deeply when needed.
creating a natural habitat in your garden will encourage wildlife such as birds, toads, and snakes that feed on insects.
these are  the early bloomers, like forsythia, and should be pruned immediately after  flowering.
10 a.m. to 1 p.m and sat., sun. and holidays noon to 3 p.m.) or our web site.
the second group blooms on old wood produced the previous season.
they need to be  watered regularly when first planted and in times of drought.
recommended species/varieties/cultivars ornamental shrubs for full sun berberis thunbergii barberry
toronto master gardeners are trained volunteers dedicated to providing horticultural information to the public.
the first group blooms on new wood  and produces flowers on this year's growth.
a bright  location that receives no direct sun would be classified as full shade.
shrubs, in general, are easy to grow and have fewer insect and disease problems than many other plants.
closely monitor all plants for any signs of disease or pest  problems.
individual moisture and nutrient requirements will vary from one shrub to  another.
pruning should be avoided in late fall, to allow cuts to heal over and prevent winter dieback.
the city of toronto adopted a new municipal by-law (spring 2004) that restricts the use of pesticides.
make sure that your plants  are watered deeply when needed.
these are the late flowering shrubs, like hydrangeas, and should be pruned in late fall or early spring, before growth begins.
for details about the by-law visit the pesticide by-law page on toronto public health's web site at www.city.toronto.on.ca/pesticides or www.toronto.ca/health.
the most common mistake made when pruning flowering shrubs, is pruning at the wrong time.
the principle behind cultural controls is that a healthy plant is far more likely to be able to withstand disease and pest problems than a plant that is under stress.
many of these insects can be purchased at garden  centers for use as a natural insect control.
weeds and plant  debris provide shelter for insect eggs, as well as food for larvae and adult  insects that may host a variety of pathogens.
checking mature height and width will tell you the amount of space the shrub will need for optimum growth.
shrubs, such as lilacs, benefit from deadheading, because this process will help the plant put more of its energy into growth, rather than seed formation.
if the soil was  properly amended, at the time they were planted they will only require a  feeding in early spring, either with a top-dressing of well-rotted manure or a  water-soluble fertilizer, to meet their basic needs.
cultural methods the principle behind cultural controls is that a healthy plant is far more  likely to be able to withstand disease and pest problems than a plant that is  under stress.
choosing plants suited to  the growing conditions of your site, is always preferable to changing the  conditions of the site to suit the plant.
spring pruning can be performed as soon as the  temperatures rise around the freezing mark and are guaranteed not to plunge  dramatically.
when planting, prepare the soil well and give your  plants plenty of space to grow.
pruning out diseased branches promptly and proper sterilization of your  work tools will also help to eliminate or minimize the spread of disease.
another important, but often missed consideration, is the shrub's size at maturity.
soil amendments such as compost, bonemeal and manure applied in the growing season help to reduce the need for chemical fertilizers.
most shrubs adapt well to either sun or shade; however, some may produce fewer flowers in a shady location.
deadheading (the removal of spent flowers) is a form of pruning.
organic management/control strategies the city of toronto adopted a new municipal by-law (spring 2004) that  restricts the use of pesticides.
winter interest through bark, structure or form.
it is always advisable to find out the exact pruning requirements because there are variations within the same family of shrubs.
they need to be watered regularly when first planted and in times of drought.
these are the early bloomers, like forsythia, and should be pruned immediately after flowering.
integrated pest management (ipm) is an approach to gardening, where different methods of control are selected and used in combination, in order to treat plant problems effectively and in an environmentally responsible manner.
biological control takes advantage of this fact.
integrated pest management (ipm) is an approach to gardening, where  different methods of control are selected and used in combination, in order to  treat plant problems effectively and in an environmentally responsible manner.
many nurseries publish garden guides that provide descriptions and information related to preferred growing conditions for the plants available.
location since our focus is on ornamental shrubs for sun, it is important to look at  how light conditions are classified.
flowering shrubs fall into two groups.
creating such habitats is another form of biological control.
pruning shrubs are pruned for many reasons, including shaping, reducing size,  removal of broken and diseased branches, thinning, rejuvenation and increasing  flower and fruit production.
weeds and plant debris provide shelter for insect eggs, as well as food for larvae and adult insects that may host a variety of pathogens.
full sun - plants require at least 6 hours of direct,  late-morning/afternoon sun partial shade - plants need a minimum of 4 hours of morning or afternoon  sun, but should be shaded from the hot, midday sun.
handpick and destroy insects, such as potato and lily beetles use insecticidal soaps to control insects such as aphids, spider mites,  thrips and scale.
over-crowded plants become stressed trying to compete with neighbouring plants for light, nutrients and moisture and are more susceptible to disease, due to poor air circulation.
generally, they survive winter without  dying back to the ground as herbaceous perennials do, although there are a few  exceptions.
there is no clear distinction between a shrub and a tree; a shrub  is usually low growing and multi stemmed, but it can also be single stemmed,  like a tree.
when planting, prepare the soil well and give your plants plenty of space to grow.
when selecting a shrub, it is important to check that it is hardy in our climate; the hardiness zone, usually located on the plant's tag, indicates the minimum winter temperature the shrub can tolerate.
some examples are: insects have predators, parasites and pathogens as natural enemies.
choosing plants suited to the growing conditions of your site, is always preferable to changing the conditions of the site to suit the plant.
ipm uses four general control methods: good sanitation practices are important.
look for  disease-resistant varieties.
there is no clear distinction between a shrub and a tree; a shrub is usually low growing and multi stemmed, but it can also be single stemmed, like a tree.
pruning should be avoided in late fall, to allow cuts to heal over and  prevent winter dieback.