in the end, all of your brushwork will keep your house beautiful and safe.
divide the area by 400 to get the number of gallons per coat.
your name your comment (required)1000 characters remaining need more info?
putting a fresh coat of paint on your exterior putting a fresh coat of paint on your exterior
paint the north  side first, the east side of the building late in the morning, the south side  in the middle of the afternoon, the west side late in the afternoon.
the bristle depends on the paint: natural bristle (hog's hair is best) may absorb water from latex paints, ruining the brush, so they should be used only for oil.
most paint jobs can be  handled with a three-inch straight-edge siding brush, a two-inch angled sash  brush, and a two-and-a-half-inch straight-edge trim brush.
good brushes of any size have long bristles with chiseled (tapered) ends and flagged (split) tips.
the video print brush work for old paint in good condition or primed,  bare wood, you'll need about one gallon of paint per each 400 square feet.
not bad for a  summer's work.
you should apply two finish coats, applying each within two weeks of the previous one to avoid the formation of a slick soap-like or chalky substance on the surface.
(the number  applies to the surface being painted as well as the air temperature.)
wait  for a day when the temperature will be above 40°f (4°c) for oil paints  and above 50°f (10°c) for latex for the full 24 hours.
if you are using oil paint, work it into the wood; latex will level itself out.
nylon and polyester brushes do not release oil paint uniformly, so these should be used only for latex.
in this how-to video, this old house host kevin o'connor uses computer software to help homeowners choose the perfect exterior paint colors watch
the video on newsstands now in the magazine new season, fresh looks what you'll learn: - house inspection - touching up - brush work - share - mail - comments
although summer, with its endless sunny days and warm  weather, might seem like the perfect time for house painting, don't even think  about climbing the ladder when the temperature is greater than 90°f.
after you've painted the body of the house, proceed to the trim.
good brushes of any  size have long bristles with chiseled (tapered) ends and flagged (split) tips.
paint sprayers provide  coverage four to five times faster than brushes, but the finish tends to be  uneven, and even with the airless version half the paint drifts away.
most paint jobs can be handled with a three-inch straight-edge siding brush, a two-inch angled sash brush, and a two-and-a-half-inch straight-edge trim brush.
you should apply two finish coats, applying  each within two weeks of the previous one to avoid the formation of a slick  soap-like or chalky substance on the surface.
all step-by-steps - how to sponge paint a wall - how to create paint-spattered furniture active discussions: painting & finishing tools - how to create a pickled finish on wood - how to create a faux paneled accent wall - customer service - contact us - privacy policy - your california privacy rights - ad choices - terms of service - site map - archive - subscriber services - - contests & deals - contests & sweepstakes - deals & discounts - this old house ventures - advertise with us - our project house partners - our underwriters - press room partner sites enter e-mail address to subscribe or update info: - newsletters - home improvement - green house & home - kitchen & bath - yard & garden - my home ideas - get daily updates - learn more about feeds/rss - get the headlines more home improvement resources - planning & ideas: - find inspiration and new ideas - how-to & repair: - find out how to fix anything around your home see all topics - tools & products: - find out what our experts use - give & get advice: - expert answers, your advice - marketplace: - find out more about our advertisers and their products - television: - what's on tv, online friends of toh copyright © 2012 time inc.
although summer, with its endless sunny days and warm weather, might seem like the perfect time for house painting, don't even think about climbing the ladder when the temperature is greater than 90°f.
if blistering on the wood surface does occur, allow the paint to dry for a few days, scrape off the blisters, smooth the edges with sandpaper and repaint.
(the number applies to the surface being painted as well as the air temperature.)
in this how-to video, this old house host kevin o'connor uses  computer software to help homeowners choose the perfect exterior paint colors watch
leave at least two hours for the fresh paint to dry before weather conditions cool to the point where dew forms.
there is no substitute for brushwork on the trim; it gives you greater control in these small, often intricate areas.
how-to videos - skill builders - toh pro - products & tools browse by category: - hand tools - power tools - painting & finishing tools - yard & garden tools - workshop accessories - toh top 100 - blog: hardware aisle - products & services seen on this old house - products & services seen on ask this old house - give & get advice popular discussions in: - plumbing - deck, patio, porch - painting & finishing - electrical & lighting - walls & ceilings - yard & garden - tv show community - ask this old house - open question - submit your projects and ideas - - home - how-to - painting - putting a fresh coat of paint on your exterior putting a fresh coat of paint on your exterior by: general contractor tom silva, this old house online (page 3 of 3)
if more than two weeks elapse, scrub the paint with water and a stiff-bristled brush before applying the next coat.
more how to choose exterior paint schemes
two thin coats are better than one thick one.
tile - toilets - trees & shrubs - ventilation - wainscoting - wallpaper - water heaters - windows - winter upkeep - wood floors - project of the week - step-by-step projects -
after you've painted the body of the house, proceed to the  trim.
to  determine how much you'll need overall, measure the space to be painted and  calculate the area in square feet.
leave at  least two hours for the fresh paint to dry before weather conditions cool to  the point where dew forms.
nylon and polyester brushes do not release oil paint uniformly, so  these should be used only for latex.
- print brush work for old paint in good condition or primed, bare wood, you'll need about one gallon of paint per each 400 square feet.
kenneth chen how-to video browse
paint sprayers provide coverage four to five times faster than brushes, but the finish tends to be uneven, and even with the airless version half the paint drifts away.
there is no substitute for brushwork on the trim; it gives you greater control  in these small, often intricate areas.
a good paint job should last  at least 10 to 15 years, but it's longevity really depends on the location of  the house and how well it is protected from sun, wind, and rain.
- subscribe to this old house magazine - make this my homepage - - planning & ideas
ask a question on painting & finishing tools advertisement this old house > to go - subscribe - gift - newsletter - television advertisement - add thisoldhouse to my: - my yahoo!
if you decide to use a sprayer, apply paint sparingly.
in the end,  all of your brushwork will keep your house beautiful and safe.
not bad for a summer's work.
if you  decide to use a sprayer, apply paint sparingly.
divide the area by 400 to get the number of  gallons per coat.
to determine how much you'll need overall, measure the space to be painted and calculate the area in square feet.
wait for a day when the temperature will be above 40°f (4°c) for oil paints and above 50°f (10°c) for latex for the full 24 hours.
previous - 1 - 2 - 3 - sign up for our free newsletters - add new comment the rules: keep it clean, and stay on the subject or we might delete your comment.
rough surfaces like stucco will take more paint so use 200 square feet/gallon for this type surface.
if more than two weeks elapse,  scrub the paint with water and a stiff-bristled brush before applying the next  coat.
- add a pop of color with wainscot stripes - how to add blasts of bright paint color most popular painting & finishing tools articles - choose paint colors with a color wheel - how to paint a room - choose paint colors to lift your mood - choosing exterior colors - how to strip years of paint off a house - view all painting & finishing tools videos - view all videos - 5 how to prep a room for paint - 4 how to choose a roller - 3 how to pick a paintbrush - 10 how to clean a paint roller - view all painting & finishing tools step-by-steps - view
article: a pro confides his best tips for painting exteriors - page: -
paint the north side first, the east side of the building late in the morning, the south side in the middle of the afternoon, the west side late in the afternoon.
always start at the top and work down so that any drips are erased as you go along.
all articles - recent painting & finishing tools articles - how to rag-roll paint for an old-world look - new law targets lead safety - on painting: eighth time's a charm (let's hope)
google gadget my msn - add project of the week how to install belgian block driveway edging go see more on painting & finishing tools - galleries - articles - videos - step-by-steps - view all painting & finishing tools galleries - view all galleries - all about wallpaper - no-fail paint colors for small spaces - create a paneled accent wall for $50 - photoshop redo: sprucing up a basic split-level ` - view all painting & finishing tools articles - view
two thin coats are better than  one thick one.
browse by category: - kitchen - kitchen cabinets - kitchen countertops - kitchen sinks - backsplashes - islands - appliances - kitchen lighting - wet bars - small kitchens - outdoor kitchens - bathroom - bathroom sinks - shower - tub - bathroom lighting - small bathrooms - living spaces - basement - bedrooms - mudrooms - dining areas - hallways & foyers - living room - media room - storage - landscaping - garden planning - outdoor structures - workspaces - home office - laundry room - workshop - exterior - deck, patio, porch - driveway & walkway - entryway - garage - new ideas - easy upgrades - family projects - green - healthy home - holidays - money saving ideas - pets - remodels - salvage - small space solutions - team saturday - your new home - your home - house styles - home & real estate - your money - home inspection nightmares - blog: old house my house - photo galleries - current house project - save this old house - best old house neighborhoods - letter from this old house - how-to & repair browse by category: - basements & foundations - cabinets & shelving - carpeting - ceilings - cleaning - cooling - crown molding - decks - doors - drainage & gutters - driveway & walkway - drywall & plaster - electrical - fall upkeep - fences & stone walls - fireplace - fire safety - floors - framing - furniture - garage - gardening - heating - home technology - insulation - lawn care - lighting - painting - patio - plumbing - pools, ponds & fountains - porch - roofing - safety & prevention - siding - spring upkeep - stairs - summer upkeep -
painting  at low temperatures cause trouble too, making brushing and rolling more  difficult, retarding drying, and leaving wet paint susceptible to airborne  dirt, insects and pollen.
when you find the perfect day, the best game plan is to "follow the sun around the house."
rough surfaces like stucco will take more paint so use 200  square feet/gallon for this type surface.
always start at the top and work  down so that any drips are erased as you go along.
kenneth chen browse more how to choose exterior paint schemes
a good paint job should last at least 10 to 15 years, but it's longevity really depends on the location of the house and how well it is protected from sun, wind, and rain.
america's most trusted home improvement brand
if blistering on the wood surface does occur, allow  the paint to dry for a few days, scrape off the blisters, smooth the edges with  sandpaper and repaint.
if you are using oil paint,  work it into the wood; latex will level itself out.
when you find the perfect day, the best  game plan is to "follow the sun around the house."
reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.
if you see inappropriate language, report the comment to us.
by: general contractor  tom silva, this old house online (page 3 of 3)
the bristle depends on the paint: natural bristle (hog's hair is best) may  absorb water from latex paints, ruining the brush, so they should be used only  for oil.
oil-based paint is favored for trim work because of its attractive sheen.
painting at low temperatures cause trouble too, making brushing and rolling more difficult, retarding drying, and leaving wet paint susceptible to airborne dirt, insects and pollen.