several other species are also grown ornamentally in hawaii but differ in blossom size and color.
this plant is a woody vine, which can become very aggressive in growth if not controlled.
back to zoo facts plants home plan your visit zoo directions calendar petting zoo news newsletter aquisitions press releases virtual tour zoo map animal facts plant facts site map friends of the zoo gift shop credits and links docent activities donations donations dedication tiles membership benches adoption photo galleries enrichment activities primadome activities photographers gallery © 2009-2011 pana`ewa rainforest zoo & gardens the content of this website is the property of friends of the zoo.
it was designated as the hawaii state  flower in 1923 and remained so until 1988 when it was replaced by the native  yellow.
all plants with milky sap like these (also typical of the euphorbia family) are  potentially toxic - though a few, like carissa, are not.
vireya do not like soggy  feet, as they can develop root rot.
vireya come in a variety of shapes and sizes ranging  from dwarf mats at high altitudes to all sizes of shrubs, and even trees.
though there are varieties that will take full sun, they do equally well under  dappled light.
they are often the first plants to colonize areas where the original vegetation has been destroyed.
on the big island, vireya hybrids exist in gardens from 4,000-foot elevation down to sea level.
leaves are ovate shaped and have tiny hairs on both sides.
vibrant yellows and reds are  common.
in their homelands, vireya can be found growing as epiphytes in the moss-encrusted lofts of tree branches, on rocks, or just growing as terrestrials, on the ground.
their flowers are often fragrant and are the most colorful of all rhododendrons.
lacewing insects can be a problem leaving silver spots covering the leaves.
this hibiscus has fairly large white  pinwheel shaped flowers that have a sweet fragrance.
the colored petals of the "flower" are not  part of the actual flower but are modified leaves, which surround the true  flower, which is small, inconspicuous, and white to yellow colored.
the  fragrant large white flowers have slightly ruffled edges, and a pink to red  staminal column with red filaments.
their flowers are often fragrant and  are the most colorful of all rhododendrons.
although flower  color is the most obvious distinction in these hibiscus species, notice the  equally distinct differences in leaf shape.
the fragrant large white flowers have slightly ruffled edges, and a pink to red staminal column with red filaments.
(see credits & links page).
it prefers filtered shade in moist but well drained soils, but  can survive in full sun with care.
the genus was named in honor of french navigator louis a. debougainville who discovered the plant.
bark was used to make poor grade tapa and medicine, and leaves for herb tea.
some have foliage that could be mistaken for pine needles; some have huge leaf blades a foot long with flowers to match.
punaluuensis family: malvaceae this is a photo of a plant at the zoo native to the  big island, and is similar to the better known o`ahu native that has  4”-10” leaves.
of the 850 or so species that make up the genus rhododendron, almost 300 are classified as vireya.
this evergreen plants’ oval shaped leaves have  a smooth upper surface with blunt toothed edges, red veins and stems.
this evergreen may grow into a 30’ tree but is usually a 15’-20’ shrub with a similar diameter.
it was designated as the hawaii state flower in 1923 and remained so until 1988 when it was replaced by the native yellow.
calliandra; powder-puff; lehua-haole family: leguminosae subfamily: mimosoideae the hawaiian  name describes the flower and the plant's introduction to hawaii.
located off highway 11 in hilo on the island of hawai'i. - home - plan your visit - zoo directions - calendar - petting zoo - news - newsletter - acquisitions - press releases - virtual tour - zoo map - animal facts - plant facts - site map - friends of the zoo - gift shop - credits and links - docent activities - donations - donations - membership - adoption - dedication tiles - hi-5 recycle - photo galleries - enrichment activities - primadome activities - photographers gallery shrubs ... bougainvillea; puka na wila bougainvillea spectabilis
this flower was used by hawaiians to make a light red dye.
the flowers  resemble the blossom of the lehua and the plants were introduced by the white  man.
these leaves are palmate and look  like maple leaves, with tiny hairs on both sides.
it helps to think of them as orchids,  with similar needs such as drainage and good air circulation.
the leaf color can be variegated in shades of white, pink, maroon, and green  that is enhanced when planted in full sunlight.
this plant is a woody vine, which can become very aggressive in  growth if not controlled.
networking with others in california  has also brought in new hybrids.
crown flower; indian milkweed; pua-kalaunu calotropis gigantea family: asclepediaceae the mauve flower was a favorite with queen liliuokalani.
native red hibiscus; koki`o `ula`ula hibiscus kokio family: malvaceae this hibiscus is native to the wet forests of o`ahu, kauai and the big island.
mamaki pipturus albidus family: urticaceae this native hawaiian fiber bush lacks the stinging hairs of other nettle family members.
vireya can also be grown from seed.
fertilizing should be very light.
in their  homelands, vireya can be found growing as epiphytes in the moss-encrusted lofts  of tree branches, on rocks, or just growing as terrestrials, on the ground.
the leaf color can be  variegated in shades of white, pink, maroon, and green that is enhanced when  planted in full sunlight.
the mauve flower was a favorite with queen  liliuokalani.
the staminal column is light green to magenta with magenta filaments.
some vireya, depending on the variety, can take as long as a year to root, though the average time is closer to three months.
they do well in  full sun and are drought tolerant.
, this plant is monoecious in that both male and female flowers are found on the same plant.
mamaki pipturus albidus family: urticaceae this  native hawaiian fiber bush lacks the stinging hairs of other nettle family  members.
native white hibiscus;  koki`o kea hibiscus arnottianus subsp.
wild poinsettia; warscewiczia coccinea family: rubiaceae a  native of tropical america, this shrub produces large sprays of showy red  sepals with tiny yellow flowers.
allamanda is in the apocynaceae family which includes plumeria,  carissa, ochrosia, adenium, mandevilla, nerium oleander, thevetia and others.
bright light helps to set buds as well as shortening stem internodes.
back to zoo facts plants home plan your visit
roseo-picta family: euphorbiaceae native to the south pacific islands, this plant is monoecious in that both male and female flowers are found on the same plant.
last year more than 75 new varieties were brought in from australia.
though vireya love light, dappled light is recommended especially during our peak summer heat.
vireya can be easily rooted from cuttings.
the most important factor in planting is excellent drainage important.
they do well in full sun and are drought tolerant.
all plants with milky sap like these (also typical of the euphorbia family) are potentially toxic - though a few, like carissa, are not.
it will bloom best if planted in full sun.
in cultivation the flowers bloom almost continuously  and are born towards the ends of branches.
it has long been thought that a. "cherries jubilee" might be a hybrid of a. blanchetii and a. cathartica though no one has been able to remake the cross.
some vireya,  depending on the variety, can take as long as a year to root, though the  average time is closer to three months.
one  reason for this is the hawai`i chapter ars.
of the 850 or so species that make up  the genus rhododendron, almost 300 are classified as vireya.
it is a shrubby type of plant found in drier  areas on all the main islands except ni`ihau and ka-ho`olawe.
this endangered species was designated as  the hawaii state flower in 1988.
allamanda blanchetii (a. violacea is an old synonym of this species) flowers are similar in color to "cherries jubilee" but they are about 2/3 the size of the hybrid.
several other species are also grown  ornamentally in hawaii but differ in blossom size and color.
information provided by sherla  bertelmann and richard marques - owners of pacific island nursery, a mail-order  nursery located in kea`au, specializing in vireya rhododendrons.
a single seed pod can contain as many as several hundred seeds.
wild poinsettia; chaconia; pride of trinidad warscewiczia coccinea family: rubiaceae a native of tropical america, this shrub produces large sprays of showy red sepals with tiny yellow flowers.
bougainvillea spectabilis family:
there is a more common selection known as allamanda "cherries  jubilee" which has lighter purple flowers with yellow in the throat.
flower shapes vary from small, open cups to spidery clusters of long tubes.
this native of india is used for leis strung either with the whole flower or with the crown only.
planting vireya under hapu`u (tree ferns), or near other plantings  will give some shade.
information provided by kirsten albrecht llamas of miami, florida (see credits & links page)
networking with others in california has also brought in new hybrids.
because vireya roots run close to the surface, they can heat up from the  sun.
they grow mostly in the mountainous regions of malaysia centered in and around the equatorial zone including indonesia, the philippines, borneo and papua new guinea.
although flower color is the most obvious distinction in these hibiscus species, notice the equally distinct differences in leaf shape.
on the big island, vireya hybrids exist in gardens from  4,000-foot elevation down to sea level.
you can identify this  family easily by the trumpet-shaped flowers that have radially symmetrical  lobes that are usually twisted like little propeller blades as well as the  milky sap.
there is a more common selection known as allamanda "cherries jubilee" which has lighter purple flowers with yellow in the throat.
covering with several inches of coarse mulch will keep them cool.
though there are varieties that will take full sun, they do equally well under dappled light.
vireya do not like soggy feet, as they can develop root rot.
family: nyctaginaceae this is a colorful bougainvillea grown throughout hawaii.
prefers filtered shade in moist well drained soils but will tolerate full sun and drier conditions.
it is commonly used as a hedge plant but it has an  extensive and aggressive root system.
leaves are ovate shaped and have  tiny hairs on both sides.
allamanda is in the apocynaceae family which includes plumeria, carissa, ochrosia, adenium, mandevilla, nerium oleander, thevetia and others.
the plants at the zoo are native to the big island.
this plant is a native of bolivia and is considered a shrub; however, it can attain the size of a small tree.
this hibiscus has fairly large white pinwheel shaped flowers that have a sweet fragrance.
you can identify this family easily by the trumpet-shaped flowers that have radially symmetrical lobes that are usually twisted like little propeller blades as well as the milky sap.
roseo-picta family: euphorbiaceae native to the south pacific islands
euphorbiaceae  native to the south pacific islands, this plant is monoecious in that both male  and female flowers are found on the same plant.
the leaf color can be variegated in shades of white, pink, maroon, and green that is enhanced when planted in full sunlight.
the staminal column is  light green to magenta with magenta filaments.
a sizeable stand of  these plants can be formed as new plants arise from the suckering of the roots.
a sizeable stand of these plants can be formed as new plants arise from the suckering of the roots.
in the past few years  the number of vireya hybrids coming into the islands has greatly increased.
caterpillars of the kamehameha butterfly eat the red veined leaves.
allamandas come from tropical south america.
it is commonly used as a hedge plant but it has an extensive and aggressive root system.
they are members of the hawai`i chapter of the american rhododendron society.
roseo-picta family: euphorbiaceae native to the south pacific islands, this plant is  monoecious in that both male and female flowers are found on the same plant.
if you wish to use any of this material for publishing or any commercial purpose please contact friends of the zoo for permission.
the plants at the zoo are native to the big  island.
the 3"-  4” red flower is pinwheel shaped with a red staminal column and red  filaments that contrast with the yellow pollen.
it  has long been thought that a. "cherries jubilee" might be a hybrid of  a. blanchetii and a. cathartica though no one has been able to remake the cross.
last year more than 75 new  varieties were brought in from australia.
though  vireya love light, dappled light is recommended especially during our peak  summer heat.
purple allamanda family: apocynaceae this shrubby climber is an allamanda hybrid or selection of unknown origin with large ( 4”-6”) deep purple flowers.
flower shapes vary from small, open cups to spidery clusters of long  tubes.
kauai white hibiscus; koki`o ke`oke`o hibiscus waimeae subsp.
these bloom white in the morning, and turn pink as they fade in the afternoon.
the bright yellow flowers bloom on a flowering stalk that rises above the plant.
nyctaginaceae this is a  colorful bougainvillea grown throughout hawaii.
this native of india is used for leis strung either with the  whole flower or with the crown only.
fertilizing should be very  light.
punaluuensis family: malvaceae this is a photo of a plant at the zoo native to the big island, and is similar to the better known o`ahu native that has 4”-10” leaves.
author: tropical flowering plants: a guide to identification and cultivation - 2004 garden globe award snow bush; lau-kalakoa breynia nivosa var.
native white hibiscus; koki`o kea hibiscus arnottianus subsp.
vireya  have very fine surface roots, as opposed to a tap root.
this endangered species was designated as the hawaii state flower in 1988.
the 3"- 4” red flower is pinwheel shaped with a red staminal column and red filaments that contrast with the yellow pollen.
raised beds or mound plantings work the best.
calliandra; powder-puff; lehua-haole calliandra inaequilatera family: leguminosae subfamily: mimosoideae the hawaiian name describes the flower and the plant's introduction to hawaii.
vireya come in a variety of shapes and sizes ranging from dwarf mats at high altitudes to all sizes of shrubs, and even trees.
it is a fast grower and may bloom  semi-annually for about 2 months.
because vireya roots run close to the surface, they can heat up from the sun.
the fruits are an unusual white mass with seeds on the surface like  strawberries, and have a mild laxative effect.
there are two subspecies: brackenridgei is native to the big island, maui, molokai and lanai with yellow leaf veins and no spines on branches; mokuleianus is native to o`ahu and kauai with tiny spines on the branches and leaves with pink veins.
this evergreen plants’ oval shaped leaves have a smooth upper surface with blunt toothed edges, red veins and stems.
the oval leaf has rounded tooth edges and a waxy surface.
these bloom white in the morning, and turn pink as they fade in  the afternoon.
vibrant yellows and reds are common.
like all hibiscus, the flowers last only for a day.
the colored petals of the "flower" are not part of the actual flower but are modified leaves, which surround the true flower, which is small, inconspicuous, and white to yellow colored.
the most important  factor in planting is excellent drainage important.
but it may take  three to eight years, depending on the variety, before flowering begins,  whereas from cuttings that time is cut in half.
it is the national flower of trinidad &  tobago.
these leaves are palmate and look like maple leaves, with tiny hairs on both sides.
information provided by kirsten albrecht llamas of miami,  florida (see credits & links page) author: tropical flowering plants:  a guide to identification and cultivation - 2004 garden globe award snow bush; lau-kalakoa breynia nivosa var.
like all hibiscus, the flowers last  only for a day.
this plant is a native of bolivia and is considered a shrub; however, it  can attain the size of a small tree.
crown  flower; calotropis gigantea family: asclepediaceae
purple allamanda family: apocynaceae this shrubby climber is an allamanda hybrid or  selection of unknown origin with large ( 4”-6”) deep purple  flowers.
information provided by sherla bertelmann and richard marques - owners of pacific island nursery, a mail-order nursery located in kea`au, specializing in vireya rhododendrons.
they grow mostly in the mountainous regions of  malaysia centered in and around the equatorial zone including indonesia, the  philippines, borneo and papua new guinea.
the fruits are an unusual white mass with seeds on the surface like strawberries, and have a mild laxative effect.
the flowers resemble the blossom of the lehua and the plants were introduced by the white man.
planting vireya under hapu`u (tree ferns), or near other plantings will give some shade.
prefers filtered shade in moist well  drained soils but will tolerate full sun and drier conditions.
it prefers filtered shade in moist but well drained soils, but can survive in full sun with care.
the color is one of many hybrid  varieties developed locally from a purple species native to brazil.
this flower was used by  hawaiians to make a light red dye.
native yellow hibiscus; pua aloalo; ma`o hau hele hibiscus brackenridgei subsp.
raised beds or mound plantings work the  best.
in cultivation the flowers bloom almost continuously and are born towards the ends of branches.
in the past few years the number of vireya hybrids coming into the islands has greatly increased.
the bright yellow flowers bloom on a  flowering stalk that rises above the plant.
native yellow hibiscus; pua aloalo;  ma`o hau hele hibiscus brackenridgei subsp.
native red hibiscus; koki`o `ula`ula hibiscus kokio family: malvaceae this hibiscus is native to the wet forests  of o`ahu, kauai and the big island.
it is a shrubby type of plant found in drier areas on all the main islands except ni`ihau and ka-ho`olawe.
it is a fast grower and may bloom semi-annually for about 2 months.
they are  members of the hawai`i chapter of the american rhododendron society.
pinching off new growth promotes more branching as will deheading the seedpods, which will put the energy back into new growth and bud development rather than into seed production.
this shrub may grow into a 24’- 30’ evergreen tree.
the genus  was named in honor of french navigator louis a. debougainville who discovered  the plant.
it helps to think of them as orchids, with similar needs such as drainage and good air circulation.
waimeae family: malvaceae native to kauai, this hibiscus is commonly found in waimea canyon, and in the moist forests of the western and northern coasts of that island at 800’ to 3900’ elevation.
allamanda blanchetii (a.  violacea is an old synonym of this species) flowers are similar in color to  "cherries jubilee" but they are about 2/3 the size of the hybrid.
a sizeable stand of these plants can be  formed as new plants arise from the suckering of the roots.
vireya;  tropical rhododendron family: rhododendron vireya are rhododendrons,  semi-tropical rhododendrons.
this milkweed is also a favorite of the  monarch butterfly who sips the nectar and uses it as host plant for its  caterpillars.
they  are often the first plants to colonize areas where the original vegetation has  been destroyed.
some  have foliage that could be mistaken for pine needles; some have huge leaf  blades a foot long with flowers to match.
it is the national flower of trinidad & tobago.
this shrub may grow into a 24’-  30’ evergreen tree.
allamandas have smooth margined leaves in opposite pairs or whorls.
they grow on the edges of forests and in open grasslands, seeking light.
waimeae family: malvaceae native to kauai, this hibiscus is commonly found in waimea canyon, and in  the moist forests of the western and northern coasts of that island at  800’ to 3900’ elevation.
there are two subspecies:  brackenridgei is native to the big island, maui, molokai and lanai with yellow  leaf veins and no spines on branches; mokuleianus is native to o`ahu and kauai  with tiny spines on the branches and leaves with pink veins.
this evergreen  may grow into a 30’ tree but is usually a 15’-20’ shrub with  a similar diameter.
lacewing insects can be a problem leaving silver spots covering the  leaves.
brackenridgei family: malvaceae
a  single seed pod can contain as many as several hundred seeds.
p.o. box 738 kea`au, hi 96749 site design by| back to top
but it may take three to eight years, depending on the variety, before flowering begins, whereas from cuttings that time is cut in half.
pinching off new growth promotes more branching as  will deheading the seedpods, which will put the energy back into new growth and  bud development rather than into seed production.
this milkweed is also a favorite of the monarch butterfly who sips the nectar and uses it as host plant for its caterpillars.
snow bush; lau-kalakoa breynia nivosa var.
it is commonly used as a hedge  plant but it has an extensive and aggressive root system.
one reason for this is the hawai`i chapter ars.
(see  credits & links page).
vireya; tropical rhododendron family: rhododendron vireya are rhododendrons, semi-tropical rhododendrons.
this will help prevent leaf burn and faded out flowers.
the color is one of many hybrid varieties developed locally from a purple species native to brazil.
vireya have very fine surface roots, as opposed to a tap root.