flower color: white tinged with pink flowering date: late spring to early summer.
plant your garden for less with michiganbulb.com annuals & tropicals bulbs fruits gardens grasses ground covers hedges perennials roses shrubs tools trees vegetables vines new shopping cart these items have been added to your cart:
this item ships in the spring.
bounty of fruit by the third season of growth.
you might also like...
sku: 84241 quantity price buy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 1 for $9.99 light: full sun to partial shade harvest: early to mid fall height: 3-5' bloom time:
0 items in cart see all hot sellers red hens & chicks 3-in-1 angel trumpet black magic elephant ears rainbow butterfly bush see all hot sellers aronia berry hardy native superberry with benefits galore!
a fantastic addition to juices, wines, syrups, chutney and pies.
unique characteristics: hardy native  plant to eastern north america and canada.
product details botanical name: aronia melanocarpa 'viking' form: deciduous shrub sun exposure: partial shade/full sun height/habit: 3  - 5' spacing: 5 - 8' hardiness zone: zones 3 - 8 foliage type: obovate, glossy mid-green leaves with excellent red orange  and a hint of purple fall color.
if you don't care to harvest the fruit, the songbirds and other wildlife will gladly take care of that for you!
harvest fruit in  early to mid fall.
songbirds and other wildlife will appreciate them, too.
planting requirements: morning sun with shade in  the afternoon is best for fruiting and fall leaf color.
this variety is a cultivated form of  the native aronia.
view cart order status help perennials shrubs trees bulbs vegetables fruits roses ground covers gardens new on sale hot sellers!
it has recently attracted scientific interest due to the  deep purple-black berries and their properties.
additional information: remove seeds and skin when used in foods - takes out  the bitterness.
you might also like... goji berry 1 for $9.99 blueberry trio 1 trio for $24.99 ozark beauty strawberry 10 for $4.99 wild honey honeyberries 1 for $12.99 recently viewed items... koko loko™ rose 1 for $14.99 rosalie figge reblooming iris 1 for $7.99 purple plume astilbe 1 for $4.99 white onion sets 1 for $3.99 customer service privacy policy our guarantee most popular: flower bulbs, hydrangea, clematis, grass, shrubs, ornamental grasses, hibiscus, zebra grass, groundcover, perennials, plants discount, plant garden, peonies, flower garden plans, ornamental grass, garden plants, phlox, floweringtrees, bulbs, tree, dwarf citrus trees, garden plans, grasses, rose of sharon, iris bulbs, roses, azalea, lilac, dianthus, wisteria, iris, plant nursery, rose, butterfly bush, nursery plants, lily bulbs, perennial ©2012 scarlet tanager llc, d/b/a michigan bulb company.
antioxidants, cardiovascular  system support, anti-aging properties, digestive aids and help in maintaining  blood sugar levels to name a few!
petite corymbs of white-pink blooms are lovely in late spring.
if you don't care  to harvest the fruit, the songbirds and other wildlife will gladly take care of  that for you!
flower color: white tinged with pink flowering date: late  spring to early summer.
flower form: corymbs of white tinged with  pink.
garden plants & flower bulbs at discount prices!
all rights reserved michigan bulb co.
late spring to early summer size: bareroot zones: 3 to 8 restricted states: ae ak gu hi pr the tart, purple berries are chock full of antioxidants, and also offer digestive help and aid in balancing blood sugars!
soil requirements: adaptable to a wide range of soils but moist, fertile, well-drained soil is best.
if the current shipping season is closed, your order will ship at the proper time in the next season.
it has recently attracted scientific interest due to the deep purple-black berries and their properties.
nurseries trademarks are registered trademarks of scarlet tanager llc
if the current shipping season is closed, your  order will ship at the proper time in the next season.
harvest fruit in early to mid fall.
this variety is a cultivated form of the native aronia.
light: full sun to partial shade harvest: early to mid fall height: 3-5' bloom time:
prices as low as 99¢ per plant.
product details botanical name: aronia melanocarpa 'viking' form: deciduous shrub sun exposure: partial shade/full sun height/habit: 3 - 5' spread: 5 - 6' spacing: 5 - 8' hardiness zone: zones 3 - 8 foliage type: obovate, glossy mid-green leaves with excellent red orange and a hint of purple fall color.
additional information: remove seeds and skin when used in foods - takes out the bitterness.
songbirds and other wildlife will appreciate them,  too.
there are several health  benefits of the aronia berries like other dark pigmented berries such as  blueberries, black currant, salal and bilberries.
pruning: late winter when dormant or after flowering if fruit production is not an important factor for growing this plant.
the  tart, purple berries are chock full of antioxidants, and also offer digestive  help and aid in balancing blood sugars!
the berries are not particular tasty fresh to  humans but the juices can be made into a number of wonderful items such as  juices, wines, syrups, sauces, marinades, chutney and pies.
soil requirements:  adaptable to a wide range of soils but moist, fertile, well-drained soil is  best.
late spring to  early summer size: bareroot zones: 3 to 8 restricted states: ae ak gu hi pr
planting requirements: morning sun with shade in the afternoon is best for fruiting and fall leaf color.
pruning: late winter when dormant or after flowering if  fruit production is not an important factor for growing this plant.
a fantastic addition to juices, wines,  syrups, chutney and pies.
sku: 84241 quantity price buy 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20  1 for $9.99
unique characteristics: hardy native plant to eastern north america and canada.
hardy native superberry with benefits  galore!
antioxidants, cardiovascular system support, anti-aging properties, digestive aids and help in maintaining blood sugar levels to name a few!
flower form: corymbs of white tinged with pink.
the berries are not particular tasty fresh to humans but the juices can be made into a number of wonderful items such as juices, wines, syrups, sauces, marinades, chutney and pies.
growth rate: moderate.
there are several health benefits of the aronia berries like other dark pigmented berries such as blueberries, black currant, salal and bilberries.