notably, while hardly a chain, the owners apparently have another location named, aptly,flat white.
i was joined at this point by a colleague, who gave me the “eyebrow raise/cup raise” look of approval.
it’s also being widely embraced, as evidenced by the enthusiastic responses to my queries for suggestions.
turns out,  every other person in line had ordered acappuccino, flat white, or similar  drink.
while i didn’t have a chance to sample an espresso at milk bar, the eponymous espresso at the espresso room did come through.
besides being top-ranked by a number of publications, including thetime out london list, two of the three trusted individuals i polled individually cited monmouth as being tops.
but i was quickly won over by the coffee.
but that was really it.
i was joined at this point by a  colleague, who gave me the “eyebrow raise/cup raise” look of  approval.
first, the similar: in london, as in all the places i’ve visited in the us, the staff is drawn from the same demographic.
a risk of sounding like a  completely snobby jackass, the coffee was more complex and had a couple of  different tastes throughout the drink, like a fine wine.
interestingly, both experts cited different locations as providing the best coffee; one cited the original covent garden location, and the other cited the park street location.
the last one i wanted to visit was time out’s top coffee bar in london: prufrock coffee, run by “2009 world barista champion” gwilym davies.
made from scratch by the smiling and friendly cashier, every aspect of the dish was top-notch.
i began by ordering a brewed coffee,  and the woman taking the order whispered conspiratorially, “normally i  wouldn’t say this, but everyone else is waiting for espresso drinks, why  don’t you scoot up towards the front of the line?”
there are also the standard wooden benches out front, but i would feel uncomfortable doing any work on them.
reflecting back on my whirlwind tour of london’s top coffee bars, it’s clear that coffee culture in the city is still evolving, as it is in most places around the globe.
and that’s including the benches out front.
in fact, it almost overpowered the coffee.
typical of the smaller locations i saw in london, the layout showed off  the coffee while still making room for a few tables in the back.
typical of the smaller locations i saw in london, the layout showed off the coffee while still making room for a few tables in the back.
i also had a cappuccino.
besides being top-ranked by a number of publications,  including thetime out london list, two of the three trusted individuals i  polled individually cited monmouth as being tops.
fernandez & wells http://www.fernandezandwells.com/ 16a st. anne’s court london w1 kaffeine http://www.kaffeine.co.uk/ @kaffeinelondon 66 great titchfield st. london w1w7qj prufrock coffee http://www.prufrockcoffee.com/ @prufrockcoffee 23-25 leather lane london ec1n 7te my final visit (this trip) to london’s premier coffee places was to monmouth coffee.
i was pleased to observe thebarista deftly make my drink, and by  the time i received it, the line for other drinks had advanced maybe 3 people.
i had both a flat white and anespresso, both presumably prepared with square mile beans, and both were quite good.
(i did not, however, download the aptly-named “london’s best coffee” app; unfortunately, i only found out about it upon my return.
the miniscule size essentially eliminates any possibility of laptop-based work being done.
milk bar seems to rely largely on beans from one of the top-tier british roasters,square mile coffee.
the coffee itself was impressive.
located in the soho neighborhood, this tiny shop managed to impress me with both its coffee and food offerings.
racks for makingbrewed coffee were prominently featured, something not present in the other locations i visited.
i usually drink  my brewed coffee with milk, and was pleased to find that the milk did not  overshadow the coffee itself.
i initiated my tasting with a flat white, which i think most visitors from the us would call a latte, and was rewarded with one of the best examples of this beverage i can recall.
additionally, the espresso came standard with a side cup of water.
not that it would have done me much good; i’m currently a blackberry kind of guy, although i expect that to change in the near future.)
two of the places were recommended to me, fernandez & wells and kaffeine, the latter featuring the omnipresentsquare mile coffee beans.
and the most common drink i saw being ordered was theflat white, whereas in the us brewed coffee andcappuccinos predominate.
my visit was to the location in covent garden, and i was not disappointed.
i was again pleased by the coffee, and was intrigued to find that the milk was less foamed than with most cappuccinos; intentional or not, it was closer to a latte macchiato.
what also seems clear in reflection is that london has a preferred drink, and a style, all its own.
a word, too, about the food: since i was visiting over breakfast, i had the greek yogurt (yoghurt?) parfait, and am happy to report that this was, easily, the best breakfast i had on my trip.
fortunately, this  allowed me to enjoy the coffee more.
i had in a coffee bar in london.
i usually drink my brewed coffee with milk, and was pleased to find that the milk did not overshadow the coffee itself.
i was again pleased by the coffee, and was  intrigued to find that the milk was less foamed than with most cappuccinos;  intentional or not, it was closer to a latte macchiato.
i just got back from spending most of this past week in london.
it had a depth of flavor i have  observed in only the top tier of brewed coffees i’ve tasted, not quite at  the level of blue bottle but up there.
i began by ordering a brewed coffee, and the woman taking the order whispered conspiratorially, “normally i wouldn’t say this, but everyone else is waiting for espresso drinks, why don’t you scoot up towards the front of the line?”
smaller than most american lattes, and topped with very lightly foamed milk, the flat white at milk bar was milder than most espresso-based beverages yet retained a distinctive coffee flavor.
racks  for makingbrewed coffee were prominently featured, something not present  in the other locations i visited.
finding the best coffee…near me.
slightly larger than most of the london coffee destinations i visited, it’s also set up in such a way that the 8 or so tables don’t feel too crowded, and this was an altogether fine place to begin my coffee tasting.
i can’t finish this note without mentioning the places that i wanted to visit, but didn’t get a chance to.
i prepared for the trip by diligently checking others existing top 10 lists, like the one published bytime out magazine.
by eisnero in chains, retail, uncategorized no comments my final visit (this trip) to london’s premier coffee places was to  monmouth coffee.
and the style was, well, sans tattoos.
the coffee culture appears to be virtually identical in the uk and the us, and i greatly enjoyed my sampling.
i had a croissant, and can report that the baked goods are top-notch.
a risk of sounding like a completely snobby jackass, the coffee was more complex and had a couple of different tastes throughout the drink, like a fine wine.
i look forward to returning soon and trying more places!
(which i did not do.)
fortunately, this allowed me to enjoy the coffee more.
so it doesn’t score very highly on my usual rating scale, but definitely a coffee destination worth finding.
interestingly, both  experts cited different locations as providing the best coffee; one cited the  original covent garden location, and the other cited the park street location.
because of the tables in the rear, the covent garden location seemed decent for whipping out the laptop.
the flat white was easily 75%+ of what i observed people ordering, although i admittedly observed the action largely in the mornings.
please feel free to suggest additional spots to visit, and i’ll try to hit them on my next visit.
this isn’t necessarily a bad thing, rather it’s a feature of the beverage and the store, but worth pointing out.
while i personally have a negative view of the tradition of bringing a water with your beverage (it implies to me that it will leave a bad taste that requires cleansing the palate), i am a sucker for that type of ritual.
there are also  the standard wooden benches out front, but i would feel uncomfortable doing any  work on them.
in fact, i found the flat white to be superior to the previous day’s beverage atmilk bar.
indeed, the hard wooden benches out front don’t even make working on a mobile phone all that enjoyable.
a word about the milk: the milk itself was quite impressive, easily the richest milk
naturally, i was excited to check out the coffee scene in the capital of tea drinking.
besides the obvious attention that they pay to their milk, the coffee was quite fine.
i was pleased to observe thebarista deftly make my drink, and by the time i received it, the line for other drinks had advanced maybe 3 people.
turns out, every other person in line had ordered acappuccino, flat white, or similar drink.
as for the differences, well, the people spoke funny.
i didn’t even know one could be a world champion at…barista-ing, but apparently it’s possible, and this is the place to experience it.
because of the tables in the rear, the covent garden location seemed decent  for whipping out the laptop.
the espresso room 31-35 great ormond st, wc1n 3hz 07932 137380 www.theespressoroom.com
it had a depth of flavor i have observed in only the top tier of brewed coffees i’ve tasted, not quite at the level of blue bottle but up there.
i inaugurated my london coffee perambulations with a visit to the widely known milk bar.
milk bar 3 bateman st, w1d 4ag (020 7287 4796)
monmouth coffee www.monmouthcoffee.co.uk 27 monmouth street covent garden london wc2h 9eu 2 park street the borough london se1 9ab 34 maltby street bermondsey london se1 3pa i found my way to the unprepossessing coffee bar known as the espresso room , and was at first taken aback: it’s not really a room, it’s actually the size of a generous walk-in closet.
i’ll be posting my reviews over the next few days.
(i saw square mile-sourced coffees turn up at almost every location i tried.)
especially fair trade, organic beans… and of course there was plenty of la marzocco and chemex equipment in evidence.
it was a whirlwind tour of london’s best coffee places, and a number of things stood out.
in fact, pull the baristas from any coffee shop in london, give them some tattoos — well, maybe more than just “some” — and they’d be at home in any coffee shop in the us.
(my own habits tend towards brewed coffee drinks in the morning, and an espresso or espresso-based beverage in the afternoon.)
the primacy of the bean was another similarity: most places i visited featured either bins or bags of beans, artfully displayed.