you can pick fruit 12 months of the year somewhere in australia.
for example, some land owners prefer to pay pickers by the hour (anything above $10 an hour is good), such as vineyards and grape growers, because they want the fruit to remain in pristine condition.
if you are a good picker, contract work is usually the best way to make a  good casual wage !
our guide will help you find casual fruit picking jobs by advising you of the locations and time of fruit picking in towns or regions of australia.
due to different weather patterns, regions such as  manjimup, pemberton, and bunbury in western australia hold their apple harvest  a bit later between march and may.
overview of fruit picking in australia, the fruit picking season peaks during summer, between the  months of december and may.
wages you will be paid  an hourly rate to pick fruit.
fruit picking in australiaif you need some casual work in australia while you are travelling around this great land, you should consider fruit picking.
usually, picking fruit by size is conducted at the start of the season.
west australia tasmania
there are many different fruits and vegetables grown in australia (commonly  referred to as just 'fruit' by farmers and pickers).
in general, becoming a fruit picker requires no experience and most farms and orchards are eager to hire physically fit persons, but be aware it is hard labour.
you will either be paid an hourly rate (wages) or paid for the amount of fruit you pick (contract work)
due to different weather patterns, regions such as manjimup, pemberton, and bunbury in western australia hold their apple harvest a bit later between march and may.
therefore, being physically fit and having good stamina helps, and here are some other essentials: sunglasses - the sun can be very bright gloves - protection from spikes, thorns sunscreen - protection from the sun hat - protrect your headl hardy boots/shoes - protection from snakes and bullants big drink container - it's thirsty work payment depends on a number of issues, such as how good the harvest is, and what the particular fruit or produce is.
most places, however, pay per bucket, bin or box filled rather than by the hour.
your headl hardy boots/shoes - protection from snakes and bullants big drink container - it's thirsty work payment depends on a number  of issues, such as how good the harvest is, and what the particular fruit or  produce is.
most fruit pickers start early in the morning and finish before the peak of the summer sunshine later in the afternoon.
in general, becoming a fruit picker requires no experience and most farms  and orchards are eager to hire physically fit persons, but be aware it is hard  labour.
this type of picking can be back breaking as it involves continual  bending over to pick the fruit.
there are various methods used to pick fruit by the farmers:size picking the farmer is looking to pick a particular size of fruit.
colour picking sometimes, a certain coloured fruit is required  by retailers.
the following table shows what fruits are ground or tree fruits:ground fruit or vegetables asparagus, barley, beans, berries, broccoli, cabbage, capsicums, cauliflower, cucumber, corn, cotton, chillies, egg plant, grapes, honeydew, lettuce , oats, onions, potatoes, pumpkins, rock melons, strawberries, sugarcane, tobacco, watermelons, wheat, wild flowers, zucchinis
bruising is not an  option.
they fall into two fruit  picking categories: ground fruit fruit grows on or under  the ground.
there are many different fruits and vegetables grown in australia (commonly referred to as just 'fruit' by farmers and pickers).
then you can use the jobsearch web site to find casual fruit picking jobs  in that town or region.
wages are based on the australia standard wage  rate for casual farm workers contract based on the amount  of fruit picked by individual pickers.
the following table shows what fruits are ground or tree fruits: ground fruit or vegetables asparagus, barley, beans, berries,  broccoli, cabbage, capsicums, cauliflower, cucumber, corn, cotton, chillies,  egg plant, grapes, honeydew, lettuce , oats, onions, potatoes, pumpkins, rock  melons, strawberries, sugarcane, tobacco, watermelons, wheat, wild flowers,  zucchinis tree fruits avocado, apricots, apples, bananas,  cherries, lemons, macadamia nuts, mandarins, mangos, nectarines, oranges,  pears, peaches, plums, there are various methods used to pick fruit by the farmers: size picking the farmer is looking to pick a particular size of fruit.
e.g. green or red tomatoes or capsicums strip picking usually involves removing all the fruit or vegetables from the plant.
you will either be paid an hourly rate (wages) or paid for the amount  of fruit you pick (contract work)
if you are a good picker, contract work is usually the best way to make a good casual wage !
what are the wages for fruit picking the money that can be  earned by a fruit picker depends on the energy and enthusiasm of the fruit  picker.
this type of picking can be back breaking as it involves continual bending over to pick the fruit.
therefore, being physically fit  and having good stamina helps, and here are some other essentials: sunglasses - the sun can be very bright gloves - protection from  spikes, thorns sunscreen - protection from the sun hat - protrect
they fall into two fruit picking categories:ground fruit fruit grows on or under the ground.
often involves the use of ladders  to pick fruit or use of a mechanical boom to pick fruit.
most places, however, pay per bucket, bin or box filled rather than by  the hour.
you  determine the hours worked based on the number of buckets you wish to pick.
what are the wages for fruit picking the money that can be earned by a fruit picker depends on the energy and enthusiasm of the fruit picker.
most fruit pickers start early in the morning and finish before the peak  of the summer sunshine later in the afternoon.
usually involves collecting fruit in  'buckets' (or bins) and recording the number of buckets picked each day.
for example, some land owners prefer to pay pickers by the hour  (anything above $10 an hour is good), such as vineyards and grape growers,  because they want the fruit to remain in pristine condition.
tree fruit fruit is  picked from the branches of a tree or plant.
overview of fruit picking in australia, the fruit picking season peaks during summer, between the months of december and may.
bruising is not an option.
then you can use the jobsearch web site to find casual fruit picking jobs in that town or region.