besides the timing belt and water pump, the only  other things that have needed to be fixed since my father bought it in `99 are  the starter @145,000 and overdrive & torque converter @ 138,000.
i only own a little 1998 v-6 dakota, but with it  ive hauled more pounds then 90% of toyota tundra owners ever will.
american trucks can stand up to any truck made anywhere.
have we all forgotten  that  competition is  to obtain a better product and introduce variety.. do we see everything as a us   vs  them(ie foreign) issue... despite  the fact  that   toyota employs many americans and   treats them better desperate people say and do , the expected.. finally, before ford  redesigned the f 150,  it was notoriously a  failure in crash tests,  the  old generation tundra might not have had the looks but it always  scored better in crash tests.
it couldn't even support the weight.
but what gets me is the face that i need a bigger truck from the loads i carry but this little thing handles it just fine, then i see some *** in a big bad toyota tundra with a bed that he polishes every week (whoever polished their bed should throw thier truck away).
u live in a world  of  look good....
it adds nothing and takes away from functionality.
an american company creating good american jobs!
they should have bought a tundra.
help  save us from the recession, don`t buy that toyota!
toyota copied dodge,  blah blah..
ford/gm/dodge have no where near as much problems as the truck.
i buy a truck for utility.
it adds nothing and takes away from  functionality.
do i wish they were all built here, yes, but the money spent on these trucks goes to american companies, not a japanese company.
it`s not good for the skilled american craftsman that build it.
i just had the 3rd timing belt put in,  along with a new water pump.
haven`t heard much about that yet..
the front end was always  way too soft for my liking, especially with 500 lbs or more in the back..
keep sending your money to japan brother, they appreciate it.
to the  company and the workers..
so i installed firestone ride rite airbags in the back before the truck was 2 years old.
the dealer said the tundra crew cab doesn't  come with a bench in the front.
they will never build them in indiana again,  they are taking out the line due to poor sales.
have we all forgotten that competition is to obtain a better product and introduce variety.. do we see everything as a us vs them(ie foreign) issue... despite the fact that toyota employs many americans and treats them better desperate people say and do , the expected.. finally, before ford redesigned the f 150, it was notoriously a failure in crash tests, the old generation tundra might not have had the looks but it always scored better in crash tests.
they have to copy  everybody else!
doubt i will.. bottom line is: there is a lot of people who do not like the tundra, most of them don`t have a leg to stand on because they have never owned one or drove one for 200,000 trouble free miles.
also toyota trucks have umm..
then it was built in texas.
help save us from the recession, don`t buy that toyota!
it  is  how toyota responded..
the front end was always way too soft for my liking, especially with 500 lbs or more in the back..
as far as i`m concerned, i would love a pearl harbor  edition tundra, bullet holes n` all.
buy one, help america.
i also owned a t-100 way back in the day before the chevy.
so the third passenger sits up in the middle.
and when i send it off to scrap, i`ll be right back at the  toyota dealer buying another tundra.
a center console in a truck is a  complete waste of space.
my last bass boat was rigged on the showroom floor with a yamaha  motor.
post reply new  user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/30/08 07:11 pm because it has potential and is quite a success.
thats why you bought your dodge that was made by skilled mexican workers.
there is a lot of hate for the tundra, and there are a few reasons why..
they have idled the texas plant  due to poor sales, but will re-start it when they get rid of excess inventory.
but i have not had any serious crippling problems yet.
with no substance ...
the titan had an engine/transmission combination that put  a lot of power to the pavement, and while the ride was a bit harsh it, again,  did what was expected of it.
my mileage in all of my trucks has ranged from 16 mpg to 20 mpg, depending on what i was doing on any given tank.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm, ford,  dodge.
do i  wish they were all built here, yes, but the money spent on these trucks goes to  american companies, not a japanese company.
where did your money go?
it did not extend to all trucks only a handful..out of hundreds and thousands..
they have idled the texas plant due to poor sales, but will re-start it when they get rid of excess inventory.
i just prefer doing business with a company that is  american.
what about dodge copying toyota`s 5.7  liter with vvt?
right off the top, you are always going to have the “remember pearl  harbor” factor..
and to the guy who says his tundra is faster then any other truck i say this, trucks are geared lower to be able to haul larger loads with smaller engines, (my dakota will accelerate the exact same with an air commpresser and tool box in the bed as it will empty, even though that acceleration is not that great)
i just want to agree with the guy on the previous page, the one who  said that the toyotas just cant stand up to the day to day hauling and work  that a truck needs to.
other then the truck being powerful and quick, the chassis/fit and finish/quality aren't on par with other trucks.
the pickup market in general is not good due to gas prices.
post reply new user | posts: 1 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/29/08 06:00 pm
ford/gm/dodge have no where near as much problems as  the truck.
the titan and tundra are both built here...
why do people just blow that out of proportion!!!
i also owned a t-100 way back in  the day before the chevy.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm, ford, dodge.
we live in a global village.
listen to yourself... you must be one of the many that.deny anything that makes them feel threatened..
most in my town who the truck have had their tail-gate fall off.
doubt i will.. bottom line is: there is a lot of people who do not like the tundra,  most of them don`t have a leg to stand on because they have never owned one or  drove one for 200,000 trouble free miles.
better to go to the mall in?
never had a problem with any of them, and i have never had a problem with any of my trucks.
they used to build tundras in indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
so where is the tundra built then?
my  mileage in all of my trucks has ranged from 16 mpg to 20 mpg, depending on what  i was doing on any given tank.
i only own a little 1998 v-6 dakota, but with it ive hauled more pounds then 90% of toyota tundra owners ever will.
materialman: they used to build tundras in indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
in fact, have you ever tried loading a four-wheeler in the  bed?
if you go over bumps, you can watch the bed flex (which is probably the reason for the recall on the tail-lights since they were cracking).
this is our country, these are our trucks.
all three were great trucks, honestly.
as far as owning/driving foreign vehicles... my wife is a toyota lover.
that`s the maintenance record so far, besides oil changes, 2 sets of spark plugs, numerous trans services (every 25,000), 4 sets of shocks, 1 set of sway bar links and poly bushings up front, 3 sets of rotors & pads, the drums & shoes are original.
and to the guy who says his tundra is faster then any other  truck i say this, trucks are geared lower to be able to haul larger loads  with smaller engines, (my dakota will accelerate the exact same with an air  commpresser and tool box in the bed as it will empty, even though that  acceleration is not that great)
so far it too has done all that has been asked of it.
thats why we export jobs , u think your american corporations give a hoot that your a poor american begging that they give u a job...
as far as owning/driving foreign  vehicles...
i want you to understand i do not think a toyota is a bad vehicle.
honestly i think that for light duty any of the trucks in that class will not  out right fail in their role.
i have not tried a new silverado, or a new dodge.
then you have the  “real” americans that just have to “buy american”  because buying an american car is good for america..
(plus benches are great for the little lady when she wants to get closer to me on a long drive home)
when i bought my  chevy i had not been impressed with the dodge (did test drive one) but i hear  the previous generation (to the current coming out) was quite good.
all of her cars have been toyotas... and she drives them to the ground.
post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/26/08 07:36 am there are things that you all didn't take in consideration.
get  educated son..
because it has potential and is quite a success.
the 5.7 is a much efficient and better designed engine with tech , compared to the domestics which use ohv designs..
here i am now, less than 6  months away from 200,000 miles and i can see yet another reason why so many  people just hate the tundra`s  friggin`guts!
so americans are paid to build them.
don't run that bs on me son, i have been working trucks hard on a pipeline right of way for 30 years.
where as all full-size trucks  are now on a fully boxed frame, the toyota still runs on a c-channel setup.
where its to their advantage, u just cant stand
(plus benches are great for the little lady when she wants  to get closer to me on a long drive home)
here i am now, less than 6 months away from 200,000 miles and i can see yet another reason why so many people just hate the tundra`s friggin`guts!
u talk like the usa can live like a island..
starting with her first car, a tercel, then a rav 4, now an avalon.
gm announced today they are building a new engine plant in flint michigan.
stories like mine… they wish they could get 180,000 miles out of a water pump, a front wheel bearing, alternator, transmission, or a rear end.
i drive a 2000 tundra sr5  4x2 v-8 with 189,000 miles on the clock.
this is  our country, these are our trucks, gm,ford,dodge.
myself, i will do business with companies that are american and keep the money i spend at home.
its not that toyota would  knowingly put in a weak camshaft in..same with other things..
new user | posts: 3 | joined: 12/07  posted: 09/25/08 08:53 pm i buy a truck for utility.
if you go over bumps, you can watch the bed flex (which is probably the  reason for the recall on the tail-lights since they were cracking).
had them put on @ 184,000 miles.
why  do people just blow that out of proportion!!!
my f-150 has a good ride, decent power (5.4), handles well despite feeling like a tank.
toyota copied ford with the outboard shock absorbers, blah blah.
but when u say ur tundra is so fast, its  because they put a higher geared transmission in it and it has speed yes, but  it needs that larger engine to produce the same power as the smaller engined  equivalents, therefore more gas, and an overworked engine.
yea i just want to agree with the guy on the previous page, the one who said that the toyotas just cant stand up to the day to day hauling and work that a truck needs to.
the dealer said the tundra crew cab doesn't come with a bench in the front.
i told the dealer i will take the boat, but i want a mercury motor on it.
a yamaha is a good engine, but so is a mercury and they are an american company.
u  talk like the  usa can live like a island.. post reply prev page |  1 |  2 |  3  |  4 |  5 |  next page   | last print  email  share  social web facebook  stumbleupon
shame on you.. get educated son..
so i installed firestone ride rite  airbags in the back before the truck was 2 years old.
i told the dealer i will take the boat, but i want a mercury motor on  it.
i just prefer doing business with a company that is american.
a yamaha is a good engine, but so is a mercury and they are an american  company.
they should have bought a  tundra.
all of her cars have been  toyotas... and she drives them to the ground.
i just had the 3rd timing belt put in, along with a new water pump.
maybe they don`t have a leg to stand  on because they lost it in pearl harbor, either way, i`m going to run my tundra  into the ground.
i found a deal in performance products on a set of h&r progressive springs and 4 bilstein 5100 shock absorbers.. had them put on @ 184,000 miles.
i don't know more power, more torque,and can tow more.
post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/30/08 07:22 pm listen to  yourself... you must be one of the many that.deny anything  that makes them feel threatened..
stories like mine…  they wish they could get 180,000 miles out of a water pump, a front wheel  bearing, alternator, transmission, or a rear end.
toyota actually pays the american worker, instead of using cheap labor.
but when u say ur tundra is so fast, its because they put a higher geared transmission in it and it has speed yes, but it needs that larger engine to produce the same power as the smaller engined equivalents, therefore more gas, and an overworked engine.
how about the fact that the domestics are now copying toyota and honda with vvt?
they  build f series trucks in louisville, ky. norfork, va dearborn, mi, kansas city,  mo. and mexico gm trucks are built in flint, mi.
someone benefiting...
i believe we are in debt as a nation about 9 1/2 trillion dollars right now, most of it owed to japan and china, so keep sending them money and hurting american companies if it makes you feel good.
right off the top, you are always going to have the “remember pearl harbor” factor..
can you believe those idiots at toyota!?
fort wayne in, pontiac, mi, canada and mexico dodge builds pickups in fenton mo,warren mi and mexico.
my personal preference of the three is the ford simply because it really is built to take a beating, not to drag race.
my bed  is all dented,bent, and mis shapen
as far as i`m concerned, i would love a pearl harbor edition tundra, bullet holes n` all.
to many americans, that makes a  difference, to some it doesn't, they feel good about giving their money to a  foreign company.
for the camshaft that was a supplier issue...
many a time i had the  bed full and and had to stick stuff in the back with the seats up.
buy one, help  america.
i  found a deal in performance products on a set of h&r progressive springs  and 4 bilstein 5100 shock absorbers..
never had a problem with any  of them, and i have never had a problem with any of my trucks.
then you have the “real” americans that just have to “buy american” because buying an american car is good for america..
my bed is all dented,bent, and mis shapen
it just makes no sence to have a truck with so mush power and not use half of  it.
my ford was built in kansas.
it did not   extend to all trucks only a handful..out of hundreds and thousands..
i drive a 2000 tundra sr5 4x2 v-8 with 189,000 miles on the clock.
post reply new  user | posts: 15 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/30/08 10:06 am there is a lot of hate for the tundra, and there are a few reasons why..
to many americans, that makes a difference, to some it doesn't, they feel good about giving their money to a foreign company.
how about the fact that the domestics are now copying toyota and honda with  vvt?
the pickup market in  general is not good due to gas prices.
and when i send it off to scrap, i`ll be right back at the toyota dealer buying another tundra.
the titan had an engine/transmission combination that put a lot of power to the pavement, and while the ride was a bit harsh it, again, did what was expected of it.
why put in a new trans when you don`t need it?
my last bass boat was rigged on the showroom floor with a yamaha motor.
im an  american truck buyer, not because i am "loyal to the american  bussiness" but becasue they make a product that will last for the long  haul, not some vanity truck, that "rides nice" and "looks pretty  on the inside" thats girl talk post reply new user | posts: 47 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/30/08 08:04 am american trucks can stand up to any truck built anywhere.
im an american truck buyer, not because i am "loyal to the american bussiness" but becasue they make a product that will last for the long haul, not some vanity truck, that "rides nice" and "looks pretty on the inside" thats girl talk american trucks can stand up to any truck built anywhere.
where as all full-size trucks are now on a fully boxed frame, the toyota still runs on a c-channel setup.
is it any different in  the human world.remember  only with its redesign  was it ever a  contender to challenge the domestics.
what do you expect ,in fact  the  sheer negetivity is really a sign of  nervousness in some circles of its  potential.
i had no complaints with any of them.
a  they  go where its to their advantage, u just   cant  stand  someone  benefiting...
in the past 6 years i have owned a chevy k1500 (silverado, sorry), a nissan titan and now a 2008 ford f-150.
they build f series trucks in louisville, ky. norfork, va dearborn, mi, kansas city, mo. and mexico gm trucks are built in flint, mi.
post reply new user | posts: 47 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/26/08 12:01 pm
what about dodge copying toyota`s 5.7 liter with vvt?
worry about  consequences later.
in fact, have you ever tried loading a four-wheeler in the bed?
maybe they don`t have a leg to stand on because they lost it in pearl harbor, either way, i`m going to run my tundra into the ground.
i want you to understand i do not think  a toyota is a bad vehicle.
thats why  u live in a world of  credit...
thats why u live in a world of credit...
(the reason for only od & tq converter is my trans guy said the other 3 gears were “like new”).
anyway, i just think that none of the trucks are junk and will all serve their purpose.
u  guys   have no idea..
my f-150 has a good ride, decent power  (5.4), handles well despite feeling like a tank.
the interior in my opinion is the ugliest thing out there, and the quality of the truck is just plain bad.
gm announced today they are building a new engine plant in  flint michigan.
to the company and the workers..
from the factory, the suspension was a little lacking i thought..
falling asleep with all this ignorance...
dodge makes a 5.7 liter hemi, toyota makes a 5.7 liter that  outperforms it and gets better gas mileage..
the chevy was a great all around truck, did what it was asked altho' the payload capacity was not all that great.
i  find the styling inside and out to be just plan ugly.
but i have not had any serious crippling  problems yet.
(the  reason for only od & tq converter is my trans guy said the other 3 gears  were “like new”).
now i would admit,  the older tundras (previous generation) are well built all round but the new  tundras are just plain terrible compared to the older ones, not to mention
the 5.7 is a much efficient and better designed engine with tech  ,  compared to   the domestics which use ohv designs.. post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08   posted: 09/30/08 07:44 pm materialman: they used to build tundras in  indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
its not that toyota would knowingly put in a weak camshaft in..same with other things..
the same thing is happenening at gm,ford,and chrysler.
toyota copied dodge, blah blah..
it`s not good for the  skilled american craftsman that build it.
u live in a world of look good....
just the people that needed the money right?
so the  third passenger sits up in the middle.
suspension problems cured..
they have to copy everybody else!
when i bought my chevy i had not been impressed with the dodge (did test drive one) but i hear the previous generation (to the current coming out) was quite good.
worry about consequences later.
starting with her first  car, a tercel, then a rav 4, now an avalon.
it just makes no sence to have a truck with so mush power and not use half of it.
they will never build them in indiana again, they are taking out the line due to poor sales.
the interior in my opinion is the ugliest thing out there, and the quality  of the truck is just plain bad.
the chevy was a great all  around truck, did what it was asked altho' the payload capacity was not all  that great.
anyway, i just think that none of the trucks are junk and will all serve their  purpose.
so far it too has done  all that has been asked of it.
honestly i think that for light duty any of the trucks in that class will not out right fail in their role.
u live in a cave post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08   posted: 09/30/08 07:35 pm for the camshaft that  was a  supplier issue...
that matters , those issues have been resolved...
you don`t hear about that much..
my personal preference of the three is  the ford simply because it really is built to take a beating, not to drag race.
better like the fact that they build toyotas in the usa unlike the big 3 who build their trucks in mexico and canada.
thats why we export jobs , u think your  american corporations  give a hoot that your a poor american begging that they give u a job...
its just a great truck.
many a time i had the bed full and and had to stick stuff in the back with the seats up.
fort wayne in, pontiac, mi,  canada and mexico dodge builds pickups in fenton mo,warren mi and mexico.
there are things that you all didn't take in consideration.
thats why you bought your  dodge that was made by skilled mexican workers.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm,ford,dodge.
now i would admit, the older tundras (previous generation) are well built all round but the new tundras are just plain terrible compared to the older ones, not to mention i find the styling inside and out to be just plan ugly.
u guys have no idea..
my wife is a toyota lover.
post  reply new user | posts: 9 | joined: 09/08  posted:  09/30/08 10:22 am in the past 6 years i have owned a chevy k1500 (silverado, sorry), a  nissan titan and now a 2008 ford f-150.
but what gets me is the face that i  need a bigger truck from the loads i carry but this little thing handles it  just fine, then i see some *** in a big bad toyota tundra with a bed that he  polishes every week (whoever polished their bed should throw thier truck away).
a center console in a truck is a complete waste of space.
i have a 2008 tundra and it says texas on the dore stamp.
toyota trucks are "better", better how?
camshaft failures in the toyota???
dodge makes a 5.7 liter hemi, toyota makes a 5.7 liter that outperforms it and gets better gas mileage..
other  then the truck being powerful and quick, the chassis/fit and finish/quality  aren't on par with other trucks.
what do you expect ,in fact the sheer negetivity is really a sign of nervousness in some circles of its potential.
besides the timing belt and water pump, the only other things that have needed to be fixed since my father bought it in `99 are the starter @145,000 and overdrive & torque converter @ 138,000.
is it any different in the human world.remember only with its redesign was it ever a contender to challenge the domestics.
it is how toyota responded..
that`s the maintenance record so far, besides oil changes, 2 sets of  spark plugs, numerous trans services (every 25,000), 4 sets of shocks, 1 set of  sway bar links and poly bushings up front, 3 sets of rotors & pads, the  drums & shoes are original.
from the factory, the  suspension was a little lacking i thought..