"ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers -- customers we know very well." takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, said: "in 1997, we launched the first-generation prius, the world's first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
fill out a pr newswire membership form or contact us at (888) 776-0942.
ford and toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could have accomplished alone.
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford -- and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology."
for years, both ford and toyota have been working independently on similar  new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at delivering higher fuel economy in  light trucks and suvs.
with about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the company's automotive brands include ford andlincoln.
source ford motor company
"by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the  very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel  economy," said ford president and ceoalan mulally.
it has60 manufacturing companies around the globe and employs approximately 320,000 people.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually integrate the system into their own vehicles.
for more information,  please visitwww.toyota-global.com.
the two now have committed  to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and  suvs.
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers' experience with their vehicles."
request more information about pr newswire products and services or call us at (888) 776-0942.my news visit pr newswire for journalists for releases, photos, profnet experts, and customized feeds just for media.
when the two companies began discussing this potential  collaboration, they discovered how quickly they were able to find common ground.
under the mou agreement, the two companies will bring the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and knowledge to a new co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
register for investor uprising, the people's investment site, for a free weekly newsletter, information, education and premium research including our latest iu confidential report - " all the glitters: the ultimate gold report".
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the  product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next  year.
" this rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new architecture to deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while providing greater fuel economy.
the company provides financial  services through ford motor credit company.
ford and  toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid  technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could  have accomplished alone.
"ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,"  kuzak said.
uchiyamada added: "toyota has also invested heavily in telematics in various countries around the world, with services like the g-book and g-link.
with about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the company's  automotive brands include ford andlincoln.
the telematics  collaboration relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will  continue to separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
each company also will determine the  calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective light  pickups and suvs.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common  technology and components, ford and toyota will individually integrate the  system into their own vehicles.
copyright © 2012 pr newswire association llc.
for more information regarding ford's products, please visitwww.ford.com.
"by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy," said ford president and ceoalan mulally.
the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement  each company's existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more  internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
learn to navigate the world's financial system and profit from leading companies.
dynamic site platformpowered by limelight networks.
the two now have committed to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and suvs.
dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 /prnewswire/ -- ford motor company (nyse: f) and toyota motor corporation -- the world's two leading manufacturers of hybrid vehicles -- today announced they will equally collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for light truck and suv customers.
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
the telematics collaboration relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will continue to separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
in addition, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation telematics systems.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services in the future.
source ford motor companyback to top related links http://www.ford.com next in automotive news browse our custom packages or build your own to meet your unique communications needs.
when the two companies began discussing this potential collaboration, they discovered how quickly they were able to find common ground.
the company provides financial services through ford motor credit company.
"we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and  myfordtouch.
both companies have been working independently on their own future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
" about ford motor company ford motor company, a global automotive industry leader based in dearborn, mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.
for more information, please visitwww.toyota-global.com.
not only is this  tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also  become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s. by building  a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to  continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their  expectations.
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of  greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without  compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
see more news releases in: automotive, transportation, trucking &  railroad, alternative energies, joint ventures ford, toyota to collaborate on developing new hybrid system for light  trucks, suvs; future telematics standards my  news for investors atleast one of the check box should be selected you are following news about follow the latest news about f dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 /prnewswire/ -- ford and toyota are collaborating as equal partners to accelerate consumer  availability of a new advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs new co-developed hybrid system ready for use later this decade on ford and  toyota rear-wheel-drive light trucks and suvs, delivering greater fuel  efficiency while still providing customers the capability they want and need ford and toyota also will collaborate on development of next-generation  standards for in-car telematics and internet-based services ford motor company (nyse:  f) and toyota motor corporation -- the world's  two leading manufacturers of hybrid vehicles -- today announced they will  equally collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for  light truck and suv customers.
specifically, ford and toyota will: for years, both ford and toyota have been working independently on similar new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at delivering higher fuel economy in light trucks and suvs.
"this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers," saidderrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development.
"we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and myfordtouch.
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next year.
uchiyamada added: "toyota has also invested heavily in telematics in  various countries around the world, with services like the g-book and g-link.
since then, we have sold  about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
for more information regarding  ford's products, please visitwww.ford.com.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
" this rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new  architecture to deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while  providing greater fuel economy.
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our  customers' experience with their vehicles."
in addition, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the  in-car experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and  technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car  experience for next-generation telematics systems.
"this is the kind  of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global challenges  of energy independence and environmental sustainability." toyota president akio toyoda added: "toyota is extremely proud to join  ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
we expect to create exciting technologies  that benefit society with ford -- and we can do so through the experience the  two companies have in hybrid technology."
"this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders  in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more  quickly and affordably for our customers," saidderrick kuzak, ford group  vice president, global product development.
by building a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.
view and download archived video content distributed by multivu onthe digital center.
"ford achieved a breakthrough  with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of  truck and suv buyers -- customers we know very well." takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research &  development, said: "in 1997, we launched the first-generation prius, the  world's first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
"ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics," kuzak said.
both companies have been working independently on their own  future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
under the mou agreement, the two companies will bring the best of their  independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and knowledge to a new  co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in rear-wheel-drive light trucks  arriving later this decade.
the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement each company's existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s.
about toyota corporation toyota motor corporation -- which gave the world the first-ever  mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid vehicle in 1997 -- produces a full range of vehicles, from luxury cars to trucks and  minivehicles, together with subsidiaries daihatsu motor co., ltd. and hino  motors, ltd.  it has60 manufacturing companies around the  globe and employs approximately 320,000 people.
each company also will determine the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective light pickups and suvs.
specifically, ford and toyota will: jointly develop as equal partners a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and  component technology for light trucks and suvs independently integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles  separately
by  sharing our know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better  telematics services in the future.
" about ford motor company ford motor company, a global automotive industry leader based in  dearborn, mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.
in the u.s., we have just introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
"this is the kind of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and environmental sustainability." toyota president akio toyoda added: "toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
about toyota corporation toyota motor corporation -- which gave the world the first-ever mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid vehicle in 1997 -- produces a full range of vehicles, from luxury cars to trucks and minivehicles, together with subsidiaries daihatsu motor co., ltd. and hino motors, ltd.