power is sent to the front or all wheels via a revised six-speed automatic.
they both offer three rows of seats for seven or eight passengers with a long list of optional niceties such as leather seating surfaces, heated and ventilated front seats, a rear dvd entertainment system, and an infotainment system that integrates smartphones.
i’ll take the saturn outlook..
but if i had no choice, the acadia.
truth is, the lamda triplets are getting a little old now, i have a hard time getting excited about the same basic shapes.
the base model traverse rides on 17-inch steelies, while the acadia  comes standard with 18-inch alloys.
the chevy looks a lot like some car in the front, but i can’t put my finger on it, anyone care to help?
the acadia has this truck grille slapped on a car chassis.
i think we have a hint at the look of the next generation of chevy/gmc full size trucks.
yeah, i think the interiors and exteriors are somewhat nice, but i couldn’t help but think the same thing.
email (required, but never shared) web 2012 chevrolet traverse suggested price $29,510 - $40,885
although that’s just a facade since this is a smaller “crossover” type vehicle it still looks great, and manly.
they would have been better off giving them their own interior personalities.
with that said, do you care about the gmc’s extra stuff enough to pick it over the 2013 chevy traverse?
the chevy traverse is also a bit heavier, based on gm’s spec sheets, with a curb weight of 4713 and 4956 pounds (front- and all-wheel-drive models, respectively), compared to the acadia’s 4646 and 4840 pounds.
ok no of those 2 i’d go with the gmc in a cyber grey metalic maybe the chevy.
not that anything is wrong with that.
those who prefer a more solid and  boxy look will prefer the gmc and its bold front fascia.
but gotta go with the gmc though, i am not crazy about the softer shaped traverse and does anybody else think the traverse’s tail lights look similar to the new infiniti jx’s headlights?
still waiting to see how the enclave comes out!
the traverse looks really good it looks better than the acadia and almost as good as the durango.
both get the same 3.6-liter, direct-injection v-6 engine rated at 288 hp and 270 lb-ft of torque (or 281 hp, 266 lb-ft with single exhaust on the chevy).
however, i would still wait to see how the enclave turns out.
both get the same 3.6-liter, direct-injection v-6  engine rated at 288 hp and 270 lb-ft of torque (or 281 hp, 266 lb-ft with  single exhaust on the chevy).
if i had to choose between these two, id pick the traverse.
just pointing that out to those who say they’re the exact same car.
gmc is working both sides of the street with the same platform.
the acadia looks like a confused whale with a gaping mouth.
pricing for the updated models hasn’t been released, but the current acadia should cost a few grand more than the traverse, depending on trim and drivetrain.
the traverse is larger inside, although not by much, which would explain why it is also heavier.
tough choice, since they’re both very sharp cars.
its undeniably more masculine looking and has a nicer interior as well as additional features.
written by: erick ayapana [g+]  on march 28  2012 4:00 pm with a new and improved 2013 chevy traverse and 2013 gmc  acadia on the horizon, families will, without a doubt, cross-shop the two  platform mates.
i can’t help think saturn when i look at the traverse.
the acadia also gets standard led daytime running lamps not on the chevy.
it looks worse to me, even the acadia looks a little overdone.
it’s a win either way.
i’ll take an acadia.
yeah, that’s it, thanks.
does anyone else think that the shape of the split grill kind of resembles the ats?
the denali treatment also carries through inside with  aluminum accents and exclusive cocoa dune-colored leather seats, not available  on the traverse.
the traverse is true….. bd i absolutely love the new traverse.
cam’t wait to see the enclave.
chevy fanboys offended in 3… 2… 1… and come to think of it, the traverse’s tail lights look like those of the tru 140s concept from the detroit auto show.
i would take the acadia, it looks much more masculine than the traverse.
first the similarities.
finally, twofeatures not  available of the outgoing chevy traverse is the optionaltechnology package,  which includes hid lights and a head-up display.
the epa rates the acadia passenger volume at 154 cubic feet, which is four more than the traverse.
the acadia shouldnt exist; instead we should get a version of the new trailblazer, badged as a gmc.
i guess that cocoa dune leather, different hvac vents, different backlighting of guages, and some exterior differientiation is worth about $3000 to the beancounters at gm.
with that said, do you care about the gmc’s extra stuff enough to  pick it over the 2013 chevy traverse?
the acadia is officially rated to tow up to 5000 pounds, but the traverse can handle 200 more pounds, gm specs show.
the acadia looks like a cheap refresh to me, it lost the sophistication that made me call it the poor man’s american range rover (in a good way) and it just looks too much like the terrain and the gmc xb/cube concept they had out.
i already own a cr-v. leave a reply cancel name (required)
still i figure with time and seeing them in person they’ll both grow on me.
i’ve been thinking about that too.
the traverse isn’t ugly by any means but it seems to be less….
both are great improvements over the current models (which weren’t ugly to begin with.)
how about the 2012 acadia?
assuming the price gap will carry over for 2013, here is  what your extra hard-earned money will get, should you opt for the acadia over  the traverse.
i’d buy an explorer, but i think the acadia looks way better than the traverse.
i like the back of the traverse more, but i’d have to go with the acadia.
finally, twofeatures not available of the outgoing chevy traverse is the optionaltechnology package, which includes hid lights and a head-up display.
gmc acadia denali marks one-millionth gm lambda crossover front-center airbag debuting on 2013 buick enclave, chevrolet traverse, gmc acadia bowtie teaser: 2014 chevrolet impala, 2013 chevrolet traverse to debut in new york refreshing or revolting: 2013 gmc acadia spied: camouflaged buick enclave and gmc acadia gm’s lambda crossovers deemed top safety picks by iihs 50 comments neither the traverse nor the acadia holds a candle to the ford flex.
definitely better than any toyota, but dodge and ford are still ahead here.
that has been my favorite of the lambda sisters.
wow all the hype for this?
interesting for a refresh and not an overhaul.
to answer the question, i will gladly choose an acadia over a traverse.
of the two i’d say the 2013 traverse is better looking, but i was really starting to like the split grille as the corporate face of chevy and it kind of bugs me that it’s gone.
passengers are equally as safe in either crossover, thanks to a new center airbag, a rearview backup camera, and standard curtain airbags.
wide open throttle wot would you pick: 2013 chevy traverse or 2013 gmc acadia?
i guess to answer the question i’d take the gmc… i don’t really see the hype over the traverse.
i would go with the gmc acadia any day compared to a car that looks even remotley like a honda product.
for those who don’t know, the traverse is actually 5 inches longer than the acadia.
i think it looks stunning.
its the exact same car same interior and about 3k difference in price
i’d go with a durango.
let’s just hope they don’t make the enclave a triplet in this same fashion.
the chevy traverse is also a bit heavier, based on gm’s spec sheets,  with a curb weight of 4713 and 4956 pounds (front- and all-wheel-drive models,  respectively), compared to the acadia’s 4646 and 4840 pounds.
didn’t toyota do this with the camry and got flamed for it?
not an attractive one… i really like the look of the new traverse, either way they are better than their, ford, dodge and toyota counterparts.
the traverse is bigger, gets better mpg and is more powerful than the rest, not to mention it comes with a better warranty.
thats why there is a noticeable gap between the 2nd and 3rd rows when folded compared to the acadia.
not even that, they’re both hideous.
so if you really don’t like the chevy’s exterior than i guess you could waste the 3k
i look it tough looks.
assuming the price gap will carry over for 2013, here is what your extra hard-earned money will get, should you opt for the acadia over the traverse.
i wasn’t expecting the refresh to look nearly this good.
both of those are terrible crossovers.
pricing for the updated models hasn’t been released, but  the current acadia should cost a few grand more than the traverse, depending on  trim and drivetrain.
i will add that i cannot wait to see the enclave in the next week or so.
the choice is between the buick enclave and the traverse; the acadia is to chevy what mercury was to ford.
acadia is for guys, chevy for women.
they both should have no problems regaining some lost sales to the explorer and durango now.
i find it interesting that even with all the added features they actually got about 200-300 pounds lighter!
written by: erick ayapana [g+] on march 28 2012 4:00 pm with a new and improved 2013 chevy traverse and 2013 gmc acadia on the horizon, families will, without a doubt, cross-shop the two platform mates.
i think the chevy’s front looks just a little like the honda crv.
option c- spend 8 grand more and get a bmw x3 or downsize a little more and get a well optioned tiguan for close to the same price.
power is sent to the front or all wheels via a  revised six-speed automatic.
they are both utterly outclassed… the acadia for sure, it looks like it burns the blood of virgins and expels cigar smoke from the exhaust.
i like the new acadia, though i prefer the old traverse either way they both need a little power boost of about 20hp acadia.
and y hope they use the same grill for the new pickup… well, love the two tone and colors of the pictured traverse interior.
what sets the two apart.
i’m very impressed with both refreshes, but i’d go with the gmc for the slightly more upscale cabin.
i like the acadia design overall better, but i really like the sharp new front end of the traverse, even though they oddly abandoned the signature chevy grille.
neither i’d probably pick a ford explorer
the epa rates the acadia passenger volume at 154  cubic feet, which is four more than the traverse.
those who prefer a more solid and boxy look will prefer the gmc and its bold front fascia.
categories: auto news, chevrolet, gmc related motor trend articles gmc acadia denali marks one-millionth gm lambda crossover front-center airbag debuting on 2013 buick enclave, chevrolet traverse, gmc  acadia bowtie teaser: 2014 chevrolet impala, 2013 chevrolet traverse to debut in  new york refreshing or revolting: 2013 gmc acadia spied: camouflaged buick enclave and gmc acadia gm’s lambda crossovers deemed top safety picks by iihs 2011 chrysler 200 convertible alternatives to big family cars five most expensive repairs
the acadia  is officially rated to tow up to 5000 pounds, but the traverse can handle 200  more pounds, gm specs show.
both look very ugly, so neither.
the traverse looks like it’s already outdated.
the denali treatment also carries through inside with aluminum accents and exclusive cocoa dune-colored leather seats, not available on the traverse.
wot would you pick: 2013 chevy traverse or 2013 gmc acadia?
theacadia’s optional denali package ups the tough look with 20-inch rims, fender flares, and lower body cladding.
check out the ppv caprice.
acadia– love the upright grille and squared-off, tough looks.
the acadia also gets standard led daytime running lamps not on  the chevy.
the base model traverse rides on 17-inch steelies, while the acadia comes standard with 18-inch alloys.
they both offer three rows of seats for seven or  eight passengers with a long list of optional niceties such as leather seating  surfaces, heated and ventilated front seats, a rear dvd entertainment system,  and an infotainment system that integrates smartphones.
that isn’t what the questions asked.
my bad-decision meter is in the red right now.
passengers are equally  as safe in either crossover, thanks to a new center airbag, a rearview backup  camera, and standard curtain airbags.
in all seriousness, i’m going to need some time for these to grow on me.
theacadia’s  optional denali package ups the tough look with 20-inch rims, fender flares,  and lower body cladding.