why do people just blow that out of proportion!!!
(plus benches are great for the little lady when she wants  to get closer to me on a long drive home)
other  then the truck being powerful and quick, the chassis/fit and finish/quality  aren't on par with other trucks.
the front end was always  way too soft for my liking, especially with 500 lbs or more in the back..
post reply new user | posts: 1 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/29/08 06:00 pm
now i would admit,  the older tundras (previous generation) are well built all round but the new  tundras are just plain terrible compared to the older ones, not to mention
my bed is all dented,bent, and mis shapen
for the camshaft that was a supplier issue...
where did your money go?
post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/30/08 07:22 pm listen to  yourself... you must be one of the many that.deny anything  that makes them feel threatened..
it did not   extend to all trucks only a handful..out of hundreds and thousands..
suspension problems cured..
camshaft failures in the toyota???
maybe they don`t have a leg to stand  on because they lost it in pearl harbor, either way, i`m going to run my tundra  into the ground.
it adds nothing and takes away from functionality.
i just prefer doing business with a company that is american.
there are things that you all didn't take in consideration.
just the people that needed the money right?
u guys have no idea..
im an  american truck buyer, not because i am "loyal to the american  bussiness" but becasue they make a product that will last for the long  haul, not some vanity truck, that "rides nice" and "looks pretty  on the inside" thats girl talk post reply new user | posts: 47 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/30/08 08:04 am american trucks can stand up to any truck built anywhere.
have we all forgotten that competition is to obtain a better product and introduce variety.. do we see everything as a us vs them(ie foreign) issue... despite the fact that toyota employs many americans and treats them better desperate people say and do , the expected.. finally, before ford redesigned the f 150, it was notoriously a failure in crash tests, the old generation tundra might not have had the looks but it always scored better in crash tests.
the dealer said the tundra crew cab doesn't come with a bench in the front.
toyota copied dodge,  blah blah..
but when u say ur tundra is so fast, its  because they put a higher geared transmission in it and it has speed yes, but  it needs that larger engine to produce the same power as the smaller engined  equivalents, therefore more gas, and an overworked engine.
post  reply new user | posts: 9 | joined: 09/08  posted:  09/30/08 10:22 am in the past 6 years i have owned a chevy k1500 (silverado, sorry), a  nissan titan and now a 2008 ford f-150.
my  mileage in all of my trucks has ranged from 16 mpg to 20 mpg, depending on what  i was doing on any given tank.
where as all full-size trucks are now on a fully boxed frame, the toyota still runs on a c-channel setup.
u live in a cave post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08   posted: 09/30/08 07:35 pm for the camshaft that  was a  supplier issue...
so the third passenger sits up in the middle.
right off the top, you are always going to have the “remember pearl harbor” factor..
can you believe those idiots at toyota!?
the titan had an engine/transmission combination that put a lot of power to the pavement, and while the ride was a bit harsh it, again, did what was expected of it.
i want you to understand i do not think  a toyota is a bad vehicle.
my ford was built in kansas.
i buy a truck for utility.
what do you expect ,in fact the sheer negetivity is really a sign of nervousness in some circles of its potential.
the titan had an engine/transmission combination that put  a lot of power to the pavement, and while the ride was a bit harsh it, again,  did what was expected of it.
thats why  u live in a world of  credit...
as far as i`m concerned, i would love a pearl harbor  edition tundra, bullet holes n` all.
they will never build them in indiana again,  they are taking out the line due to poor sales.
so i installed firestone ride rite  airbags in the back before the truck was 2 years old.
had them put on @ 184,000 miles.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm, ford,  dodge.
you don`t hear about that much..
i also owned a t-100 way back in  the day before the chevy.
they used to build tundras in indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
keep sending your money to japan brother, they appreciate it.
buy one, help america.
doubt i will.. bottom line is: there is a lot of people who do not like the tundra, most of them don`t have a leg to stand on because they have never owned one or drove one for 200,000 trouble free miles.
but what gets me is the face that i  need a bigger truck from the loads i carry but this little thing handles it  just fine, then i see some *** in a big bad toyota tundra with a bed that he  polishes every week (whoever polished their bed should throw thier truck away).
here i am now, less than 6  months away from 200,000 miles and i can see yet another reason why so many  people just hate the tundra`s  friggin`guts!
what about dodge copying toyota`s 5.7 liter with vvt?
its not that toyota would knowingly put in a weak camshaft in..same with other things..
u talk like the usa can live like a island..
from the factory, the suspension was a little lacking i thought..
here i am now, less than 6 months away from 200,000 miles and i can see yet another reason why so many people just hate the tundra`s friggin`guts!
that matters , those issues have been resolved...
help  save us from the recession, don`t buy that toyota!
the pickup market in  general is not good due to gas prices.
it`s not good for the  skilled american craftsman that build it.
my wife is a toyota lover.
why  do people just blow that out of proportion!!!
to many americans, that makes a difference, to some it doesn't, they feel good about giving their money to a foreign company.
but when u say ur tundra is so fast, its because they put a higher geared transmission in it and it has speed yes, but it needs that larger engine to produce the same power as the smaller engined equivalents, therefore more gas, and an overworked engine.
starting with her first car, a tercel, then a rav 4, now an avalon.
where its to their advantage, u just cant stand
besides the timing belt and water pump, the only  other things that have needed to be fixed since my father bought it in `99 are  the starter @145,000 and overdrive & torque converter @ 138,000.
all of her cars have been toyotas... and she drives them to the ground.
doubt i will.. bottom line is: there is a lot of people who do not like the tundra,  most of them don`t have a leg to stand on because they have never owned one or  drove one for 200,000 trouble free miles.
i just had the 3rd timing belt put in, along with a new water pump.
anyway, i just think that none of the trucks are junk and will all serve their purpose.
dodge makes a 5.7 liter hemi, toyota makes a 5.7 liter that  outperforms it and gets better gas mileage..
they should have bought a tundra.
fort wayne in, pontiac, mi,  canada and mexico dodge builds pickups in fenton mo,warren mi and mexico.
the interior in my opinion is the ugliest thing out there, and the quality of the truck is just plain bad.
now i would admit, the older tundras (previous generation) are well built all round but the new tundras are just plain terrible compared to the older ones, not to mention i find the styling inside and out to be just plan ugly.
then it was built in texas.
what about dodge copying toyota`s 5.7  liter with vvt?
(the  reason for only od & tq converter is my trans guy said the other 3 gears  were “like new”).
a yamaha is a good engine, but so is a mercury and they are an american company.
post reply new user | posts: 47 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/26/08 12:01 pm
i only own a little 1998 v-6 dakota, but with it  ive hauled more pounds then 90% of toyota tundra owners ever will.
starting with her first  car, a tercel, then a rav 4, now an avalon.
i want you to understand i do not think a toyota is a bad vehicle.
we live in a global village.
is it any different in  the human world.remember  only with its redesign  was it ever a  contender to challenge the domestics.
my personal preference of the three is  the ford simply because it really is built to take a beating, not to drag race.
they  build f series trucks in louisville, ky. norfork, va dearborn, mi, kansas city,  mo. and mexico gm trucks are built in flint, mi.
i have not tried a new silverado, or a new dodge.
help save us from the recession, don`t buy that toyota!
better to go to the mall in?
the front end was always way too soft for my liking, especially with 500 lbs or more in the back..
this is our country, these are our trucks.
then you have the “real” americans that just have to “buy american” because buying an american car is good for america..
toyota trucks are "better", better how?
u  talk like the  usa can live like a island.. post reply prev page |  1 |  2 |  3  |  4 |  5 |  next page   | last print  email  share  social web facebook  stumbleupon
is it any different in the human world.remember only with its redesign was it ever a contender to challenge the domestics.
with no substance ...
falling asleep with all this ignorance...
a center console in a truck is a complete waste of space.
to the company and the workers..
i also owned a t-100 way back in the day before the chevy.
all three were great trucks, honestly.
thats why you bought your  dodge that was made by skilled mexican workers.
(the reason for only od & tq converter is my trans guy said the other 3 gears were “like new”).
u live in a world  of  look good....
i told the dealer i will take the boat, but i want a mercury motor on  it.
as far as i`m concerned, i would love a pearl harbor edition tundra, bullet holes n` all.
my bed  is all dented,bent, and mis shapen
most in my town who the truck have had their tail-gate fall off.
they have idled the texas plant due to poor sales, but will re-start it when they get rid of excess inventory.
it`s not good for the skilled american craftsman that build it.
so americans are paid to build them.
it is how toyota responded..
dodge makes a 5.7 liter hemi, toyota makes a 5.7 liter that outperforms it and gets better gas mileage..
i had no complaints with any of them.
they build f series trucks in louisville, ky. norfork, va dearborn, mi, kansas city, mo. and mexico gm trucks are built in flint, mi.
in fact, have you ever tried loading a four-wheeler in the bed?
materialman: they used to build tundras in indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
and when i send it off to scrap, i`ll be right back at the  toyota dealer buying another tundra.
then you have the  “real” americans that just have to “buy american”  because buying an american car is good for america..
post reply new  user | posts: 15 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/30/08 10:06 am there is a lot of hate for the tundra, and there are a few reasons why..
honestly i think that for light duty any of the trucks in that class will not  out right fail in their role.
i only own a little 1998 v-6 dakota, but with it ive hauled more pounds then 90% of toyota tundra owners ever will.
american trucks can stand up to any truck made anywhere.
buy one, help  america.
to many americans, that makes a  difference, to some it doesn't, they feel good about giving their money to a  foreign company.
fort wayne in, pontiac, mi, canada and mexico dodge builds pickups in fenton mo,warren mi and mexico.
toyota copied dodge, blah blah..
all of her cars have been  toyotas... and she drives them to the ground.
honestly i think that for light duty any of the trucks in that class will not out right fail in their role.
its just a great truck.
they should have bought a  tundra.
also toyota trucks have umm..
they have to copy everybody else!
toyota actually pays the american worker, instead of using cheap labor.
how about the fact that the domestics are now copying toyota and honda with vvt?
worry about consequences later.
to the  company and the workers..
u live in a world of look good....
other then the truck being powerful and quick, the chassis/fit and finish/quality aren't on par with other trucks.
yea i just want to agree with the guy on the previous page, the one who said that the toyotas just cant stand up to the day to day hauling and work that a truck needs to.
better like the fact that they build toyotas in the usa unlike the big 3 who build their trucks in mexico and canada.
i believe we are in debt as a nation about 9 1/2 trillion dollars right now, most of it owed to japan and china, so keep sending them money and hurting american companies if it makes you feel good.
i drive a 2000 tundra sr5 4x2 v-8 with 189,000 miles on the clock.
i drive a 2000 tundra sr5  4x2 v-8 with 189,000 miles on the clock.
there is a lot of hate for the tundra, and there are a few reasons why..
im an american truck buyer, not because i am "loyal to the american bussiness" but becasue they make a product that will last for the long haul, not some vanity truck, that "rides nice" and "looks pretty on the inside" thats girl talk american trucks can stand up to any truck built anywhere.
post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 08/08  posted: 09/26/08 07:36 am there are things that you all didn't take in consideration.
maybe they don`t have a leg to stand on because they lost it in pearl harbor, either way, i`m going to run my tundra into the ground.
myself, i will do business with companies that are american and keep the money i spend at home.
ford/gm/dodge have no where near as much problems as  the truck.
and to the guy who says his tundra is faster then any other  truck i say this, trucks are geared lower to be able to haul larger loads  with smaller engines, (my dakota will accelerate the exact same with an air  commpresser and tool box in the bed as it will empty, even though that  acceleration is not that great)
if you go over bumps, you can watch the bed flex (which is probably the reason for the recall on the tail-lights since they were cracking).
what do you expect ,in fact  the  sheer negetivity is really a sign of  nervousness in some circles of its  potential.
this is  our country, these are our trucks, gm,ford,dodge.
my personal preference of the three is the ford simply because it really is built to take a beating, not to drag race.
they have to copy  everybody else!
many a time i had the  bed full and and had to stick stuff in the back with the seats up.
and when i send it off to scrap, i`ll be right back at the toyota dealer buying another tundra.
thats why we export jobs , u think your  american corporations  give a hoot that your a poor american begging that they give u a job...
it just makes no sence to have a truck with so mush power and not use half of  it.
many a time i had the bed full and and had to stick stuff in the back with the seats up.
it  is  how toyota responded..
when i bought my chevy i had not been impressed with the dodge (did test drive one) but i hear the previous generation (to the current coming out) was quite good.
but i have not had any serious crippling  problems yet.
as far as owning/driving foreign vehicles... my wife is a toyota lover.
a  they  go where its to their advantage, u just   cant  stand  someone  benefiting...
i just want to agree with the guy on the previous page, the one who  said that the toyotas just cant stand up to the day to day hauling and work  that a truck needs to.
it just makes no sence to have a truck with so mush power and not use half of it.
don't run that bs on me son, i have been working trucks hard on a pipeline right of way for 30 years.
the interior in my opinion is the ugliest thing out there, and the quality  of the truck is just plain bad.
a yamaha is a good engine, but so is a mercury and they are an american  company.
right off the top, you are always going to have the “remember pearl  harbor” factor..
the dealer said the tundra crew cab doesn't  come with a bench in the front.
the 5.7 is a much efficient and better designed engine with tech  ,  compared to   the domestics which use ohv designs.. post reply new user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08   posted: 09/30/08 07:44 pm materialman: they used to build tundras in  indiana, not anymore, the texas tundra plant is shut down at this time.
as far as owning/driving foreign  vehicles...
never had a problem with any  of them, and i have never had a problem with any of my trucks.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm, ford, dodge.
i don't know more power, more torque,and can tow more.
it couldn't even support the weight.
the pickup market in general is not good due to gas prices.
but i have not had any serious crippling problems yet.
have we all forgotten  that  competition is  to obtain a better product and introduce variety.. do we see everything as a us   vs  them(ie foreign) issue... despite  the fact  that   toyota employs many americans and   treats them better desperate people say and do , the expected.. finally, before ford  redesigned the f 150,  it was notoriously a  failure in crash tests,  the  old generation tundra might not have had the looks but it always  scored better in crash tests.
ford/gm/dodge have no where near as much problems as the truck.
from the factory, the  suspension was a little lacking i thought..
the chevy was a great all around truck, did what it was asked altho' the payload capacity was not all that great.
its not that toyota would  knowingly put in a weak camshaft in..same with other things..
stories like mine… they wish they could get 180,000 miles out of a water pump, a front wheel bearing, alternator, transmission, or a rear end.
do i  wish they were all built here, yes, but the money spent on these trucks goes to  american companies, not a japanese company.
toyota copied ford with the outboard shock absorbers, blah blah.
my mileage in all of my trucks has ranged from 16 mpg to 20 mpg, depending on what i was doing on any given tank.
i  find the styling inside and out to be just plan ugly.
so where is the tundra built then?
my f-150 has a good ride, decent power  (5.4), handles well despite feeling like a tank.
the titan and tundra are both built here...
because it has potential and is quite a success.
gm announced today they are building a new engine plant in  flint michigan.
gm announced today they are building a new engine plant in flint michigan.
post reply new  user | posts: 4 | joined: 09/08  posted: 09/30/08 07:11 pm because it has potential and is quite a success.
if you go over bumps, you can watch the bed flex (which is probably the  reason for the recall on the tail-lights since they were cracking).
get  educated son..
someone benefiting...
so far it too has done all that has been asked of it.
but what gets me is the face that i need a bigger truck from the loads i carry but this little thing handles it just fine, then i see some *** in a big bad toyota tundra with a bed that he polishes every week (whoever polished their bed should throw thier truck away).
thats why you bought your dodge that was made by skilled mexican workers.
besides the timing belt and water pump, the only other things that have needed to be fixed since my father bought it in `99 are the starter @145,000 and overdrive & torque converter @ 138,000.
i  found a deal in performance products on a set of h&r progressive springs  and 4 bilstein 5100 shock absorbers..
an american company creating good american jobs!
u  guys   have no idea..
where as all full-size trucks  are now on a fully boxed frame, the toyota still runs on a c-channel setup.
in fact, have you ever tried loading a four-wheeler in the  bed?
so far it too has done  all that has been asked of it.
new user | posts: 3 | joined: 12/07  posted: 09/25/08 08:53 pm i buy a truck for utility.
my f-150 has a good ride, decent power (5.4), handles well despite feeling like a tank.
in the past 6 years i have owned a chevy k1500 (silverado, sorry), a nissan titan and now a 2008 ford f-150.
and to the guy who says his tundra is faster then any other truck i say this, trucks are geared lower to be able to haul larger loads with smaller engines, (my dakota will accelerate the exact same with an air commpresser and tool box in the bed as it will empty, even though that acceleration is not that great)
why put in a new trans when you don`t need it?
when i bought my  chevy i had not been impressed with the dodge (did test drive one) but i hear  the previous generation (to the current coming out) was quite good.
so the  third passenger sits up in the middle.
how about the fact that the domestics are now copying toyota and honda with  vvt?
(plus benches are great for the little lady when she wants to get closer to me on a long drive home)
stories like mine…  they wish they could get 180,000 miles out of a water pump, a front wheel  bearing, alternator, transmission, or a rear end.
i told the dealer i will take the boat, but i want a mercury motor on it.
my last bass boat was rigged on the showroom floor with a yamaha motor.
anyway, i just think that none of the trucks are junk and will all serve their  purpose.
this is our country, these are our trucks, gm,ford,dodge.
never had a problem with any of them, and i have never had a problem with any of my trucks.
the same thing is happenening at gm,ford,and chrysler.
thats why u live in a world of credit...
that`s the maintenance record so far, besides oil changes, 2 sets of  spark plugs, numerous trans services (every 25,000), 4 sets of shocks, 1 set of  sway bar links and poly bushings up front, 3 sets of rotors & pads, the  drums & shoes are original.
i found a deal in performance products on a set of h&r progressive springs and 4 bilstein 5100 shock absorbers.. had them put on @ 184,000 miles.
i have a 2008 tundra and it says texas on the dore stamp.
the 5.7 is a much efficient and better designed engine with tech , compared to the domestics which use ohv designs..
a center console in a truck is a  complete waste of space.
shame on you.. get educated son..
i just had the 3rd timing belt put in,  along with a new water pump.
the chevy was a great all  around truck, did what it was asked altho' the payload capacity was not all  that great.
they will never build them in indiana again, they are taking out the line due to poor sales.
listen to yourself... you must be one of the many that.deny anything that makes them feel threatened..
it adds nothing and takes away from  functionality.
i just prefer doing business with a company that is  american.
they have idled the texas plant  due to poor sales, but will re-start it when they get rid of excess inventory.
thats why we export jobs , u think your american corporations give a hoot that your a poor american begging that they give u a job...
worry about  consequences later.
my last bass boat was rigged on the showroom floor with a yamaha  motor.
do i wish they were all built here, yes, but the money spent on these trucks goes to american companies, not a japanese company.
that`s the maintenance record so far, besides oil changes, 2 sets of spark plugs, numerous trans services (every 25,000), 4 sets of shocks, 1 set of sway bar links and poly bushings up front, 3 sets of rotors & pads, the drums & shoes are original.
it did not extend to all trucks only a handful..out of hundreds and thousands..
so i installed firestone ride rite airbags in the back before the truck was 2 years old.
haven`t heard much about that yet..