tacoma photo gallery
toyota tacoma x-runner - highlights - new on the 2007 tacoma x-runner dale wickell trucks guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches vehicle stability control nissan 350 z limited slip differential curtain airbags supercharger system horsepower v6 explore trucks must reads most popular - how to choose a pickup truck - f-series history - used truck checklist - pickup truck fuel economy - learn how to tow free trucks newsletter!
a part of the new york times company.
be sure to take  one out for a test drive to help you decide if the automaker got it right.
safety features the x-runner has safety features such as standard anti-lock brakes, and  optional side-curtain airbags and electronic vehicle stability control.
frame and chassis x-runner rides on an exclusive x-braced reinforced frame that provides  enhanced torsional rigidity.
an optional supercharger system is capable of providing output in the neighborhood of 300 horsepower.
an optional supercharger system is capable of providing output in the  neighborhood of 300 horsepower.
the manufacturer says it performed better than many sports cars, including the new nissan 350-z. the x-runner's four-door access-cab design incorporates full-vehicle-surround ground effects, a hood scoop and integrated fog lamps.
firmer and shorter springs are mounted at all four corners, while  specially tuned bilstein gas shocks are positioned out board of the frame rails  for increased stability.
- large-diameter stabilizer bars with firmer bushings are at both front and rear.
sign up - trucks - truck reviews & photos - pickup truck tlc - classic & custom trucks discuss in my forum 2005 toyota tacoma x-runner pickup truck part of new generation of tacoma trucks by dale wickell, about.com guide filed in: - all pickup trucks - > trucks, 2005 & older - > 2005
toyota says the x-runner goes from 0 to 60 in  seven seconds, with a 1+ second reduction if you have the optional supercharger  system.
powertrain details - four-liter, 245 horsepower v6 engine with 275 pounds of torque and a six-speed close-ratio manual transmission.
pickup trucks - > 2005 toyota trucks 2005 toyota tacoma x-runner introduction, february 2004 more images (3) toyota's 2005 tacoma x-runner pickup truck is part of the new generation of tacomas.
a limited-slip differential will be standard.
sign up - vin decoder - classic ford trucks - pictures of classic ford trucks - ford f-series trucks - truck modifications - how to choose a pickup truck
toyota's design-engineers set out to create a factory performance  truck—one that requires no post-production modifications.
by category - ford pickup trucks - chevy & gmc trucks - toyota trucks - ram pickup trucks - nissan trucks - all pickup trucks - hybrid pickup trucks - concept & custom pickups - vintage trucks - truck buying advice - take care of your truck - truck recalls & safety - truck accessories - truck pictures trucks - about.com - autos - trucks - all pickup trucks - trucks, 2005 & older - 2005
tacoma photo gallery suggested reading - photo gallery index - pickup truck body styles explained - suv reviews & specifications suggested reading related articles - top crew cab pickups - pickup trucks with good creature comforts - truck body style photo gallery - toyota tacoma x-runner rtr pickup truck - x-runner ready to race pickup tru... - toyota tacoma x-runner rtr pickup truck - x-runner ready to race pickup tru... - toyota tacoma highlights - a look at features on 2010 toyota tacoma pickup ... - 2008 toyota tacoma pricing - msrp for 2008 toyota tacoma pickup trucks - 2007
pickup trucks - 2005 toyota trucks - 2005
the newest tacoma is a separate, dedicated model with a more powerful engine and a specially lowered and tuned chassis.
- about.com - autos - trucks trucks search free trucks newsletter!
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
truck handling toyota says that, during testing, the x-runner's road-holding ability was  measured by an electronic accelerometer in excess of 0.9 g's of lateral  acceleration, which is better than other trucks on the market.
- firmer and shorter springs are mounted at all four corners, while specially tuned bilstein gas shocks are positioned out board of the frame rails for increased stability.
more about the 2005 tacoma.
suggested reading more about the 2005 tacoma lineup how to choose the best pickup truck 2005 tacoma photo gallery
the manufacturer  says it performed better than many sports cars, including the new nissan 350-z. the x-runner's four-door access-cab design incorporates  full-vehicle-surround ground effects, a hood scoop and integrated fog lamps.
truck handling toyota says that, during testing, the x-runner's road-holding ability was measured by an electronic accelerometer in excess of 0.9 g's of lateral acceleration, which is better than other trucks on the market.
the x-runner chassis sits one-full-inch lower than the standard tacoma  frame, and rests on 18-inch 45-series v-rated performance radials and alloy  wheels.
the newest tacoma is a separate, dedicated model with a  more powerful engine and a specially lowered and tuned chassis.
frame and chassis - x-runner rides on an exclusive x-braced reinforced frame that provides enhanced torsional rigidity.
- the x-runner chassis sits one-full-inch lower than the standard tacoma frame, and rests on 18-inch 45-series v-rated performance radials and alloy wheels.
2005 toyota tacoma x-runner introduction, february 2004 more images (3) toyota's 2005 tacoma x-runner pickup truck is part of the new  generation of tacomas.
be sure to take one out for a test drive to help you decide if the automaker got it right.
toyota tacoma x-runner pickup truck - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
powertrain details four-liter, 245 horsepower v6 engine with 275 pounds of torque and a  six-speed close-ratio manual transmission.
it  is offered in three colors, radiant red, black sand and speedway blue.
toyota's design-engineers set out to create a factory performance truckone that requires no post-production modifications.
safety features the x-runner has safety features such as standard anti-lock brakes, and optional side-curtain airbags and electronic vehicle stability control.
toyota says the x-runner goes from 0 to 60 in seven seconds, with a 1+ second reduction if you have the optional supercharger system.
large-diameter stabilizer bars with firmer bushings are at both front and  rear.
it is offered in three colors, radiant red, black sand and speedway blue.
suggested reading - more about the 2005 tacoma lineup - how to choose the best pickup truck - 2005