but we paid just under $30k before tax and license.
compared to toyota's minivan, the highlander hybrid break-even point  approaches the 3-year mark.
we'll stick with the limited  grade to stay close on equipment.
why this works this rational case for a hybrid crossover suv only pencils out because the 2011 highlander hybrid has been substantially improved over the last year in certain crucial areas.
which leads me to the cons... cons: the 2011 hihy is huge.
10/04/2010 ajt123 should tell the millions of peopl worldwide who buy toyota's that toyota is apparently beneath honda and nissan.
speed is all well and good, but the payoff in the cost equation comes from  increased fuel economy.
| september 23, 2010 | scott jacobs for edmunds 33 photos | see more photos in this gallery » road test 2011 toyota highlander hybrid full test start making sense
ok, the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid may not be for you.
it also lacks a v6 and awd found on the highlander hybrid, though many people don't need either or those.
it has been getting the reported 28 mpg as advertised in town.
as mentioned already, no other 3-row vehicle with a v6 comes close to the overall fuel economy.
the ipod and aux integration works really well.
that ideally can tow a small trailer?
news volvo hopes to tap 'linsanity' in china » news 2013 subaru brz in short supply » news 2012 dodge avenger se v6 priced from $22,345 » news mansory rethinks the cls63 amg » news bmw partners with stitcher for infotainment » news roding roadster revealed: 2012 geneva » news 2012 ford focus electric qualifies for » news 2012 buick regal recalled » features riding in the 2012 aston martin one-77 » news feds probe 2005-'06 ford taurus
it annoys me to no end - i love my 2006 hihy
the  highlander hybrid is primarily a front-drive machine; the rear wheels are  driven exclusively by another electric motor and there's no driveshaft  connected to the transmission.
after » news gumpert unleashes
the new rearmost seat is now split 50/50 down the middle, so  four can still ride with one-half of the second and third rows folded for those  long items.
sure, the good ones use a lot less fuel than their conventional gasoline counterparts, but they cost more to buy, too.
so thats a no until the coverage dramatically improves or the cost dramatically drops.
only 10.3 cubes are available behind the third row, but that jumps to 26.3 when one half is folded, as can now be done as of this year.
the best cuv out there for under $50k. we've had a pruis for the past six years, so we know what we're missing in terms of the toyota hybrid experience.
as expected, the regenerative braking system emits the same faint keening produced by every other toyota hybrid.
i doubt i'll shell out the $500 for a lifetime xm subscription.
as expected, the regenerative braking system emits the same faint keening  produced by every other toyota hybrid.
yes, we  know; the sheet metal is essentially unchanged — this is a midcycle  refresh, not an all-new generation.
the new rearmost seat is now split 50/50 down the middle, so four can still ride with one-half of the second and third rows folded for those long items.
two new apollo variants: » news touring superleggera unveils disco volante » news california mulls rules for self-driving » news 2013 ford f-series super duty platinum unveiled » news 2013 nascar charger unveiled in las vegas » media player 2011 toyota highlander hybrid picture grille and bumper changes distinguish the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid on the outside, but the engine that lies behind is the real story.
they did hit the front end of the hybrid with the ugly stick, but the rest of the van and interior look fine.
a limited grade like ours starts at $43,755.
the manufacturer provided edmunds this vehicle for the purposes of  evaluation.
bottom line:the highlander hybrid may just be the perfect choice for families that want a hybrid powertrain and three rows of seating but don't need or want a minivan.
why this works this rational case for a hybrid  crossover suv only pencils out because the 2011 highlander hybrid has been  substantially improved over the last year in certain crucial areas.
yeah, i wish it had a few of the fancy options, like a backup camera and bose sound system.
but since you're dithering between a crossover and a minivan, let's bring that awd sienna minivan back into the picture.
crossover cross-shoppers say you're shopping along the border between minivans and crossover suvs.
need the maximum possible cargo space?
if you're prepared to spend minivan money anyway, the 2011 toyota  highlander hybrid starts to make a kind of sense.
it makakio says: 04:22 pm, 09/29/2010 haven't done the hybrid, but just took a trip in a new '10 limited awd model up the ca coast.
but we know that many of you are wavering between minivans and crossover  suvs.
it comes standard with a third-row  seat.
conventional wisdom would pit this against its v6 gasoline equivalent, the 2011 highlander limited 4wd, which costs some $6,600 less.
the interior is flexible and comfortable, it finally has a  useful third row and interior controls don't get any more logical or easier to  use than these.
but this is still a decent  amount to work with.
i'm found the hihy to be somewhat undersized vs. competitive suvs like pilot, flex or acadia and maybe even the cx-9.
but minivans are anything but "mini" these days  — 200 inches long is the new norm — and only thetoyota sienna  offers all-wheel drive.
what's more, handy second- and third-row release levers are found  right there in the hatch area.
but this is still a decent amount to work with.
the key point here is that last year's 3.3-liter v6 has been replaced with a stouter 3.5-liter v6.
yes, we know; the sheet metal is essentially unchanged — this is a midcycle refresh, not an all-new generation.
the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid has a new 3.5-liter v6 engine and is rated at 28 mpg on the epa's combined scale.
i'm happy with the base model that had all the major features i wanted without stuff i didn't want, like moonroof, leather, power hatch, fake wood, auto climate, etc.
meanwhile, the non-hybrid 2011 highlander's non-atkinson 3.5-liter v6  still makes 270 hp.
we'll see come winter how it does.
but we know that many of you are wavering between minivans and crossover suvs.
have enough parking space for something 200 inches long?
i have yet to tally up the real world figures with a calculator but am pretty sure they aren't too far off.
because of the hybrid application, this isn't the same 3.5-liter v6 that "normal" highlanders have had for a few years.
it drives like a truck, has truck seats, and a truck interior.
johnswen says: 05:02 am, 10/08/2010 we bought a new base awd highlander last year with the 3.5l v6 engine.
i wish we had the hihy, but no way is it worth $15k more - or even $5k more.
the closest i found were the 4-cylinder, 2wd versions of smaller suvs like outlander, rav4 and sorrento that get 10-15% less at 24-25 mpg overall.
if i drop the requirement for seating down to 5 than a few more choices pop up (e.g. the subaru outback 2.5i - 24mpg low $30,000s) but even then it is only if i drop the requirement for awd that can i get fuel economy better than the hihy.
our  spreadsheets tell us that paybacks approaching 10 years are common.
as you might expect, more total power makes the 2011 toyota highlander  hybrid quicker.
cargo maximization with three rows all 2011  highlanders, hybrid or otherwise, now come standard with that third-row seat  you want.
it reclines, it slides back and forth, and the central "20" section is removable (and stowable onboard) to create a center aisle and separate buckets with fold-down armrests.
it has electrically operated 4wd.
it ljmiii says: 10:20 am, 11/15/2010
a limited grade like ours starts at  $43,755.
i think it's a reasonable price.
you'd take four-wheel drive if you could get it.
it charlesb says: 10:43 pm, 09/26/2010 you'd have to want to stay out of a minivan in the worst way to buy one of these.
amazing for a 7 passenger awd vehicle.
with all rear seats folded flat, maximum cargo space is 94 cubic feet, with  42.3 feet of that available behind the second row.
speed is all well and good, but the payoff in the cost equation comes from increased fuel economy.
the backup camera is all too useful.
the highlander  hybrid changes direction when we turn the wheel, but that's the only way to  know it's connected to anything because there's precious little sensory  feedback through the column.
marksrig says: 11:21 pm, 03/22/2011 i recently bought the 2011 highlander hybrid and have run 2 tanks of gas through it.
not interested in the hybrid concept?
making sense of things this 2011 toyota highlander  hybrid limited won over more fans than we expected during its short stay with  us.
if you're prepared to spend minivan money anyway, the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid starts to make a kind of sense.
i'll report back what i find.
i can understand his theory though, since it's beyond his comprehension.
there are lots of clever ideas in here.
spent four hours in it and aside from a few too many electrical assists and nannies (imo) this is a very nice, well-powered, able handling, comfortable suv at $34k out the door (that's a loaded limited,
at $40,780, this sienna starts out $2,975  less than the highlander hybrid and has a rated fuel economy of 18 mpg.
savings kick in after that, especially if gas  prices rise.
and just a lot of little things that just scream "1st year of new generation vehicle."
the manufacturer provided edmunds this vehicle for the purposes of evaluation.
you'd take four-wheel drive if  you could get it.
since the battery pack is small (this isn't a plug-in hybrid, after all), the amount of rear-drive assist is best imagined in tens of seconds, not tens of minutes.
but there are electric motors in play, and they boost peak power to 280 hp — 10 more than the 2010 highlander hybrid's net rating.
yes, bearsdkillz, they whacked this suv with an ugly stick inside and out.
since the battery pack is small (this isn't a  plug-in hybrid, after all), the amount of rear-drive assist is best imagined in  tens of seconds, not tens of minutes.
:most recent first posted advertisement speed read vehicle tested:2011 toyota highlander hybrid limited base price:$43,755 price as tested:$46,405 engine:3.5-liter v6 gearbox:electronically regulated planetary cvt power:231 hp @ 5,800 rpm (engine alone); 280 hp combined with electric motors 0-60 mph:7.4 seconds fuel mileage:28 mpg city/28 mpg highway/28 mpg combined what works (pros):more power and improved mpg; fold-flat third-row seat is now standard and includes a 50/50 split; excellent control layout; new dark carpet with light interior hides kid spills what needs work (cons):steering is light and disconnected; 4wd system rarely drives all four wheels.
it's a hybrid, it's a toyota, what more can i say?report itreport
the xm radio is also sweet...but given that i have an ipod with 30gb of music/books
but it works on few roads (particularly compared to acura/bmw/audi) and costs $500 for five years (no lifetime is offered).
running by itself, this new engine peaks at 231 horsepower — 22 more than the old 3.3-liter.
it consumes fuel at  an average pace of 19 mpg.
i bit the bullet and traded in my 2006 hihy for a 2011 hihy a few weeks ago.
if you're going into this  with a minivan budget but can make do with a little less size and space, the  reworked 2011 toyota highlander hybrid starts to make a good deal of sense.
mazdaa says: 07:50 pm, 09/27/2010 the toyota highlander starts at 27390$ which is pretty cheap 4 a 3 row suv.
past highlander owners sighed mightily and drove off in a huff every time they walked out of costco with odd-shaped cargo.
cold calculations are hard to argue with, but conventional wisdom is  missing something.
if you're going into this with a minivan budget but can make do with a little less size and space, the reworked 2011 toyota highlander hybrid starts to make a good deal of sense.
as if to underscore the point, it  slithers through our slalom at 60.2 mph and pulls 0.77g on our skid pad.
all of this boils down to an iffy hybrid payback time of 7.4 years.
it is no longer a crossover and is now officially an suv.
if the headlights are set to 'auto' turning off the car or pressing the lock button on the remote doesn't turn off the lights (no matter what the manual says).
| september 23,  2010 | scott jacobs for edmunds 33 photos | see more photos in this gallery » road test 2011 toyota highlander hybrid full test start making sense
the key point here is that last year's  3.3-liter v6 has been replaced with a stouter 3.5-liter v6.
this one runs on the atkinson cycle, a more fuel-efficient variant of the four-stroke cycle.
what's more, handy second- and third-row release levers are found right there in the hatch area.
there were a number of times where the old system would say 'turn left' and what it really meant was "the hwy is splitting, you want the left side
only 10.3 cubes are  available behind the third row, but that jumps to 26.3 when one half is folded,  as can now be done as of this year.
it may not tickle the enthusiast's fancy, but the 2011  highlander hybrid is a very well-rounded and well thought-out family crossover  that just happens to be a 28-mpg hybrid.
paid $300 over invoice a the time which wasn't bad for a dark color, though i had seen white and silver going for less than invoice price when dealers had more on the lots.
it can take serious time for gas savings to make up the difference.
by dan edmunds, director of vehicle testing | published sep 24, 2010 poor
there's nothing wrong — that's just what it sounds like when it's doing its hybrid trick and plowing braking energy back into the battery.
bluetooth works well, but the voice interface is cumbersome compared to other vehicles, as are things like importing contacts.
at $40,780, this sienna starts out $2,975 less than the highlander hybrid and has a rated fuel economy of 18 mpg.
the highlander hybrid changes direction when we turn the wheel, but that's the only way to know it's connected to anything because there's precious little sensory feedback through the column.
the interior is flexible and comfortable, it finally has a useful third row and interior controls don't get any more logical or easier to use than these.
the 2nd row cupholders are no longer accessible by children.
ok, the 2011 toyota highlander  hybrid may not be for you.
that's fine — you can save money on the front end  of the transaction and drive home happy.
but minivans are anything but "mini" these days — 200 inches long is the new norm — and only thetoyota sienna offers all-wheel drive.
last year's 3.3-liter highlander hybrid scored 26 mpg combined, with 27 mpg coming from the city and only 25 mpg coming from highway driving.
the best milage according to the display was 31.4.
the 2012 mazda 5 is similar in size and also gets 24mpg overall and the same 28mpg highway as the highlander hybrid, but a bit worse even than those smaller suvs around town at only 21mpg.
they couldn't be bothered to match the carpet and dash to the interior color.
nhtsa and iihs safety ratings are good all around.
lyse says: 01:49 am,
have enough parking space for something 200 inches  long?
the highlander hybrid is primarily a front-drive machine; the rear wheels are driven exclusively by another electric motor and there's no driveshaft connected to the transmission.
you want a decent-sized third-row seat, if only to carpool kids to school and tote the in-laws to dinner when they visit.
pros: i'm getting 29mpg on the highway and 27 in the city.
there are plenty of other bigger choices out there.
that's fine — you can save money on the front end of the transaction and drive home happy.
other sides of other coins with the same tires and suspension underneath, the 2011 highlander hybrid drives about the same as before.
tags specs & performancevehicle advertisement related content site map | rss feeds | help | advertise with us | contact us | inside line mobile | about inside line © edmunds inc. | privacy statement | visitor agreement | membership agreement | jobs at edmunds | about edmunds © edmunds inc. all rights reserved.
past highlander owners sighed  mightily and drove off in a huff every time they walked out of costco with  odd-shaped cargo.
you want a decent-sized third-row seat, if only to carpool kids to school  and tote the in-laws to dinner when they visit.
my city doesnt plow my street until it hits the main road, and this systems seems a bit lacking.
what else out there seats 7, has awd and gets decent mileage?
the new nav systems does a much better job of telling you which lane to be in as highways and exits approach.
it now scoots to 60 mph in 7.4 seconds (7.1with 1 foot of  rollout as on a drag strip), a half-second speedier than the last one we tested .
the  benefits only exist over a relatively narrow rpm band, but that's cool here  because the hybrid continuously variable transmission (cvt) can more or less  choose any ratio it needs to keep mr. atkinson in his happy place.
the quarter-mile tells a similar story, where 15.4 seconds at 91.1 mph represents an improvement of 0.4 second.
our 2011 toyota highlander hybrid delivers this, too, thanks to the new engine and improved efficiencies in the hybrid drive system itself.
it now scoots to 60 mph in 7.4 seconds (7.1with 1 foot of rollout as on a drag strip), a half-second speedier than the last one we tested .
not interested  in the hybrid concept?
i hate how the equipment packages lay out - to get leather seats (a must for my wife) you have to get a jillion useless things (sunroof, power liftgate, accent lighting, etc.)
sure, the good  ones use a lot less fuel than their conventional gasoline counterparts, but  they cost more to buy, too.
but last year's seat had another problem: it was a one-piece all-or-nothing job when folding time came.
it comes standard with a third-row seat.
in my first tank i got just over 30mpg in 500 mixed city/highway miles.
bring your own pulse because you won't find one here.
there's enough to get going from a slippery intersection — the system engages when and if front-wheel slip is detected — but the rear-drive unit is not built to produce a prolonged boost up a long, slippery hill.
savings kick in after that, especially if gas prices rise.
we observed the same impeccably smooth and quiet ride, reasonable coordination and modest limits as before.
meanwhile, the non-hybrid 2011 highlander's non-atkinson 3.5-liter v6 still makes 270 hp.
we'll stick with the limited grade to stay close on equipment.
none are hybrids, which irks you a little.
in a panic stop, the added contribution of  four-wheel disc brakes stops the show in 120 feet from 60 mph — quite  respectable for a crossover suv riding on low-rolling-resistance tires.
the better milage i got was while in econ mode and of course keeping my foot out of the throttle except when really needed.
running by itself, this new engine peaks at 231 horsepower — 22 more  than the old 3.3-liter.
as if to underscore the point, it slithers through our slalom at 60.2 mph and pulls 0.77g on our skid pad.
there's enough to get going from a  slippery intersection — the system engages when and if front-wheel slip  is detected — but the rear-drive unit is not built to produce a prolonged  boost up a long, slippery hill.
media player 2011 toyota highlander hybrid picture grille and bumper changes distinguish the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid on  the outside, but the engine that lies behind is the real story.
is there as much space as a minivan?
last year's 3.3-liter highlander hybrid scored 26  mpg combined, with 27 mpg coming from the city and only 25 mpg coming from  highway driving.
conventional wisdom would pit this against its v6 gasoline equivalent, the  2011 highlander limited 4wd, which costs some $6,600 less.
all of this boils down to an iffy hybrid payback  time of 7.4 years.
by dan edmunds, director of vehicle testing | published sep 24, 2010poor so-so pretty good good excellent conventional wisdom tells us hybrid versions of things, like the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid before us, don't make financial sense.
quiet and smooth ride, too.
because of the hybrid application, this isn't the same 3.5-liter v6 that  "normal" highlanders have had for a few years.
the 2011 model's epa city, highway and combined fuel economies are now  all tied up at 28 mpg apiece.
backup cam and bluetooth with streaming audio are standard.
it reclines, it  slides back and forth, and the central "20" section is removable (and  stowable onboard) to create a center aisle and separate buckets with fold-down  armrests.
our 2011 toyota highlander hybrid delivers this, too,  thanks to the new engine and improved efficiencies in the hybrid drive system  itself.
the aforementioned four-wheel-drive system isn't true four-wheel drive.
this information was extracted from www.insideline.com and is subject to the terms of the visitor agreement at www.edmunds.com/help/about/visitoragreement.html.
but last year's seat had another problem: it was a one-piece  all-or-nothing job when folding time came.
with the low supplies coming from japan, high gas prices and the top rating from consumer reports, they are difficult to find right now, at least around chicago.
as you might expect, more total power makes the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid quicker.
toyota hihy - 28mpg mid $40,000s bmw x5 x5d - 22mpg low $60,000s chevy tahoe hy 21mpg mid $50,000s audi q7 tdi - 20mpg low $60,000s mb e350 wagon 19mpg low $60,000s mazda cx-9 - 19mpg low $40,000s chevy traverse 19mpg low $40,000s ford flex - 18mpg mid $40,000s goodness knows i've been looking.
one staffer's wife is already angling to trade her minivan in for one.
it consumes fuel at an average pace of 19 mpg.
but since you're dithering between a crossover and a minivan, let's bring  that awd sienna minivan back into the picture.
bring your own pulse because you won't find one  here.
my only concern so far for this car is wether the 4wd/awd will be able to actually get me up the road from my driveway in the snow covered winter.
besides, if you're cross-shopping on the border, you're  probably not 100 percent committed to the minivan concept and you're probably  ok with this.
there's nothing wrong — that's  just what it sounds like when it's doing its hybrid trick and plowing braking  energy back into the battery.
folks).report itreport it ljmiii says: 08:29 pm, 09/27/2010 anyone who thinks the hihy is overpriced just isn't looking at the competition.
but i detest the thought of having to ever deal with another toyota dealership/service department again.
some break-even points push laughingly past 20 years.
add a comment » sort by:most recent first posted cpsdarren says: 10:44 am, 06/08/2011 i ended up buying a 2011 highlander hybrid at the end of march before prices went up and inventories disappeared.
that's important to us, since we tow a modest-size trailer on summer trips.
we observed the same impeccably smooth and quiet ride, reasonable  coordination and modest limits as before.
the quarter-mile tells a similar story, where 15.4 seconds at 91.1 mph  represents an improvement of 0.4 second.
it may not tickle the enthusiast's fancy, but the 2011 highlander hybrid is a very well-rounded and well thought-out family crossover that just happens to be a 28-mpg hybrid.
besides, if you're cross-shopping on the border, you're probably not 100 percent committed to the minivan concept and you're probably ok with this.
reading the prices in this review, that seems like a great deal now.
crossover cross-shoppers say you're shopping along  the border between minivans and crossover suvs.
our non-hybrid v6 highlander also has a towing capacity of 5,000 lbs, which is 1,500 more than the hybrid version.
and the excess of chrome in the controls means that the 'black/chrome/wood/beige' interior is wow ugly.
cold calculations are hard to argue with, but conventional wisdom is missing something.
making sense of things this 2011 toyota highlander hybrid limited won over more fans than we expected during its short stay with us.
in a panic stop, the added contribution of four-wheel disc brakes stops the show in 120 feet from 60 mph — quite respectable for a crossover suv riding on low-rolling-resistance tires.
as it is, the third row is barely big enough for small kids.
sticker price was about 5k more than a similarly equipped v6 base highlander awd with the tech package.
cargo maximization with three rows all 2011 highlanders, hybrid or otherwise, now come standard with that third-row seat you want.
the heated seat controls which should be 'push/pull for on/off and spin for temp' are for some reason 'push/pull does nothing so you always have to spin to a new temp when you turn them on/off.'
that's pretty conventional.
with all rear seats folded flat, maximum cargo space is 94 cubic feet, with 42.3 feet of that available behind the second row.
some of you wish they were more hybrid choices.
the 2011 model's epa city, highway and combined fuel economies are now all tied up at 28 mpg apiece.
i don't understand why so many people in these comments bash the highlander - i think it's pretty cool.
after all, they're called crossovers for a reason.
but don't take the left exit...too late" the xm traffic reporting is kind of cool...
it supersam378 says: 02:01 pm, 09/30/2010 this would look pretty good...
on my second tank that was almost all driving around the suburbs with many short trips, it was 31 mpg over 500 miles.
you can get it loaded at 34180$ with leather, the v6 engine, ipod (usb), bluetooth, backup camera, moonroof etc..
some  break-even points push laughingly past 20 years.
so-so pretty good good excellent 61 ratings comments (35) conventional wisdom tells us hybrid versions of things, like the 2011  toyota highlander hybrid before us, don't make financial sense.
but there are electric motors in play, and they boost  peak power to 280 hp — 10 more than the 2010 highlander hybrid's net  rating.
compared to toyota's minivan, the highlander hybrid break-even point approaches the 3-year mark.
our spreadsheets tell us that paybacks approaching 10 years are common.
the benefits only exist over a relatively narrow rpm band, but that's cool here because the hybrid continuously variable transmission (cvt) can more or less choose any ratio it needs to keep mr. atkinson in his happy place.
but the electric power steering is overly dead and lifeless.
other sides of other coins with the same tires and  suspension underneath, the 2011 highlander hybrid drives about the same as  before.
the 2011 toyota highlander hybrid has a new 3.5-liter v6 engine and is  rated at 28 mpg on the epa's combined scale.
for some unknown reason there are 3rd and 4th cupholders in between the driver and passenger and less storage.
this one runs on the  atkinson cycle, a more fuel-efficient variant of the four-stroke cycle.
computer and actual were within a few tenths on both tanks.
we've always liked the highlander's 40/20/40 second row.