unlike the ranger, though, it's definitely a little larger and more comfortable inside.
they then crashed it into a tree, submerged it in the ocean for five hours, dropped it from about 10 feet, tried to crush it under an rv, drove it through a portable building, hit it with a wrecking ball, and set it on fire.
nicely equipped with midlevel trim, a 4x2 driveline and the fuel-sipping, 3.7-liter 302-horsepower v6 engine, the xlt custom can tow 6,100 pounds and looks good doing it, with its chrome grille and tailpipe, 18-inch wheels and unique cloth trim.
read: ford expands ecoboost engine rollout best trucks for the bucks chevrolet silverado
related links commuter cars — to the max best cars for a spring break getaway '12 aston martin virage: first drive 12 best resale value cars, 2012 2012 mercedes-benz cls — first drive are you using the right mechanic?
to help narrow the search, we've collected some of our bang-for-the-truck-buck favorites.
like theranger, the nissan is cheap to buy, easy on gas and handy to drive in town or through tight spots on the ranch, and it is a decent off-roader.
dodge is building the titan for nissan.
and actually, recently, also counterinsurgent warfare.
if you believe a message violates thecode of conductplease use this form to notify the moderators.
but the tacoma's reputation as the best midsize pickup is genuinely earned on both performance and quality; it's a comfortable, stylish truck that doesn't shy from real work.
“it’s the vehicular equivalent of the ak-47.
read more advice-related  articles
- 2012 jeep wrangler: first drive jeep's iconic trail machine gets a gutsy 3.6-liter v6 engine.
and i believe they consistently double the silverado sales.
fitted with the optional 4.7-liter v8 engine, the dakota is a torquey powerhouse that takes top honors in payload capacity and offers up to a 7,000-pound tow rating; most midsize trucks tow around 4,700 pounds.
click to research prices and specifications on any new car on the market or get a free price quote through msn autos' new-car buying service.
i'm personally a gm guy for a reason.
when they dug it out of the rubble, all it took to get it running again was hammers, wrenches, and wd-40.
a real workhorse — as suggested by its clean, bold styling — the ram is financially superior with its smaller 4.7-liter v8 engine,
12 best resale value cars, 2012 vehicles with the highest three-year resale value.
ecoboost chevrolet silverado 1500 chevrolet silverado 3500hd ford f-350
just be careful not to option the dakota too far into full-size territory, which is easy to do.
they ride them into war, they've never seen pavement (most trucks here have never seen anything but), they use them to cross the desert or the jungle.
- visit msn autos' "exhaust notes" blog to keep up on all things automotive.
bing: dodge dakota accessories best trucks for the bucks dodge ram 1500 price range: $20,610 to $42,650 when the dakota isn't enough, it's time to consider the first full-size pickup on our list, theram 1500.
- consumer reports' 2012 top picks the best models of the year in 10 categories.
14 9 zrdh23 mar 1, 2011 6:55am have had fords , dodge and chevy trucks
finally they placed it on top of a 240-foot tower block that was then destroyed in a controlled demolition.
'12 aston martin virage: first drive the virage bridges the gap between two already potent aston martin models.
but it's far more fun and capable with the 390-horsepower 5.7-liter multidisplacement hemi.
74 comments newest oldest best worst controversial 22re sep 5, 2011 3:40pm i drive a 1982 toyota pickup.
kept simple with an anemic 2.3-liter 4-banger engine and a 5-speed manual transmission, it's an easygoing runabout that'll tote any sort of bulky or dirty gear.
mon apr 3, 2011 8:02am ford,ford, ford and fords always.
but the real winner is still gm.
oh and ford has only been the best selling truck, because you have to buy two in the same year.
but im a loyal american and will not buy anything from goverment motors,aka obama motors.
- sell your car - used cars - compare - used-car listings - trade-in values - carfax reports - finance - parts & accessories - sell your car - reviews & articles - reviews - pictures - video reviews - buying advice - green - latest & greatest - fuel efficiency - car tech - video - auto shows - detroit - geneva - frankfurt - paris - tokyo - chicago - new york - los angeles - sema - pebble beach concours - blog - traffic - gas prices - insurance - home - new & used car research - reviews - compare - dealer quotes - used-car listings - trade-in values - finance - insurance - car fax - sell your car - decision guide - reviews & articles - reviews - pictures - video reviews - buying advice - green - latest & greatest - fuel efficiency - car tech - video - auto shows - detroit - geneva - frankfurt - paris - tokyo - chicago - new york - los angeles - sema - pebble beach concours - blog - traffic - gas prices find a car: new used choose a make choose a model find by category:
we're taking a bit of a gamble here, as this is ford's first in-house diesel, but its 400 horsepower and 800 lb-ft of torque carry the ultimate bragging rights, not to mention just about anything tied to its trailer hitch.
related links read more advice-related articles - commuter cars — to the max - best cars for a spring break getaway - '12 aston martin virage: first drive - 12 best resale value cars, 2012 - 2012 mercedes-benz cls — first drive - are you using the right mechanic?
in fact, it's perfect for any odd job and can be had for just a bit more than $12,000 on sale.
read: keep on truckin' best trucks for the bucks ford f-150 3.5-liter ecoboost price range: $24,465 to $48,795 ford is onto something with its combination of gasoline direct-injection and dual turbocharging.
read: pickup trucks, tow to tow best trucks for the bucks ford ranger price range: $17,935 to $26,025 ford is discontinuing the ranger after the 2011 model year, so it might seem strange to put it on a 10-best list.
- become a fan of msn autos on facebook.
the slideshow requires script be turned on to function.
search local listings find the car you want at the right price.
xlt custom price range: $27,710 to $33,895 class-leading in almost every respect and boasting all-new engines
34 years and counting!
bing images: nissan frontier best trucks for the bucks toyota tacoma price range: $16,365 to $25,525 if our first two trucks are notable mainly for their low price, this midsize offering makes the grade on capability, features and reputation.
6 18 drock793 feb 3, 2011 9:31am you can argue all you want, but it does come down to only two; ford and gm.
this truck is definitely worth a look if you're looking for a true workhorse.
back best cars for a spring break getaway and the destinations best-suited for them.
bing: ford f-350 super duty longtime road & track contributor tom wilson's credits include local racing championships, three technical engine books and hundreds of freelance articles.
7 0 agent008 may 1, 2011 9:21am you can't go wrong with ford or chevy.
i'd say 90% of the people i know use their trucks for hauling garbage to the dump, maybe some firewood to their house, the countries where toyota is king?
better power, more towing capabilities, and not to mention the tranny is virtually bulletproof.
the united states special forces even drive the toyota tacoma on their deployments.
next up commuter cars — to the max is your everyday ride dull?
help me decidepopular family sedansinexpensive cars  for winterfuel-efficient suvsaffordable performanceeconomical commuter cars
8 15 ts01 feb 3, 2011 2:21pm sorry drock793
13 8 klondikexx feb 3, 2011 4:48pm gee, it wasn't more than a few weeks ago msn had an article about how 'bad' ford trucks were, 350-250 and the worst of all for failures of all kinds, the150/lincoln model.
did ford pay for this lil' comparo or what !!!...
if necessary, they report all illegal activity to the proper authorities.
chevrolet silverado hd — first drive best trucks for the bucks ford f-350
best yet, the power is instant and quiet.
more on msn - mini builds a van - mercedes builds a better small car - morgan electric revealed at geneva - porsche boxster unleashed in geneva msn autos video share with friends sign in add a comment sign in with your windows live id, or create a new one.
but the ram's hidden secret is its coil-spring rear suspension, which gives it a supple ride and precise handling, and there's still enough truck muscle left for durability and rough duty.
categories spam child pornography or exploitation profanity, vulgarity or obscenity copyright infringement harassment or threat threats of suicide
ill takes ford anyday over goverment motors because not all of us are traitors.
- in the market for a new car?
10 handy smartphone apps for drivers
here's quite an interesting article about just that:http://www.thedailyb east.com/newsweek/20 10/10/14/why-rebel-g roups-love-the-toyot a-hilux.html
- 10 handy smartphone apps for drivers
americans don't use their trucks to do anything like what others do.
it has 415,000 miles on the original motor, and in the 3 years i've had it, i haven't had a single problem.
26 12 1 been there - 2 done that feb 3, 2011 10:53am geez !!!
close x best trucks for the bucks by tom wilson of msn autos with so many new vehicles on the market, picking just one is a challenge, especially if you're looking for a newpickup truck.
if you have an issue behind the wheel, there’s probably app for it.
24 31 717inthebiz feb 3, 2011 9:28am to the lady who loves nissan.
the custom option is also available with the supercrew and supercab trims as well.
they will investigate your report and take appropriate action.
thetacoma boasts excellent build quality and a fantastic resale value that make it a great buy.
2012 mercedes-benz cls — first drive sleek styling icon packs a solid stance and new twin-turbo punch.
- more - autos - careers & jobs - celebrities - delish - entertainment - games - glo - health, diet & fitness - living - local edition - money - news - online dating - real estate & rentals - sports - travel - video - weather - white pages - full msn index bing - hotmail - inbox - calendar - contacts - send e-mail autos bing search autos | web | images | video | news | maps | shopping - home - new cars - reviews - compare - dealer quotes - trade-in values - future cars - finance - parts & accessories
- '12 aston martin virage: first drive the virage bridges the gap between two already potent aston martin models.
the only place toyota isn't as respected as it should be, is america.
but step up to the v6 engine and it rockets right along.
it’s ubiquitous to insurgent warfare.
perfectly sized and very stylish, the dakota also indulges dodge's habit of not sparing the power.
- 2012 mercedes-benz cls — first drive sleek styling icon packs a solid stance and new twin-turbo punch.
you can say all you want about gm, but in the end...all car companies are not american made, not 100% at least.
we'd concentrate on the 5.3-liter v8 for much better power and essentially the same fuel economy.
2012 jeep wrangler: first drive jeep's iconic trail machine gets a gutsy 3.6-liter v6 engine.
powered by free dealer quotes save time by connecting with local dealers.
ford obviously has this category on lock.
category:passenger carsluxury carssports carssport utilitiesvans & minivanspickup truckshybrid vehicles find a car: new used choose a make choose a model decision guide help me decidepopular family sedansinexpensive cars for winterfuel-efficient suvsaffordable performanceeconomical commuter cars
available anywhere in the u.s., priced right and often available in numerous boots-and-jeans versions where other makes emphasize suburban style, chevy'ssilverado series rides a wave of deep-seated popularity.
check out these extreme daily drivers.
17 16 add a comment report please help us to maintain a healthy and vibrant community by reporting any illegal or inappropriate behavior.
do you love them long time still?
we'd opt for the 4.0-liter v6 engine for the oomph expected in a midsize truck, as well as for providing the up to 6,500-pound tow rating.
how to determine the competency of your auto technician.
leaning more to the performance end of our bang-for-the-buck equation, we arrive at the ultimate in pickup trucks, thesuper duty packing the all-new 6.7-liter ford diesel v8 engine.
it kicks the hell out of the humvee.”
able to tow up to 11,300 pounds, the ecoboost v6 is a $1,750 premium over the nonturbocharged base v6, which is far less than what an equivalent diesel would have cost.
wonderful job covering all the brands so thoroughly --- not !! ...
ford super duty ford ranger nissan frontier toyota tacoma double cab dodge dakota dodge ram 1500
“the toyota hilux is everywhere,” says andrew exum, a former army ranger and now a fellow of the center for a new american security.
1500 price range: $20,850 to $41,775 robust, durable engines that aren't technically overboard — read "simple" — are a hallmark of chevy trucks.
true, up hills and in modern traffic it's lethargic in 4-cylinder form.
from our sponsors recently viewed cars view favorites
take a survey about msn autos.
- next upcommuter cars — to the max is your everyday ride dull?
msn autos is pleased to provide you with information and services designed to save you time, money and hassle.
the neighbors cruze, buy the way he regrets buying,gets 37-38 hwy at the very best,and aready has multi issues with it.
this compact truck is a hoary old thing — basic and lacking frills, but tough as nails and light on the checkbook.
the chevolet is king, out tow's, best ride, more style, out last's, more power, except dodge cummin's, give them that one except they ride like a tank.
- 12 best resale value cars, 2012 vehicles with the highest three-year resale value.
not only are there multiple manufacturers, each with more than one model to choose from, but each pickup comes in a bewildering variety ofcab styles, wheelbases, trim levels, engine options, transmission choices and 2- or 4-wheel drive.
my truck have been on the road or the past 32 years and it is still going strong and i have no plans on replacing it.
video: dodge ram 1500 best trucks for the bucks ford f-150
and i'm sure we all remember the indestructible hilux on top gear?
- are you using the right mechanic?
video: chevrolet silverado 1500 best trucks for the bucks chevrolet silverado 3500 hd price range: $31,760 to $44,950 when it comes to the bruising, heavy-duty pickups, it's truly tough to pick a favorite, although we'll say the pricey diesel options are still the way to go, because even though they cost bucks, they have incredible bang.
other additional comments(optional) 100 character limit are you sure you want to delete this comment?
it tows far more that way and gets the same mileage.
chevy, dodge and ford each make one — the imports haven't thought this big yet — and each has been recently updated.
compare: toyota tacoma vs. ford ranger vs. nissan frontier best trucks for the bucks dodge dakota price range: $22,755 to $33,180 just as parent company chrysler invented the minivan,dodge invented the midsize pickup with the dakota more than 20 years ago, and the experience shows.
you'll find a range of offerings here, from compacts to full-size to heavy-duty models, each selected with an eye toward balancing capacity and performance with cost.
- best cars for a spring break getaway and the destinations best-suited for them.
impressive trim packages, advanced electronics and generally superior detailing are there to satisfy those who find quality is nearly always the best buy.
i know most of you are too patriotic to agree with me, but if you look at the facts, toyota has made some of the best trucks ever.
there's a reason why toyota has the best truck reputation in the world, they're the toughest.
chevy also offers a hybrid, but bang for the buck is last on its list of attributes.
it's also available as a crew cab if four doors are a must-have feature.
when the engine dies or the tranny...that is why...hate to burst the ford lovers bubble on that.
we like the smooth, inline 6-cylinder cummins engine in the dodge, but chevy'ssilverado hd goes toe-to-toe or better on price and offers 47 more horsepower and 115 more lb-ft of torque in its new 6.6-liter v8.
they didn’t even need spare parts.
7 8 frances jul 8, 2011 4:04am i read all this talk about 200000 miles on this truck or that truck,, i purchased my f-150 4x4, from the forddealer in steubenville, ohio on january 15th 1978, i just put a new 300 six in my truck, 3.200.000 miles, i changed my oil every 3000 miles i am on my second clutch, pressure plate, throughout bearing , 2nd set of front hubs, 2 nd set of front u-joints, my 3 steering box, my second gas tank, point is the name of the product seldom matters it is how the owner takes care of the vehicle that counts, used the very best motor oil, that "racers edge" stuff.
if pricing is paramount, the 4.3-liter v6 engine is as proven and reliable as the sunrise, but well down on power.
super duty price range: $28,740 to $50,440
and there is no comparison !!
explore new cars - acura - aston martin - audi - cadillac - audi - bentley - bmw - buick - cadillac - chevrolet - chrysler - dodge - ferrari - fiat - ford - gmc - honda - hyundai - infiniti - jaguar - jeep - kia - lamborghini - land rover - lexus - lincoln - lotus - maserati - maybach - mazda - mercedes-benz - mini - mitsubishi - nissan - porsche - ram - rolls-royce - saab - scion - smart - subaru - suzuki - toyota - volkswagen - volvo msn needs your opinion!
, the 2011ford f-150 lineup is particularly strong, but the xlt custom is purpose-built for the bang-for-the-buck buyer.
consumer reports' 2012 top picks the best models of the year in 10 categories.
they call it ecoboost, and with the 2011 f-150's new 3.5-liter v6 engine, it delivers 420 lb-ft of diesel-like torque, 365 horsepower and highway mileage into the mid-20s.
super duty more on msn autos foreign fantasies at the geneva show 10 sexy, desirable machines from the 2012 geneva motor show.
i have no reason to drive a gas guzzling behemoth of a truck, and i know most of you don't either, and that's why i will always drive a toyota truck.
it doesn't matter in the least what anyone buys to me,but be assurred the pricing is outrageous,and the economy is gone with new epa requirements which have a devastating effect on what little reliability ford might have had.
ford f-150 xlt custom ford f-150
light, maneuverable, fast, nimble, reliable, and great ground clearance.
hmmmm,wonder who was taken to the woodshed.
bing: ford ranger best trucks for the bucks nissan frontier price range: $17,540 to $29,820 when there are no more rangers, nissan'sfrontier will lead the entry-level compact truck market nicely.
besides gm has lied about mpg figures and hp figures and not me just saying that .its been in the news and car mags.
are you using the right mechanic?
my buddy bought a 1983 ford ranger a few years back, and he's had to replace the engine, the starter, the fuel pump, the bed (rust), and right now hes thinking the tranny is going out.
the duramax is almost impossible to beat.