the national highway transportation safety administration (nhtsa) is investigating toyota tundra pickups built in 2003 and 2004 because of complaints about front suspension failures.
ford said it is due to “an interaction issue  between the speed-control deactivation switch and the brake system that  could, in rare cases, cause the switch to overheat and ultimately catch  fire.”
the tundra was recalled two years ago to replace defective ball joints on the front suspension.
last year, ford recalled 5 million vehicles for a similar  problem.
objective gear reviews subscribe to trailer life magazine today!
the  tundra was recalled two years ago to replace defective ball joints on the  front suspension.
a lift-gate problem in toyota sienna minivans built in  2004 and 2005 is also being investigated.
new horizons rv luxury & engineering redefined • factory direct... georgia state parks rv club join for free today itasca reyo redefining rving with fuel-efficient style, comfort...
the recall involves 2002-2006 model year libertys.
jeep liberty recall more than 832,500 jeep liberty suvs will be recalled for a potential steering defect.
trailer news > recalls: ford, jeep, toyota recalls: ford, jeep, toyota last 5 stories in trailer news the towable revolution - march 1, 2012 thor names new rv group president - february 1, 2012 safety administration announces dutchmen recall - january 24, 2012 rv learning center to award scholarship - january 24, 2012 rvia announces dealership attendance correction for louisville show -  january 18, 2012 other stories that might interest you... vehicle recalls: ford, toyota filed under trailer news ford recalls trucks, suvs ford has announced a recall of  about 1.2 million trucks, suvs and vans because a defect in the cruise  control may cause fires.
massachusetts michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana nebraska nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina north dakota ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming alberta british columbia manitoba new brunswick newfoundland and labrador northwest territory nova scotia ontario prince edward island quebec saskatchewan yukon territory park/facility type all public park public corps state park national park provincial park national forest condo park membership park privately owned park service center tourist attraction copyright © 2012 • trailer life magazine
last year, ford recalled 5 million vehicles for a similar problem.
ford said it is due to “an interaction issue between the speed-control deactivation switch and the brake system that could, in rare cases, cause the switch to overheat and ultimately catch fire.”
feel free to leave a comment...
great travel tips subscribe to trailer life magazine today!
name (required) email address (required)
the vehicles may have defective  front-suspension ball joints that could fail and interfere with steering.
and oh, if you want a pic to show with your comment, go get agravatar!
dealers will begin repairs in september, when parts arrive, free of charge.
the vehicles may have defective front-suspension ball joints that could fail and interfere with steering.
a lift-gate problem in toyota sienna minivans built in 2004 and 2005 is also being investigated.
august 15, 2006 filed under trailer news ford recalls trucks, suvs ford has announced a recall of about 1.2 million trucks, suvs and vans because a defect in the cruise control may cause fires.
the recall includes f-series pickup trucks,  explorer and excursion suvs and e-series (econoline vans and chassis)  built from 1996 to 2002.
the recall includes f-series pickup trucks, explorer and excursion suvs and e-series (econoline vans and chassis) built from 1996 to 2002.
advertise with us • privacy policy • design by sno sites and godengo •sitemap •
the national highway transportation  safety administration (nhtsa) is investigating toyota tundra pickups built in 2003 and 2004 because of complaints about front suspension failures.
the recall  involves 2002-2006 model year libertys.
discover evergreen rv trailers built tougher to outlast the competition dish network pay-as-you-go tv for your rv first look at new rigs subscribe to trailer life magazine!
website speak your mind click to cancel replyclick to cancel reply blue ox test your driving skills with blue ox we’re coming to az rally two units left for free freight!
kansas kentucky louisiana maine maryland
city state/province alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut delaware district of columbia florida georgia idaho illinois indiana iowa