both companies have been working independently on their own future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers – customers we know very well.”
each company also will determine the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective light pickups and suvs.
in addition, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation telematics systems.
“by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy,” said ford president and ceo alan mulally.
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of  greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without  compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
the telematics collaboration relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will continue to separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
all information herein applies to u.s. vehicles only
“this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers,” said derrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development.
toyota president akio toyoda  added: “toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid  system for pickup trucks and suvs.
- jointly develop as equal partners a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and component technology for light trucks and suvs - independently integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles separately # # # contact(s): contacts: ford toyota said deep john hanson 313.594.0942 310-468-4718 sdeep@ford.com john_hanson@toyota.com ^
under the mou agreement, the two companies will  bring the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology  and knowledge to a new co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in  rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
working together on  in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers’ experience with  their vehicles.”
both companies have been working independently on their own  future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford – and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology.”
click here for toyota motor corporation evp takeshi uchiyamada's  remarks dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 – ford  motor company and toyota motor corporation – the world’s two  leading manufacturers of hybrid vehicles – today announced they will  equally collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for  light truck and suv customers.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually integrate the system into their own vehicles.
uchiyamada added : “toyota has also invested heavily in telematics in various countries around the world, with services like the g-book and g-link.
“ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,” kuzak said.
when the two companies  began discussing this potential collaboration, they discovered how quickly they  were able to find common ground.
uchiyamada added : “toyota has  also invested heavily in telematics in various countries around the world, with  services like the g-book and g-link.
our news > corporate ford, toyota to collaborate on developing new hybrid system for light trucks, suvs; future telematics standards - ford and toyota are collaborating as equal partners to accelerate consumer availability of a new advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs - new co-developed hybrid system ready for use later this decade on ford and toyota rear-wheel-drive light trucks and suvs, delivering greater fuel efficiency while still providing customers the capability they want and need - ford and toyota also will collaborate on development of next-generation standards for in-car telematics and internet-based services click here for toyota motor corporation evp takeshi uchiyamada's remarks dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 – ford motor company and toyota motor corporation – the world’s two leading manufacturers of hybrid vehicles – today announced they will equally collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for light truck and suv customers.
toyota president akio toyoda added: “toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
in the u.s., we have just introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
“we have unique  and very good solutions today with sync and myfordtouch.
“this is the kind of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and environmental sustainability.”
the two now have committed  to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and  suvs.
foundation - cool globes - 4-h - national public lands day - pew center on global climate change - u.s. national parks - world resources institute - world wildlife fund - - education - - toyota u.s.a. foundation - programs - - toyota family literacy program - toyota tapestry - toyota international teacher program - a world in motion:® the design experience - kentucky community technical college system (kctcs) - toyota performance fund - - scholarships - - safety - - toyota driving expectations - toyota teen driver - buckle up for life - - community - guidelines/applications - - - - diversity advisory board - - alexis herman - phyllis campbell - nathaniel jones - susan molinari - federico pena - gilbert casellas - james lowry - - employees - - career opportunities - career development - - dealers - - dealer development program - avenues for advancement - - suppliers - - our policy - opportunity exchange - how to do business with us - - - - - corporate & financial - product - manufacturing - environment & technology - community - - - - search jobs - technician development - home >
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend  to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers – customers we  know very well.”
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the  product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next  year.
under the mou agreement, the two companies will bring the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and knowledge to a new co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
“ford has made tremendous  progress in the area of telematics,” kuzak said.
- - - operations map - by the numbers - research & development - engineering & manufacturing - - toyota motor engineering & manufacturing, north america, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, alabama, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, indiana, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, kentucky, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, texas, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, west virginia, inc. - bodine aluminum, inc. - tabc, inc. - subaru of indiana automotive, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing, mississippi, inc. - canadian autoparts toyota, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing canada, inc. - toyota motor manufacturing de baja california, s. de r.l. de c.v. - - design - sales - financial services - investor relations - - presentations/sec filings - faqs - corporate news - - our history - - product history - - cars - trucks - suv/van - hybrid - - u.s. history - - 1950s & 1960s - 1970s & 1980s - 1990s - 2000s - - - - - - hybrids - innovation - - advanced vehicle technology - energy research - - operations - - greener operations - greener manufacturing - - partnerships - urban design - 2011 north american environmental report - - - - environment - - audubon - arbor day
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice  president, research & development, said: “in 1997, we launched the  first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric  hybrid.
specifically,  ford and toyota will: jointly develop as equal partners a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and  component technology for light trucks and suvs independently integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles  separately
by sharing our know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services in the future.”
when the two companies began discussing this potential collaboration, they discovered how quickly they were able to find common ground.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share  significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually  integrate the system into their own vehicles.
in addition, as telematics plays an  increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have  agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer,  more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation  telematics systems.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
we expect  to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford – and we  can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid  technology.”
each company also will determine  the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective  light pickups and suvs.
by building a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.”
ford and toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could have accomplished alone.
“this is the kind of collaborative effort that is  required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and  environmental sustainability.”
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, said: “in 1997, we launched the first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
this rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new architecture to deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while providing greater fuel economy.
technician development home > our news > corporate ford, toyota to collaborate on developing new hybrid system for light  trucks, suvs; future telematics standards ford and toyota are collaborating as equal partners to accelerate consumer  availability of a new advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs new co-developed hybrid system ready for use later this decade on ford and  toyota rear-wheel-drive light trucks and suvs, delivering greater fuel  efficiency while still providing customers the capability they want and  need ford and toyota also will collaborate on development of next-generation  standards for in-car telematics and internet-based services
“this agreement brings together the  capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to  develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers,”  said derrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development.
the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement each company’s existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
“by working together, we will  be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced  powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy,” said ford president  and ceo alan mulally.
back to top search news choose a category: choose one corporate & financial product manufacturing environment & technology community our news home ©2011 toyota motor north america, inc.
specifically, ford and toyota will: for years, both ford and toyota have been working independently on similar new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at delivering higher fuel economy in light trucks and suvs.
this  rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new architecture to  deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while providing greater  fuel economy.
“we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and myfordtouch.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we  would like to offer even better telematics services in the future.”
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s.
for years, both ford and toyota have been working  independently on similar new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at  delivering higher fuel economy in light trucks and suvs.
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at  making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building  block for future mobility in the u.s. by building a global, long-term  relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people  in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.”
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers’ experience with their vehicles.”
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next year.
the telematics collaboration relates only to standards  and technologies, and each company will continue to separately develop their  own in-vehicle products and features.
in the u.s., we have just introduced the  accessible, easy-to-use entune.
the two companies also agreed to work together on  enablers to complement each company’s existing telematics platform  standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to  consumers globally.
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
the two now have committed to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and suvs.
ford and  toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid  technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could  have accomplished alone.