even when pitted against the competition that includes the chevrolet tahoe/gmc yukon twins, the ford expedition and the nissan armada, the sequoia prevails thanks to its versatility, strong performance and well-balanced road manners.
the top-of-the-line sequoia platinum adds load-leveling rear air springs, adaptive shock absorbers, a power liftgate, a sunroof, heated and cooled front seats, heated second-row captain's chairs (dropping capacity to seven), power-folding and -reclining rear seats, a navigation system, a back-up camera and a power tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel.
massive interior with flexible seating, serene ride, graceful handling for its size, brisk acceleration and high towing capacity with the 5.7-liter v8.
unlike the tundra (and gm's full-size suvs), the  sequoia has an independent rear suspension, which allows the roomy 60/40-split  third-row seat to fold flat.
growing families  will also appreciate the sequoia's versatile second-row seats, available as  either a 40/20/40-split bench or captain's chairs.
now, the only available options apply to limited models, which are eligible for the second-row captain's chairs, navigation system and rear-seat entertainment system from the platinum edition.
view all features & specs used tmv from $39,655 appraise your car submodelindex:2,make:toyota, submodel:sequoia suv,  year:2010, trim.trimname:platinum, zip:15213 see new suvs in this price range published: 05/04/2009  updated: 10/02/2009 what's new for 2010 for 2010, the toyota sequoia receives a more powerful base v8 as well as  front-seat knee airbags and an upgraded standard stereo with bluetooth and ipod  integration.
the most prominent change is the new base 4.6-liter v8 engine, which provides more power and slightly better fuel economy than the 4.7-liter v8 it replaces.
even the 4.6-liter v8 is no slouch, particularly if you won't be maxing out your suv's payload and towing capacities on a regular basis.
4wd models attain 1 less mpg across the board.
for those buyers, a long look at the 2010 toyota sequoia is in order.
the base sr5 model comes standard with 18-inch alloy wheels, a roof rack, a sunroof, a 40/20/40-split second-row bench seat, triple-zone automatic climate control, heated side mirrors, a tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel with audio controls, full power accessories, a power driver seat, bluetooth (with audio streaming) and an eight-speaker cd stereo with satellite radio, auxiliary audio and usb audio jacks.
with the push for environmentally friendly cars and the memory of skyrocketing gas prices in 2008 still fresh in many people's minds, some buyers have had misgivings about purchasing a large suv.
even if you don't ordinarily like large suvs, the 2010 toyota sequoia's pleasant driving experience might win you over.
the most prominent change is the new base 4.6-liter v8 engine, which  provides more power and slightly better fuel economy than the 4.7-liter v8 it  replaces.
front and rear parking sensors are standard on  the sequoia platinum and limited, as is a back-up camera, but these are  unavailable on the sr5.
sales in general for this  segment have been dismal recently, and even toyota hasn't been immune.
still, for those who need a heavy-duty, full-size suv, the 2010 toyota sequoia reigns supreme.
properly equipped, a 5.7-liter sequoia can tow up to 9,100 pounds.
ride comfort ranges from smooth and composed in an sr5 to downright plush in a sequoia platinum with the adaptive dampers.
these crossovers offer competitive passenger and cargo space  with lower price tags, and they handle better and get superior fuel economy to  boot.
the sequoia is available in either two-wheel-drive or four-wheel-drive  versions.
unlike the tundra (and gm's full-size suvs), the sequoia has an independent rear suspension, which allows the roomy 60/40-split third-row seat to fold flat.
standard safety equipment for all 2010 toyota sequoias includes antilock disc brakes, stability control, front-seat side airbags, front knee airbags and three-row side curtain airbags.
as of this writing, government crash tests have not yet been published for the 2010 model with the new knee airbags, but last year's sequoia earned five stars (out of five) for the driver and four for the passenger for head-on collision protection.
thanks in part to its dual variable valve timing, the larger v8 achieves nearly the same fuel economy as the 4.6-liter engine, at 14/19/15 mpg.
in our testing, a 4wd sequoia with the 5.7-liter v8 hit 60 mph in an impressive 6.7 seconds.
introduction with the push for environmentally friendly cars and the memory of  skyrocketing gas prices in 2008 still fresh in many people's minds, some buyers  have had misgivings about purchasing a large suv.
the base sr5 model comes standard with 18-inch alloy wheels, a roof  rack, a sunroof, a 40/20/40-split second-row bench seat, triple-zone automatic  climate control, heated side mirrors, a tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel  with audio controls, full power accessories, a power driver seat, bluetooth  (with audio streaming) and an eight-speaker cd stereo with satellite radio,  auxiliary audio and usb audio jacks.
the second-row seats adjust fore and aft regardless of whether  the 40/20/40-split bench or the captain's chairs are specified.
have you considered... used tmv from $28,049search inventory appraise your car with class-leading refinement, versatility and user-friendly features, the 2010 toyota sequoia is our top pick among full-size suvs.
stowing the second- and third-row seats opens up a cavernous 121 cubic feet of cargo space for more serious hauling.
driving impressions even if you don't ordinarily like large suvs, the 2010 toyota sequoia's  pleasant driving experience might win you over.
the sequoia's well-tuned chassis provides a comfortable highway ride along  with adequate back-road agility, while a relatively tight 39-foot turning  circle makes the big truck easy to maneuver in parking lots.
the 60/40 third-row seat in limited and platinum models has both a power-recline and a power-fold feature.
four-wheel-drive models feature low-range gearing.
however, it seems there will always be customers with a genuine need for maximal passenger-carrying and towing capabilities.
returning is the optional 381-horsepower 5.7-liter v8 that makes the sequoia one of the quickest full-size suvs out there.
audio controls are hard to reach while driving, well-equipped versions are pricey.
also, many sequoia options and packages have either been  simplified or eliminated altogether.
with this engine, a  properly equipped sequoia can tow up to 9,100 pounds.
safety standard safety equipment for all 2010 toyota sequoias includes antilock  disc brakes, stability control, front-seat side airbags, front knee airbags and  three-row side curtain airbags.
the epa estimates 14 mpg in the city, 19 mpg on the highway and 16 mpg in  combined driving for rear-wheel-drive models.
ride comfort ranges from smooth and composed in an sr5 to downright plush  in a sequoia platinum with the adaptive dampers.
around corners, the suspension  does a fine job of managing 3 tons' worth of suv, though the numb steering adds  to the overall sense of heft.
aside from audio and navigation controls that are hard to reach, the sequoia's interior is a triumph of ergonomics, storage bins and family-friendly conveniences.
the standard engine for the 2010 sequoia sr5 is toyota's new 4.6-liter v8, which produces 310 hp and 327 pound-feet of torque and comes paired with a six-speed automatic transmission.
the 60/40  third-row seat in limited and platinum models has both a power-recline and a  power-fold feature.
coming off an upsizing redesign in 2008 that provided more room, stronger performance, more composed road manners and greater seating flexibility, the 2010 sequoia (there was no 2009 model) receives a few tweaks to enhance its appeal.
limited, zip:15213 see new suvs in this price range platinum view all features & specs used tmv from $39,655appraise your car submodelindex:2,make:toyota, submodel:sequoia suv, year:2010, trim.trimname:platinum, zip:15213 see new suvs in this price range published: 05/04/2009 updated: 10/02/2009 for 2010, the toyota sequoia receives a more powerful base v8 as well as front-seat knee airbags and an upgraded standard stereo with bluetooth and ipod integration.
more on 2010 toyota sequoia advertisement edmunds insurance estimator the edmunds tco® estimated monthly insurance payment for a 2010 toyota sequoia in pa is:$150 per month * advertisement new suvs in this price range advertisement research modelsselect vehicle make all models all years go recently viewed explore edmunds site map | glossary | inside line | auto shows | about mobile | call edmunds toll-free © edmunds inc.
in our testing, a  4wd sequoia with the 5.7-liter v8 hit 60 mph in an impressive 6.7 seconds.
the 5.7-liter v8's abundance of low-end torque makes passing maneuvers effortless, and the six-speed automatic is always on point with gear selection, even when towing.
stowing the second- and third-row seats opens up a  cavernous 121 cubic feet of cargo space for more serious hauling.
4wd models attain 1 less mpg  across the board.
now, the only available  options apply to limited models, which are eligible for the second-row  captain's chairs, navigation system and rear-seat entertainment system from the  platinum edition.
a six-speed automatic is standard here as well.
these seats feature plenty  of fore-aft adjustment, allowing them to be positioned to optimize legroom or  cargo room as needs dictate.
in addition, the bench seat's center "20" section slides farther forward, which can be useful if a child safety seat is installed.
returning is the optional 381-horsepower 5.7-liter v8 that makes the  sequoia one of the quickest full-size suvs out there.
interior design and special features aside from audio and navigation controls that are hard to reach, the  sequoia's interior is a triumph of ergonomics, storage bins and family-friendly  conveniences.
compared to last year's 4.7-liter engine, the  new mill churns out an additional 34 hp while slightly improving fuel economy.
a six-speed  automatic is standard here as well.
note that toyota did not officially release a 2009 model.
the sequoia is available in either two-wheel-drive or four-wheel-drive versions.
optional on the sequoia sr5 and standard on everything else is a muscular 5.7-liter v8 that produces 381 hp and 401 lb-ft of torque.
there's also a conversation mirror
sales in general for this segment have been dismal recently, and even toyota hasn't been immune.
these crossovers offer competitive passenger and cargo space with lower price tags, and they handle better and get superior fuel economy to boot.
with both sets of rear seats folded down, the sequoia's  cargo space tops out at 121 cubic feet.
growing families will also appreciate the sequoia's versatile second-row seats, available as either a 40/20/40-split bench or captain's chairs.
the 5.7-liter v8's abundance of  low-end torque makes passing maneuvers effortless, and the six-speed automatic  is always on point with gear selection, even when towing.
note that toyota did not officially  release a 2009 model.
even when pitted against the competition that includes  the chevrolet tahoe/gmc yukon twins, the ford expedition and the nissan armada,  the sequoia prevails thanks to its versatility, strong performance and  well-balanced road manners.
with this engine, a properly equipped sequoia can tow up to 9,100 pounds.
for 2010, toyota has simplified sequoia ordering by eliminating most of the  confusing options and packages from previous years.
coming off an upsizing redesign in 2008 that provided more room, stronger  performance, more composed road manners and greater seating flexibility, the  2010 sequoia (there was no 2009 model) receives a few tweaks to enhance its  appeal.
as versatile and capable as the 2010 toyota sequoia is, buyers who don't  require its massive towing capacity would do well to consider a large crossover  like the gmc acadia (or its buick enclave/chevy traverse relatives), ford flex  or mazda cx-9.
as versatile and capable as the 2010 toyota sequoia is, buyers who don't require its massive towing capacity would do well to consider a large crossover like the gmc acadia (or its buick enclave/chevy traverse relatives), ford flex or mazda cx-9.
around corners, the suspension does a fine job of managing 3 tons' worth of suv, though the numb steering adds to the overall sense of heft.
the top-of-the-line sequoia platinum adds load-leveling rear air springs,  adaptive shock absorbers, a power liftgate, a sunroof, heated and cooled front  seats, heated second-row captain's chairs (dropping capacity to seven),  power-folding and -reclining rear seats, a navigation system, a back-up camera  and a power tilt-and-telescoping steering wheel.
compared to last year's 4.7-liter engine, the new mill churns out an additional 34 hp while slightly improving fuel economy.
front and rear parking sensors are standard on the sequoia platinum and limited, as is a back-up camera, but these are unavailable on the sr5.
also, many sequoia options and packages have either been simplified or eliminated altogether.
these seats feature plenty of fore-aft adjustment, allowing them to be positioned to optimize legroom or cargo room as needs dictate.
the second-row seats adjust fore and aft regardless of whether the 40/20/40-split bench or the captain's chairs are specified.
body styles, trim levels, and options the 2010 toyota sequoia is a full-size suv capable of seating seven or  eight, depending on the options selected.
however,  it seems there will always be customers with a genuine need for maximal  passenger-carrying and towing capabilities.
properly equipped, a 5.7-liter sequoia can tow up to  9,100 pounds.
still, for those who need a heavy-duty, full-size suv, the 2010 toyota  sequoia reigns supreme.
so you can quell potential uprisings in the rear quarters.
with both sets of rear seats folded down, the sequoia's cargo space tops out at 121 cubic feet.
as of this writing, government crash tests have not yet  been published for the 2010 model with the new knee airbags, but last year's  sequoia earned five stars (out of five) for the driver and four for the  passenger for head-on collision protection.
in addition,  the bench seat's center "20" section slides farther forward, which  can be useful if a child safety seat is installed.
powertrains and performance the standard engine for the 2010 sequoia sr5 is toyota's new 4.6-liter v8,  which produces 310 hp and 327 pound-feet of torque and comes paired with a  six-speed automatic transmission.
the epa estimates 14 mpg in the city, 19 mpg on the highway and 16 mpg in combined driving for rear-wheel-drive models.
the limited adds 20-inch wheels, running boards, leather upholstery, upgraded instrumentation, a back-up camera integrated into the rearview mirror and an upgraded 14-speaker jbl sound system with a six-cd changer.
optional on the sequoia sr5 and standard on everything else is a muscular  5.7-liter v8 that produces 381 hp and 401 lb-ft of torque.
the sequoia's well-tuned chassis provides a comfortable highway ride along with adequate back-road agility, while a relatively tight 39-foot turning circle makes the big truck easy to maneuver in parking lots.
there are three trim levels -- sr5,  limited and platinum -- and all are available with either two- or four-wheel  drive.
there's also a conversation  mirror
for those buyers, a long look at  the 2010 toyota sequoia is in order.
the limited adds 20-inch wheels, running  boards, leather upholstery, upgraded instrumentation, a back-up camera  integrated into the rearview mirror and an upgraded 14-speaker jbl sound system  with a six-cd changer.
for 2010, toyota has simplified sequoia ordering by eliminating most of the confusing options and packages from previous years.
thanks in part to its dual variable valve  timing, the larger v8 achieves nearly the same fuel economy as the 4.6-liter  engine, at 14/19/15 mpg.
the 2010 toyota sequoia is a full-size suv capable of seating seven or eight, depending on the options selected.
read full review advertisement for sale in your area available suv models use the edmunds pricing system to help you get the best deal:view photos sr5 view all features & specs used tmv from $28,049appraise your car submodelindex:0,make:toyota, submodel:sequoia suv, year:2010, trim.trimname:sr5, zip:15213 see new suvs in this price range limited view all features & specs used tmv from $34,776appraise your car submodelindex:1,make:toyota, submodel:sequoia suv, year:2010, trim.trimname:
there are three trim levels -- sr5, limited and platinum -- and all are available with either two- or four-wheel drive.
even the 4.6-liter v8  is no slouch, particularly if you won't be maxing out your suv's payload and  towing capacities on a regular basis.
more on 2010 toyota sequoia 2010 toyota sequoia consumer discussions 2010 toyota sequoia consumer reviews 2010 toyota sequoia features and specs 2010 toyota sequoia review