ford and toyota have been working independently on their own  future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
telematics is an industry term that refers to systems in cars that can  combine wireless communication with gps tracking and any number of  telecommunication functions that originate or end inside automobiles.
each company also will determine the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective light pickups and suvs.
at the same time, we will compete harder than ever in the spirit of “making great cars.”
ford and toyota team up 31 de agosto de 2011 san antonio.-
both companies plan to participate equally in the project to hasten the product to market – the new vehicles will also have state-of-the-art telematics and internet services on board – but don’t expect anything until later “this decade.”
the telematics collaboration relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will continue to separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
but that doesn’t mean ford-toyota vehicles will be gracing the  highways and byways – all the new tech will be under the hood.
for years, both ford and toyota were independently working on the same idea, to extend the real benefits of hybrid technology where consumers needed it most - light trucks and suvs.
but to accelerate the product to markets and to make them more affordable, the companies teamed up as equal partners on the new hybrid system, which is based on a new hybrid powertrain.
also, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the in-car  experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and  technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car  experience for next-generation telematics systems.
but that doesn’t mean ford-toyota vehicles will be gracing the highways and byways – all the new tech will be under the hood.
toyota president akio toyoda added, “toyota is extremely proud to  join ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
together, the companies are striving for  all-new architecture to  deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand, including greater fuel  economy.
at the same  time, we will compete harder than ever in the spirit of “making great  cars.”
“we expect to create exciting and socially beneficial technologies with ford, and we can do so because our two companies have enough experience to create a synergy effect in hybrid technology and in telematics.
as an engineer, i will be deeply gratified to see us fulfill those aims,” uchiyamada added.
the company’s leaders share the same vision – an accelerated path to the technology that will allow their respective trucks and suvs to be as efficient as possible and that will allow both companies to be the cutting edge of the unfolding telematics revolution for vehicles, without sacrificing their individual brands and progress to date.
“ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,” kuzak said.
telematics is an industry term that refers to systems in cars that can combine wireless communication with gps tracking and any number of telecommunication functions that originate or end inside automobiles.
since then, we have  sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
last week, the ford motor company and toyota  corporation announced a new collaboration to develop an advanced hybrid system  for light trucks and suvs.
“we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and  myfordtouch.
it also brings both companies closer to the 50 plus mpg average fuel economy standard the obama administration wants all companies to adhere to by 2025.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers – customers we know very well,” he added.
not only is  this tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also  become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s. by building  a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to  continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their  expectations.”
while the  rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common technology and  components, ford and toyota will individually adapt the system into their own  vehicles.
“in 1997, we (toyota) launched the first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
“this is the kind of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and environmental sustainability.”
the idea to work together to improve the hybrid technology is a way to leverage their knowledge to improve the trucks faster.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we  intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers –  customers we know very well,” he added.
under the mou agreement, both companies will contribute their best research  -- the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and  knowledge -- to a new co-developed hybrid system to be used in rear-wheel-drive  light trucks arriving later this decade.
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford – and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology,” takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, said: the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement each company’s existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
his toyota counterpart agrees wholeheartedly.
toyota president akio toyoda added, “toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
together, the companies are striving for all-new architecture to deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand, including greater fuel economy.
“by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the  very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel  economy,” ford president and ceo alan mulally said.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
also, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation telematics systems.
it also brings both companies closer  to the 50 plus mpg average fuel economy standard the obama administration wants  all companies to adhere to by 2025.
by building a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.”
“ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,”  kuzak said.
“this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers,” derrick kuzak, ford group vice president of the global product development division, said.
under the mou agreement, both companies will contribute their best research -- the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and knowledge -- to a new co-developed hybrid system to be used in rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
by angela covo angela.covo@gmail.com the collaboration begins with a memorandum of understanding (mou) signed by  both companies on the product development collaboration, with a formal  agreement expected by next year.
each company also will determine the calibration and performance  dynamics characteristics of their respective light pickups and suvs.
“we expect to create exciting and socially beneficial technologies  with ford, and we can do so because our two companies have enough experience to  create a synergy effect in hybrid technology and in telematics.
but to accelerate the  product to markets and to make them more affordable, the companies teamed up as  equal partners on the new hybrid system, which is based on a new hybrid  powertrain.
“this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders  in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more  quickly and affordably for our customers,” derrick kuzak, ford group vice  president of the global product development division, said.
for years, both ford and  toyota were independently working on the same idea, to extend the real benefits  of hybrid technology where consumers needed it most - light trucks and suvs.
by angela covo angela.covo@gmail.com the collaboration begins with a memorandum of understanding (mou) signed by both companies on the product development collaboration, with a formal agreement expected by next year.
31 de agosto de 2011 san antonio.-
“we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and myfordtouch.
“by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy,” ford president and ceo alan mulally said.
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s.
“this is the  kind of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global  challenges of energy independence and environmental sustainability.”
as an engineer, i will be deeply gratified to  see us fulfill those aims,” uchiyamada added.
we expect to create exciting  technologies that benefit society with ford – and we can do so through  the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology,” takeshi  uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, said: the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement  each company’s existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more  internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
the telematics collaboration  relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will continue to  separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
the company’s leaders share the same vision – an accelerated  path to the technology that will allow their respective trucks and suvs to be  as efficient as possible and that will allow both companies to be the cutting  edge of the unfolding telematics revolution for vehicles, without sacrificing  their individual brands and progress to date.
we are counting on this collaboration between toyota  and ford to benefit american society and to open a new page in the history of  the world automobile industry.
the hope is that the new technology will allow customers the full hybrid  experience, including better fuel efficiency, while keeping intact all the  capability they require in their vehicles.
the hope is that the new technology will allow customers the full hybrid experience, including better fuel efficiency, while keeping intact all the capability they require in their vehicles.
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers’ experience with their vehicles.”
his toyota counterpart  agrees wholeheartedly.
last week, the ford motor company and toyota corporation announced a new collaboration to develop an advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs.
our competitive stance will help maximize benefits for customers and for society at large.
we are counting on this collaboration between toyota and ford to benefit american society and to open a new page in the history of the world automobile industry.
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our  customers’ experience with their vehicles.”
the idea to work together to improve the hybrid technology is a way to  leverage their knowledge to improve the trucks faster.
“in 1997, we (toyota) launched the first-generation prius, the  world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
ford and toyota have been working independently on their own future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually adapt the system into their own vehicles.
both companies plan to participate equally in the  project to hasten the product to market – the new vehicles will also have  state-of-the-art telematics and internet services on board – but  don’t expect anything until later “this decade.”
our competitive stance will help maximize benefits for customers  and for society at large.