for example, we launched our gazoo automotive portal  site in nineteen ninety-eight (1998).
great advances in  information technology and in communications are transforming the world.
we have just signed a memorandum of understanding for collaboration with ford.
that is when we launched the first-generation prius as the world’s first mass-production gasoline-electric hybrid.
we at toyota believe that cars can and will become partners in more-fulfilling lifestyles.
our collaboration with ford is a move to  make hybrid technology more widely available in sport-utility vehicles and in  trucks.
we expect to create exciting and socially beneficial technologies with ford, and we can do so because our 2 companies have enough experience to create a synergy effect in hybrid technology and in telematics.
tags: ford toyota advanced technology hybrid system telematics related assets other articles in news releases: < back - toyota announces north american leadership changes - 2013 rx luxury utility vehicle unveiled at geneva motor show - 2013 lexus rx 450h product information - 2013 lexus rx 350 product information - toyota production techniques boost home reconstruction in new orleans ©2012 toyota motor sales, u.s.a., inc. - toyota.com - lexus.com - scion.com - toyotafinancial.com - toyota.com/esq/ - toyota-global.com - legal terms you must be logged in to view this item.
that will help raise overall energy efficiency, and motoring lifestyles will become more rewarding.
in closing, let me sum up my thoughts on this collaboration.
we have sold about three-point-three (3.3) million hybrid vehicles in about eighty (80) nations.
information technology and communications will play a big role in future transport.
at the same time, we will compete harder than ever in the spirit of “making great cars.”
please include any notes in the "supporting information for media credentials" box.
as an  engineer, i will be deeply gratified to see us fulfill those aims.
we at toyota believe that cars can  and will become partners in more-fulfilling lifestyles.
if you qualify, please update your user profile and check the box marked "check here to register as an accredited member of the news media".
the use of these materials for advertising, marketing or any other commercial purpose is prohibited.
in the meantime, we are grateful for your interest and  understanding.
offering safe cars is a given for any automaker, but one can say the greatest challenges are “conserving energy” and “reducing greenhouse gas.”
ford has also been building telematics systems and for the same reasons.
those kinds of models are indispensable to american customers.
copyright notice all materials on this site are for editorial use only.
both companies will now begin making preparations for joint work on new technologies.
takeshi uchiyamada , executive vice president, toyota motor coporation click here for ford/toyota collaboration news release thank  you, mr. kuzak.
that is when we launched  the first-generation prius as the world’s first mass-production  gasoline-electric hybrid.
we at  toyota have commercialized several technologies in anticipation of the coming  revolution in telematics.
both companies will now begin making preparations for  joint work on new technologies.
by sharing our know-how and  experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services going  forward.
in closing, let me sum up my thoughts on this  collaboration.
our competitive stance will help maximize benefits for customers and for society at large.
and it is a traditional leader in sport-utility vehicles and  in trucks.
we expect to create exciting and socially beneficial  technologies with ford, and we can do so because our 2 companies have enough  experience to create a synergy effect in hybrid technology and in telematics.
we are counting on those technologies to benefit customers in the united states and around the world.
we are counting on those technologies to  benefit customers in the united states and around the world.
since then, we have begun producing hybrid  vehicles in the united states, china, europe, australia, and thailand, as well  as in japan.
to download these materials, you must agree to abide by these terms.
that was our thinking in  considering the collaboration.
that was our thinking in considering the collaboration.
it has been more than hundred years since the first car was born, and our industry is now facing several challenges.
and automobiles need to be part of those advances.
so we are extremely honored to be undertaking preparations for joint work with ford.
the foundation  for the changes that i am describing will be telematics technologies.
as an engineer, i will be deeply gratified to see us fulfill those aims.
our collaboration with ford is a move to make hybrid technology more widely available in sport-utility vehicles and in trucks.
tags: ford toyota advanced technology hybrid system telematics related assets other articles in news releases: toyota announces north american leadership changes 2013 rx luxury utility vehicle unveiled at geneva motor show 2013 lexus rx 450h product information 2013 lexus rx 350 product information toyota production techniques boost home reconstruction in new orleans < back
the foundation for the changes that i am describing will be telematics technologies.
we will notify you of your status via e-mail in one business day.
we  have a lot of details to work out with ford before we can tell you more about  our collaboration.
we have sold about three-point-three (3.3) million hybrid vehicles  in about eighty (80) nations.
they will be part of a larger interaction with  other vehicles and with the transport infrastructure.
we have just signed a memorandum of understanding for  collaboration with ford.
ford was also a pioneer in developing  hybrid technology.
and  providing them with our hybrid technology will help conserve energy and reduce  output of greenhouse gas here in the united states.
ford was also a pioneer in developing hybrid technology.
at the same time, we will compete harder than ever in the spirit of  “making great cars.”
vehicles will no longer be self-contained units.
in the future, plug-in hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles will be connected with home energy systems, and with energy infrastructure.
cars will  fulfill a new role in people’s lives.
we at toyota have commercialized several technologies in anticipation of the coming revolution in telematics.
ford has also been building telematics systems  and for the same reasons.
toyota achieved a breakthrough  in these challenges in nineteen ninety-seven (1997).
so we are extremely honored to be undertaking preparations for joint  work with ford.
great advances in information technology and in communications are transforming the world.
cars will fulfill a new role in people’s lives.
we need to think carefully about how to ensure that cars remain valuable to society in their second century.
and we began offering our g-book telematics service in two thousand two (2002).
we are counting on  this collaboration  between toyota and ford to benefit american society  and to open a new page in the history of the world automobile industry.
and we began offering our g-book  telematics service in two thousand two (2002).
and it is a traditional leader in sport-utility vehicles and in trucks.
in the u.s., we have just  introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
they will be part of a larger interaction with other vehicles and with the transport infrastructure.
for example, we launched our gazoo automotive portal site in nineteen ninety-eight (1998).
our competitive stance will help maximize  benefits for customers and for society at large.
we need to think carefully about how to ensure that  cars remain valuable to society in their second century.
and  automobiles need to be part of those advances.
since then, we have begun producing hybrid vehicles in the united states, china, europe, australia, and thailand, as well as in japan.
in the future, plug-in hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles  will be connected with home energy systems, and with energy infrastructure.
and providing them with our hybrid technology will help conserve energy and reduce output of greenhouse gas here in the united states.
login: password: this area is reserved for members of the news media.
offering safe cars is a given for any automaker,  but one can say the greatest challenges are “conserving energy” and  “reducing greenhouse gas.”
that will help raise overall energy efficiency, and motoring lifestyles will  become more rewarding.
vehicles will no  longer be self-contained units.
in the meantime, we are grateful for your interest and understanding.
we have a lot of details to work out with ford before we can tell you more about our collaboration.
- corporate - biographies - production/relief updates - executive speeches - awards - company history - multidistrict litigation - toyota - lexus - scion - manufacturing/engineering/design - sales/financial - advanced technology - philanthropy - environmental - safety/recall - search all content limit to press releases limit to photos/video limit to albums limit to press kits - advanced search - - - - toyota - lexus - scion - manufacturing/engineering - corporate - - toyota - lexus - scion - manufacturing/engineering - corporate - - cars - avalon - camry - corolla - matrix - yaris - truck/utility/van - 4runner - fj cruiser - highlander - land cruiser - rav4 - sequoia - sienna - tacoma - tundra - venza - hybrids - camry hybrid - highlander hybrid - prius - prius c - prius v - prius plug-in - future vehicles - concept vehicles - - cars - es - f sport - gs - is - is c - is f - lfa - ls - utility - hybrids - future vehicles - concept vehicles - lifestyle - - fr-s - iq - tc - xb - xd - future vehicles - concept vehicles - email alerts - search: keywords: advanced search categories: toyota advanced technology executive speeches corporate environmental august 22, 2011 ford/toyota collaboration - takeshi uchiyamada ford/toyota collaboration dearborn, mich. aug. 22, 2011 takeshi uchiyamada , executive vice president, toyota motor coporation click here for ford/toyota collaboration news release thank you, mr. kuzak.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services going forward.
it has  been more than hundred years since the first car was born, and our industry is  now facing several challenges.
toyota achieved a breakthrough in these challenges in nineteen ninety-seven (1997).
we are counting on this collaboration between toyota and ford to benefit american society and to open a new page in the history of the world automobile industry.
they may be cropped but not otherwise modified.
in the u.s., we have just introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we can transform what is considered as a “dream” into “practical reality.”
information technology  and communications will play a big role in future transport.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we can  transform what is considered as a “dream” into “practical  reality.”