on-board generation of  electricity for filling in the engine's torque holes and whatnot, offers a  smaller bang for the technological buck (the electricity's chemical storage and  recovery involve not-inconsiderable losses).
all reliable evidence clearly points to the ford being a superior vehicle.
i made one long highway trip, 250 miles each way.
on-board generation of electricity for filling in the engine's torque holes and whatnot, offers a smaller bang for the technological buck (the electricity's chemical storage and recovery involve not-inconsiderable losses).
am i ordered a ford fusion 2010 hybrid in february, and picked it up in march.
this is in michigan, so the expressways are pretty flat, but i live in ann arbor, so the local driving has a lot of rolling hills.
the guy that said ford is crap obviously hasn't driven one outside of a rental fleet.
its like the valedictorian vs. most improved!!
ford is crap, plain and simple and i am sorry many biased americans fail to see it.
the 33.5 mpg you logged during your fusion hybrid test should also "be regarded as the lead-foot basement of the scale" but it seems very unlikely the fusion hybrid will achieve the epa numbers (38.5) in real-driving.
darn, there goes getting added to ford's christmas card list yet again.
start by receiving a no-hassle quote for auto financing.
something isn't right here!
registered badass - 01/09/09 11:18 am so, uh..who won?
so before you start with your "driver returned on foot" crap get the facts pal!
but i'll take the ford any day.
with that said i still think both cars are winner, and the import fans and dom fans should just chill, we all know you will only buy for you home team.
ultrafastped - 08/02/09 09:52
except that it leaves a yawning, 5-mpg  disparity betwixt it and the government's combined average of 38.5.
am i have 26,345 on my 2010 ffh and i can not understand how hard people must try to get some of these low mileage numbers.
motortrend_online - 01/09/09 02:31 pm couple of things to point out here: car and driver's test average over 300 miles with the fusion hybrid =
compared with thecamry hybrid, its willingness to remain in ev mode is delightful (up to 47 mph while tickling the accelerator -- see our graphic of measurements gleaned from obd2 port to prove it).
i looked that the fusion, and drove it, but i was not impressed with the car at all.
nice try though, but i find the fusion design to be a bit gooey looking.
the 43 mpg they achieved was on a carefully scripted route by ford, and not more than some 60 miles in the car.
syj - 01/13/09 10:27 am fusion looks better and has better handling and full tax credit.
if it performs as well as you've shown, it is only stepping up to the competition and will be trailing again with a camry redesign.
the mileage on the outbound segment was 54 mpg, and on the way back was 55 mpg.
acceleration to mph 0-30 3.0 2.8 sec 0-40 4.5 4.2 0-50 6.3 5.7 0-60 8.4 7.7 0-70 10.7 10 0-80 13.6 12.9 0-90 17.1 16.3 passing, 45-65 mph 4.1 3.9 digifreak22225 - 01/10/09 03:44 am motortrend drivers tend to have a lead foot...
like someone quoted before that autoblog recorded 43 mpg in city driving!
highspeed themxnblood - 01/09/09 12:42 pm this is so weird!
turbogsx04 - 01/09/09 11:29 am the ford of course frank markus - 01/09/09 11:25 am this is more of a comparison each car's tech and mileage, but there is a winner, on page 2
providing the final nudge to the scale are the ford's nifty new reconfigurable instrument pod, and more important, the fusion's notably more involving driving experience.
btw, i'm not interested on this one.
yet still i managed a fine 33.8-mpg average.
and simply put, the fusion delivers those subjective goods better than any hybrid on the market.
see all 42 comments videos 2013 gmc acadia unveiling video the 2013 gmc acadia is unveiled in this video courtesy... 2012 detroit: honda accord concept video editor-in-chief edward loh goes over honda's accord concept coupe and... 2012 detroit: 2013 hyundai genesis coupe video more >> hyundai is taking it up a notch with their new... featured - related articles - most popular - latest news - economy five-door hatchback comparison shiftbox revolution: we search for the king of the five-door subcompact - - first test: 2012 bmw 328i sport four the love of driving - - 2012 chevrolet corvette grand sport coupe vs. 2012 porsche 911 carrera s 36 hour sports cars: pitting piech's latest porsche against arkus-duntov's heir - - preview ride: tesla model x prototype haven't heard the term 'falcon doors?'
trdsmokedu - 02/09/09 05:19 pm fordtrucks, you and your redneck friends are the reason the american auto industry is the way it is.
you supported the junk they build.
it looks better and it provides the same all around performance than the camry.
jefemacheteafilado - 01/09/09 01:47 pm
short story fusion wipes the floor with camry.
the camrys, although from toyota which was started in japan, are providing jobs for americans and tax to the american government.
although the taillights on the fusion look similar to the ones on the subaru legacys, which is somewhat disappointing.
chaise1984 - 01/09/09 01:36 pm i find it funny that the camry pretty won won outright on everything, but still wanted to make the fusion win.
i drive 31 miles to work one-way during rush hour on a us route with way too many stoplights, but it's flat.
of course, that's not to say that the fusion hybrid isn't a great piece of work by ford overall, by all accounts it is.
my pick would be the fusion.
you must one of the many biased americans who cannot see the truth.
please folks, tell me how you think the fusion is a better performer?
i have owned nothing but.
the volume level of its ev-audio experience has just enough whine to provide that vital soundtrack of efficiency.
i called praveen cherian, ford's hybrid program leader to find out "so, kim, what mileage did you get...?
i have lots of green leaves ...
as mr. cherian points out, the primary benefit of a hybrid is its recapture of kinetic energy otherwise lost to braking.
the fusion is definatly way better.
this way you can get your facts straight because mine are.
ford backward is drivers, return
your mileage will definitely vary 2010 ford fusion buyer's guide msrp:
trdtundra - 01/19/09 06:15 pm coffee, i have driven and owned many fords, and i stand-by my opinion, they are crap.
no doctor phil, in the c@d comparo between the camry, fusion, etc.
mxmastro - 10/29/09 12:56 pm
i have owned fords for years and have had no major problem.
explore your financing options!
- mt classic - mobile - newsletter - mt radio subscribe - home - new cars - used cars - road tests - auto shows - news - future - videos - photos - features - forums - wot - subscribe - gift - digital - services - mt classic home > road tests > alternative > comparison: 2010 ford fusion hybrid vs 2009 toyota camry hybrid comparison: 2010 ford fusion hybrid vs 2009 toyota camry hybrid
e60_ - 01/09/09 04:26 pm
i have driven my fusion hybrid now for 3000+ with no mileage reset and it is still averaging 42.7...better than advertised.
and furthermore the only fords that you have probably ever owned is a 80's tempo or an early 90's taurus.
most likely because it's cheaper, faster, more fuel efficient in real life
i don't care about acceleration-
in short only a *** cool-aid drinkin, hype believing, storefront 'truck guy,' numbers geek, you, thinks the camry hybrid could be a better car.
this is my third camry
pm i will take fusion.
bentrider_mi - 04/25/10 09:08 pm
damn i talk alot sometimes.
in the end, toyota would have my money.
see how much you can save!
i also remember mt editors saying this!!
trouble is, our early observations have thefusion's overall number floating around 33.5 mpg.
what's the buzz about?
perhaps he is a lead foot?
i have owned 4 fords in the past, all of them were terrible vehicles that on many occassions left me stranded.
my all time average is 40.8 this has not been reset for probably 15,000 miles.
other drivers, carefully following the ecoguide displays, were able to record city averages of more of 43 mpg on a similar route""" bbkk - 01/09/09 12:40 pm
i mostly drive around town, and my average after four months and 2500 miles is 41.3 mpg.
what's the buzz  about?
and if you read consumer reports, which i don't believe you ever have, they have said countless times, that ford has shown the most improvement out of all the american companies and their quality is just as good as toyrota and honda.
while  our early experience suggests the real-world mileages of the fusion and  gold-standardcamry are closer than ford might like, that doesn't mean the  fusion still isn't the better hybrid (and potentially capable of super mileage).
n/a mpg range: 18 - 36 mpg body style: sedan page tools print share email rss from the january, 2009 issue of motor trend by kim reynolds | photos brian vance tweet | click to view gallery
proverbs - 01/09/09 11:53 am cut to the chase: in the comparison of mileage and performance, the camry won.
it is best not to take off like a snail this uses up battery charge.
i thought this was a you vs you thing.
auto loan quote want to save money on your next auto purchase?
do some research, there are many people with not as high mpg on the fusion.
i have never had a problem with a ford...ever...in 30 years of driving them.
i have had the fusion hybrid for about 3 months now and i have put on 7324 miles up until now.
it seems that hybrid buyers have now established a set of  experiential expectations for what a "good hybrid" is.
although if i were to get a hybrid, i would pass by both the fusion and the camry and head straight toward the new insight and save my cash.
if you read the manual it says that for the first 2000 miles your mileage will be lower than the epa estimates and then will slowly rise and the level off (it has something to do with the conditioning of the battery).
the mileage may be about equal
the only thing i did was maintenance.
i have had major problems with the toyotas i've owned: mushy cornering, broken a/c's, windows that quit working (major irritation), fabric that falls out and hangs, sun visors that won't stay where you put them, water pumps that quit working for no reason, battery connections that corrode continuously and have to be replaced, the list goes on.
notably, the pressure to meet these hybrid expectations is now so high that manufacturers will knowingly trade a little efficiency to deliver those experiential goods.
this car is definitely a winner, even if the sticker price is slightly higher than the toyota's the tax credit should bring it close or even lower than the toyota.
-rwc- - 01/09/09 10:48 pm
its got better performance, better new technology, and better gas efficiency.
another foreing vs domestic comparison.
panhandlewilly - 12/04/09 06:58
whens the last time youve seen an old toyota on the road?
seriously, if it wasn't for the bias, ford would have improved its quality decades ago because they would have been hurting so bad!
something that people like you don't do on a regular basis, and when something breaks it is automatically ford's fault or gm's fault that they didn't engineer a vehicle that you can just drive without even changing the oil.
two numbers -- 41 and 36 -- which the government has certified as the midsizeford's official city and highway ratings.
" with the similar size, power and mpg numbers during your comparison test, i too am perplexed by the epa estimate of 41/36 for the fusion hybrid especially considering it has a smaller electric motor and greater weight.
if i hyper mile i can achieve 50's to 60's in town on tank after tank.
keep drinking that coffee, it has obviously gotten to your brain.
in retrospect, though, there was nothing to be disappointed about.
my friend that drives a camry hybrid in similar fashion gets 36 (and hers mpg guage auto-resets with every tank...
compared with thecamry hybrid, its willingness to remain  in ev mode is delightful (up to 47 mph while tickling the accelerator -- see  our graphic of measurements gleaned from obd2 port to prove it).
if you like the *** cars so much go live in japan.
hmmm...suspicious at best).
yeah i gotta cheer for the home team on this one, the fusion is clearly better in every way/shape/form.
this was one piece that was too long, drawn out and a bit boring.
and the trunk space is also noticeably less impacted by its battery pack.
most of car magazines i have read so far have always said the fusion is way more fuel-efficient in real world mileage.
i go 35-40 in all electric for miles with no problem driving like this.
stvdude - 12/31/09 12:31 pm the fusion is the better hybrid panhandlewilly - 12/04/09 07:56 am trd, i know this is some months old…but only a numbers geek, you, would ascribe any meaningful difference between the acceleration figures you quote.
if you read past the headline hype of autoblog's review, they freely admit that most real world driving would be in the 35-37 mpg range.
my camry in the dc area gets 41 mpg on a trip going 70 mph and it gets 36.5 mpg going to work and back.
let the war of bloggers begin!!!!!
for the first 1-2k i was averaging around 34mpg on the highway and around 39mpg in the city.
so please pack up your trailer and move to mexico or canada since this is where many of the fords are being made! redms3 - 01/23/09 07:37 pm toyota camry: made in usa ford fusion: made in mexico some times you have to wonder, which buy helps the us of a more-- and which one helps the mexicans?
two numbers -- 41 and 36 -- which the government has certified as the  midsizeford's official city and highway ratings.
yep, the camry may be plain, but according to consumer reports, the overall reliability and depreciation is much better than a crappy ford.
as mr. cherian points  out, the primary benefit of a hybrid is its recapture of kinetic energy  otherwise lost to braking.
hey,  that's an excellent result in our book.
can you achieve 40-plus mpg in the fusion hybrid?
it seemed like the same typical ford of the past which in a short time will fall apart and cost way more to maintain.
of the most reliable cars 37 out of 47 belonged to japanese cars, 3 for america.
toyota's tax credit expired last year.
solosoldier - 01/16/09 03:49 am i'm with the camry because in 2 years, it will be redesigned while the fusion will still be on this platform.
shut its engine down very quickly when it decelerates.
am i take major exception to the mileage test.
i think both these cars are winners, i like how long they went with it (i think it was because they were trying to make a case for the fusion)
why else do they include roadside assistance?
and simply put, the fusion delivers those subjective goods better than any  hybrid on the market.
drfill - 01/09/09 06:09
" "umm, about 33 and a half."
so why don’t you pick up a book and learn to read.
http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/cars/used-cars/reliability/best-worst-in-car-reliability-1005/most-least-reliable-new-cars/0704_most-least-reliable-new-cars.htm and even jd power places toyota above ford in quality and dependability.
of course its gonna win!!
they drove about 300 miles.
am i can tell you as an owner of the 2009 camry hybrid that toyota give customers that expect reliability and a reasonable ride exactly what we want.
you should evaluate them like the buyers shopping them would.
in all honesty, i would still buy the camry hybrid.
will anyone driving it like you normally drive a car achieve those numbers on any sort of consistent basis?
that being said, great job ford!
pm why wouldn't people be willing to change their driving habits?
so what's up with the fusion?
since my car was made in kentucky, i feel that i gave americans the work to build my car.
"so what kind of driving was that?"
i get anything from 30's to 70's in town driving depending on the charge of the battery and what accessories are running.
fordtrucks77 - 01/21/09 07:12 am hey maverick430,get a life pal!
cleeto78 - 01/10/09 01:54 am one more thing, "the most glaring difference is probably the fusion's hollow door handle thunk when it's released - what a silly thing to allow into production."
trouble is, our early  observations have thefusion's overall number floating around 33.5 mpg.
however, the gas mileage difference is perceptible...in fact it's significant.
next page >> click to view gallery click to view gallery view all 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | >> 42 comments please enter your username please enter your password
http://www.jdpower.com/autos/ratings/quality-ratings-by-brand/sortcolumn-0/ascending/page-1#page-anchor http://www.jdpower.com/autos/ratings/dependability-ratings-by-brand
i called praveen cherian, ford's hybrid  program leader to find out "so, kim, what mileage did you get...?
the volume  level of its ev-audio experience has just enough whine to provide that vital  soundtrack of efficiency.
of the least reliable, 29 belonged to america and 2 belonged to japanese.
highspeed themxnblood - 01/09/09 12:59 pm that says it all!!!
i might be a little interested.
so the camry was faster, more efficient, and cheaper, plus no 1st year teething issues, plus higher resale.
autoblog recorded 43 mpg!!
do not assume you know what i have driven; you know what assuming makes of you?
while our early experience suggests the real-world mileages of the fusion and gold-standardcamry are closer than ford might like, that doesn't mean the fusion still isn't the better hybrid (and potentially capable of super mileage).
wot read more wot - mansory’s mac: mclaren mp4-12c tricked out by swiss tuner posted 32 minutes days ago |comments (0) - teased:
operate as an ev up to as high a speed as possible in the city and have its engine's relighting be unnoticeable.
posted 15 hours days ago | comments (45) rss - home - | - new cars - | - used cars - | - car reviews - | - auto shows - | - future cars - | - car prices - | - car pictures - | - auto rebates - | - site map - dealer - | - car dealers - | - car insurance - | - used car dealers - | - mt classic - | - subscribe - | - give a gift - | - subscriber services - | - mt classic subscription - espanol - | - rss - | - partners - | - licensing - | - reprints - | - user submitted content - | - privacy policy - | - ad choices - | - advertise with us - | - contact us - | - terms of use © 2012 motortrend magazine , source interlink media all rights reserved.
my current running mileage with last reset around 3,000 miles ago is 41.8.
click to view gallery "about 500 miles of typical mixed use -- highway driving, city driving; you know, everything you'd do with a car."
jeinstein - 01/09/09 01:13 pm
funny a list from consumer reports shows the most and least reliable cars/trucks.
maybe customers will be willing to change driving habits to get those kinds of numbers.. trdtundra - 01/11/09 06:01
shut its engine down very quickly  when it decelerates.
the camry hybrid was a good vehicle for it's day, but it's vanilla in 2009 and as of this moment now the fusion is at least this year the honest winner.
if the fusion performs like the epa says and possibly even better by the drivers at fueleconomy.gov, it will have set a new bar for mid-size hybrids.
good job ford, but toyota continues to impress...
now if i watch my gauges religiously i am able to get in the high 50s and mid 60s for city but no matter what i average 38 on the highway.
you must be logged in to comment | create account username remember me password dennisw - 08/12/11
toyotanation - 01/09/09 03:15
tsnow27604 - 01/09/09 01:07
this ain't 'testing'...it's the real world.
i keep up with traffic and don't annoyingly hypermile...and i'm averaging 42.7!
toyota and ford will be playing leap frog with their new hybrid innovations for the next couple of years now, just watch gt500sprsnke - 01/09/09 03:33 pm camry's crap.
and it's quite popular.
we own a 2010 fusion hybrid.
frankly, i'm sick of you guys comparing everything to a ferrari.
recording more than 40 mpg on the fusion's trip computer is not hard if you work at it, see frank markus' blog for more on that: http://blogs.motortrend.com/6412966/green/cold-weather-hybrid-mpg-test-ford-fusion-hybrid-vs-nissan-altima-hybrid/index.html kim reynolds spent 500 miles in the car, and drove it in a number of different real world scenarios.
even if the fusion supposedly won it will probably be short-lived.
you and your *** car lovin buddies are the main reason the american auto industry is in the shape it is in.
the fusion hybrid drives great!
ford should stay alive so they can continue to make good looking cars.
i've had many fords, and all have been good, solid vehicles.
carnyc - 01/09/09 11:40 am ok
what a 'silly' thing to nit pick about.
sport driving enthusiasts these cars' target market is not!!
operate as an ev up to as high a speed as possible in the  city and have its engine's relighting be unnoticeable.
the us camry hybrid is made in kentucky -rwc- - 01/09/09 10:49 pm oh ya, the camry hybrid doesnt qualify for a tax credit anymore.
praveen calmly followed up.
next, you guys make a terrible assumption that people won't change their driving behavior when behind the wheel of these things.
it is by far a superior vehicle, and best of all it is made by an american company.
ford is far from solid a solid turd maybe but that is pushing it.
according to the numbers above and again printed here, the camry is overall better.
however, a few years from now when toyota revamps the camry hybrid, it will be much improved.
the most interesting part was the mileage differences between mt and epa.
from the january, 2009 issue of motor trend by kim reynolds |  photos brian vance tweet click to  view gallery
i get mid 40's on the highway without doing anything except stay at 70 and below.
cleeto78 - 01/10/09 01:51 am first of all, when has motor trend ever gotten anything close to the epa mileage for the cars they test?!
i am here to either throw fuel on this fire or help put it out.
drive a real car and you'll see the difference.
looks much better though.
notably, the pressure to meet  these hybrid expectations is now so high that manufacturers will knowingly  trade a little efficiency to deliver those experiential goods.
ford revealing 2013 f-series super duty next friday posted 10 hours days ago |comments (41) - thread of the day: your definition of a musclecar posted 14 hours days ago |comments (74) - our cars: 2012 kia optima limited — baby steps upmarket posted 15 hours days ago |comments (12) - mid-size sedan sales: fusion’s 3rd place spot restored in february
you should take off moderate to the speed limit and then go into electric this will charge your battery and give longer all electric driving and with good charge 47 mph is easy for a short distance.
now i get around 44 in the city and 38 on the highway.
don’t ever put found on road dead vehicles on the same level as any japanese competitor.
this winter, when the engine had to run more to keep the body and batteries warm, we averaged 35 mpg mostly highway with about 25% city, now that it is warmer i usually get 38.5 mpg on the highway at 75 mph and get 41 mpg if i drive at 65 instead.
and the trunk  space is also noticeably less impacted by its battery pack.
except that it leaves a yawning, 5-mpg disparity betwixt it and the government's combined average of 38.5.
it seems that hybrid buyers have now established a set of experiential expectations for what a "good hybrid" is.
oh, that's right; the blindfold known as bias is doing its job, and that's what chrysler and gm are counting on: bias.
carnyc - 01/09/09 11:21 am oh boy here we go again!
so it is actually cheaper then the official granny mobile, much better looking, and you would be supporting american jobs if you bought it, camry hybrid is built in japan, not the us of a btw.
it replaced a ten year old ford taurus.
all-in-all, i am very happy with my purchase.
the only thing i do different is i start from standing stops a bit more slowly than before, based on the feedback from the green leaves.
they're imperceptible in the cockpit.
i sensed a vibe of disappointment and decided to change the subject.
but it's not so loud as to be annoying.
dosomereading - 01/09/09 11:36 pm vtec:
: but first, we'll cut to the chase and right up front anoint the fusion as our overall pick of the two.
"""during the launch drive, i attempted to game the results by gunning away from stoplights and generally doing everything i could to burn up gas and electricity.
more from aol autos • gps tracking devices warrant fears • our man defends his minivan love • 2011 best tailgate vehicles check insurance rates save money on your car insurance!
i sensed a vibe of  disappointment and decided to change the subject.
the fusion was middle-ground in acceleration, had the best mpg, and it qualifies for a tax credit(the fusion)
coffeejolts - 01/19/09 01:37 am seems like everyone + dog except mt is getting the claimed mpg from the fusion.
in my opionion though the camry is still the better pick here.
"the epa is perhaps more conservative with the camry hybrid: epa-34 combined mpg, fueleconomy.gov-36.4 mpg." mt- "...our own long-term experiences with a camry hybrid (33.5 mpg) should be regarded as the lead-foot basement of the scale.
and as for my pick, i'd still go with the fusion-- according to consumer reports, it is very reliable, and it is impressively efficient.
kept almost every one of them well over 200k and bought another one.
darn, there goes getting  added to ford's christmas card list yet again.
however, i must admit, based on looks; focus is better, way better.
dsavio - 01/11/09 08:19 pm http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-neil19-2008dec19,0,1742816.story dan neil from la times get 52.8 mpg during media drives of the ford fusion hybrid.
with toyota, you will not need it.
click to view gallery "about 500 miles of typical mixed use -- highway driving, city  driving; you know, everything you'd do with a car."
i would buy an american based car if their quality ever improves to the same level as the toyota brand.
i really don't think they had to be becayse the fusion does hold its own against the camry and did beat the camry in some areas.
good luck to anyone that buys the fusion, you will certainly need it when it breaks down on you.
we have driven the fusion hybrid for 8,000 miles and have had zero problems with it.
ford is a solid ride.
in the car and driver comparo, the ford fusion actually beat out the camry in fuel economy!
i'm not sure why the reviewer got such low mileage ...
fords are not solid, and according to consumer reports, they are not as highly ranked as the competition from toyota, honda, nissan, vw, subarau, and even mazda which they partly own.
tamarack - 01/09/09 01:47
i have owned both makes of car.
additionally you can drive this car very aggressively and and average 37-38 with a mix of city and highway.
the editors like the fusion better.
it took ford long enough to catch up with toyota in the hybrid game and hopefully they'll stay up to task.
hey, that's an excellent result in our book.
start by receiving a no-hassle quote for auto insurance.
this is the very first time that a car magazine says the fusion isn't that fuel-efficient!
it should start up exclusively in ev mode.
(in all of their epa tests of all cars) that said, the fusion achieved 45 mpg on the other front page story today, versus the altima hybrid, in cold weather too!
although the epa has come a long way in rehabilitating its reputation as a creditable source of mileage numbers, that newfound respectability could be suffering a hiccup with the all-new,2010 ford fusion hybrid.
although the epa has come a long way in rehabilitating its reputation as a  creditable source of mileage numbers, that newfound respectability could be  suffering a hiccup with the all-new,2010 ford fusion hybrid.
lets not forget the current camry hybrid is based on 4 year old technology and toyota will be bringing out a new prius for 2010, which will undoubtedly find its way into the next camry as well.