no chance, but at these prices these crossovers do include numerous family-friendly gadgets, like navigation systems, high-end stereos, heated leather seats, plus the requisite back-up camera so you don't run over the dog.
guess they finally woke up and found out americans want american car companies to sell good cars here too.
the average consumer won't notice the difference between a fwd car and a rwd car.
99.9% of people don't take their cars on a racetrack so for their driving purposes the es, c class, and 3 series are all the same class of cars.
or will they cut back on quality to maximize profits? ...
until recently ford and gm had some great cars that were only sold in europe and asia.
you don't really drive them; you just sort of ride along.
that's pretty handy when your arms are full of stuff that you plan to put into the cargo area.
the c class and 3 series would have lost to the lacrosse because the comparison of the es favored features and price, not performance.
you can see how the battle is shaping up based on future product.
yes it was slightly faster but the es was also more expensive, more poorly equipped, uglier, smaller and older.
so i guess edmunds would prefer the lacrosse over the a6 as well?
naturally, it's standard on the crosstour with navigation, and the venza offers it as an option.
they are all entry level luxury sedans that are in the same price range.
news volvo hopes to tap 'linsanity' in china » news 2013 subaru brz in short supply » news 2012 dodge avenger se v6 priced from $22,345 » news mansory rethinks the cls63 amg » news bmw partners with stitcher for infotainment » news roding roadster revealed: 2012 geneva » news 2012 ford focus electric qualifies for » news 2012 buick regal recalled » features riding in the 2012 aston martin one-77 » news feds probe 2005-'06 ford taurus
some other food for thought: if all the domestic automakers were not being brought to their knees due to the financial meltdown, would they still focus on quality?
you won't find any big, heavy truck parts underneath their skins either.
not up to the standards of the loaded 2007 mb ml320 i'm getting out of, but much better than the venza.
they were given a choice: make quality cars or be destroyed by the imports.
most 3 series owners wouldnt be caught dead in an es350.
that has changed and they also believe americans will pay more for excellent small cars.
51 photos | see more photos in this gallery » comparison comparison test: 2010 honda accord crosstour vs. 2009
they just didnt know how to get quality built in for years because they had to dissect every aspect of toyota/honda's engineering and production systems and figure out how to implement them.
these are wagons, and it's what's inside that counts.
in the 2010 honda accord crosstour, we found that a large suitcase and a stroller fit a little tight, while the venza had room to spare with the same load.
28-point evaluation (20%): each participating editor ranked each vehicle based on a comprehensive 28-point evaluation.
the 80s is actually when many of the changes were being implemented to catch up to the japanese.
a "few" domestic cars are good?
they could have done this a decade or two ago.
in the same comparison the a6 would have also lost to the lacrosse.
to626n says: 12:47 am, 01/22/2010 1487,
it's also filled with nicer materials that are screwed together with more precision.
big backyards the whole point of these vehicles is the extra cargo room out back, so here's what you can expect.
they knew they had better products overseas.
believe me, the us corolla and civic wouldnt cut it in europe which is one reason why toyota/honda arent all that successful over there.
the extra gear helps the venza quite a bit, as it hits 60 mph from a stop nearly a second quicker than the crosstour (6.9 seconds versus 7.8 seconds), despite weighing 73 pounds more than the honda (4,108 pounds versus 4,035 pounds).
there's a high-mounted shift lever on the elevated center console and a simplified climate control layout.
the es is larger, fwd, softer, offers no manual transmission, etc.
don't care and its not relevant.
it's also faster down a freeway on-ramp and slightly easier on the wallet at the pump.
feature content (20%): for this category, the editors picked the top five features they thought would be most beneficial to the consumer shopping in this segment.
for further comparison, consider the fact that the accord and camry sedans offer roughly 14 cubic feet of space in their trunks.
"so i say this again, looking at how skewed the comparison between the es and lacrosse was, the c class and 3 series would have lost to the buick as well."
do the math on this equation and i'm utterly indifferent.
and both cars are passionless family haulers.
dashboard texture really does look cheap and leather seating looked cheap to me too.
you really must be dense or don't get out enough.
each car was awarded points based on how close it came to the better-performing car's score in each category.
stomp the throttle in the honda and the gearbox thinks about it first before shelling out the horsepower.
why do i care about quality of toyota in 1975?
the venza offers a base model with an inline-4, but even that starts at $26k. get loaded-up versions as we did and you're looking at $37,000 for the honda and just over $39,000 for the toyota.
again- how is this relevant?
notice that almost every single chevy ad takes a knock at toyota or honda.
press a button on the key fob and the hatch automatically opens and closes.
honda has little to talk about, toyota is promising more dull hybrids and little else and gm, ford, hyundai and vw are preparing full fledged product assaults primarily in the segments long dominated by the japanese.
the details are done very well inside the crosstour and it shows.
i challenge you to find anyone that would prefer the lacrosse to the a6.
it's all connected to a reconfigurable center console between the front seats that includes cupholders, ipod connections and extra storage room.
allow me to educate you.
if maximum capacity is a priority, the 2009 toyota venza wins with a total of 70 cubic feet of space compared to the crosstour's 50.1 cubic feet.
based on how cars are driven there is no reason for anyone to really own a bmw in the first place.
the manufacturers provided edmunds these vehicles for the purposes of evaluation.
both companies ads have drifted from talking about vehicles and attributes to unsubstantiated claims about quality and reliability and claims about how many 20 year old cars are on the road.
to expect anything more than a sedate driving experience from either of these wagons is asking too much.
other than its slightly higher seating position, the crosstour feels almost identical to the accord from behind the wheel.
subden says: 09:18 pm, 01/24/2010 i have to agree with edmunds comments on venza interior.
the evaluation covered everything from exterior design to cupholders.
ford will not make as much profit selling the new focus as they are making now with the current one.
at these prices, i would be more likely to purchase a ford edge, a buick enclave, or better yet a cts wagon.
the fact that the es lost doesnt make the test "skewed".
so here's the cliff's notes version of what i like and why: if it's a contest of powertrain and handling, the toyota venza wins this comparison.
competition from the imports were so fierce here that ford and gm were forced to bring those cars here.
they could've brought those models to the us years ago, gm and ford have only been trickling in those cars recently.
they would have lost to the buick as well.
using the "as tested" prices of the actual evaluation vehicles, the less expensive vehicle received a score of 100, with the remaining vehicle receiving a lesser score based on how much each one costs.
the venza's v6 sends 268 horsepower through a six-speed automatic transmission, while the crosstour uses five gears to distribute its 271 hp.
your friends may wince, but your family will love you.
what if they never went through a financial breakdown?
the second act of the station wagon second opinion top 5 features data and charts editors' evaluations final rankings and scoring explanation comparison second opinion senior road test editor josh jacquot says: it's hard to be passionate about mommy-mobiles like these.
in europe they will pay $30k for a compact- not here.
but, goodness, is the thing ever ugly.
what happens when they regain consumer confidence?
just ask the family riding with you.
cr claims nearly every ford product is above average in reliability.
you are spewing out typical toyota fanboy talking points-
but they arent good enough to convince open minded customers to buy toyota.
they aren't really cars and they aren't really suvs and they aren't really minivans (which i'm not ashamed to admit i love).
handling, too, is sharper in the venza thanks to more roll stiffness and bigger wheels and tires.
so-so pretty good good excellent you don't choose cars like these, you succumb to them.
why did it take them this long to realize their mistake?
if it weren't for the overboosted steering, the venza might actually be interesting to drive instead of merely pleasant.
it always feels like it wants to spring back to center and there's minimal road feel.
this is not altogether a bad thing.
ended up buying a murano le whose interior was vastly improved in 2009.
gto was a holden- didn't do well even though it was an excellent car.
why do we get the fusion while they get the mondeo?
you never really know that they're even along for the ride until you encounter a loss of traction at the front wheels, which sends power immediately to the rear wheels to help out.
its not aimed at the 3 series and it never has been.
for years they got away with it until consumers were finally fed up.
just because automotive mags don't consider these cars as competitors, doesn't mean consumers won't.
there is no miracle formula to cut costs while maintaining quality.
everyone except you knows this.
the 80s are a long time ago.
two sides of the same coin aside from their sizable backsides, the crosstour and the venza look and feel a lot like accord and camry sedans.
possibly more important is the fact that the venza offers an optional power-operated hatch and the crosstour doesn't.
both vehicles have 60/40-split second-row seats and both provide levers in the cargo area to fold them flat while you're loading up.
its powertrain is superior by virtue of actually motivating the car more quickly (despite a lower power rating), being more responsive and offering some control over its transmission via a manual shift gate.
not exactly the stuff of automotive legend, but once you take the plunge, you'll realize the compromise is worth it.
scoring was calculated on a point system, and the scores listed are averages based on all test participants' evaluations.
toyota and honda have been consistantly producing quality long lasting cars for the past three or four decades.
the station wagon is back honda and toyota have done their best to position these vehicles as something entirely new, crossovers that defy categorization — segment-busters, if you will.
mediocre cars are good enough for people like you who are still living in the past-
one minute you're rolling a 3 series coupe, the next minute your wife needs room to haul her gardening stuff and the kids want rear doors and a dvd player.
ooooh thats right gm wants you to use onstar instead.
like you, toyota doesn't understand that is has to compete for buyers who may not be enamored with the company's reputation built over the last 40 years.
you keep dancing around the reasons why it lost.
thats the exact kind of thinking that got detroit in trouble in the first place.
i gaurantee you no one would prefer the buick.
what 80s cars are you talking about?
there's a creativity in the honda's interior design and packaging that makes it more usable than the toyota.
toyota venza warrantywarranty information 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009 toyota venza performanceperformance information 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009 toyota venza comparison editors' evaluations evaluation - drive evaluation - ride evaluation - design evaluation - function evaluation - drive comparison final rankings and scoring explanation personal rating (2.5%): purely subjective.
the 3 series, c class, and es are in the same class because they are all entry level luxury vehicles that are in the same price range.
give credit where it's due.
kingfish4 says: 02:09 pm, 01/22/2010 both these vehicles perform the same function and resemble my old malibu maxx, at a price point of about $10k more.
the 70s are a long time ago.
because they were still making a profit.
the fact of the matter is people buy cars based on reputation, styling and what they can potentially do.
toyota and honda don't need to attack chevy because consumers know they have been making quality cars for almost half a century, which includes 1975.
the audi has less interior space, less features, and cost much more than the lacrosse so i guess edmunds would have preferred the lacrosse as well?
when you compare them with sedans, there are a few notable differences like the higher ride height and optional all-wheel-drive systems.
features 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009 toyota venzafeatures 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009
or will they go back to making shoddy but stylish cars?
more money for less space of these two cars vs a minivan doesn't make any sense to me.
some of this is helpful.
that's probably because the cabin is, in fact, identical to that of the accord sedan.
because now they realize it was sink or swim.
and like i said before no one knows the answer, not even you.
"the audi has less interior space, less features, and cost much more than the lacrosse so i guess edmunds would have preferred the lacrosse as well?" its possible but the two cars are so far apart in price that its hard to see them as direct competitors.
it's not like the buyer is looking for slightly better performance.
what does any of this have to do with reliability?
if we never experienced an economic meltdown...
on rain-soaked roads we could feel the systems work only with full-throttle starts from a stop.
are you still wearning bell bottoms and listening to 8 tracks as well?
otherwise venza is real decent car.
i didn't say every es owner is over 60 but we all know the car is aimed at an older demographic.
what if they were still able to make a profit by cranking out shoddy cars and not improving quality?
bmw doesn't consider the es350 a competitor for the 3 series, customers don't, the press doesn't- only you seem to think the two cars go head to head.
they creep up on you like thin hair and thick ankles.
mirrors are great, but a wide-angle view of what's behind you on the dashboard screen is even better.
get in and push the button on the dash and it starts.
as i said, most es350 buyers are older- this isn't debatable.
so now i wonder what will happen when the domestics regain the consumer's confidence?
it's exactly why the es lost.
it took longer than it should have but that's irrelevant
it's a similar situation when it comes to handling.
some food for thought: until recently ford and gm had some great cars that were only sold in europe and asia.
recommended rating (2.5%): after the test, each participating editor was asked to rank the vehicles in order of preference based on which he or she thought would be best for theaverage consumer shopping in this segment.
the g8 even had a large lcd screen perfect for gps.
did you think the latest in car-based family transportation was going to be cheaper than some primitive pickup-based suv?
the shift lever is indeed handy and the center console useful, but the rest of the cabin is too low-budget given the venza's price.
this information was extracted from www.insideline.com and is subject to the terms of the visitor agreement at www.edmunds.com/help/about/visitoragreement.html.
the second act of the station wagon second opinion top 5 features data and charts editors' evaluations final rankings and scoring explanation comparison top 5 features
please show me one comparison done by any car magazine or site that compared the es with the rwd cars you mentioned.
others say that people who suggest such a thing don't have kids.
standard and optional equipment were taken into consideration.
it comes standard on the crosstour with navigation and is part of the premium package on the venza.
fuel consumption (15%):
clearly the a6 is a better car.
on the flip side, there are several under-floor storage bins in the honda and none in the toyota.
the safety part is easy in this case, as both vehicles feature multiple airbags and electronic stability control systems for protection before and during an accident.
with extra cargo room and a more comforting view of the road, these tall wagons are sort of like suvs, only without the guilt of a gas-sucking v8 under the hood.
on the whole, though, the 2009 toyota venza's interior often misses the mark.
why didn't they fix their quality issues in the 80's and 90's?
for that .01% who take their c class and 3 series on a racetrack on a regular basis, they probably would have been more satisfied spending their $40k on an evo or sti.
gm and ford have sold overseas models here in the past but for the most part things have not worked out.
both cars meet their target without any egregious missteps.
automotive mags (usually) prioritize performance.
its a lot more than a few.
to the average consumer (non automotive enthusiast), the 3 series, c class, es, and even the is are the same class of cars.
the cheapest honda accord crosstour starts at just under $30k for a front-wheel-drive model with a v6.
as far as quality improvement among domestic brands, yes they have greatly improved over the past two or three years.
" they are not and the reasons are obvious.
they thought they could get away with building shoddy cars as long as they were stylish and flashy.
it l1tech says: 06:23 am, 01/29/2010 i love what you do for me!
to626n says: 03:06 pm, 01/24/2010 1487, how are you able to not comprehend what i am saying?
according to your flawed logic the fwd audi a6 would also be in the same class as the es and lacrosse.
it's sad to think the only reason a company finally decides to build quality products is because it was either that or go belly up.
import fanboys cant get out of the past.
"some food for thought:
but it cost a lot more than both the lacrosse and the es, has less interior space, and has less features.
there should be no shame in such vehicles, and both the 2010 honda accord crosstour and the 2009 toyota venza have the mainstream persona adopted over the years by the accord and camry.
that is exactly what edmunds did with the es vs lacrosse comparo.
detroit comes out with some great reliable cars, they regain consumer confidence in their brands.
this toyota crossover gets a unique interior layout compared to the camry.
it to626n says: 02:04 pm, 01/26/2010 1487, again, i don't know why you are not able to comprehend what i am saying.
it's also worth noting that the hatchback configurations of the crosstour and venza make for much larger openings so there's less wedging and angling required in order to pack stuff in.
it's part of the premium package on the venza and not available on the crosstour.
2nd place: 2010 honda accord crosstourexquisitely engineered and solidly built, the honda accord crosstour's slightly smaller size and fewer features leave it one small step behind the venza.
first of all detroit never said quality wasn't important-
no one knows the answer, not even you.
the venza's epa mileage numbers drop by 1 mpg with awd, while the crosstour drops 2 mpg on the highway and 1 mpg in the city.
sure the a6 will outperform the lacrosse in every way.
the median age of c class drivers are much closer to the es.
two words: brand perception.
they drive like sedans to expect anything more than a sedate driving experience from either of these wagons is asking too much.
we also noticed that our particular venza showed numerous signs of poor construction.
i've heard them all a million times.
why was our focus so awful?
european cars like the focus sell for far more than their us counterparts and ford had to find a way to get the costs close to what us customers are willing to pay.
i never argued that bmw owners regularly take advantage of the handling and hp of their cars.
snow would obviously be a different story, but even front-wheel-drive versions come with standard traction control.
for the .01 % of people who take their c class and 3 series on a racetrack on a regular basis they should've spent their $40k on an evo or sti.
"toyota and honda have been consistantly producing quality long lasting cars for the past three or four decades.
granted, neither the honda nor the toyota is going to do much for your image.
why did it take them so long to improve quality?
you would be ignorant to think domesetics improved quality just for the heck of it.
over time they were proven dead wrong.
in heavy urban traffic this isn't realistic.
"they were given a choice: make quality cars or be destroyed by the imports." agreed.
because they know they could make a higher profit buy selling inferior products here.
after » news gumpert unleashes
comparison comparison test: 2010 honda accord crosstour vs. 2009 toyota venza the second act of the station wagon by ed hellwig, senior editor | published jan 19, 2010poor
so-so  pretty good good excellent 29 ratings
when the us finally got a version of the commadore, it came as the pontiac g8.
toyota and honda have realized they dont have anything left beyond their reputations and that is why they are now engineering by marketing.
lets say they compared the lacrosse to a fwd audi a6.
which is one reason why gm, ford and hyundai arent afraid to offer better warranty protection than honda or toyota.
because 99.9% of all c classes and 3 series will be driven the exact same way any ordinary es would be driven, that is in straight lines on long highways.
there's very little harshness either, though, and the cabin is generally quieter than the venza's, so it coddles a bit more than the toyota.
if you are buying a lacrosse you are looking for fwd and a spacious interior- the 3 series offers neither.
it means the 2010 honda accord crosstour has an easy-to-read instrument cluster, high-quality interior materials and good visibility for driving.
the bottom line is their best global vehicles will be available here and that is bad news for toyota and honda.
can the lacrosse do what the a6 does for less money and with more space?
both cars will serve you well.
we're still waiting on the fiesta and new focus.
at least for people who buy anything other than toyota.
why didn't buick america get the same regal?
wasn't even born then.
two new apollo variants: » news touring superleggera unveils disco volante » news california mulls rules for self-driving » news 2013 ford f-series super duty platinum unveiled » news 2013 nascar charger unveiled in las vegas » media player 2010 honda accord crosstour vs. 2009 toyota venza comparison test video two of the latest crossovers the 2010 honda crosstour and the 2009 toyota venza are tested head to head to see which is the better family hauler.
naturally, four-wheel antilock brakes are standard across the board and both vehicles returned similar distances in our 60-0-mph testing (129 feet for the honda and 128 feet for the toyota).
how many times do i have to say this?
i was really interested in the venza as it drove nice and was fairly quick, but i just could not get over the dashboard plastic and leather seating material.
fast forward ten or twenty years in the future.
the 3 series and c class are bmw and mercedes' only offering in the entry level luxury sedan segment.
but hey when you only look at features and value the lacrosse looks pretty good.
ooooh thats right gm wants you to use onstar instead."
which is why no one else has supported you here.
rear-seat dvd system: some say these things are making kids unappreciative of the joys of driving.
will they start cutting corners again to maximize profits?
the scores listed are the result of a simple percentage calculation based on the car with the highestepa combined fuel economy rating.
instead, these bizarre wagons land somewhere in the lukewarm middle ground, which i find largely unappealing for its lack of commitment.
that said, both vehicles have well-sorted suspensions and plenty of power.
the corolla is going to be severely outclassed in every way and the only people who will be denying it will be toyota loving die hards who are still basking in toyota's past glory.
other than the overcrowded mess of buttons in the middle of the dashboard, the crosstour is a high-quality piece for a family car.
you can argue about the styling all you want, but the venza delivers a better combination of passenger space, cargo capacity and feature content.
there's a penalty for the added weight of the awd system, though.
will they continue to design vehicles with quality as a top priority?
again, the honda's shorter, narrower space presents more of a challenge for odd-shaped cargo like a mountain bike, although one will fit even if one section of the second-row seat is in place.
if ford, gm, and chrysler were still making profits, they wouldn't give a crap about reliability.
they were also run through a 600-foot slalom course to test transitional handling, and around a skid pad to determine ultimate grip.
over time the consumers spoke, and the only reason why they are changing now is because they realize that if they don't they will be oblitorated by the imports.
it's comforting to know you'll always have a map handy when you need it, and the additional features like restaurant and hotel listings make it that much more useful.
rear back-up camera:
its steering isn't much better than the venza's, though.
so what are we to conclude?
wow so according to you every es owner is in their 60's and every 3 series owner is in their 40's?
yes, the toyota's build quality is disappointing, but everything else about it is perfect for the segment.
automotive mags will not compare these cars because they prioritize performance.
now that reliability is solid across the board its going to take more than claims about reliability to remain relevant.
says: 06:36 am, 01/22/2010 "
why should you care about toyota's reputation for reliabilty in 1975?
within the next 5 years vw, hyundai, gm and ford will be coming on strong and their gains will be at the expense of toyota and honda.
1487 says: 11:30 am, 01/21/2010 ajt: suppose i either a) dont care about keeping a car for 15 years/200k miles or b) believe that most cars can go the distance due to the general high quality of vehicles today.
even during normal driving, the 2009 toyota venza feels lighter and more nimble than the 2010 honda accord crosstour.
awesome car, but why could gm not offer gps navigation when every other car in the same class offers gps.
yes the average 3 series driver is younger, but you would be ignorant to think older people never drive the 3 series.
based on what the average lacrosse or es owner is looking for the 3 series would indeed lose in a comparison.
fyi every long term study from cr or jd power still favors japanese brands.
ford and chevy were offering better cars in europe than they were in their home market, the us.
the crosstour's space is narrow and deep.
it's about that time when wagon-style things like the 2010 honda accord crosstour and 2009 toyota venza start to look attractive.
media player 2010 honda accord crosstour vs. 2009 toyota venza comparison test video two of the latest crossovers – the 2010 honda crosstour and the 2009  toyota venza – are tested head to head to see which is the better family  hauler.
it's going to take a lot more than a few good fords, chevys, and chryslers to undo consumer preception.
| january 15, 2010 | edmunds video productions for edmunds 1 video ,
what happens when they start to make a profit and regain consumer confidence?
with that assumption in hand explain to me why i should be a devoted toyota or honda purchaser that generally refuses to acknowledge or even research the competition.
in fact, you can pretty much kiss good-bye whatever sliver of cool you still had left.
the toyota's optional keyless ignition system is another feature that's useful, and it's not available in the honda.
look how fast they are able to turn around.
the fact that both vehicles are treated as premium versions of their respective sedans is slightly less so.
why should you care about any automaker's reputation for reliability in 1975?
in technical terms this translates to 30.7 cubic feet of room behind the venza's rear seats and 25.7 cubic feet in the crosstour.
the quality of cars in the 80s or even 90s is irrelevant to today's buyers and your thinking is shared by toyota which explains why they are about to face tough times going forward.
people are buying cars today so what is relevant is what's on sale today.
"they could've brought those models to the us years ago, gm and ford have only been trickling in those cars recently.
the crosstour is also nicer inside than the venza.
the average consumer (non automotive enthusiast) will see the c class, 3 series, and es as being the same class of cars.
remember they are not improving because they want to, they are improving because they are forced to.
each car received points based on whether our chosen features were standard or optional, and no points if it wasn't available at all.
as slick as the 2010 honda accord crosstour is inside its cabin, after a week behind the wheel of both we gave the edge to the venza.
just for fun, lets forget about the c class and 3 series.
"you say they don't have anything but their reputaion for building reliable cars like it's meaningless.
"why did it take them so long to improve quality?
20 years ago most cars were undesirable by today's standards.
they are five-passenger cocoons.
the domestics didn't start making quality cars because they wanted to, they did it because they were forced to.
toyota venza the second act of the station wagon by ed hellwig, senior editor | published jan 19, 2010 poor
toyota venza key: s: standard o: optional n/a: not available power-operated rear hatch: this is one of those features that has finally trickled down from luxury vehicles.
51 photos | see more photos in this gallery »
i know how 99% of cars are driven but that doesn't stop people from buying 300hp cars, sports cars, v8s, etc.
the second act of the station wagon second opinion top 5 features data and charts editors' evaluations final rankings and scoring explanation add a comment » sort by:most recent first posted 24hrz16 says: 10:00 am, 06/12/2010 are these cars seriously for people who think they'd be too embarassed to drive a minivan?
tags 2009 toyota venzavehicle 2010 honda crosstourvehicle advertisement related content site map | rss feeds | help | advertise with us | contact us | inside line mobile | about inside line © edmunds inc. | privacy statement | visitor agreement | membership agreement | jobs at edmunds | about edmunds © edmunds inc.
keep in mind that anything that's standard on both vehicles isn't eligible.
will they continue making quality cars?
navigation: this has become a must-have feature for any family vehicle and we can see why.
quality is great but everyone offers it today.
it's optional on the venza and not available on the honda.
if that's what you want, either one will work perfectly.
if this was 1985 i might buy a toyota- but sadly for toyota its 2010 and the quality issue is a non-issue.
reliability isnt meaningless, but its not the only reason to buy a car.
" countour was a mondeo and it failed.
performance testing (20%): both cars were put through a comprehensive battery of instrumented tests, including 0-60-mph acceleration, quarter-mile runs and panic stops from 60 mph.
for commuting purposes a corolla or sentra will do just fine.
obviously, options like an ipod connection and keyless ignition are worthwhile features, but we consider equipment like a limited-slip differential to be a little more essential.
financial meltdowns, unions, in-fighting, inadequate leadership, etc. meant that it took years to implement the engineering and produciton methods necessary to improve quality.
yes, you must pay up for the privilege of piloting these suburban carry-alls.
and for better or worse, both feature unique styling.
so the euro focus and other euro cars are finally able to come to america because ford and gm somehow was recently able to figure out how to even out costs?
sort by:most recent first posted advertisement speed read 1st
in the venza, a bike fits more easily and your kid won't be eating the tire while he's sitting in the second row.
ford and hyundai gained share in 2009 and neither has the reputation of toyota or honda.
there are no wheels tall enough nor tires wide enough to make either of these vehicles look tough.
our seat-of-the-pants impression suggests it's not simply the toyota's gearing that makes the difference between these two crossovers, because the venza's transmission also shifts more deliberately and has much quicker reactions during normal driving.
because they are all entry level luxury sedans that are in the same price range.
just pull the door handle with the key in your pocket and it unlocks.
several panels on the dashboard were misaligned, while others appeared to be peeling back — not what you would expect from a company that built its reputation on quality control.
the 20-inch wheels and more aggressive goodyear eagle rs-a tires that come standard on the higher-trim venza deliver better grip and sharper turn-in.
either way, it's a handy option if you're going on a long trip.
through the slalom they give the toyota an advantage of about 1 mph over the honda.
why didn't they fix their quality issues in the 80's and 90's?" your ignorance about the auto industry is apparent.
look at china's version of the buick regal.
you say they don't have anything but their reputaion for building reliable cars like it's meaningless.
in response to your response to ajt, it's going to take a lot more than a dozen or so decent domestic cars to undo toyota and honda's reputation for building quality vehicles over that past thirty or forty years.
the g8 wasnt intended as a us car from the start and something about the positioning of the nav screen supposedly didn't meet us standards.
the better of two good choices the 2009 toyota venza has an advantage here when it comes to day-to-day functionality because its backseats are more spacious and a dvd player is optional.
if you're going to bite the bullet and go all in for the family, you might as well get a vehicle that includes more safety and functionality than you'll ever need.
value, features, styling, warranty protection and innovation are important these days and you don't see toyota or honda leading in any of those categories aside from toyota's hybrids.
the toyota had a slight edge in this regard thanks to ratings of 18 city and 25 highway versus the honda's ratings of 17 city and 25 highway.
hey it's also a large fwd luxury sedan
this idea that they tried to distract people with flashy cars in the 80s in nonsense- most cars in the 80s were dull including the american ones.
the downside to this, of course, is that the big toyota doesn't ride as well as the honda, which is as smooth and comfortable as every mommy will want.
build quality is solid, too.
it comes as part of the premium package on the venza, but is not available on the crosstour.
for each vehicle, the score was based on the number of actual features it had versus the total possible.
the toyota venza's cargo bay is wide and shallow.
it came out around 2005 and was based on the holden commadore.
"the g8 even had a large lcd screen perfect for gps.
the 3 series is a very popular car for young singles and couples- its size, styling and reputatoin attracts a different type of buyer.
until recently ford and gm didnt have the cost structures here that would allow them to sell higher content overseas based vehicles here for resonable prices.
catera was an opel- didn't do well.
when the new focus comes out i can guarantee you any gen y buyer who hasnt been brainwashed by their import driving parents wont consider a corolla over the ford for a second.
this is likely why the es350 has been mentioned in lacrosse ads and the 3 series has not.
both the c class and 3 series are smaller, has less features, and cost more than the lacrosse.
we'd still see the same shoddy cars they have been making for years.
because they thought they could still make a profit.
the climate controls feel frail, the wood trim isn't convincing and the texture of the steering wheel cover and dashboard is oddly rough and cheap-looking.
have you looked at cr or jd power lately?
fact is all the domestics could have done this years ago, but they didn't.
that said the 3 series conveys a younger, hipper image than the es350 and appeals to a different set of buyers.
the second act of the station wagon second opinion top 5 features data and charts editors' evaluations final rankings and scoring explanation comparison data and charts dimensions engine & transmission specifications warranty information performance information dimensionsexterior dimensions & capacities 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009 toyota venza engine & transmission specificationsengine & transmission 2010 honda accord crosstour 2009
after the test, each participating editor was asked to rank the vehicles in order of preference based on which he or she would buy if money were no object.
pedal feel is slightly better in the venza, as the action is light and easy to modulate.
so i say this again, looking at how skewed the comparison between the es and lacrosse was, the c class and 3 series would have lost to the buick as well.
it is obvious that the lacrosse and es350 are going after the same types of customers.
why would a 25 year old buyer be drawn to a toyota showroom when he is too young to even remember the days when toyota quality was head and shoulders above the competition?
both vehicles feature optional all-wheel-drive systems, which also add a measure of safety in poor weather.
place: 2009 toyota venzawith all the room, power and convenience features you'll ever need, the toyota venza defines the crossover wagon.
the numbers listed were the result of a simple percentage calculation based on the less-expensive vehicle in the comparison test.
1487 says: 05:55 am, 01/25/2010 626, you are incredibly naive.
99.9% of all c classes and 3 series' will be driven the exact same way the es is driven: in straight lines on long highways.
but once you cut beneath the marketingspeak, the crosstour and the venza are essentiallyaccord andcamry wagons.
keyless entry/ignition: another useful feature to have when your arms are full.
sure they perform better, but it's not as spacious, cost more, and had less features than the lacrosse.
when it comes to features, we considered convenience features a priority, reflecting the people moving for which these vehicles are intended.
seriously this must be the third or fourth time i am saying this.
toyota took a slightly different tack with the venza.
now it's more important than ever.
with its smaller, less aggressive tires and softer suspension setup, the crosstour rides more comfortably over rough surfaces.
it's also obvious that the lacrosse is not aimed at the 3 series in any way.
hey all are large fwd sedans right?