ford and toyota are collaborating as equal partners to accelerate consumer  availability of a new advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs new co-developed hybrid system ready for use later this decade on ford and  toyota rear-wheel-drive light trucks and suvs, delivering greater fuel  efficiency while still providing customers the capability they want and need ford and toyota also will collaborate on development of next-generation  standards for in-car telematics and internet-based services download video dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 – ford motor  company and toyota motor corporation – the world’s two leading  manufacturers of hybrid vehicles – today announced they will equally  collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for light truck  and suv customers.
in the u.s., we have just introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
each company also will determine the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective light pickups and suvs.
- register jump to - rss feeds - news - media kits - country latest video:find more videos latest photo:find more photos - add to briefcase - related articles - print page - rtf - pdf - ford, toyota to collaborate on developing new hybrid system for light trucks, suvs; future telematics standards derrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development, (left) and takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, sign a memorandum of of understanding to collaborate on a new rear-wheel-drive hybrid system for light trucks and suvs, and to collaborate on development of next-generation standards for in-car telematics.
under the mou agreement, the two companies will bring the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology and knowledge to a new co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers’ experience with their vehicles.”
the company provides financial services through ford motor credit company.
it has 60 manufacturing companies around the globe and employs approximately 320,000 people.
about toyota corporation toyota  motor corporation—which gave the world the first-ever mass-produced  gasoline-electric hybrid vehicle in 1997—produces a full range of  vehicles, from luxury cars to trucks and minivehicles, together with  subsidiaries daihatsu motor co., ltd. and hino motors, ltd.  it has  60 manufacturing companies around the globe and employs approximately 320,000  people.
in addition, as telematics plays an increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer, more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation telematics systems.
rtf pdf ford, toyota to collaborate on developing new hybrid system for light  trucks, suvs; future telematics standards derrick kuzak, ford  group vice president, global product development, (left) and takeshi  uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, sign a  memorandum of of understanding to collaborate on a new rear-wheel-drive hybrid  system for light trucks and suvs, and to collaborate on development of  next-generation standards for in-car telematics.
suggested tags: « back related articles ford flex and n.y. times
this  rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new architecture to  deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while providing greater  fuel economy.
- skip to navigation - skip to content media.ford.com - rss - corporate home - news - products - bios - facilities - photos - videos - audio - pr contacts - sections: - enews - sales and financial results - safety and technology - product - people - motorsports - media advisories - history - manufacturing - marketing & customer service - corporate citizenship - - - - - - - - - - - - welcome - login - forgot password?
for more information regarding ford’s products, please visitwww.ford.com.
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research & development, said: “in 1997, we launched the first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid.
by building a global, long-term relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.”
with about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the company’s automotive brands include ford and lincoln.
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next year.
“by working together, we will be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy,” said ford president and ceo alan mulally.
“ford has  made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,” kuzak said.
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
the two now have committed to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and suvs.
for more  information regarding ford’s products, please visitwww.ford.com.
uchiyamada added : “toyota has also invested heavily in telematics in various countries  around the world, with services like the g-book and g-link.
the two companies also agreed to work together on enablers to complement each company’s existing telematics platform standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to consumers globally.
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share  significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually  integrate the system into their own vehicles.
“ford has made tremendous progress in the area of telematics,” kuzak said.
for years, both ford and toyota have been working  independently on similar new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at  delivering higher fuel economy in light trucks and suvs.
click here to download  related images.
the telematics collaboration relates only to standards and technologies, and each company will continue to separately develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
we expect  to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford – and we  can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid  technology.”
toyota president akio toyoda  added: “toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid  system for pickup trucks and suvs.
“we have unique and very good solutions today with sync and myfordtouch.
the telematics collaboration relates only to  standards and technologies, and each company will continue to separately  develop their own in-vehicle products and features.
the two companies also agreed to work together on  enablers to complement each company’s existing telematics platform  standards, helping bring more internet-based services and useful information to  consumers globally.
“this is the kind of collaborative effort that is  required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and  environmental sustainability.”
click here to download related images.
“this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers,” said derrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development.
- jointly develop as equal partners a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and component technology for light trucks and suvs - independently integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles separately # # # about ford motor company ford motor company, a global automotive industry leader based in dearborn, mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across six continents.
bestselling author christian lander present  suburban dictionary; facebook fans create terms californians can save $10,000, cruise hov lanes in ford focus electric  – america’s most fuel-efficient five-seater more luxurious than ever: 2013 ford f-series super duty to offer platinum  series, sync with myford touch 2013 ford taurus delivers more fuel efficiency, technology, design  refinement and even better driving dynamics sportiest ford taurus sho yet gets enhanced dynamics, bigger brakes and  performance-inspired design home |
uchiyamada added : “toyota has also invested heavily in telematics in various countries around the world, with services like the g-book and g-link.
the two now have committed  to collaborate as equal partners on a new hybrid system for light trucks and  suvs.
“this agreement brings together the  capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to  develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers,”  said derrick kuzak, ford group vice president, global product development.
specifically, ford and toyota will: for years, both ford and toyota have been working independently on similar new rear-wheel-drive hybrid systems aimed at delivering higher fuel economy in light trucks and suvs.
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice  president, research & development, said: “in 1997, we launched the  first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced gasoline-electric  hybrid.
when the two companies  began discussing this potential collaboration, they discovered how quickly they  were able to find common ground.
specifically,  ford and toyota will: jointly develop as equal partners a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and  component technology for light trucks and suvs independently integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles  separately
in the u.s., we  have just introduced the accessible, easy-to-use entune.
“this is the kind of collaborative effort that is required to address the big global challenges of energy independence and environmental sustainability.”
working together on in-vehicle standards can only enhance our customers’  experience with their vehicles.”
in addition, as telematics plays an  increasingly more important role in the in-car experience, both companies have  agreed to collaborate on standards and technologies needed to enable a safer,  more secure and more convenient in-car experience for next-generation  telematics systems.
“by working together, we will  be able to serve our customers with the very best affordable, advanced  powertrains, delivering even better fuel economy,” said ford president  and ceo alan mulally.
ford and  toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid  technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could  have accomplished alone.
both companies have been working independently on their own  future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
suggested tags: « back related articles - ford flex and n.y. times
ford and toyota have signed a memorandum of understanding (mou) on the  product development collaboration, with the formal agreement expected by next  year.
by sharing our  know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services  in the future.”
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford – and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology.”
- ford and toyota are collaborating as equal partners to accelerate consumer availability of a new advanced hybrid system for light trucks and suvs - new co-developed hybrid system ready for use later this decade on ford and toyota rear-wheel-drive light trucks and suvs, delivering greater fuel efficiency while still providing customers the capability they want and need - ford and toyota also will collaborate on development of next-generation standards for in-car telematics and internet-based services download video dearborn, mich., aug. 22, 2011 – ford motor company and toyota motor corporation – the world’s two leading manufacturers of hybrid vehicles – today announced they will equally collaborate on the development of an advanced new hybrid system for light truck and suv customers.
# # # about ford  motor company ford motor company, a global automotive industry  leader based in dearborn, mich., manufactures or distributes automobiles across  six continents.
about toyota corporation toyota motor corporation—which gave the world the first-ever mass-produced gasoline-electric hybrid vehicle in 1997—produces a full range of vehicles, from luxury cars to trucks and minivehicles, together with subsidiaries daihatsu motor co., ltd. and hino motors, ltd.
the company  provides financial services through ford motor credit company.
both companies have been working independently on their own future-generation rear-wheel drive hybrid systems.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
each company also will determine  the calibration and performance dynamics characteristics of their respective  light pickups and suvs.
under the mou agreement, the two companies will  bring the best of their independently developed hybrid powertrain technology  and knowledge to a new co-developed hybrid system, which will be used in  rear-wheel-drive light trucks arriving later this decade.
for more information, please visit www.toyota-global.com .
ford and toyota believe that their collaboration will allow them to bring these hybrid technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than either company could have accomplished alone.
when the two companies began discussing this potential collaboration, they discovered how quickly they were able to find common ground.
bestselling author christian lander present suburban dictionary; facebook fans create terms - californians can save $10,000, cruise hov lanes in ford focus electric – america’s most fuel-efficient five-seater - more luxurious than ever: 2013 ford f-series super duty to offer platinum series, sync with myford touch - 2013 ford taurus delivers more fuel efficiency, technology, design refinement and even better driving dynamics - sportiest ford taurus sho yet gets enhanced dynamics, bigger brakes and performance-inspired design - home | - news | - bios | - facilities | - photos | - videos | - racing | - privacy policy content tags: fiesta movement world rally championship electrification faces of ford ford racing daytona transit connect sales & financial results; investor information fiesta 2011 ford super duty ford focus safety sales & financial results naias soundbites ecoboost ford 2011 ford fiesta wrc sync technology awards © ford motor company 1998-2012
this rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will be based on an all-new architecture to deliver the capability truck and suv customers demand while providing greater fuel economy.
by sharing our know-how and experience, we would like to offer even better telematics services in the future.”
this new hybrid powertrain will bring the full hybrid experience of  greater fuel efficiency to a new group of truck and suv customers without  compromising the capability they require in their vehicles.
with about 166,000 employees and about 70 plants worldwide, the  company’s automotive brands include ford and lincoln.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend  to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers – customers we  know very well.”
while the rear-wheel-drive hybrid system will share significant common technology and components, ford and toyota will individually integrate the system into their own vehicles.
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at  making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building  block for future mobility in the u.s. by building a global, long-term  relationship with ford, our desire is to be able to continue to provide people  in america automobiles that exceed their expectations.”
not only is this tie-up clearly one aimed at making automobiles ever better, it should also become an important building block for future mobility in the u.s.
toyota president akio toyoda added: “toyota is extremely proud to join ford in developing a hybrid system for pickup trucks and suvs.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers – customers we know very well.”