greenfleet - dedicated to promoting environmentally friendly fleet transport - home - news - features - events - road test - directory - contact - registration - media information ford and toyota to collaborate on hybrid suvs the two companies have signed a memorandum of understanding, with a formal agreement expected to be in place by next year.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid  vehicles.
jcomments you are  here:   homenewslocal authority newsford and toyota to collaborate on  hybrid suvs about greenfleet
ford and toyota believe that by working together they can deliver these hybrid technologies to customers sooner and more affordably than if they worked alone.
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with ford, and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid technology.”
both have been working independently on  their own rear-wheel drive hybrid systems and have now committed to working  together to develop a new hybrid powertrain that will bring the benefits of  hybrid to new customer groups, without compromising the capabilities customers  require of their vehicles.
derrick kuzack, ford group  president, global product development, said: “this agreement brings  together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid  technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our  customers.
ford and toyota also agreed to work together in developing each company’s telematics standards, helping to makes more internet-based services and information available to customers around the world.
we expect to create exciting technologies that benefit society with  ford, and we can do so through the experience the two companies have in hybrid  technology.”
when they began  discussing potential collaboration, they quickly found common ground.
each company will, however, continue to develop  its own in-vehicle products and features.
please register or login to post comments.
under the memorandum of understanding, the two companies will jointly  develop, as equal partners, a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and component  technology for pick-ups and suvs and separately integrate the new hybrid system  in their future vehicles.
ford and toyota also agreed to work together in  developing each company’s telematics standards, helping to makes more  internet-based services and information available to customers around the world.
since then, we have sold about 3.3 million hybrid vehicles.
greenfleet scotland contact other psi sites transport business government business government technology health business education business user login username or email password remember me forgot login?
your browser does not support javascript!
please enable it for maximum experience.
in addition, both companies are to work together on developing next-generation telematics standards and technologies for safer, and more secure and convenient motoring.
register | + - css valid | xhtml valid | top copyright © greenfleet 2012.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion  hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers,  customers we know very well.”
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota  executive vice president, research and development, said: “in 1997, we  launched the first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced  petrol-electric hybrid.
takeshi uchiyamada, toyota executive vice president, research and development, said: “in 1997, we launched the first-generation prius, the world’s first mass-produced petrol-electric hybrid.
the login panel  is in the bottom right corner of the site.
ford and toyota believe that by working  together they can deliver these hybrid technologies to customers sooner and  more affordably than if they worked alone.
media information ford and toyota to collaborate on hybrid suvs
when they began discussing potential collaboration, they quickly found common ground.
published bypsi media
ford and toyota have been working  independently for years on similar rear-wheel drive hybrid systems with the aim  of delivering higher fuel economy in pick-ups and suvs.
in addition, both companies are to work together on developing  next-generation telematics standards and technologies for safer, and more  secure and convenient motoring.
although the hybrid system will share significant common technology and  components, each company will determine the calibration and performance  characteristics of their respective models which use the new powertrain.
the login panel is in the bottom right corner of the site.
derrick kuzack, ford group president, global product development, said: “this agreement brings together the capability of two global leaders in hybrid vehicles and hybrid technology to develop a better solution more quickly and affordably for our customers.
jcomments share this article you are here: homenewslocal authority newsford and toyota to collaborate on hybrid suvs about greenfleet privacy site terms & conditions contact user profile greenfleet poll greenfleet events arrive 'n' drive greenfleet awards
the two companies  have signed a memorandum of understanding, with a formal agreement expected to  be in place by next year.
ford and toyota have been working independently for years on similar rear-wheel drive hybrid systems with the aim of delivering higher fuel economy in pick-ups and suvs.
both have been working independently on their own rear-wheel drive hybrid systems and have now committed to working together to develop a new hybrid powertrain that will bring the benefits of hybrid to new customer groups, without compromising the capabilities customers require of their vehicles.
“ford achieved a breakthrough with the ford fusion hybrid, and we intend to do this again for a new group of truck and suv buyers, customers we know very well.”
although the hybrid system will share significant common technology and components, each company will determine the calibration and performance characteristics of their respective models which use the new powertrain.
under the memorandum of understanding, the two companies will jointly develop, as equal partners, a new rear-wheel drive hybrid system and component technology for pick-ups and suvs and separately integrate the new hybrid system in their future vehicles.
each company will, however, continue to develop its own in-vehicle products and features.