ford brought in its new f-150s,  toyota tundras, chevy silverados and dodge rams, setting up test tracks where  drivers could compare the trucks one-on-one in different conditions.
ford engineers designed the rear cab floor without a center hump, making it possible for inside cargo to sit flat against  the floor.
msrp: $21,565 - $36,100 my first 2009 f-150 drive took place at ford's michigan proving ground, a test facility with over 100 miles of roads.
six-way power seats, tilt steering and height-adjustable pedals allow a person of any size to drive the truck with no obstructions.
the f-150's console is large enough to hold a laptop and file folders, and a large glove box and door panel storage pockets add even more storage.
trucks© dale wickell
front fenders are broad shouldered, and wheel openings are bulged at all
cup holders will accept full-size drinks.
pedals allow a person of any size to drive the truck with no obstructions.
another helpful option is the tailgate step, which folds out from the tailgate and makes it easy to get up into the bed (a flip-up grab bar is included to keep you steady).
highlights, features, options drive comparisons: f-150, silverado, tundra & ram 2009 f-150
you'll find comparisons and more driving impressions in the 2009 f-150
it mounts below the bed, just ahead of the rear wheel, and extends or retracts with a push of your foot.
my truck was equipped with navigation -- the system shares a screen with sirius satellite radio and the truck's sync voice control.
first drive article written after that event.
pickup truck© dale wickell more images (3) front fenders are broad shouldered, and wheel openings are bulged at all corners.
the  5.4 is a strong running engine with plenty of power for most any needs.
ford moved the new truck's b-pillar back by 6-inches to improve side  visibility.
i'd driven, so i'll mention some handy  options you'll find on other trim levels.
pickup truck © dale wickell more images (3) where i live, it's difficult to test new trucks on snowy roads,  because our wintry precipitation usually only sticks around a couple of hours.
pickup trucks 2009 f-150
although the f-150's front end appears to be squared-off, the truck  actually has a lower drag coefficient than its predecessors (a new tailgate  with a spoiler-like top is part of the package that improve aerodynamics).
for more information, please see ourethics  policy.
end of the f-150 journey 2009 ford f-150
the f-150's side step is another feature to consider.
a part of the new york times company.
so i couldn't pass up an opportunity to test drive the 2009 f-150 during a  dead-of-winter trip to detroit.
it mounts below the  bed, just ahead of the rear wheel, and extends or retracts with a push of your  foot.
four-wheel drive and advance trac with roll stability control each got a good workout while driving the truck in detroit's heavy snow, and both performed flawlessly.
when not in use, the step folds neatly into the  tailgate liner, where it doesn't interfere with cargo.
a large rear window and oversize outside mirrors remove all traces  of a blind spot.
trucks © dale wickell i've driven the 2009  ford f-150 several times under different conditions, and remain impressed with  its capabilities.
you'll find comparisons and more driving impressions in the 2009 f-150 first drive article written after that event.
be the first to write a review dale wickell trucks guide ©2012 about.com.
a review truck  was provided by the manufacturer.
i'd driven, so i'll mention some handy options you'll find on other trim levels.
on the road in the f-150 pickup truck the 4x4 test truck was  equipped with a 5.4 liter v-8 engine and 6-speed automatic transmission.
although the f-150's front end appears to be squared-off, the truck actually has a lower drag coefficient than its predecessors (a new tailgate with a spoiler-like top is part of the package that improve aerodynamics).
leather can be pretty cold on a winter morning, so i turned on  the seat heater while i cleaned the snow off of the windows, and by the time i  finished, the seats were toasty.
the current offering of pickups from all manufactures is the best it has  been in years, but if i were going to buy a new truck today, it would probably  be an f-150.
this wasn't the first 2009
and if you don't like the looks of running boards, no problem, because you only see them when the door is open.
i tested quick take-offs in an empty parking lot, and also turned the wheels while braking hard -- anti-lock brakes, traction control, roll stability and other systems did their jobs.
ford engineers designed the rear cab floor without a center hump, making it possible for inside cargo to sit flat against the floor.
first glance at the 2009 ford f-150 truck
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review 2009 ford f-150
the step makes it a lot easier to reach items stored in the front portion  of the truck bed.
in the f-150 pickup truck's driver's seat 2009 ford f-150 truck © ford motor co. my test truck had  leather-covered power bucket seats that were equipped with the heating and  cooling option.
my truck was equipped with navigation -- the system shares a screen with  sirius satellite radio and the truck's sync voice control.
ford engineers put plenty of thought into all aspects of the  truck, from its performance to its fit to its ride.
2009 ford f-150 truck© ford motor co. ford moved the new truck's b-pillar back by 6-inches to improve side visibility.
it was snowing hard (with no signs of letting  up) when the truck was delivered, turning my black f-150 supercab xlt 4x4 into  a "snow" white and "slush" gray machine.
like the platinum edition'spower retractable running boards -- pretty much a necessity for getting in and out of today's taller trucks.
four-wheel drive and advance trac with roll stability control each got a  good workout while driving the truck in detroit's heavy snow, and both  performed flawlessly.
the transmission can be operated manually (like i did in deep snow), or  put into "drive" when you don't want or need to fool around with  shifting (when the selector is in "drive," you'll find that shifts  are smooth and predictable).
another helpful option is the tailgate step, which folds out from the  tailgate and makes it easy to get up into the bed (a flip-up grab bar is  included to keep you steady).
the step makes it a lot easier to reach items stored in the front portion of the truck bed.
i tested quick  take-offs in an empty parking lot, and also turned the wheels while braking  hard -- anti-lock brakes, traction control, roll stability and other systems  did their jobs.
i was always confident that the truck would go where i  wanted it to go and stop without sliding out of control.
and if you don't like the looks of running boards, no  problem, because you only see them when the door is open.
six-way power seats, tilt steering and height-adjustable
discuss in my forum by dale wickell, about.com guidesee more about: 2009 ford f-150 4x4
a large rear window and oversize outside mirrors remove all traces of a blind spot.
the f-150's console is large enough to hold a laptop and file folders, and  a large glove box and door panel storage pockets add even more storage.
cup  holders will accept full-size drinks.
i sure didn't test the cooling feature on this  trip, but it was a big help during a warm-weather drive.
ford brought in its new f-150s, toyota tundras, chevy silverados and dodge rams, setting up test tracks where drivers could compare the trucks one-on-one in different conditions.
the transmission can be operated manually (like i did in deep snow), or put into "drive" when you don't want or need to fool around with shifting (when the selector is in "drive," you'll find that shifts are smooth and predictable).
msrp: $21,565 - $36,100 more f-150 drives my first 2009 f-150 drive took place at ford's michigan proving ground, a  test facility with over 100 miles of roads.
a review truck was provided by the manufacturer.
gauges are large and situated for unobstructed display through the  steering wheel, and the truck's center stack puts hvac controls within easy  reach.
the f-150 is quieter than ever before inside, and new steering bushings  and dampers eliminate all engine vibrations in the steering wheel when the  truck is sitting at idle.
i was always confident that the truck would go where i wanted it to go and stop without sliding out of control.
in fact, the new f-150 looks a whole lot like a  super duty truck.
the 6-speed automatic is new for 2009, and a much needed addition that helped improve fuel mileage and made it easier to tow and pull hills with a load.
for more information, please see ourethics policy.
you might not need all of those systems at once on a typical  drive, but if you do, they could prevent an accident.
winter weather  continued on and off for several days, eliminating any chance of high speed  driving and making my time in the truck all about a test of traction control  and abs.
gauges are large and situated for unobstructed display through the steering wheel, and the truck's center stack puts hvac controls within easy reach.
when not in use, the step folds neatly into the tailgate liner, where it doesn't interfere with cargo.
at first glance, the most  obvious part of the new design might be the 2009 f-150's large chrome grille  and headlight trim, which give the truck a more massive appearance than pickups  from the previous generation.
the 6-speed automatic is new for 2009, and a much needed addition that  helped improve fuel mileage and made it easier to tow and pull hills with a  load.
like the platinum edition'spower  retractable running boards -- pretty much a necessity for getting in and out of  today's taller trucks.
the f-150 is quieter than ever before inside, and new steering bushings and dampers eliminate all engine vibrations in the steering wheel when the truck is sitting at idle.
the current offering of pickups from all manufactures is the best it has been in years, but if i were going to buy a new truck today, it would probably be an f-150.
you might not need all of those systems at once on a typical drive, but if you do, they could prevent an accident.