quantifying those benefits, and apportioning kudus where they are deserved, is the point of four wheeler of the year.
that's a careful  definition, because if we were looking for the vehicle that provided the best  trail performance, or the most hauling capacity, or the best highway manners,  well, that would greatly narrow the focus of what we're trying to accomplish.
the point of the exercise is to find the new vehicle that offers the most  balanced performance to the four-wheeling enthusiast public.
we'd be  happy to own and wheel any one of them.
quantifying those  benefits, and apportioning kudus where they are deserved, is the point of four  wheeler of the year.
this is a pretty good deal.
we're looking for the vehicles that do it all well, that present a terrific balance of trail and pavement manners and with the fewest tradeoffs or compromises in either direction.
when we select pals--either male or female--we tend to look for someone  with a balanced personality.
but we go about this methodically, by the numbers, and only one of the seven gets to be four wheeler of the year.
the point of the exercise is to find the new vehicle that offers the most balanced performance to the four-wheeling enthusiast public.
we'd be happy to own and wheel any one of them.
when they don't, we don't.
when  manufacturers approach four-wheelers from that direction, we all benefit.
and frankly, all were, in their own ways, really excellent.
when you improve on an  already high standard of excellence, everybody benefits.
this year we had a terrific crop of contenders.
this crop was composed of  the hummer h2, the toyota 4runner, the kia sorento, the lexus gx470, the ford  excursion, the jeep wrangler rubicon and the mitsubishi montero.
but we go about this methodically, by  the numbers, and only one of the seven gets to be four wheeler of the year.
as much as we admire jeeps of all stripes, that  would not serve our interests, or yours.
read on, dear reader, read on.
if we focused on trail performance only, for instance, it would mean that a  jeep might win every year.
to make it  into this field, each vehicle had to be either new or substantially revised.
as much as we admire jeeps of all stripes, that would not serve our interests, or yours.
this crop was composed of the hummer h2, the toyota 4runner, the kia sorento, the lexus gx470, the ford excursion, the jeep wrangler rubicon and the mitsubishi montero.
that's a careful definition, because if we were looking for the vehicle that provided the best trail performance, or the most hauling capacity, or the best highway manners, well, that would greatly narrow the focus of what we're trying to accomplish.
to make it into this field, each vehicle had to be either new or substantially revised.
when  they don't, we don't.
when you improve on an already high standard of excellence, everybody benefits.
when we select pals--either male or female--we tend to look for someone with a balanced personality.
we're looking for the vehicles  that do it all well, that present a terrific balance of trail and pavement  manners and with the fewest tradeoffs or compromises in either direction.
just when we get to thinking that factory-fresh four-wheelers can't get any better, they get better.
when manufacturers approach four-wheelers from that direction, we all benefit.
home»4x4 off road trail tests »2003 four wheeler of the year 2003 four wheeler of the year seven different ways to wheel photography by four wheeler staff
if we focused on trail performance only, for instance, it would mean that a jeep might win every year.
four  wheeler, february, 2009 tweet just when we get to thinking that factory-fresh four-wheelers can't get any  better, they get better.