the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary system that is natively used only on microsoft internet information server (iis).
cold fusion has better error  handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction  is addressed in php 4.
cold fusion has better error handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction is addressed in php 4.
perl is a very tried and true language, it's  been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very quickly.
there are a couple of projects in the works that allows asp to run in other environments and webservers:instantasp fromhalcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft (commercial) and openasp from activescripting.org (free).
the flexibility / complexity of perl makes it easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time reading.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for  scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can because  of this get very complicated.
php  has a less confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
asp support is also enabled by default in the iis server making it easy to get up and running.
some of the pros of asp is that since it primarily uses vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already know how to program in visual basic.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active server  pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic script or  jscript.
asp is said to be a slower and more  cumbersome language than php, less stable as well.
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary system that is  natively used only on microsoft internet information server (iis).
yes, asp2php is the one most often referred to.
the components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features like interacting with ftp servers, you need to buy additional components.
there are a couple of projects in the  works that allows asp to run in other environments and webservers:instantasp  fromhalcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft (commercial) and  openasp from activescripting.org (free).
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php, less stable as well.
this limits  it's availability to win32 based servers.
php has pretty much all the  'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on, without making it  as complicated as perl can be.
cold fusion has a good ide and is generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more programming knowledge.
a copy can be found here.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active server pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic script or jscript.
the components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use  "advanced" features like interacting with ftp servers, you need to  buy additional components.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can because of this get very complicated.
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting language.
php has a less confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
php is  easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind,  while php is focused on programmers.
php is generally referred to as  more stable and less resource intensive as well.
cold fusion has a good ide and is  generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more  programming knowledge.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the  php mailing list.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex  programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
php has pretty much all the 'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on, without making it as complicated as perl can be.
some of the pros of asp is  that since it primarily uses vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the  language if you're already know how to program in visual basic.
php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only  available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
the flexibility / complexity of perl makes it  easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time reading.
asp support is  also enabled by default in the iis server making it easy to get up and running.
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's  strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a  search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting  language.
php and other languages php is the best language for web programing, but what about other  languages?
is there an asp to php converter?
php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
php is generally referred to as more stable and less resource intensive as well.
perl is a very tried and true language, it's been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very quickly.
prev manual home next most recently updated on 11 may, 2003 home / php / manual / ...
php is easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind, while php is focused on programmers.
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the php mailing list.
prev  manual home next php and com up migrating from php 2 to php 3 site menu
home / php / manual / ... php is the best language for web programing, but what about other languages?
this limits it's availability to win32 based servers.