i built and ran these tests because i was personally curious about comparative performance.
like always developers will find ways to  make any platform shine or slow down using any random anti-pattern.
track the time it takes to build it, the environment cost and the amount of traffic each one can handle.
cost/performance is a much more meaningful metric for all but the most trivial applications.
to have  money or not to have money, that is the question.
comparison then is bit out of ‘range’, don’t you think ?
to me (your mileage may vary) the exciting thing about php is not the  language / platform so much as it is what thousands of clever php developers  have done with it (drupal, joomla, wordpress, phpbb, nuke, etc.)
pingback from php and community – techportal first, a scripted language against a compiled one, the fact that you are even trying to compare the two makes me think you shouldn’t be in the benchmarking business at all.
(now we just  need to get the open source application teams (drupal, wordpress, joomle, etc.)
anyway, i still love both asp.net & php because both these give me  opportunity to work and accomplish great things, even though, i have always  preferred asp.net before php.
shame all .net developers are negative to language which makes websites more maintainable (yeah, even designer can do change & develop his skills without paying $$$ to anyone).
windows versus linux ???
granted, you could argue that the india team had a vested interest in  running up the cost, but isn’t that what we are talking about here?
: misfit geek re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
accompany your dissent with data.
geof on august 6th, 2009 4:12 pm @jay khatri, its true that php has more freelance projects.
before you look at them, let m e provide some method details and context.
for nearly every non-trivial web site, the bottleneck is at the network and database level, not in the speed of execution of the business logic and presentation script.
and the html output… i can provide you with 100s php sites which do not validate at all too.
and i assume allot of other people a long way in this game we call development
who’s the fastest … "i know some will be incensed by these tests.
if some day during my life, i luckly see the asp.net/mvc can fully run on linux/unix, or the environments are cheap enough for beginning companies, i will be happy mono now supports asp.net/mvc.
syntax isn’t weird as long as you have no programming preferences/fixations (it seems to me you have some strong ones).
also, i plan to progress to more snecario based tests (full page renderings, etc.) – suggestions are welcome.
-joe database is the main scalability and performance issue, page ui content is the second biggest performance factor in my experience – assuming no serious coding errors.
bruno on august 6th, 2009 8:09
i know php enough to get around and to hijack the good ideas and put them in asp.net.
after all i think we both have some strong preferences ozzy :> asp.net rules @exo i think you’re missing a point here: "but not every language works against you in this matter."
i’m not sure if that question’s even answerable without a flame war.
because those projects are  piece of shi*t.
what have these 3 in common?
(my personal guess is that it’s unlikely that sun will markedly improve mysql performance on windows. )
in shared hosting, everyone on that host can read/write to your memcache instance.
joe, where’s the code you used to test database connections from asp.net to sql,mysql, and postgresql ?
there are few things i would like to know like how php in iis configured,  if fastcgi than version of fastcgi.
(i mean, real programming languages) i think asp.net is far better platform than php and an asp.net developer is a lot more productive than a php developer.
not meaning to be too skeptical here, but one wonders if ms really is serious about its overtures to the open-source community given these types of contrived comparisons touted by an ms employee who purports to be "neutral" (i.e., "i love them both").
since you made your sources public even my boss accepted it!"
you’ll never get me to go back to old school asp… i’ll die first!
i assume you the versions of ubuntu & windows that were used were 32bit.
pingback from php and community | postcards from my life this cannot be accepted as a fair, non-partisan measure.
pingback from codegeeks » php versus asp.net ???
but adding apc would only put php on equal ground, since .net already has something similar in the form of compiled byte code.
you are typical of the internet warrior who whines becuase they don’t like the results.
this "age old question" about which is better has long been too focused on the languages and platforms.
and 40,000 end users paid a price as well.
it is included as part of the pecl, so it is a part of the php environment.
"and please do not even compare masterpage to smarty or zendview -> ko would be instant."
savage on august 6th, 2009 6:10 pm great tests joe we appreciate your efforts.
i’ve used zend studio and eclipse and  haven’t quite had the same success.
i’ve seen  a lot of articles about how it’s better to focus on .net or php but not  both.
well the tone of article was set by the first few lines "i’m paid by microsoft to write both php and asp.net code.
afaik quite experienced developers had a problem to agree sessions between asp & .net after turning viewstate.
as i said, i’m working with both php and c#.
first, while i appreciate the enthusiasm of my .net friends, the point of my exercise thanks joe, this is really interesting stuff and may help someone to show to their client to go for .net
ubuntu 9 and windows server 2008
i started building and running these tests because everyone had opinions  about comparative php performance (windows versus linux & 5.2 versus 5.3),  but no one had any solid data.
i like all 3, although if given a choice i would always go the .net route.
" that is fud, you are spreading.
at the  bottom of the chart i would add.
is there a way where you can compare asp with asp.net because many people like me have the doubt that microsoft is killing asp in the upcoming servers.
"semi-professional", such a condescending  attitude.
the article is available at: pcquest.ciol.com/…/109070402.asp flávio stakoviak on august 6th, 2009 9:50 am nice, i always thought asp.net was slower than php.
" lamp: "my professor told me enough.
jay khatri on august 6th, 2009 7:02 am hi friends, i am using asp.net and never known to php and dont even like to be switched  as i am quite comfort on windows platform.
"you can’t share sessions easily between two php apps running on the same machine too.
but the third takes 16% less time.
with asp.net and php, .net was faster but not greatly.
asp.net: "no, i am your father.
yes, asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux) with the exceptions of file copy and attribute operations.
it’s also about knowing your server, optimizing it properly, and knowing how to exploit the resources you have.
‘cuz that’s where  the business is ultimately going to go, and that’s what i want to learn.
php vs asp.net, linux vs windows re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
who's the fastest …  on august 5th, 2009 9:00 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
have you ever tested asp.net on windows and linux?
as ultimate object of learning asp.net for me is to  earn money.
cheat, bias, hand taylored.
i started building and running these tests because everyone had opinions about comparative php performance (windows versus linux & 5.2 versus 5.3), but no one had any solid data.
-16.12% (empty do loop with string)
in an economically-challenged country  like the usa, is this the question that really matters?
here in canada has released a pile of training money for anyone affected by the recession i qualify for training money the only accredited courses i can find in b.c. canada are open source drupal php and so on i wold like to learn asp.net with some credits since i have a passion for and have invested so much time i on asp.net microsoft rules you guys are a great team
i can tell 90% of them will never go live..they are cheap projects for some cheap people a way of making quick money.
if these test results cause you dizziness, vomiting, or other undesired  side effects, please discontinue use immediately and consult your physician.
i have personally made only few of the tests for which you already provided more detailed explanation and tests on your results spreadsheet
hey joe great article i was going to send you an email asking you about this om the same lines i,m a novice self taught
feel free ot email me directly if you like and if you create a scenario that renders different results, i’ll be happy to post the results here as well.
they said it was because iis 7 provides a true  multithreaded web server for php.
and i am glad  that .net doesn’t have them.
asp.net: "whose your daddy?!
adding a xaml/silverlight comparison would be a good idea.
@exo viewstate can be turned off on per control, per page, etc. basis.
i believe with the speed of hardware, and it’s relatively cheap cost, the difference in speeds with most things (.net, php, perl) are negligible.
basically you’re paying for electricity & no licensing fees.
but as a freelancer when i see online projects, i always found php products are many more than asp.net.
since you made you sources public even my boss accept it!
any chance you could compare mono against php as well?
some php optimizers compile the actual script, which is exactly what happens with asp.net.
if i normalize your empty loops to your string assignment loops i discover that the first two cause a 20% increase in time consumed.
php may not  suffer from the performance problem, but what about the tco?
but .net have big  projects..that php devs can only dream of..
in my opinion that makes the article meaningless.
i have just started to play a  bit with php to get a feel for what it can do since i dont have asp.net on my  mac except virtually.
and if you end up using one of these existing apps, asp.net looses all the productivity advantage.
file access is faster on linux by a small percentage, except for file copy  operations which was as much as 60% slower on windows probably due to the acl  advanced security.
you also have access to this code to further enhance your controls and optimize it to your needs.
to factor that all in, you’ve got to consider a gazillion things, like the development environment, rad vs. rup, startup hardware costs (must consider #users served over x amount of time, not just #users served at a snapshot in time), startup software costs, ongoing licensing costs, ongoing maintenance costs, developer availability, code comprehensibility, security costs, and on and on.
we can probably say that in terms of raw execution – performance on  linux versus windows is probably a wash (more or less equivalent) so that the  performance of php itself becomes a moot factor in choosing linux or windows  for php application deployment.
he told me php was faster!"
php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the  fastest ?
it is included as part of the pecl, so it is a part of the php  environment.
who’s the fastest ???
pingback from php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
among these, php is the worst thing i’ve touched ever.
maybe bcz of ff thanks a lot!
i’m happy to see someone ‘promoting’ the thought that maybe personal skills does matter after all – the dev env/language wont do it for you
5.3′s mysql driver has better performance, measured on linux.
to really make the two  stand apart, isn’t it tco that counts?
– thank you sharique php is ugly like hell.
and i will be happy to put it to the test myself.
thanks for doing this joe.
i’ve been emailing with andi gutmans >(zend and co-inventor of php) who has > had some interesting suggestions for > a next set of benchmarks.
i rememeber attending a mix ’08 iis session where they were showing php test on iis 7 showed signigicant perf increases over apache.
for microsoft to rule the programming scene i would like to see them secure their operating system.. don’t allow processes rights to files they don’t need.
anyway, i still love both asp.net & php because both these give me opportunity to work and accomplish great things, even though, i have always preferred asp.net before php.
pingback from brandon savage’s blog: of lies, damned lies, and benchmarks | php i hope people actually looked at your spreadsheet, because your article is misleading.
and, could you please, email scottgu too.
sql server always uses transactions (few exceptions here), but mysql not always and i don’t know about postgree in this case.
so i have a two part question 1, if i do the php thing will it help me be better asp.net developer in the long run basically how much is related 2, where could i get the equivalent training in asp.net in this part of the world mildly interesting comparison.
@jay khatri, its true that php has more freelance projects.
i miss so many nice features from .net that i feel one quickly has gotten used to having.
we did not have any windows users complaining, so far.
opus131 on august 6th, 2009 4:22 pm php has always been, and will always be, tailored to semi-professional  environments.
thanks, dennes re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ? pingback from php linux windows asp.net performance ???
i know some will be incensed by these tests.
who???s  the fastest ?
i can certanly say that for really simple application asp.net is way faster to develop than php or rails but when the things start to get more complicated i would not choose asp.net i would go for rails (ruby) or django (python).
"mysql access from php on linux is a tiny bit faster than sql server access on windows" – i think you meant to say, "is twice as fast" as sql server, according to your data.
and i  don’t have anything to say except to strongly agree with the results you  have achieved.
what i would like to see is a good comparison on architecture in terms of how productive can i get.
no share code or methodology.
i now use studio 2008 exclusively for coding although homesite had some  nice touches i still consider superior to any other editor, particularly its  extensibility via jscript and user-defined forms.
also, you’ve got the class code you used to call framework functions for php, but can you provide the page you made to call those?
to really make the two stand apart, isn’t it tco that counts?
my though is that sometime you  can afford a few milliseconds of performance loss to save you wallet.
am i have in the past worked with asp with msaccess/sql server, php with mysql  and asp.net with sql server.
i saw a team of 20 experienced developers from india (no 1st-timers) rewrite 50% of an existing application in 1 year for a cost of about $1m. single request times were 2-3 seconds per page, when the existing system was under .5 seconds per page.
@ozzy -> for last 4 years i’ve seen worst so called ‘custom tags’ from asp.net developers, like  or .
people seriously want a comparison of asp.net to classic asp?!
" lamp: "i’ll never join you!"
i’m not exactly .net dev.
rails is good for complicated applications?
pingback from cal evans’ blog: php and community | webs developer >
beforehand i’d like to say that i’m not a fanatic, and,  i’ve also tested alot of thing you already did, in different version  along the last years.
i guess i will have to be impolite to comment here .
i think that too many decisions are taken in our industry on personal belief and rumours, which many of these comments and on similar tests show.
to suggest testing scenario to reveal all the asp.net/ms sql power.
to factor that all in, you’ve got to consider a gazillion things,  like the development environment, rad vs. rup, startup hardware costs (must  consider #users served over x amount of time, not just #users served at a  snapshot in time), startup software costs, ongoing licensing costs, ongoing  maintenance costs, developer availability, code comprehensibility, security  costs, and on and on.
to have money or not to have money, that is the question.
asp: datetime nextweek = new system.datetime().adddays(7); php: $secnextweek = time() + (7 * 24 * 60 * 60); just because php doesn’t seem to have a similar adddays() function you don’t need to calculate (7 * 24 * 60 * 60) in every loop iteration.
php versus asp.net raw performance ….. by now you have cheated and looked at the spread sheet.
oops, i meant you’ve got the class for asp.net but not the page like you have in php..
scriptstar on august 5th, 2009 4:42 pm "asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux)"
why no perl comparison too?
as ultimate object of learning asp.net for me is to earn money.
granted, you could argue that the india team had a vested interest in running up the cost, but isn’t that what we are talking about here?
my though is that sometime you can afford a few milliseconds of performance loss to save you wallet.
and i’m sure if php was faster you folks at microsoft would start working on making asp.net faster so i don’t know why dave would think you would jimmy the test keep up the good work joe!!!!!!
i use php projects (drupal,  etc…) because they are free, numerous and quite often, though not  always, of high quality.
seo swap | re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
i also see from your web site that you are a php developer so i understand your rant.
windows versus linux  ???
hi friends, i am using asp.net and never known to php and dont even like to be switched as i am quite comfort on windows platform.
"semi-professional", such a condescending attitude.
have you used ubuntu’s php 5.2, zend server ce or built it from source (vanilla-php)?
i was doing  php before .net
php is the ugliest ans slowest thing in the recent world history.
i think it’s all bollocks
i make things in asp.net while i dabble in php.
sid on august 5th, 2009 4:42 pm joe, thanks for this article.
some things are faster on windows, other are faster on linux.
these are quite useful.
optimized code for your intended use and 3.
i could find for 5.3 were beta.
and you want to run it on windows, your should do scale planning.
asp.net: "if you only knew the power of the .net side.
but not every language works against you in this matter.
asp.net on linux and windows on august 6th, 2009 1:55 am re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
" lamp: "no… no… that’s not true…
asp.net (c#) operations, object use, library calls, etc. are significantly  faster that the php equivalents.
can you speak to this sometime?
|  rapid-dev.net on august 6th, 2009 10:24 am re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
short term and long term.
designer we’re able to pick our code after ~month and changing it as they want it.
you can’t share sessions easily between two php apps running on the same machine too.
and some of the "great" open source projects?
both are good and both let you earn money, which is most important.
cheers re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
haven’t messed with php much yet; no incentive to do so.
i have just started to play a bit with php to get a feel for what it can do since i dont have asp.net on my mac except virtually.
however this staement by you "i would still prefer php over asp.net if it were slower… speed is just a small factor.
diego toala on august 6th, 2009 7:55 pm "postgresql performance is very close on both platforms (within 6/100  of a second for 1000 operations) – it’s faster on windows and  faster still on windows with php 5.3" for sure, postgresql is better with php.
the article is available at: pcquest.ciol.com/…/109070402.asp nice, i always thought asp.net was slower than php.
hands down the reason i use asp.net is because of the ide.
a toshiba tecra m5 with 4 gig of ram and a 60 gig 7200 rpm hard drive.
this is wrong from the start as somebody already pointed out(k i think was the name).
(who the hell will name a function mysql_real_escape_string? woot!)
and becuase it contained technically innacurate presumtions/ - i’m just mad that asp.net is so much faster than php –> my comment was deleated becuase i can neither read or be polite
but it kept failing and the only pre built binaries
i was quite  surprised by that knowing that php with fastcgi does have a number of  optimizations on iis7.
what makes php important is all these existing open source applications.
was working on c++ and delphi projects.
if you don’t care to write code in php, say it.
i could have easily redone the entire application by myself in .net in the same amount of time, and guaranteed better response times.
i have recently tried java
thank you for submitting this cool story – trackback from progg.ru craig on august 6th, 2009 11:27 am just to provide some numbers from my experience:
i never used visual studio – i was using macromedia/adobe homesite for  coding.
we had a lot of discussions about which technology should be used in a new project.
first, i didn’t test 5.3 becuase the ubuntu package  manager doesn’t include 5.3.
on august 5th, 2009 6:04 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ? pingback from php versus asp.net ???
have you tried to share session between wordpress and oscommerce for example?
php vs asp.net, linux vs windows php vs.
(example: encryption 3-5 times faster  on ubuntu.)
obviously other performance gains can only be a good thing, i don’t see why a newcomer would choose php over .net, simply due to the depth of support you guys (ms) give, the size of the community and the nature of c# and asp syntax.
well if you’d spent some time on the real, debian based linux server (->
+ mod_deflate you would notice difference in speed/development.
but still i feel that micorsoft technologies are simpler and easy to implement.
also, i often find asp.net applications in production that are running in debug mode.
asp.net (c#) operations, object use, library calls, etc. are significantly faster that the php equivalents.
note – i’m not saying “asp.net is faster so you shouldn’t choose php !!!!
"smarty can be weird if you don’t understand template engine principles.
technorati tags: microsoft,asp.netoop, php, linux, mysql ,postgress,sql server, performance filed under: asp.net rss feed for comments on this post 155 responses to this post php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the  fastest ?
pingback from asp.net vs php performance….
k on august 6th, 2009 7:06 pm i don’t think it’s fair to compare php without an opcode cache  (like apc).
‘cuz that’s where the business is ultimately going to go, and that’s what i want to learn.
both operating systems were fully patched / updated.
what is the key advantage of using php (technically not on price- price is irrelevant in this discussion)
linux done well once will server years.
seo swap | on august 5th, 2009 6:31 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
on august 6th, 2009 3:06 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ? pingback from codegeeks » php versus asp.net ???
isn’t this the answer that  cios are looking for?
joe thank goodness .. backs up the assertion that one should chose the right tool for the right job.
php has always been, and will always be, tailored to semi-professional environments.
i often find this comparisons to be a bit biased towards the expertise of the person testing it, if one is more proeficient with windows then the tests tend to favour windows, if the tester is more proeficient with linux it favours linux etc.
i guess i will have to be impolite to comment here  .
i can tell 90% of them will never go live..they are cheap  projects for some cheap people a way of making quick money.
oh the mighty memcached!
i think a better comparison is to create a web app in both php and asp.net.
it would be also nice to test mono asp.net on ubuntu and win
the other thing thats nice is unlike windows server which i have to worry about getting hacked/viruses all the time linux servers are extremely easy to secure.
comment warning i know some will be incensed by these tests.
just sayin’ way to go "dave" or should i say anonymous coward (my term for posters who lack the courage to provide a real name and contact information.
i know you can’t setup every type of caching solution.
plus, how does anyone know what background services ubuntu 9.04 was running versus ms 2008 when this benchmark was performed?
assuming they finished the app in another year (i left the company disgusted with their choice, which i advised against), the total cost would be approaching $2m, for something i could have done for about 1/20th the cost with faster performance in .net.
who's the fastest  … | webmaster tools on august 5th, 2009 3:54 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
" asp.net: "search your feelings, you know it to be true" lamp: "nooooooooooo!
yes i know, there’s no point and click :d:d )and apply proper framework like codeigniter or zf
most developers i have come across don’t even care about performance.
either way, php has it’s pro’s and con’s, as does .net.
if you are building an application, or running an application that  supports it, postgresql might be a better database choice since it performs  pretty much the same on windows and linux.
that’s the true test.
though i have never been onto php but as still.
for instance, have you installed a php accelerator like  apc ?
not everyone knows how to get the best performance out of their systems/code.
i always knew that… asp.net rox!
because those projects are piece of shi*t.
2 remarks : - to the author : running php without an opcode cache is like running asp.net in debug mode… it’s just "not-done".
php vs. asp.net on linux and windows thanks for performing tests.
if you can code php to be faster, again, go for it.
i never used visual studio – i was using macromedia/adobe homesite for coding.
andrey andrey, it’s not fud – the times speak for themselves – the performance of mysql access on windows sucks !
in an economically-challenged country like the usa, is this the question that really matters?
joe, can you share which tools you used to do the benchmarks?
asp.net is not a programming language at all.
and if you get around to doing that kind of test, you should probably account for the fact that it typically takes hours to set up and configure a windows server (while most linux sysadmins can do it in under 10 minutes).
and i’m only here to whine becuase i’m too lazy to add value.
second, making wild statements like ‘asp.net is universally faster than php’ without providing explicit details on how to duplicate the results that you posted, shows you are not a very trust worthy source.
i found it most helpful, as i too am a  "switch hitter" in that i develop projects in both asp.net and  php/mysql.
usually, when someone creates benchmarks, they are trying to prove that  their thing is faster than someone else’s thing.
long live .net, long live c#!!!
use an opcode cache and then compare performance of real applications, not a bunch of loops.
pingback from web pro asp – active server page development news of course c# + asp.net is faster than php.
haven’t messed  with php much yet; no incentive to do so.
who's the fastest …  on august 5th, 2009 5:21 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
good article lloyd a magazine to which i contribute articles recently did a php on win vs. lin article and found that ph ran better on linux than windows.
however, i disagree because ultimately i need to meet client’s  needs which might require the use of asp.net for one project, and php for a  different one.
which runs php faster? codegeeks » php versus asp.net ???
php versus asp.net ???
isn’t this the answer that cios are looking for?
thing is most of the time, people disregard several importan aspects while testing, making a test in a standard out of the box install of linux/apache/php/mysql/postgresql vs windows/iis/mysql/postgresql is not quite accurate, the hardware for starters should be the same, then, both operating systems / software should be configured for maximum performance (since that’s what a sane person would do in a production environment) and only then compare results.
given a given rfp spec for a project, can an experienced php,  perl, ruby/rails, objective-c/{j} or .net developer finish the project in the  same time and have it operate in relatively the same speed?
@gargamel you can run all the tests on your machine (both php and .net)?
i’d like to comment of the comments
what you tested was almost not related to real life more or less complex projects (in my opinion, – i may be wrong).
to do performance optimization on both !)
i would like to see a similar comparison for asp.net mvc vs. ruby on rails vs. python/django.
i’m working with php at work exclusively (my boss is obsessed with the whole lamp thingie).
guy even had problem with proper installation of php 5.3 on ‘ubuntu’.
right ….’encryption’ & ‘securing the code’ …but why is in the way that html will output it and be invalid.
who’s  the fastest ???
you should be looking at yourself, the developer, to know which one you are stronger in.
– yes none were added but .net has its global assembly cache by default.
in our country; an avarage .net developer earns two to three times salary than an avarage php developer of same experience.
"shame all .net developers are negative to language which makes websites more maintainable".
have you tried to share session between wordpress and oscommerce for example?"
now i can start writing those windows specific php  libraries  i’ve been dreaming about for years !!
personally, i’ve seen firsthand the hidden costs of both java and .net in  an fortune 500 environment, and .net still has my focus.
so, i decided to collect some empirical evidence of my own.
why didn’t you use zend page cache to negate that effect to bring it to an equal footing with asp.net?
if i had to choose, i would utilize asp.net simply because i like the  visual studio ide experience.
i have quite similar experience… i have started working on php but ended up with asp.net because simply i  feel the power which is above php.
for one thing, you may have selected tests that, at some level of implementation, favor asp.net.
" rick on august 6th, 2009 12:53 pm hey joe great article i was going to send you an email asking you about  this om the same lines
the logic behind its existence is still escaping me
both windows and linux implementations of php will benefit from php byte  code caching.
this is “misfit data” – while i do work for microsoft, this data is not “official microsoft” data and is not endorsed or ratified by microsoft in any way.
i could have easily redone the entire application by myself in .net in the  same amount of time, and guaranteed better response times.
last time i tried a windows server, it encountered a "stop error" after just a week!
for the freelancer, it may be one choice, while the 10,000 employee  enterprise it staff may need a completely different choice (or choices.)
how about – instead of whining "i don’t believe thye thing i know is slower than the thing i don’t know" you actually download the code and run some tests yourself.
it would be nice if you could add mono 2.4 performance numbers.
samir on august 6th, 2009 7:22 pm just one doubt, you said ubuntu 9 vs window$ 2008 server, wich flavour  exactly of ubuntu 9.04?
i’ve been emailing with andi gutmans (zend and co-inventor of php) who has had some interesting suggestions for a next set of benchmarks.
since you can’t provide opposing data you make stuff up.
i’ve worked with both, yes, even the stripped down version of ubuntu, and it just wan’t quite the same.
thanks for sharing it puru good post puru do windows servers stay up for a couple of years without a reboot like linux & freebsd?
on the other hand the free  stack seems to remain perpetually unfinished, unpolished and all the pieces to  the puzzle are laying all over the place and documented in gibberish.
which runs php faster?
the original opinionated misfit geek ! - a2subscribe rss | podcast rss note:
the whole infrastructure seem so bare.
is there a way where you can compare asp with asp.net because  many people like me have the doubt that microsoft is killing asp in the  upcoming servers.
template engine syntax is then really useful & powerful at same time.
microsoft has done a great job tuning their web stack/ide in recent years.
pingback from dew drop – august 6, 2009 | alvin ashcraft’s
php’s ides  are jokes with no punchlines; they really, really suck.
would be interesting to say the least.
good post thanks for sharing it puru good post
so you deny php the advantage that  .net has.
php joe, i must apologize for my rant, i did go off the deep end a little, but in my own defense the file ‘ http://www.msjoe.com/pages/aspnet_perf_test_source.htm‘ does not display correctly in firefox 3.5 on my laptop, which led me to believe that there was missing information.
.net has the  benefit of using bytecode, while php has to parse the file and  "compile" for each page request.
but .net have big projects..that php devs can only dream of..
it’s all about business, if you keep your mind as a developer go  ahead and cry like a baby "mommy i want asp.net" or "mommy i  want php", but if you are a professional software engineer you have to be  technical in your choice, and manage the variables of your project, this is not  a soccer game.
thank you for submitting this cool story – trackback from dotnetshoutout re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
symphony, zf & ci are three best for rad in php.
it’s one big beautiful combo.
all these days, i was a bit guilty of not honing
.net has the benefit of using bytecode, while php has to parse the file and "compile" for each page request.
morning dew joe stagner on august 6th, 2009 8:38 am sharique, good questions.
what is  the key advantage of using php (technically not on price- price is irrelevant  in this discussion)
: misfit geek on august 5th, 2009 3:35 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
who’s  the fastest … php versus asp.net ???
and it’s bad for you.
pingback from windows hosting or linux hosting?
i like asp.net/mvc, c#, visual studio, iis, sql server and windows server, and i have followed ms over 10 years, but when i plan to start a small business, i find i have not enougth $ to buy the environments, although maybe i can use the illegal soft of visual studio, sql server and windows server, but if i do so in my own business, i feel very sorry and uncomfortable, if i use the illegal soft, maybe some day, before i have made some money, i have lost my future.
pingback from php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
i was quite surprised by that knowing that php with fastcgi does have a number of optimizations on iis7.
like linq and where are my telerik components ??
smarty can be weird if you don’t understand template engine principles.
it’s all about business, if you keep your mind as a developer go ahead and cry like a baby "mommy i want asp.net" or "mommy i want php", but if you are a professional software engineer you have to be technical in your choice, and manage the variables of your project, this is not a soccer game.
personally, i’ve seen firsthand the hidden costs of both java and .net in an fortune 500 environment, and .net still has my focus.
in any event, it’s nice to now have some data that php performance on windows and linux are “in the same ballpark”.
thank you for submitting this cool story – trackback from progg.ru just to provide some numbers from my experience:
congratulation, excelent article vinod – this is typical of the stuff i found when i did my initial search.
joe, now when you got testing pc, tests, all the infrastructure in place, would you please walk an extra step and test win
this is music to my ears.
and i don’t have anything to say except to strongly agree with the results you have achieved.
and ppl were laughing on vb6?
php vs asp.net on mono… linux ..
make me see the value in the switch… re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
- to apfel : from php 5.3.0 onwards : asp: datetime nextweek = new system.datetime().adddays(7); php: $secnextweek = new datetime()->add(new dateinterval("p7d")); wim, in fact, my lamp host does not include op-code caching.
who’s  the fastest … | webmaster tools php versus asp.net ???
pingback from php vs asp.net « blog, what blog?
for the record, i’ve written objective-c, php, perl and  asp/vb/c#/.net.
i have no reason to believe that php will be any better, especially given joe’s numbers.
there is no authentication.
here in canada has released a pile of training money for  anyone affected by the recession i qualify for training money the only  accredited courses i can find in b.c. canada are open source drupal php and so
i’m sure the same thing could be done with php.
" does anyone seriously believe, a guy who is in microsoft employment will be unbiased???
like always developers will find ways to make any platform shine or slow down using any random anti-pattern.
with asp.net and php, .net was faster  but not greatly.
i built and ran these tests  because i was personally curious about comparative performance.
pingback from seo swap | | php versus asp.net ???
"…while asp is something completely different to c#…" mate, stop it.
you are welcome to comment  and disagree, but if you can’t be polite i’ll simply delete your  comments and block your ip address.
my goal was to determine the relative speed of the implementation.
vs2008 has done a great job creating user controls by wrapping js and css into their ide.
@vdd said, "we had a lot of discussions about which technology should be used in a new project.
yes, i could implement php byte caching, or for asp.net i could use page  caching, partial page caching, sql cache dependency, multi threading, etc.
so you deny php the advantage that .net has.
now let the frenzy begin !!
so, who’s going to step up and pull those numbers out of their hat?
– the prophecy forums re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ? pingback from of lies, damned lies, and benchmarks – brandon savage | rapid-dev.net thanks sam – i do appreciate it.
you can look at the code here.
ok – please see the results of add op-code caching here msjoe.com/…/php-linux-windo  i don’t know why anyone is surprised by these results.
i  think @nollkoll eluded to this, but the real question is your it’s  productivity.
just one doubt, you said ubuntu 9 vs window$ 2008 server, wich flavour exactly of ubuntu 9.04?
doing a simple extrapolation from 7 million to 20 million we can see that a do while loop doing a text assignment takes 16% less time to complete than when it has nothing to do.
[ you can click here to see the result spreadsheet. ]
the same applied to windows obviously.
hi, this sounds interesting.
the biggest selling point of php/mysql is the price.
cheers php versus asp.net ???
i agree that the folks who developed drupal, joomla and wordpress have done a great job using php to accomplish this.
"# if you are running an application that locks you in to sun microsystems’ mysql
"postgresql performance is very close on both platforms (within 6/100 of a second for 1000 operations) – it’s faster on windows and faster still on windows with php 5.3" for sure, postgresql is better with php.
take security seriously be like apple and (borrow) an already great filesystem and make it your own.. its bsd licensing after all.
how does implementation performance compare ?
windows hosting or linux hosting?
i was doing php before .net
best regards just wanted to know what implementation of php you are using on windows: fastcgi or isapi?
(v2 ot the driver will improve  performance. )
so i think as i freelancer i have less opportunity.
pingback from programming news: asp.net beats lamp and wimp in performance test | programming and development | techrepublic.com thanks for sticking your head out.
now, i see, with good development practices, you can have a great  performance at asp.net too.
out designers still have hard time to understand why the hell we’re using a weird templating language (smarty) over another templating language (php).
i noted that with  asp and php, php was generally faster.
i think php is more maintainable.
what i need is to be honest with my customers.
i am not a lamp person by any means, but that  made sense because my lamp friends always talk about scaling as adding more  servers, ie more hardware.
that’s why asp.net spanks php.
i am not a lamp person by any means, but that made sense because my lamp friends always talk about scaling as adding more servers, ie more hardware.
shane on august 6th, 2009 7:44 pm good tests joe.
if these test results cause you dizziness, vomiting, or other undesired side effects, please discontinue use immediately and consult your physician.
compiled vs interpreted!
i don’t think it’s fair to compare php without an opcode cache (like apc).
especially when all php frameworks are extending language, while asp is something completely different to c#.
it seems you’re completely clueless here.
can you please take a look at let us know your thoughts  on these results?
if you’re the dev, it is up to you to decide what storage you’ll use – viewstate, session, etc.
because comparing .net platform with php would be like comparing an ocean with my reservoir.
take my code or write your own and argue with  facts.
for the record, i’ve written objective-c, php, perl and asp/vb/c#/.net.
| rapid-dev.net craig on august 6th, 2009 10:37 am let’s suppose for the moment that your numbers are in the general  ballpark.
@gargamel honestly, get the sources, optimize php as you like, call zend for help, run the tests and come report the results.
pingback from windows | all days long kevin isom on august 5th, 2009 9:00 pm joe, thanks for the effort.
for example - does php/mysql really scale in both dimensions as they love to say (specifically for ajax-rich mass web projects)
well zend, code igniter & symphone are offering same amount of reusable libraries.
function calls were faster on windows object creation / access was faster on linux with php 5.2 but faster on  windows with 5.3 library calls were faster on linux.
as long as someone’s willing to pay me a good buck i’ll write in, or learn, whatever language and/or framework they need me to write in for them.
+ asp.net + postgresql
hey, vdd – if your company uses comparisons like these to make decisions about real-world web solutions, you might want to keep your resume updated.
custom applications # asp.net $cms -> php regards.
why didn’t you include the postgres on windows perf?
given a given rfp spec for a project, can an experienced php, perl, ruby/rails, objective-c/{j} or .net developer finish the project in the same time and have it operate in relatively the same speed?
would help to make an informed decision on using php for anything… my initial php trials tell me im better off learning objective-c on mac than web development, if im going to do any mac dev at all, since there is nothing that let me be as productive as i am in .net.
anyway – hope some of you find this interesting.
i really dislike mysql as it does weird things sometimes with queries and prefer stored procedures on sql server.
i’m not a developer i’m a user.
thanks & best regards jay khatri i have in the past worked with asp with msaccess/sql server, php with mysql and asp.net with sql server.
.. and logic suggests that sun is less than compleatly interested in it’s performance on windows.
re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
what i  would like to see is a good comparison on architecture in terms of how  productive can i get.
now, i see, with good development practices, you can have a great performance at asp.net too.
i think @nollkoll eluded to this, but the real question is your it’s productivity.
novice wannabe the gov.
i also did some simple tests back when asp.net was v1.1.
but when you understand the principles, know what you exactly want, have plenty of time & money there’s nothing against writing your own one.
memcache is not atomic.
so what does all that mean ?
: misfit geek php versus asp.net ???
jay khatri brian dines on august 6th, 2009 7:29
php vs asp.net, linux vs windows on august 5th, 2009 11:24 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
it’d be expensive to put on and i think it’d take some work to  do fairly.
and i’ll keep on using it in any case.
tonight it’s a good night sleep.
any chance you could compare mono against php as  well?
i found it most helpful, as i too am a "switch hitter" in that i develop projects in both asp.net and php/mysql.
i wasn’t investigating how much speed an expert could custom tailor  the tests to on a specific platform.
who’s  the fastest … rui on august 5th, 2009 9:13 pm
ubuntu 9 (php 5.2)+ mysql win server 08
how about you try running this on a stripped down version of *bsd system?
who's the fastest …  on august 5th, 2009 4:08 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
my php skills and bowed to .net.
the things mentioned are unanimous and needs to be appreciated by everyone………… it solution nice post, thanks for writing about it it would be great to apply the same test to jsp and add the result to your spreadsheet.
each has it’s own rewards and each has it’s own irks.
php may not suffer from the performance problem, but what about the tco?
+ asp.net + mysql win
best regards shannon deminick on august 5th, 2009 9:44 pm just wanted to know what implementation of php you are using on windows:  fastcgi or isapi?
(i think they probably are.)
i posted all the details and the code to duplicate my tests (i guess you were so upset at php perfarmance that you missed that.)
because comparing .net platform with  php would be like comparing an ocean with my reservoir.
who’s  the fastest … | mysql security php versus asp.net ???
@will cause they don’t know how to use it properly mate.
seo swap | windows | all days long on august 5th, 2009 8:21
and that’s totally great and works best for ms developers.
the windows 08, iis 7, fastcgi was fully updated.
i noted that with asp and php, php was generally faster.
memcache doesn’t have locks.
all these days, i was a bit guilty of not honing my php skills and bowed to .net.
use mono and you will be.
as long as  someone’s willing to pay me a good buck i’ll write in, or learn,  whatever language and/or framework they need me to write in for them.
if you can code .net to be faster, go for it.
php on linux versus php on windows….. i really though one would just be faster than the other, but i was wrong.
this type of test would only be fair if you tested classic asp, which isn’t compiled.
in our country; an avarage .net
good article lloyd vinod unny on august 6th, 2009 9:47 am a magazine to which i contribute articles recently did a php on win vs. lin  article and found that ph ran better on linux than windows.
both windows and linux implementations of php will benefit from php byte code caching.
how come your tests show it takes less to do more with asp .net?
i wasn’t investigating how much speed an expert could custom tailor the tests to on a specific platform.
yes, asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux) with  the exceptions of file copy and attribute operations.
and what about mvc  or some scaffolding structure like rail? seems it does not exist for php or  only in tiny corner or php universe.
pingback from windows | all days long joe, thanks for the effort.
yes, it is very simple: run a memcached server, modify the code to use it properly, pray so that it will not loose your session data.
the second reason i  asp.net is that the windows technology stack is cohesive and well documented  (ubuntu is a great tack for the linux community).
morning dew sharique, good questions.
my clients ultimately dictate what programming language to use based on their server environment.
and what about mvc or some scaffolding structure like rail? seems it does not exist for php or only in tiny corner or php universe.
i really though one would just be faster than the other, but i was wrong.
note – i’m not saying “asp.net is faster so you  shouldn’t choose php !!!!
i have personally made only few of the tests for which you already provided  more detailed explanation and tests on your results spreadsheet
| asp scribe re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
who???s the fastest ?
i have been able to shave seconds off first loads with css spriting techniques, javascript packaging, and cdn.
then we can compare percentages… –>
| asp scribe php versus asp.net ???
i have used both php and asp.net and really hooked up to asp.net now because of the visual studio ide it beats any php ide out there hands down (my opinion ).
yeah, damn easy via memcache, using ‘session_set_save_handler()’.
and please do not even compare masterpage to smarty or zendview -> ko would be instant.
i really dislike  mysql as it does weird things sometimes with queries and prefer stored  procedures on sql server.
you are welcome to comment and disagree, but if you can be polite i’ll simply delete your comments and block your ip address."
the os versions were both 32 bit.
pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
i’d like to run some of these tests.
| rapid-dev.net let’s suppose for the moment that your numbers are in the general ballpark.
you are welcome to  comment and disagree, but if you can be polite i’ll simply delete your  comments and block your ip address."
this was before i really knew what i was doing too.
becuase i can neither read or be polite
to me (your mileage may vary) the exciting thing about php is not the language / platform so much as it is what thousands of clever php developers have done with it (drupal, joomla, wordpress, phpbb, nuke, etc.)
i think this isn’t a good test..
who's the fastest  … | mysql security on august 5th, 2009 5:58 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
each has  it’s own rewards and each has it’s own irks.
now you know why i prefer it.
if you were, you’d know what i’m speaking about.
asp.net 2 + mssql free – (color green) $$$$ – thousands – (color pink) php is dead.
iam not sure if this comparisons php vs asp.net help.
i would still prefer php over asp.net if it were slower… speed is just a small factor.
when i confer a preference for something in php, my microsoft peers send me flame mail and when i confer a preference for something in asp.net, my php friends come out of the woodwork to call me a microsoft shill.
this is very painful.
you can’t compare an opcode cache to page caching.
joe, thanks for the article and for sharing the tests you’ve made.
first, i didn’t test 5.3 becuase the ubuntu package manager doesn’t include 5.3.
standard were natively installed on 2  separate (but identical) hard drives.
then see what is faster..
asp.net 2 + mssql free – (color green) $$$$ – thousands – (color pink) dave on august 6th, 2009 6:45 pm php is dead.
i use php projects (drupal, etc…) because they are free, numerous and quite often, though not always, of high quality.
standard were natively installed on 2 separate (but identical) hard drives.
speed of execution of a web scripting language is so rarely a performance bottleneck that this discussion isn’t even worth having.
thanks if you can provide that.
email scott for what?
i program primarily in php because my customers request it not because its the best thing ever.
(php 5.3 not yet supported at the time of this writing.)
and for simple projects the performance does not matter.
oh, php sites are more maintainable?
out of the box benchmarks worth just that… good effort though.
so what does all that mean ? by and large i think the php team and the microsoft iis team have accomplished good raw performance equivalence across platforms.
backs up the assertion that one should chose the right  tool for the right job.
can you do it for the community please?
is there a way to improve the performance of the file copy test on win2k8 asp.net 2 without compromising security?
i’m not sure if that question’s even answerable without a flame  war.
on the other hand the free stack seems to remain perpetually unfinished, unpolished and all the pieces to the puzzle are laying all over the place and documented in gibberish.
now i dont feel guilty when i see any php open source tools or web sites.
you’ll notice php beats asp.net on most levels.
who’s  the fastest … oran on august 5th, 2009 4:41 pm
make me see the value in the  switch… php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the  fastest ?
this article is not a true comparison of apples to apples simply because .net has caching built in, php doesn’t, by default.
|  asp scribe on august 5th, 2009 3:48 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
written by joestagner posted august 5, 2009 at 3:11 pm note:
thanks you solved my problem, becaz currently i am working in both php and asp.net and even in jsp.
i know java is faster than ruby
" is the important one – for you, a performance difference of this amount doesn’t matter.
so its easy to see the difference on basis of financial benefits.
take my code or write your own and argue with facts.
no  share code or methodology.
so i have a two part question 1, if i do the php thing will it help me be better asp.net developer in the  long run basically how much is related 2, where could i get the equivalent training in asp.net in this part of the  world nollkoll on august 6th, 2009 1:00 pm mildly interesting comparison.
it choked badly when they cranked up the user load in testing.
developer earns two to three times salary than an avarage php developer of same  experience.
technorati tags: microsoft,asp.netoop, php, linux, mysql ,postgress,sql server, performancetechnorati tags: microsoft,asp.netoop, php, linux, mysql ,postgress,sql server, performance 155 responses to this post re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
php vs. asp.net on linux and windows sharique on august 6th, 2009 2:06 am thanks for performing tests.
i know my php friends and the linux dudes (and dude-etts) will probably come out of the wood work to refute my tests and results i’ve always thought that if high end performance options were part of your needs requirements, then .net programming has some advanced options “out of the box” like multi-threading, asynchronous requests, and a number of caching options.
for the freelancer, it may be one choice, while the 10,000 employee enterprise it staff may need a completely different choice (or choices.)
a mistery… as you’re mentioning symphony, i think it is the best thing in the php world.
i would like to be sure if you are more productive in asp.net than php (have you ever tried a php mvc framework "caephp, codeigniter, symfony, zend")
"asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux)"
pingback from brandon savage’s blog: of lies, damned lies, and benchmarks | php re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
i’ve seen many voices about controls.
pingback from php versus asp.net ???
they also had a vested interest in getting good response times to prove  themselves valuable.
i’m not a ms developer because i just don’t believe in closed code.
no referential integrity.
version 1 of the php driver for sql server (v2 is in the works) is  somewhat slower than mysql or postpresql but probably not enough to discourage  use where diverse developer access is desired.
next, only true developers who understand the importance of performance, security and optimization will understand my point here.
but that’s not what i’m talking about when i say i prefer building web apps in php compared to asp.net.
are oses 32-bit or 64bit?
thing is most of the time, people disregard several importan aspects while  testing, making a test in a standard out of the box install of  linux/apache/php/mysql/postgresql vs windows/iis/mysql/postgresql is not quite  accurate, the hardware for starters should be the same, then, both operating  systems / software should be configured for maximum performance (since  that’s what a sane person would do in a production environment) and only  then compare results.
when i  confer a preference for something in php, my microsoft peers send me flame mail  and when i confer a preference for something in asp.net, my php friends come  out of the woodwork to call me a microsoft shill.
frank on august 6th, 2009 7:20 pm i make things in asp.net while i dabble in php.
like linq and where are my telerik  components ??
great tests joe we appreciate your efforts.
at the bottom of the chart i would add.
php’s ides are jokes with no punchlines; they really, really suck.
this means that for different environments, the choice  may vary.
this benchmark is nonsense!
this is “misfit data” – while i do work for  microsoft, this data is not “official microsoft” data and is not  endorsed or ratified by microsoft in any way.
(just as the early learning complexity of asp.net can have it’s  drawbacks. )
keep watching for those !!!
dew drop – august 6, 2009 | alvin ashcraft's morning dew on august  6th, 2009 8:34 am re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
" lamp: "no… no… that’s not true…  that’s impossible!
who???s the  fastest ?
costs: well no discussion here.
pingback from brandon savage’s blog: of lies, damned lies, and benchmarks | webs developer re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
"mysql access with linux is faster by more than a little and on windows" – again, you meant to say "is about five times faster", again according to your data.
i found the results both interesting and unexpected.
but the technology they used was very inadequate for the task, and the tco was poorly calculated up front.
if you want a real programming language you do it in assembly, not on those ruby/python/java/c# thingies there… (see where am going?)
mate, what are you talking about?
for a real comparison you should have used a bytecode cache system for php, because the asp.net code is compiled and cached by default after the first request.
my clients ultimately dictate what  programming language to use based on their server environment.
who’s the fastest … | webmaster tools re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
assuming they  finished the app in another year (i left the company disgusted with their  choice, which i advised against), the total cost would be approaching $2m, for  something i could have done for about 1/20th the cost with faster performance  in .net.
not tweaking performance on both systems was a good choice for this test.
this is a wonderful opinion.
i’ve always contended that the  affable simplicity of php had some drawbacks for certain advanced applications.
you mean i have to code all ajax code myself in php??
: misfit geek on august 6th, 2009 11:01 am re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
thankfully – you are not representative of the php community.
raw statement execution seems faster on windows.
i have a saying: "open mind, open heart, open source" – bobby pejman.
given that the test were single user and  the macine wasn’t running anything else, i suspect tests would not be  effected by 64bit.
to me php sites universally have better performance than asp.net powered ones.
can you also put some more effort in comparing java and asp.net.
i now use studio 2008 exclusively for coding although homesite had some nice touches i still consider superior to any other editor, particularly its extensibility via jscript and user-defined forms.
- joe stagner on august 6th, 2009 10:43 am re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –
i saw a team of 20  experienced developers from india (no 1st-timers) rewrite 50% of an existing  application in 1 year for a cost of about $1m. single request times were 2-3  seconds per page, when the existing system was under .5 seconds per page.
but it kept  failing and the only pre built binaries i could find for 5.3 were beta.
joe, thanks for this article.
thanks for the hard work joe.
overall i’ve been pretty impressed with the reactions to my first round of php/linux/windows/asp.net performance tests.
also, according to the author, if php runs faster on a windows 2008 machine than on ubuntu 9.04, then this isn’t really a battle between asp.net and php but rather windows 2008 and ubuntu 9.04 ehh??
i tried building 5.3 from source
but personally i enjoy programming in asp.net and in jsp becaz becaz i love java and c#.
i love asp.net/ms sql server
it  choked badly when they cranked up the user load in testing.
but don’t  be a jerk about it.
lloyd on august 6th, 2009 9:03 am adding a xaml/silverlight comparison would be a good idea.
but i have seen java applications converted to rails, and rails was faster, the way you code determines the speed of your application a lot and i can tell you that ruby can give you a lot of happiness, (happy programmer is more productive).
same stuff goes to view_state -> what a piece of shit (sometimes so massive string, that’s ridiculous), like the session couldn’t be stored anywhere else but on website itself, right?
hey joe i read your stuff and do your videos and try to fallow your suggestions all the time everything i’ve done of or should i say copied your lead has worked exactly like you said it would great work you’ve brought me
not my question, i can learn to code in anything, frankly.
yes, i could implement php byte caching, or for asp.net i could use page caching, partial page caching, sql cache dependency, multi threading, etc.
anyone who does not get that… well does not get that.
i,m a novice self taught novice wannabe the gov.
usually, when someone creates benchmarks, they are trying to prove that their thing is faster than someone else’s thing.
(my personal guess is that it’s unlikely that sun will  markedly improve mysql performance on windows. )
btw, are there any similar tests comparing ruby vs python or java vs c#?
mysql access from php on linux is a tiny bit faster than sql server access  on windows (assuming common data types and select statements) but probably not  enough to matter.
thank you geof on august 6th, 2009 3:45 am php is ugly like hell.
rad stands in lamp for what it should be.
for instance, have you installed a php accelerator like apc ?
would it be possible for you to repeat the benchmarks with some kind of php optimizer?
it gives me motion sickness to think of starting from scratch on a free stack.
ubuntu by default also installs the suoshin security extension, which adds a performance penalty.
i know php enough to get around and to hijack the good  ideas and put them in asp.net.
it’d be expensive to put on and i think it’d take some work to do fairly.
it would be better if ubuntu with php 5.3 is also tested.
operator in c#: if { } or ??
or have you optimized apache ?
this means that for different environments, the choice may vary.
andrew zhangzhao on august 6th, 2009 5:40 am interesting!
so i  think as i freelancer i have less opportunity.
joe dan on august 6th, 2009 8:59 am thank goodness ..
i’ve always contended that the affable simplicity of php had some drawbacks for certain advanced applications.
there are few things i would like to know like how php in iis configured, if fastcgi than version of fastcgi.
c# is pick up asp.net mvc and voila, you have the full control over your html output "afaik quite experienced developers had a problem to agree sessions between asp & .net after turning viewstate" ermmm, this is a bit lame.
pingback from cal evans’ blog: php and community |
that is, in php, you design your own controls, your own javascript and your own css to fit your needs for what your website’s intended use.
i believe with the speed of hardware, and it’s relatively cheap cost,  the difference in speeds with most things (.net, php, perl) are negligible.
i wont go comparing between these two.
this makes it hard for me to say anything good about either one.
if you are running an application that locks you in to sun  microsystems’ mysql and you want to run it on windows, your should do  scale planning.
it gives  me motion sickness to think of starting from scratch on a free stack.
given that the test were single user and the macine wasn’t running anything else, i suspect tests would not be effected by 64bit.
i have no reason to believe that php  will be any better, especially given joe’s numbers.
they also had a vested interest in getting good response times to prove themselves valuable.
if i had to choose, i would utilize asp.net simply because i like the visual studio ide experience.
can you please take a look at let us know your thoughts on these results?
i’m paid by microsoft to write both php and asp.net code.
interesting, thanks.
hajan on august 5th, 2009 5:07 pm joe, thanks for the article and for sharing the tests you’ve made.
-chris ps: regarding your side-effects warning: what should one do if his erection lasts more than four hours?
btw. ever hear about masterpage ‘semi-template engine’ ?
the second reason i asp.net is that the windows technology stack is cohesive and well documented (ubuntu is a great tack for the linux community).
memcache… no check for validity.
–> my comment was deleated becuase i can neither read or be polite and i’m only here to whine becuase i’m too lazy to add value.
time loops extrapolated %increase (test) time (-decrease) 0.0940 20000000 0.09400 (empty for loop) 0.0400 7000000 0.11429 21.58% (empty for loop with string) 0.0950 20000000 0.09500 (empty while loop) 0.0400 7000000 0.11429 20.30% (empty while loop with string) 0.1090 20000000 0.10900 (empty do loop) 0.0320 7000000 0.09143
in any event, it’s nice to now have some data that php performance on  windows and linux are “in the same ballpark”.
anyone in the right mind will tell you that ubuntu 9.04 is a much beefier operating system than windows 2008.
hi sam, i see that you can’t read since your comments don’t comply with my requsts.
one question : the data access tests used transactions (and locks) in all databases ?
i would say the exact opposite.
to all: sorry for this offtopic reply.
the environments are cheap enough for beginning companies, i will be happy.
on i wold like to learn asp.net with some credits since i have a passion for  and have invested so much time i on asp.net microsoft rules you guys are a  great team
all tests were run on the same machine.
who’s the fastest … beforehand i’d like to say that i’m not a fanatic, and, i’ve also tested alot of thing you already did, in different version along the last years.
saying that php isn’t a "professional" language is just dippy, since nearly all of the largest web sites in the world today were built with php.
it’s simply a declaration that one is faster than the other.
.net fun with the ??
but as a freelancer when i see  online projects, i always found php products are many more than asp.net.
but the  technology they used was very inadequate for the task, and the tco was poorly  calculated up front.
i’ve seen a lot of articles about how it’s better to focus on .net or php but not both.
i think all technologies have their faults.
different tools for different jobs (employers, too).
you are welcome to comment and disagree, but if you can’t be polite i’ll simply delete your comments and block your ip address.
iis  session where they were showing php test on iis 7 showed signigicant perf  increases over apache.
but adding apc  would only put php on equal ground, since .net already has something similar in  the form of compiled byte code.
but don’t be a jerk about it.
i often find this comparisons to be a bit biased towards the expertise of  the person testing it, if one is more proeficient with windows then the tests  tend to favour windows, if the tester is more proeficient with linux it favours  linux etc.
by and large i think the php team and the microsoft iis team have  accomplished good raw performance equivalence across platforms.
that alone dictates which will perform better.
@ozzy true, not every page, regardless to the language validates.
mysql access with linux is faster by more than a little and on windows,  mysql access deteriorates in version 5.3 (this seems to be poor implementation,  see postgresql below.)
comment warning - i know some will be incensed by these tests.
third, i challenge someone to use your own code examples with any server configurations they desire to contradict your findings, and i challenge you to post those results.
thank you for submitting this cool story – trackback from  dotnetshoutout php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the  fastest ?
in .net, as we all know, everything is compiled so how would you know that a control you’re throwing on your page that has js and css embedded, code that you have no access to, is 1.
on august 6th,  2009 2:45 pm re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux –  who’s the fastest ?
i probably would use php over asp, but asp.net over php.
and i am glad that .net doesn’t have them.
dubs on august 6th, 2009 12:27 pm asp.net: "whose your daddy?!
the web servers were apache2 on linux and iis 7 on windows.
" imo, the point was: why someone would use a templating engine over another templating engine @ozzy you’re right – it is messy.
chris love on august 6th, 2009 7:42 am thanks for doing this joe.
i talked with them, they were smart guys.
documenting source code dictionary –> my comment was deleated
i know my php friends and the linux dudes (and dude-etts) will probably  come out of the wood work to refute my tests and results i’ve always thought that if high end performance options were part of  your needs requirements,  then .net programming has some advanced options  “out of the box” like multi-threading, asynchronous requests, and a  number of caching options.
" asp.net: "search your feelings, you know it to be true" lamp: "nooooooooooo!"
(now we just need to get the open source application teams (drupal, wordpress, joomle, etc.) to do performance optimization on both !)
typo3, oscommerce, blah blah… most of these projects are perfect examples of heavy spaghetti, anti-pattern software.
however, upon further investigation, i realized that it does display in ie.
php perf test – mysql php perf test – sql server asp.net perf test anyway – hope some of you find this interesting.
no operating system or development runtime performance enhancements were  added.
postgresql performance is very close on both platforms (within 6/100 of a  second for 1000 operations) – it’s faster on windows and faster  still on windows with php 5.3 ms sql server access from php 5.2 on windows is marginally slower than  mysql access on linux.
long live c# hi joe, i would have loved to seen how classic asp performed against it’s big brother asp.net on windows server 2008.
and recently started some python.
as a c# developer, i really dislike the ugly php, but maybe i have to make a decision to use lamp.
long live microsoft kashif imran.
but for me, that is the ultimate question.
rad in .net makes things not maintainable really.
who’s the fastest … re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
i miss so many nice features from .net that i feel one  quickly has gotten used to having.
i’ve used zend studio and eclipse and haven’t quite had the same success.
i agree that the folks who developed drupal, joomla and wordpress  have done a great job using php to accomplish this.
thank you for running the comparison and having the boldness to publish your results.
my comment was deleated becuase i can neither read or be polite and i’m only here to whine becuase i’m too lazy to add value.
if you dislike the results and want to refute them – do the work.
sigh… if some day during my life, i luckly see the asp.net/mvc can fully run on linux/unix, or
for my side projects, i’m not touching this so called "programming language".
seo swap | | php versus asp.net ???
hi, joe, great tests !
rick on august 6th, 2009 10:10 am is there a way to improve the performance of the file copy test on win2k8  asp.net 2 without compromising security?
i have quite similar experience… i have started working on php but ended up with asp.net because simply i feel the power which is above php.
however, i disagree because ultimately i need to meet client’s needs which might require the use of asp.net for one project, and php for a different one.
congratulation, excelent article joe stagner on august 6th, 2009 9:50 am vinod – this is typical of the stuff i found when i did my initial  search.
they said it was because iis 7 provides a true multithreaded web server for php.
you are the first and your results will be taken into consideration, so we will set a windows system for testing trying to check the results.
now i can start writing those windows specific php libraries i’ve been dreaming about for years !!
at the end of the day, it’s all about the developer.
did you use the mysqlconnector?
sergeys email scott for what ?
what can i say… this is the most annoying, weird, ugly, bugged bunch of crap.
i rememeber attending a mix ’08
no operating system or development runtime performance enhancements were added.
mysql access from php on linux is a tiny bit faster than sql server access on windows (assuming common data types and select statements) but probably not enough to matter.
we got comments from user that they like the speed of the new driver (compared to libmysql, which is used with 5.2).
you managed to call me dishonest and incompetant in the same commnet – which also proves you didn’t read teh orriginal post.
"no operating system or development runtime performance enhancements were added."
i have done a few real life tests, file access is way too slow in windows and mysql is generally way faster than sql.
(just as the early learning complexity of asp.net can have it’s drawbacks. )
avinash on august 5th, 2009 10:49 pm nice one.
mysql backup and restore features are very bad.
custom applications # asp.net
long live c# andrew on august 6th, 2009 5:29 am hi joe, i would have loved to seen how classic asp performed against it’s big  brother asp.net on windows server 2008.
would help to make an informed decision on  using php for anything… my initial php trials tell me im better off  learning objective-c on mac than web development, if im going to do any mac dev  at all, since there is nothing that let me be as productive as i am in .net.
who’s the fastest … | mysql security re: php versus asp.net – windows versus linux – who’s the fastest ?
by now you have cheated and looked at the spread sheet.