in your own template - image management do you get the picture?
- get cooking with dmxready - are we using enough html in our classic asp?
also, with the built-in site builder, you can break down  and organize your campaigns any way you want.
since facebook follows its users to your site and registers each authentication, it can do things like estimate the number of users your website has based on the number of facebook members who visit your site.
- google chrome - a glimpse of the future?
best of all, dmxready cms suite is easy to use.
reasons to upgrade to windows 2008 - join our blogroll!
try the online demo right now and see how easy it is to use dmxready cms suite!
again, this makes it much easier to manage your landing pages, customizing each page to suit its own individual strengths.
but there is a way to empower website owners: content management systems or cms allow anyone with basic web skills to create and update their own content.
youll hear many programmers around the internet going on about how php is better than asp.
it gets even more complicated when you have landing pages for multiple ad campaigns like qr codes, google adwords, banner links, and more.
- built-in seo so that your website gets found easier - pre-built database already installed!
using dmxready cms suite as your landing page manager posted by: the dmxready team  @ 9:39:33 am  tuesday, january 03,  2012 landing pages are great things, though they can get a little unwieldy  – especially if you already have a big website.
in fact, you could no-index the whole website, and not lose any link  juice or page ranking on your main site.
download a copy for yourself and check it out!
all you have to do is choose the template that most closely matches your business, add your own content, and youre ready to go.
records 1 to 10 of 16 « go back - browse by category
(if you dont have your own server, you can also run dmxready cms suite on popular web hosting services like godaddy, 1and1
- google busts some myths about dynamic urls - forum answers your classic asp questions - add twitter to your website - recaptcha
a lot... - yes, a free asp content management system (cms) - add twitter updates to your website using classic asp - why not classic asp
the suite will run in the background, making your landing pages easier  to manage without affecting your website in any way.
chat help service on your website with olark - does the type of database you use affect your visitors user experience?
but the point is, you  don’t have to fire it up every time you create a new page.)
then no matter how you direct your website visitors to those pages, you can rest assured they are getting the targeted content you designed just for them without google or stray visitors stumbling upon it accidentally.
until next time, the dmxready team top - send to friend - send private message - print post protect yourself from hackers posted by: the dmxready team @ 7:58:41 am wednesday, january 21, 2009 if you build websites long enough, especially database-driven websites, chances are you will be hacked one day.
say for example your current  website is xyzcompany.com and you have a landing page campaign to generate  traffic to your pages advertising a newer, better, purple widget.
the dmxready team was on it immediately of course and we have already released a patch for it.
- will ipad change web design?
classic asp applications are perfect for the do-it-yourselfer and the small business owner who do not need large, enterprise-software-sized solutions.
in fact these soho and sme owners are exactly the people who dmxready is trying to help.
- a full cms landing page management solution that runs on your domain, but doesnt interfere with your current website read more about dmxready cms suite here, and check out the free online demo:
now you can try your very own lite version right on your own server!
one major source of frustration for companies on windows servers who want to move to a content management system (cms) is the fact that most are php-based.
usually their arguments run along the lines that because so many more people are using php, it is by default better.
- web fonts: the good, the bad, and the ugly - a-musing design help - catch
dmxready cms suite offers a brand new approach to website building: cms templates.
hosting, rackspace, hostgator, etc.)
but the point is, you dont have to fire it up every time you create a new page.)
the suite will run in the background, making your landing pages easier to manage without affecting your website in any way.
photoshop tuts for great website buttons - web design trends for 2011:
most web owners do not have the capabilities to do that themselves.
plus dmxready provides full documentation as well as other resources like an online knowledgebase and links to other trusted information.
here are a few ways to make that easier: go through the cms with your clientwalking your client through the cms is the best way to get them familiar with the system.
• blog powered by dmxready blog manager v1 skinned using free css templates
this is also a great  solution for those with hosting packages that do not support windows/asp.
use third-party apps to extend functionality for example, if you do all your bookings using google calendar, you can display it on your website with one line of code you cut and paste great for marking important dates relevant to your business, like launch dates or upcoming information sessions.
- controlling when visitors automatically get logged out - is your website design compatible with all browsers?
then no matter how you direct  your website visitors to those pages, you can rest assured they are getting the  targeted content you designed just for them without google – or stray  visitors – stumbling upon it accidentally.
http://v2suite.dmxready.com/?page=features *dmxready cms suite requires a windows or cloud server that will support asp.
plus, if you need to make some minor tweaks to the open source code, it is generally easier to learn classic asp than other advanced programming languages (in fact many of our customers say that they learned programming from customizing our apps!)
asp vs. php what is better?
so it really is an easy solution purchase the application, upload, and use.
it seems that sites that had server-side security and off-root databases were not attacked -- at least not successfully.
you can do this by making each web page "modular" with editable areas.
- using server variables in asp - how to cheat at vbscript - want to force a download?
this is simply not true.
(http://developers.facebook.com/docs/guides/web/).
this tutorial teaches asp programmers (do-it-yourselfers and professionals alike all the scripts are cut and paste ) how to integrate facebook features like authentication, social plugins, and more into their websites.
its a great choice for website owners who either want to learn how to code themselves, or who want to set it and forget it when it comes to building and launching a website.
all you need the framework to do is talk to your database and render clean html.
- how do i place affiliate ads in blog manager?
- "upselling" your clients - what do you know about asp?
- skin your own blog manager - finding "insider" help with dreamweaver - is it time for a website upgrade?
- dynamically controlled navigation menu, site map and pages - content management tools for super fast content editing using any web-enabled device including laptops, ipad/android tablets, smart phones, etc. - built-in business automation, ecommerce, crm, and seo apps all ready to go
most  importantly though, with dmxready cms suite your pages are neatly listed and  labeled in one spot so you can easily manage your pages.
check out larrys post here, and adapt to dmxready cms suite as necessary: http://www.codeproject.com/articles/94067/classic-asp-integration-with-facebook-websites-fea top - send to friend - send private message - print post got windows?
the  possibilities are endless – you can create different variations for each  catalog/category/type/product/campaign/etc., all with unique menu navigation,  content, and css skin.
and when it comes to asp cms, nobody does it better than dmxready.
also, with the built-in site builder, you can break down and organize your campaigns any way you want.
you can set up a separate website called xyzcompanypurplewidget.com and install dmxready cms suite as your landing page manager.
you can address these concerns by moving your landing pages to a separate domain and still use dmxready cms suite.
(for the record, we dont believe thats the case for steve here usually the bashing comes from programmers who have never worked with asp.)
in his letter, the programmer said this: here's my thinking: http is stateless.
in fact if you are a beginner yourself, asp is often the best choice because you can learn faster.
- using dmxready cms suite as your landing page manager - got windows?
but that's just like a burglar coming into your home and not stealing anything -- it is still not a nice feeling.
you simply turn them on and off on the pages you want no more fumbling with applications that dont quite work together!
this is an extreme example, but the fact is thatmany website owners do not keep their content as fresh as it could be.
try the classic asp forum - formatting numbers and currency with vbscript - re-think different: ipad could take us from the website to the web app - are you an effective project manager?
- has your content expired?
you can set  up a separate website called xyzcompanypurplewidget.com and install dmxready  cms suite as your landing page manager.
as of this writing, larrys post had over 130,000 page views and the script was downloaded over 1,500 times!
train the eager staff firstif your client has more than one person who will be using the cms, go through it with the person who seems most eager to learn it.
if youre editing straight html pages with dreamweaver and uploading them to the server, managing all those pages can quickly become a logistical nightmare.
all ui interactivity should be handled on the browser in javascript, and all design should be handled in css.
text is the same thing -- they can add/remove/change their own text in the same spot without disturbing the overall design.
larry boeldt at the code project has published his own asp solution http://www.codeproject.com/articles/94067/classic-asp-integration-with-facebook-websites-fea .
(in other words, reports of asps death have been greatly exaggerated.)
again,  this makes it much easier to manage your landing pages, customizing each page  to suit its own individual strengths.
if you are a web designer, you should consider offering cms to your clients.
why now is a good time to upgrade your website to dmxready cms suite
top - send to friend - send private message - print post dmxready cms suite launched!
with all the tutorials and support available, do-it-yourself website design has never been easier.
first of all, you dont have to use dreamweaver at all everything including the code can be modified in your own admin pages using any standard web browser.
most importantly though, with dmxready cms suite your pages are neatly listed and labeled in one spot so you can easily manage your pages.
- online photo shops - do you need a "mega-menu"?
you also have the flexibility of modifying it right down to the code level this asp cms has 100% customizable source code.
it's almost like it's mandatory for serious programmers to pooh-pooh classic asp to keep their street cred.
- new ebook released: classic asp myths debunked - free fonts can help make your website distinct - classic asp top ten tips - easy ajax for classic asp - save, sync, and share your files with dropbox - free paper texture backgrounds - creating an automatic tinyurl using classic asp - widgetize your website!
best of all, you can use dmxready cms suite on your current domain* and it wont interfere with your main website.
you've tried the online demos.
you can read more about it in our latest online knowledgebase article: http://dmxready.helpserve.com/index.php?_m=news&_a=viewnews&newsid=12 the dmxready team top - send to friend - send private message - print post cms dress for success!
for yourself!take it for a test drive at: http://v2suite.dmxready.com/?page=cms-templates top - send to friend - send private message - print post why not classic asp indeed?
but this does bring up an interesting issue.
so if you do not want to install what is essentially a facebook tracking cookie on your website, then members only manager is your best bet.
luckily, the majority of hackers are in it just for fun and don't do any real damage.
currently, you might have a typical brochure-type website that gives basic information to the customer, but still relies on you to do most of the work.
for example, if you find that your purple widgets are selling better with the contact information along the side, and the red widgets are selling better with the contact information at the bottom, no problem you can use a different page layout/template for each.
some systems, like dmxready applications for example, are easy to install and will have the owner up and running in no time.
- protect your website, save a document - is bing the new thing?
joomla, drupal, and others run on linux servers, not windows servers.
in short,  dmxready cms suite gives you: ease of use – all pages are listed right in front of you flexibility – create as many different templates as you need for your  landing pages greater organization – break down each campaign by project,  department, type, product etc.
- a bajillion photoshop tutorials - ftp from one server to another (and other neat tricks)
using one of the built-in cms templates, you can also: - publish photographs and videos as a portfolio or for tutorials - write a blog about your area of consultation - password-protect some or all of your website for subscription-based and/or customer-only content - create a staff directory demo dmxready cms suite
to recap the post, steve was replying to a letter he received from an unnamed programmer asking why steve no longer thought the classic asp framework was worth developing for.
even though (or perhaps because)  it is meant to be a full website cms, you couldn’t design a better landing  page management application.
flash forward 35-odd years, and it almost seems like the software developers of the world are out to do the complete opposite.
- turn your website into a google adwords keyword tool with classic asp - button it!
with split testing, different offers for different markets, different price codes, etc., that can easily add up to thousands of pages.
- microsoft gives ten (compelling?)
in short, dmxready cms suite gives you: - ease of use all pages are listed right in front of you - flexibility create as many different templates as you need for your landing pages - greater organization break down each campaign by project, department, type, product etc. by creating your own organizational system - built-in admin pages do it all online using any standard web browser no more firing up dreamweaver or messing with ftp programs!
posted by: the dmxready team @ 11:03:38 am friday, january 27, 2012 integrating with facebook into your website specifically facebook platform is full of advantages.
the dmxready team top - send to friend - send private message - print post has your content expired?
automate contacts send auto replies, direct emails to different departments/people, and mass email everyone on your customer list about early bird specials, new products/services, or perhaps a monthly newsletter.
posted by: the dmxready team @ 12:49:56 pm thursday, october 08, 2009 you've heard about the new dmxready cms v2.
your website becomes like your personal assistant!
fear, anxiety, even an unwillingness to learn will make it difficult sometimes.
the dmxready team top next » last »»
if you’re editing straight html pages with  dreamweaver and uploading them to the server, managing all those pages can  quickly become a logistical nightmare.
you can… some people are worried that  if you host your landing pages on your current web domain, there is always the  chance that your visitors will stumble upon them accidentally.
you can some people are worried that if you host your landing pages on your current web domain, there is always the chance that your visitors will stumble upon them accidentally.
- adding value to your service - offer hosting!
a "public service" hacker decided to let us know about a vulnerability by hacking into the admin pages (we would have preferred an email, btw...)
- avoid spam - hide your email - using color effectively - where to draw the css line - one free way to advertise: igoogle themes - level your css playing field - getting around ie's javascript blocker - is your website mobile friendly?
the possibilities are endless you can create different variations for each catalog/category/type/product/campaign/etc., all with unique menu navigation, content, and css skin.
it comes with several design options built in or you can easily skin it as well, using any third-party design template.
heres an asp cms solution for you - integrating facebook platform to dmxready cms suite using asp - browse by date - 2012-01-27 - 2012-01-18 - 2012-01-03 - 2011-12-20 - 2011-07-05 - 2011-06-17 - 2011-03-21 - 2011-02-16 - 2011-01-24 - 2011-01-07 - 2010-12-31 - 2010-12-10 - 2010-11-24 - 2010-11-17 - 2010-11-08 - 2010-10-22 - 2010-10-15 - 2010-10-04 - 2010-09-17 - 2010-09-10 - 2010-08-31 - 2010-08-19 - 2010-08-11 - 2010-07-16 - 2010-07-05 - 2010-06-12 - 2010-06-04 - 2010-05-28 - 2010-05-21 - 2010-05-11 - 2010-04-30 - 2010-04-23 - 2010-04-12 - 2010-04-02 - 2010-03-25 - 2010-03-19 - 2010-03-12 - 2010-03-05 - 2010-02-25 - 2010-02-17 - 2010-01-28 - 2010-01-22 - 2010-01-14 - 2010-01-07 - 2009-12-30 - 2009-12-16 - 2009-12-07 - 2009-11-19 - 2009-11-13 - 2009-11-04 - 2009-10-27 - 2009-10-12 - 2009-10-08 - 2009-08-20 - 2009-07-06 - 2009-05-19 - 2009-04-20 - 2009-04-02 - 2009-03-26 - 2009-03-16 - 2009-02-19 - 2009-02-05 - 2009-01-21 - 2009-01-07 - 2009-01-02 - 2008-12-12 - 2008-12-02 - 2008-11-19 - 2008-11-11 - 2008-10-28 - 2008-10-10 - 2008-10-07 - 2008-09-22 - 2008-09-15 - 2008-09-11 - 2008-09-08 - 2008-09-04 - 2008-08-26 - 2008-08-18 - 2008-08-14 - 2008-08-07 - 2008-08-04 - 2008-07-28 - 2008-07-23 - 2008-07-18 - 2008-07-14 - 2008-07-11 - 2008-07-09 - 2008-07-07 - 2008-07-02 - 2008-06-30 - 2008-06-27 - 2008-06-25 - 2008-06-23 - 2008-06-20 - 2008-06-18 - 2008-06-16 - 2008-06-11 - 2008-06-09 - 2008-06-06 - 2008-06-04 - 2008-06-03 - 2008-05-30 - 2008-05-28 - 2008-05-26 - 2008-05-23 - 2008-05-22 - 2008-05-21 - 2008-05-19 - 2008-05-13 - 2008-05-08 © 2008 - 2010 • dmxready.com • all rights reserved.
accept money/payments through the website instead of handling thousands of dollars of cash, you can automate service contract payments, charge for work and materials, and create other payment systems by connecting directly to your paypal merchant account.
yes, you can post something that happened a split-second ago.
a full cms landing page management solution that runs on your domain, but  doesn’t interfere with your current website read more  about dmxready cms suite here, and check out the free online demo: http://v2suite.dmxready.com/?page=features want to keep it separate?
for one, it allows your visitors to log into restricted areas of your website using only their facebook account if they are logged in at facebook, they are logged in on your website, making it easier for them to access your content while you maintain control.
its very possible that you do not.
this gives you all (well okay, most) of the power of the full version, with certain limitations like number of pages and a lock on some of the advanced features.
you want to make editing or even adding new pages as easy as possible.
this way they have the freedom of managing their own content without disturbing the main design.
- cms dress for success!
- building a better ecommerce catalog - jing, the new thing for screen capture!
but ask non-programmers what programming language they prefer, and theyll usually say what?
in short, you get everything anyone would need to run a modern and professional business automation cms website.
- free hosting of your asp scripts!
the dmxready team top - send to friend - send private message - print post yes, a free asp content management system (cms)
- istock offers deep discounts!
and we would argue it fulfills them better than other programming languages.
you have full customization control over every  aspect of your landing pages, no matter how complex or different each  individual landing page is.
http://v2suite.dmxready.com/?page=features want to keep it separate?
- get ready for flash mobile!
happy scripting, the dmxready team top - send to friend - send private message - print post add twitter updates to your website using classic asp posted by: the dmxready team @ 4:41:09 pm monday, october 12, 2009 want to post your twitter status on your asp website?
we agree completely, especially for the small business owners website.
on the one hand, it is absolutely the best medium to handle new content or "breaking news."
- web design — cool tools (13) - web design — resources (21) - web design — tips (20) - marketing — tools (2) - general — browsers (4) - general — servers (2) - dmxready — product tips (16) - blogroll — join (1) - asp — database (2) - asp — resources (9) - asp — scripts and tips (21) - browse by title - some asp resources
for example, keep images the same size and at the same spot so your client simply has to replace it with their new image.
then all the website owner has to do is log in through any standard browser, and type new content, upload images and media, even plug in web 2.0 applications for further functionality.
- a case for absolute links - create your own facebook with kickapps - is it time to move to sql?
this is also a great solution for those with hosting packages that do not support windows/asp.
be sure to check out the whole discussion on steve smiths website here: http://stevesmithblog.com/blog/why-not-classic-legacy-asp/ then let us know what you think by leaving a comment!
editing, adding new  pages, deleting old ones, or disabling suspended pages/campaigns becomes much,  much easier!
you are most likely concerned about: - ease of use - ease of customization (sometimes) - a solution that is ready-to-go right out of the box thats what classic asp applications offer, and thats why dmxready has stuck with classic asp-based programming.
not only does it give them the power to update their own content, but it can bring in more work for you through customizing and installing the software.
take a look at some of our customizable cms solutions including the newonline notebook manager.
(that being said, you may prefer to do the initial design  template using dreamweaver or some other html editor.
there are several reasons why you would choose asp over php.
dmxready has always recommended that you take advantage of server-side security and move your databases to a separate secure folder on your server, especially if you are dealing with extra-sensitive material.
- adding web 2.0 to your dmxready apps - keep your copyright up to date with this asp script - tutorial: using two copies of the same application on one website - podcast your blog (or other content) for free!
classic asp fulfills
but not with dmxready cms  suite.
perhaps an even larger worry for these people is that google could find duplicate content on your landing pages and might penalize your page ranking for it.
it's like a cyber time capsule, with little or no relevance to today.
of course, that includes websites built with dmxready cms and cms suite.
- one way to clean up your code - supercharge your asp!
if you are a small business owner who wants a dynamic website or cms solution, you dont need a huge database capable of handling thousands of hits at a time.
a cms system is designed to make things easier for your client.
on the other hand, there are websites out there that have not changed their content since 1999, with their frontpage 1.0 flashing text, moving flames, and psychedelic backgrounds.
- jazz up your apps - or let dmxready do it for you!
and make sure that your website doesn't become a time capsule as well!
- what's new with v2?
with dmxready, you dont need to set up a separate database because the built-in microsoft access database simply uploads with your application and installs itself.
editing, adding new pages, deleting old ones, or disabling suspended pages/campaigns becomes much, much easier!
asp?http://stevesmithblog.com/blog/why-not-classic-legacy-asp/ about (basically) the pros and cons of programming in classic asp.
posted by: the dmxready team @ 9:02:05 am tuesday, august 26, 2008 content management systems, or cms, are very easy to use.
i just want something that is easy to use, and works.
- are you setting yourself up for web design heartache?
here you can create as many pages as  you want – with as much duplicate content as you want – and never get  penalized.
but as mentioned above, if youre already on a windows server, asp is your best bet in web software.
but you have to remember that things that seem "obvious" to you may not be so obvious for a worker who is suspicious of technology.
you  can address these concerns by moving your landing pages to a separate domain  – and still use dmxready cms suite.
posted by: the dmxready team @ 2:08:02 pm tuesday, october 27, 2009 not long ago, we read this post called why not classic (legacy)
facebook authentication vs. members only managerof course, dmxready cms suite comes with its own authentication software, namely members only manager.
there are many, many different scenarios in which dmxready cms suite can help businesses, non-profits, and individuals get the most from their website.
you can also add other social media apps like twitter, facebook, linkedin, youtube and others to your cms website instantly.
but once you push through that with your client, it will be easier for both of you in the long run.
for many users though, sharing website user information with facebook is a small price to pay for a slick interface and integration with facebook platform and all its features.
you have full customization control over every aspect of your landing pages, no matter how complex or different each individual landing page is.
http://v2suite.dmxready.com/?page=features *dmxready cms suite  requires a windows or cloud server that will support asp.
it also is interesting in the fact that despite all the naysayers out there, asp is actually here to stay.
but sometimes there will be a bit of hand-holding on your part to launch the cms.
were not just talking traditional html design templates here, but turnkey cms website solutions complete with: no programming required web owners can simply upload the software to their existing domain and start adding their own content using any standard web browser.
in other words, this is a great way to try dmxready cms before you buy.
but this usually means getting someone who can upload the images and content.
heres the thing in a nutshell: ask programmers what they prefer to program in, and 99% will say something other than classic asp-based frameworks.
that means you dont have to create pages or worry about mapping out your site from scratch just fill each pre-built page with your own content and images, and click save!
this month, dmxready introduced cms (lite) v2, the free version of our flagship application.
posted by: the dmxready team @ 12:05:15 pm tuesday, december 20, 2011 cms templates for business and non-profit more and more business owners are looking for a website solution that they can build themselves, allowing them full control and avoiding huge web designer bills.
for example, imagine you own a consultation business.
say for example your current website is xyzcompany.com and you have a landing page campaign to generate traffic to your pages advertising a newer, better, purple widget.
for example,in this day and age, you shouldnt need to be a computer science major to build a basic website or install a content management system for that matter!
first of all, you don’t have to use dreamweaver at all –  everything including the code can be modified in your own admin pages using any  standard web browser.
recent posts rss feed - send to friend - send private message - print post integrating facebook platform to dmxready cms suite using asp
dmxready cms suite comes with 10 pre-built website templates for a variety of businesses and organizations including software vendor, design company, charity, and more.
perhaps an even  larger worry for these people is that google could find duplicate content on  your landing pages and might penalize your page ranking for it.
many programmers prefer asp because it is easier to code (and is much less complex than .net)
banks, utilities, even military websites can be safe.
even though (or perhaps because) it is meant to be a full website cms, you couldnt design a better landing page management application.
minimalism - css positioning and more! - special html characters and their codes - add a star rating system to your website - more fearless predictions for 2011 - practical guide to classic asp - top five features of an outdated website - evernote - the web designer's versatile note taker - a security tip for ms sql databases - rewrite urls into pretty links using the url rewrite module - google supports classic asp recaptchas - dmxready cms suite launched!
but you are also providing facebook an indirect way to track your website.
once they've seen how the cms works and know where they can get help, they will be much more comfortable going on their own.
and if you are looking for an inexpensive way to get a small cms website up and running fast, dmxready cms v2 is the choice for you!
- a great resource for the asp beginner - smash and grab photoshop tips -
connecting via facebook allows you to access personalized information from your visitors (if they allow it) to provide them with a better social experience.
here are a few of resources for you using classic asp http://www.strangework.com/2007/08/22/how-to-update-your-twitter-status-with-asp/ http://sitejunction.awardspace.com/vbscript%5ftweets/ http://asp.web.id/update-twitter-status-with-classic-asp-vbscript.html happy scripting!
you can also save generic templates that they can copy so that anytime they want to add a new page, they have something to work from.
you can have a volcano erupt somewhere in the south pacific, and literally within seconds you can let millions of people around the world know about it.
make sure too that you point out the help files.
create "editable" areassometimes giving your client too much freedom is a bad thing.
dmxready cms suite on the other hand is an asp cms, so it runs natively on your windows server including windows server 2003 and windows server 2008, guaranteed.
in fact, you could no-index the whole website, and not lose any link juice or page ranking on your main site.
check your order history on the dmxready site to download and upgrade patches for your applications.
why you should leave comments in your code - what designers need to know about cms - client service: get it in writing - online notebook manager - a new application from dmxready!
top - send to friend - send private message - print post using dmxready cms suite as your landing page manager posted by: the dmxready team @ 9:39:33 am tuesday, january 03, 2012 landing pages are great things, though they can get a little unwieldy especially if you already have a big website.
classic asp (with the help of jquery) makes all this so easy.
- write in all your website visitors' languages - how to skin dmxready cms (or lite!)
but not with dmxready cms suite.
heres an asp cms solution for you posted by: the dmxready team @ 1:52:27 pm wednesday, january 18, 2012 since bill gates wrote his first line of code, the goal of improving software has been simple: make it faster, easier, and better for people to do what they want to do with their computers.
here you can create as many pages as you want with as much duplicate content as you want and never get penalized.
nothing is 100% guaranteed to keep a hacker out.
that being said, your clients still might have a natural fear of the "technology" behind it.
with dmxready cms suite (v2), business owners win on both counts.
by creating your own organizational system built-in admin pages – do it all online using any standard web  browser – no more firing up dreamweaver or messing with ftp programs!
- addthis - promote your site around the internet!
with split testing, different  offers for different markets, different price codes, etc., that can easily add  up to thousands of pages.
it also comes with pre-formatted business website templates.
last week, some dmxready customers were the focus of an apparently worldwide attack.
facebook is also full of user information and personalization tools so you can create a better, more individualized experience for your users
thats why weve stuck with it, and thats why we continue to believe in it.
so why would you use the facebook solution over this one?
for example, if you find that your purple  widgets are selling better with the contact information along the side, and the  red widgets are selling better with the contact information at the bottom, no  problem – you can use a different page layout/template for each.
it gets even more  complicated when you have landing pages for multiple ad campaigns like qr  codes, google adwords, banner links, and more.
it's not just small businesses either.
posted by: the dmxready team @ 11:06:01 am monday, august 18, 2008 there is an interesting paradox on the internet.
centralize your info provide information about the company as well as hard-to-find information for your customers, relevant news, video tutorials, and more.
- firefox 3 - is this the giant killer?
(that being said, you may prefer to do the initial design template using dreamweaver or some other html editor.
and like any cms, updating and adding new content is a snap using any standard web browser.
- how to find out information about your visitors using asp - how to not reinvent the wheel when it comes to creating website applications - create your own template pages using asp - create a chart for your website - protect yourself from hackers - use sifr for your titles - new link reference tag points the way for google - animoto-mate your website images!
the wave - create your own live
not only will it be easier for to teach someone who wants to learn, but that person will most likely pick it up faster and be the person in the office that fields questions from the others -- taking some of this responsibility off your own shoulders.
(however, it is important to note that there are many large websites out there that do use classic asp, likewww.futureshop.ca and http://edsitement.neh.gov/)
yes, if they know word and they know how to open a web browser, they will be able to update their content (using dmxready applications, anyway -- we can't vouch for other systems!).
not only that, dmxready cms suite has a whole host of plug-in applications like members only manager and contact us manager pre-loaded.
this is a system that brings everything you need for your business into one integrated website solution.
you can also modify different  templates to use with different campaigns or even product types.
you can also modify different templates to use with different campaigns or even product types.
despite steves obvious experience and well thought out answers, we think that this is a key area of use that steve smith overlooked.
but with dmxready cms suite, you can take the cms template and create a dynamic online experience for your customers, plus cut down on the amount of work you have to do.
for those who want to play under the hood, that option is available to you too.
- hybrid cloud servers classic asp and php together?
best of all, you can use dmxready cms  suite on your current domain* and it won’t interfere with your main  website.
however it still has most of the functionality like: - create customizable urls - skin using wordpress themes & other 3rd party website templates - plugin dmxready v2 apps & accessories - w3c valid css & xhtml - add gadgets and widgets (google, facebook, youtube etc.)
if you can do it in their office, all the better, but usually the cms is user-friendly enough that simply walking through it over the phone will be enough.