theability to access objects and their properties could be developed for any language that supports the creation of objects.
some users are  reporting code cases where it is still broken though.
we  could use more details of what functionality would be useful though.
rather  than double quote chars (").
i will get back to you with my/our feelings on these issues.
it could link to asp4hs or php4hs if desired to connect them to the available  resources.
this basically reproduces some of the functionality of theeditlinkedfile script in letting you easily click and open a linked include file (only file includes, not virtual).
this is similar to the html tag  insight, but covers functions and objects in asp.
asp.net-specific requests this is an upcoming thing since asp.net is still in beta testing itself.
to be able to see the resultant recordset in a table  view.
could  include getting asp help working with tag help?
i'm not sure if interdev has it or  not?
we are dealing with the same issue  with jrun studio.
these messages go directly to the development teams.
this basically reproduces some of the functionality of  theeditlinkedfile script in letting you easily click and open a linked include  file (only file includes, not virtual).
a user can go through tag editor files and try to fix this throughout or can enter all tags by hand, but that has problems (especially when you work in both html-only and asp/php pages.
if so, i can propose adding that to the settings instead of having it on the tag editors only.
having an option for "quote all attributes" (or not!) in the  settings is currently being discussed, but there are a lot of issues involved  to implement this consistently across all tools and still prevent illegal code  being generated...
parsers and custom dialogs would  probably be most helpful.
i want to right click an include and select "edit".
looks like this is fixed for some cases in hsv5.
some users are reporting code cases where it is still broken though.
as you know, many of these issues can be resolved through homesite  extensions such as vtml.
perhaps it could be extended to help with asp db use in homesite.
parser support for various asp.net languages is one of the most requested asp.net enhancements.
first of all, if you can identify a short list of features that would be the highest priority fixes for h.s 5.0.
might look for third party validators that could be interfaced to hs.
patrik muzila of allaire has said on this: " object insight - many of you requested an asp aware code insight  feature.
"some user made modifications exist, but they aren't as  good as the integrated support."
~jw 11/26/01 this is still an issue for asp.net.
seeaspdotnet4hs for currently  available add-ons.
users can write many of these things using the  existing extension capabilities of homesite but that shouldn't release  macromedia from the responsibility for doing so.
some of these are obviously also mentioned in the first list above.
"i realize that there are always lots of improvements that we  could make to homesite to make your life easier, but realistically we can only  focus on a certain number of features.
we're analyzing this (if it does get implemented you won't  see it before 5.0).
these may not be very easy to develop but don't necessarily have to be asp dependant.
if so, i can propose adding that to  the settings instead of having it on the tag editors only.
discussed possible integration with hs in the same way as cse validator.
-- scott st. jean sql server support: i would like to be able to right click a line such as this: set objrs = objconn.
you can be incredibly helpful on two fronts.
users can write many of these things using the existing extension capabilities of homesite but that shouldn't release macromedia from the responsibility for doing so.
see  if macromedia can build-in this functionality.-- jw hsv5 introduces "edit include file" on  the right mouse button.
short list of high-priority feature requests for homesite please remember, for this discussion of things we'd like  macromedia to do, we need toprioritize.
the new feature is going to take some time to develop (5.0  timeframe), but once completed, it should not be difficult to apply it to asp.
this could probably be done by integrating hs and ms sql server query analyser. --
though intellisense for filling  in any vbs/ado constants would be very very helpful too.
we are dealing with the same issue with jrun studio.
if the editor replaces single quotes or escaped double quotes with a single set of double quotes on attributes, it may break the code.
built in language search/reference for vbscript, jscript, ado and  perlscript.
discussed possible  integration with hs in the same way as cse validator.
single point option to force homesite to use single-quote chars  for html tag attributes in asp and php coding, where code is  generating html tags, it's often easier to use single quote chars (')
"the features from interdev that i cannot live without are intellisense (greatest development tool ever!)
integrate the string conversion to response.
here is marjolein's one reply to me on this on 4/18/00: no, there is no overall option; however all (vtml versions of)
--  scott st. jean sql server support: i would like to be able to right click a  line such as this: set objrs = objconn.
you could do an extended s&r to turn it on by default for all of them (just add a checked attribute to the checkbox).
there is very little if any mention of php, asp or asp.net in the current  documentation.
or i would like to be able to "expand" the include similar to the new collapsing text feature.
at the present homesite does little interpretation of its document contents especially when script is involved.
it calls up the tag editors just fine.
i realize that your wishlist identifies many issues, but i am interested in your personal feeling on perhaps a dozen or so features.
fyi, the particular vtml line to look for in your extensions\tagdefs\*.vtm  files is:  you would  add a checked attribute to that line.
you could do an  extended s&r to turn it on by default for all of them (just add a checked  attribute to the checkbox).
parsers and custom dialogs would probably be most helpful.
therefore, we are mostinterested in identifying the killer features of interdev which we could support in homesite.
"i realize that there are always lots of improvements that we could make to homesite to make your life easier, but realistically we can only focus on a certain number of features.
actually one other tool that would be nice would be atest pad for checking to see if an ado connection works correctly and view the results, sort of like some tools available for building a query and testing the results."
~jw 11/26/01 improved asp color coding this was frequently  requested, but seems to have been addressed pretty satisfactorily in hs 4.5.1  and later.
the new feature is going to take some time to develop (5.0 timeframe), but once completed, it should not be difficult to apply it to asp.
many developers prefer to use single quotes as so: response.write "this is a string" rather than  extra escaped double quotes response.write "this is a  string" which are easy to miscount.
i've found that some browsers have (sometimes?) trouble with single quotes though, but i cannot remember exact details.
we are most interested in those features that contribute greatly to developer productivity in asp, but also other parts of web development."
-- jw "some user made modifications exist, but they aren't as good as the integrated support."
tag editors have this as an option (off by default).
please keep minor things that users  can do (vtml, scripts, etc) somewhat separate.
this seems to be  the most requested feature from interdev.
write's integrate the functionality inaddrespwrite2 to convert strings to code output  statements (in various languages).
asp.net support see section below for specifics.
it calls up the  tag editors just fine.
cheers, marjolein katsma better handling of server side includes.
i've found that some browsers have (sometimes?) trouble with single  quotes though, but i cannot remember exact details.
your guidance on these issues would be most helpful.
they have limited  developer resources to assign right now.
we will try and work-in those features that are the easiest for us to  put together and that blend into the architecture of homesite."
in this code, put your curser  in the table tag and try to call up edit tag: " %> of course, this will have other issues if you don't also fix the use of  single quotes issue.
see also the article:editing referenced  files in homesite and coldfusion studio.
here is marjolein's one reply to me on this on 4/18/00: no, there is no overall option; however all (vtml versions  of) html
it supports at least the following:            asp validation probably not easy, but it would  probably be a killer feature for asp coders.
code-sense/intelli-sense feature
you can find a few parsers ataspdotnet4hs.
please comment, expand, disagree or suggest  additions.
lower priority as it's available as a script  now.
asp4hs: homesite/asp/php top priority enhancement requests [ asp4hs | php4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs |  submissions ] here are some of the improvements that have been frequently requested for  homesite's asp, asp.net and php support.
we will try and work-in those features that are the easiest for us to put together and that blend into the architecture of homesite."
if "sql statement" is the name of a stored  procedure i would like to be able to edit it, grant permissions to it and so  on.
i would also like to have the option of validating the statement.
it supports at least the following:          "validation of some code, even if we're just talking conditional statements and loops, it would help."
if the editor replaces single quotes or escaped double  quotes with a single set of double quotes on attributes, it may break the code.
if "sql statement" is the name of a stored procedure i would like to be able to edit it, grant permissions to it and so on.
since i (jeff) use homesite exclusively for asp, and haven't tried the last couple of interdev versions, i'll need feedback from others on this one...
most of our time is actually spent in the delphi development environment.
see if macromedia can build-in this functionality.-- jw hsv5 introduces "edit include file" on the right mouse button.
version control improvements version/source control  seems to be a bit buggy at the moment.
and the database environment.
-- scott st. jean have had some discussions with zack jones of adding asp  validation features toasp-beautify's next version.
see also the article:editing referenced files in homesite and coldfusion studio.
for instance, the code: response.write "this is a string" will  not work as intended since the response.write sees the end of the string at the  " just before the -1.
having an option for "quote all attributes" (or not!) in the settings is currently being discussed, but there are a lot of issues involved to implement this consistently across all tools and still prevent illegal code being generated...
cheers, marjolein katsma i want to right click an include and select "edit".
-- scott st. jean have had some discussions with zack jones of adding asp validation features toasp-beautify's next version.
" database interfacing features this is discussed a  bit inthis thread and it seems that cf studio already has some functionality in  this area.
execute("sql  statement")
patrik muzila of allaire has said on this: " object insight - many of you requested an asp aware code insight feature.
-- jw script debugging this might be possible with good  integration with the ms script debugger.
if asp validation is going to be included, homesite will need to  recognise includes properly.
this is not a simple feature as object instance recognition was to be  implemented.
(i'll discuss  what the shortcomings are with him and work to improve what's available.
if the stored procedure does not yet exist, i would like to be given the  option to create it.
that is, you could call up edit tag on  an html tag within asp  tags.
though intellisense for filling in any vbs/ado constants would be very very helpful too.
if the stored procedure does not yet exist, i would like to be given the option to create it.
is there a reason why one would want to have it set for all attributes  instead of for a single (occasional) tag?
a single point option to use single quotes would be a big help.
a single point option to use single quotes  would be a big help.
-- john carpenter see also the useful functionality of the includebrowse3 and editlinkedfile  scripts.
execute("sql statement") and to be able to see the resultant recordset in a table view.
could include getting asp help working with tag help?
syntax coloring parsers for asp.net languages, generally  in combination with html custom dialogs for asp.net code generation help / document sets
"on the second front, we do not have a great deal of time to develop pages outside of homesite.
i realize that your wishlist identifies many  issues, but i am interested in your personal feeling on perhaps a dozen or so  features.
--dan  noel from my reading of forum posts and email, i'd guess that these are the  major requests in this area.
to submit your own ideas,email me if you like, though the best way to be heard by macromedia is to start an asp thread in thehomesite support forum -and- to submit a note via themacromedia software feature request and bug report form.
not all built-in editors have this option though.
--dan noel from my reading of forum posts and email, i'd guess that these are the major requests in this area.
see php4hs for currently available add-ons.
parser  support for various asp.net languages is one of the most requested asp.net  enhancements.
please remember, for this discussion of things we'd like macromedia to do, we need toprioritize.
is there a reason why one would want to have it set for all attributes instead of for a single (occasional) tag?
here are some of the improvements that have been frequently requested for homesite's asp, asp.net and php support.
note: using the addrespwrite2 script to convert html code to response.write's will correctly convert the quotes.
if asp validation is going to be included, homesite will need to recognise includes properly.
seeaspdotnet4hs for currently available add-ons.
(ie so an include is essentially a collapsed bit of text).
each should have a page.
-- john carpenter see also the useful functionality of the includebrowse3 and editlinkedfile scripts.
i will get back to you with my/our feelings on these  issues.
please keep minor things that users can do (vtml, scripts, etc) somewhat separate.
the ability tomanage a sql server without being at the server is a godsend especially since there is no real interface like access is/has.
please comment, expand, disagree or suggest additions.
this is not critical for users who have  already figured these things out, but it would be useful to help new hs users.
have to test with single-quotes yet...
a user can go through tag editor files and try to fix this throughout or  can enter all tags by hand, but that has problems (especially when you work in  both html-only and asp/php pages.
" "well the only (ado) tool i'd find of use is a dsnless connection string that could be built browsing to the object in question, determine the type of odbc connection, and fill in the required parameters.
see this thread for some asp.net request details.
asp, php & asp.net documentation support the  documentation that comes installed with homesite should have some information  about using hs with asp, php and asp.net, including the fact that you need to  set up a server to process the pages and that you should use server mapping.
john carpenter " %> of course, this will have other issues if you don't also fix the use of single quotes issue.
other then that, a reference would be enough.
or i would like to be able to "expand" the include similar to the new  collapsing text feature.
also requested to cover  javascript and javascript dom.
the database integration is a must these days in web development and should not be excluded for any reason."
at the present homesite does little interpretation of its document  contents especially when script is involved.
"well the only (ado) tool i'd find of use is a dsnless  connection string that could be built browsing to the object in question,  determine the type of odbc connection, and fill in the required parameters.
this is still an issue for asp.net.
john carpenter fix the tag selection/editing when within asp tags hs v4.5x broke what previously worked.
they have limited developer resources to assign right now.
(i'll discuss what the shortcomings are with him and work to improve what's available.
-- clinton gallagher inthis thread.
this could probably be done by integrating hs and ms sql  server query analyser. --
see if editlinkedfile2 can be enhanced to support file includes.
as you know, many of these issues can be resolved through homesite extensions such as vtml.
note: using the addrespwrite2 script to convert html code  to response.write's will correctly convert the quotes.
(ie so an include is essentially a collapsed bit of  text).
this is not a simple feature as object instance recognition was to be implemented.
actually one other  tool that would be nice would be atest pad for checking to see  if an ado connection works correctly and view the results, sort of like some  tools available for building a query and testing the results."
this is an upcoming thing since asp.net is still in beta testing itself.
first of all, if you can identify a short list of features that would be the highest priority  fixes for h.s 5.0.
to submit your own ideas,email me if  you like, though the best way to be heard by macromedia is to start an asp  thread in thehomesite support forum -and- to  submit a note via themacromedia software feature request and bug report form.
we're analyzing this (if it does get implemented you won't see it before 5.0).
"validation of some code, even if we're just talking  conditional statements and loops, it would help."
fyi, the particular vtml line to look for in your extensions\tagdefs\*.vtm files is:  you would add a checked attribute to that line.