php is a scripting language that plays a role very similar to asp in  the non-windows web application server world.
when using asp, asp.net, php or other languages, the sql query syntax is used as an input parameter to a request to extract information from the database.
in a typical usage scenario, the client requests product information from the asp page on the server, and the asp page fetches the product information from the database and programmatically generates html code to present the retrieved product information in the client browser.
asp (active server pages) is a microsoft server-side scripting engine also referred to as classic asp.
testing dynamically generated data-driven  web pages adds an additional layer of complexity, requiring closed looped  testing where client-side requests are triggered against a known data set, with  a clear expectation of the resultant web page.
popular application frameworks include ruby on rails, fuse, and drupal, for example.
server-side scripting can be done with any of the .net languages, such as vb.net or c-sharp, and support for code behind files allows for clean separation between html markup and executable code.
sql (structured query language) is used for programmatically creating, updating, and reading databases.
asp.net also introduces the notion of server-side controls and transparent maintenance of property states for these controls across multiple page refreshes.
there are a variety of other languages that play similar server-side roles such as java, perl, python and ruby.
as with asp, php can be embedded in html and can dynamically generate web pages in response to client requests.
two of the most commonly used backend database systems, sql server and mysql, both use the sql query language.
we can help you ensure the quality, performance, and reliability of your internet-based solutions.
the key elements of asp include objects that interface to backend databases, session and application states, and request and response parameters.
the vbscript code interacts with the asp objects to dynamically generate html, css, and javascript, which are returned to the client along with the static content.
in  a typical usage scenario, the client requests product information from the asp  page on the server, and the asp page fetches the product information from the  database and programmatically generates html code to present the retrieved  product information in the client browser.
popular  application frameworks include ruby on rails, fuse, and drupal, for example.
sql (structured query  language) is used for programmatically creating, updating, and reading  databases.
there are a variety of other languages that play similar server-side roles such  as java, perl, python and ruby.
a more recent microsoft innovation is asp.net, which provides a robust application development framework in addition to the basic functionality defined above for asp.
asp, php and sql asp (active server pages) is a microsoft server-side scripting  engine also referred to as classic asp.
we can help you ensure  the quality, performance, and reliability of your internet-based solutions.
asp.net also  introduces the notion of server-side controls and transparent maintenance of  property states for these controls across multiple page refreshes.
a more recent microsoft innovation is asp.net, which provides a  robust application development framework in addition to the basic functionality  defined above for asp.
the latest version of asp.net also includes integrated support forajax, simplifying the task of developing rich internet applications.
server-side scripting can be done with any of the .net  languages, such as vb.net or c-sharp, and support for code behind files allows  for clean separation between html markup and executable code.
the server-side controls include things such as tables, menus, and other user interface objects that simplify the creation of web pages.
for more about asp, go towikipedia or asp on msdn.
when using asp, asp.net, php or  other languages, the sql query syntax is used as an input parameter to a  request to extract information from the database.
these languages can be used within the context of an application framework to provide asp.net-like capabilities.
seewikipedia or sql  fundamentals on about.com.
php is a scripting language that plays a role very similar to asp in the non-windows web application server world.
the vbscript  code interacts with the asp objects to dynamically generate html, css, and  javascript, which are returned to the client along with the static content.
the latest version  of asp.net also includes integrated support forajax, simplifying the task of  developing rich internet applications.
seewikipedia or sql fundamentals on about.com.
the  server-side controls include things such as tables, menus, and other user  interface objects that simplify the creation of web pages.
as with asp, php can be embedded  in html and can dynamically generate web pages in response to client requests.
the key elements of asp include objects  that interface to backend databases, session and application states, and  request and response parameters.
two of the most commonly used backend database systems, sql server  and mysql, both use the sql query language.
explore qualitylogic’s website testing solutions by clicking on the links  under "testing solutions" to the right, orcontact us for more  information or torequest a quote.
these languages can be used within the context  of an application framework to provide asp.net-like capabilities.
an asp web page consists of static elements, such ashtml tags, css, and javascript, as well as vbscript code.
testing dynamically generated data-driven web pages adds an additional layer of complexity, requiring closed looped testing where client-side requests are triggered against a known data set, with a clear expectation of the resultant web page.
explore qualitylogic’s website testing solutions by clicking on the links under "testing solutions" to the right, orcontact us for more information or torequest a quote.
an asp web page consists of static elements,  such ashtml tags, css, and javascript, as well as vbscript code.
for further reading, seewikipedia or php.net.