it has various aids which can help you  enter or format code, but they are all optional.
homesite has integrated tools that greatly simplify many common web  development tasks.
com: homesite 4.5 (editor's choice) - cnet builder.
homesite providesserver mappings that let you pass files through a  webserver before they are shown in the internal viewer.
- macromedia/allaire, the producers of homesite, are extremely responsive to suggestions and requests from users.
visual interdev:39% homesite:21% notepad:17% asp xpress:10% other:12%
- from the beginning, homesite has been designed to allow and encourage extension of most of its features.
com: take a tour inside homesite 4.5 (1/00) - web developer's journal: homesite 4.5:
editor - cnet builder.
homesite's snippets feature gives developers a way to keep sets of  organized bits of code or text for quick reuse.
other references: macromedia: homesite 5.5 at a glance asptoday:
homesite can interface to a wide range of standard source and version  control applications to provide this essential function for either team or  individual development projects.
asp4hs: why use homesite for asp?
- cost-wise, homesite is quite inexpensive compared to it's competitors, a factor which can be important for small developers, beginners or home users as well as in larger corporate environments.
com: html editors for professionals, editor's choice (10/98) cnet builder.
- homesite can interface to a wide range of standard source and version control applications to provide this essential function for either team or individual development projects.
- homesite's snippets feature gives developers a way to keep sets of organized bits of code or text for quick reuse.
so... are you using homesite for asp or php yet?
this was partly to help keep up with the constantly changing world of html, but also to allow users to customize it to how they work and code.
from the beginning, homesite has been designed to allow and encourage  extension of most of its features.
- homesite is a code-based editor.
homesite is a code-based editor.
it also has powerful and flexibleproject management functionality.
-- jeff wilkinson just as a note, i've been told there was an aspwire instant poll survey (in 1999?)
other references: - macromedia: homesite 5.5 at a glance - asptoday:
com: spotlight on production tools, code-based editors - cnet builder.
com: homesite 4.5 (editor's choice)
- other external tools can be integrated with homesite in a number of ways.
many web developers are used to the homesite editing environment and like  to continue to use it as they move to asp coding rather than move to a new tool.
- homesite is easy to learn.
- many web developers are used to the homesite editing environment and like to continue to use it as they move to asp coding rather than move to a new tool.
- homesite is widely considered to be the best code-based (as opposed to wysiwyg)
as bart gerardi says (in his asptoday article below), homesite it can be  used as a code editor for many technologies, allowing you to transport it from  one language to another, microsoft-related or not.
this was partly to help keep up with the  constantly changing world of html, but also to allow users to customize it to  how they work and code.
some of the features that can be extended include: language syntax coloring schemes tag definitions, tag inspector and tag editing dialogs tag and function insight validation of html, cfml, smil, wml, jsp, etc snippets (sets of user-created bits of code or text) wsh scripts (activescript) toolbars and other user interface elements custom wizards color palettes codesweeper profiles this design for extension provides many areas where users can create simple  or complex add-on's to support their preferred languages and coding styles,  including asp, vbscript and jscript.
cost-wise, homesite is quite inexpensive compared to it's competitors, a  factor which can be important for small developers, beginners or home users as  well as in larger corporate environments.
these add-on's may be easily shared with others, as this sitedemonstrates.
using homesite 4.0 from allaire software for asp development macromedia/allaire: street level: editors vs. authoring tools (mirror) macromedia/allaire: speeding jsp development using homesite macromedia/allaire: codesweeper! macromedia/allaire: project management in homesite hp e business magazine: understanding snippets, homesite unleashed, 1 hp e business magazine: palette power, homesite unleashed, 2 code-based (text) editors vs. wysiwyg editors for html: netmechanic:
- as bart gerardi says (in his asptoday article below), homesite it can be used as a code editor for many technologies, allowing you to transport it from one language to another, microsoft-related or not.
since asp or php files must be be passed through a webserver before they  are generally viewable in a browser, it is often difficult to view them in an  editor.
this is useful not only  for asp, but also for other technologies such as ssi, php or any server-side  execution.
homesite providesserver mappings that let you pass files through a webserver before they are shown in the internal viewer.
these add-on's may be easily shared with  others, as this sitedemonstrates.
allaire and various users have provided syntax coloring parsers and other tools to support a variety of technologies including asp, coldfusion, htmlscript, javascript, jsp, php, perl, sql and more.
- since asp or php files must be be passed through a webserver before they are generally viewable in a browser
the coding tool (8/00) - webmonkey: the wysiwyg editor shootout: text editor - allaire homesite 4.0 - webtools: homesite 4.5 - coder's delight, (4/00) [ disclaimer | contact info | wilkinson home ] last updated: january 20, 2005 © 1999-2005 j.wilkinson
these include code validation, link checking, document weight, spell checking, code cleanup (codesweeper andhtml tidy) and a powerful search and replace function.
the wysiwyg editor shootout: text editor - allaire homesite 4.0
theforums are very active and most of the current features and implementation of homesite, from major features to minute details, can be traced back to user requests or discussions.
com: html editors for professionals, editor's choice (10/98) - cnet builder.
, it is often difficult to view them in an editor.
if anyone has a copy or link, please let me know.
this means that, unlike wysiwyg-style  editors, it doesn't change your code.
in fact, the extended search & replace can do either normal or regular expression finds or s&r's across a great many files very quickly.
that had the following question and answer:which editor do you use  to develop asp?
it provides a fast, mature editing environment and a user interface second to none for html editing plus a strong set of supporting integrated tools.
the pro's and con's of wysiwyg editors - a discussion of the issues of using a code-based (text) editors vs. wysiwyg editors for html by larisa thomason - webmonkey: wysiwyg or the real thing? - macromedia: street level: editors vs. authoring tools - by robert crooks ( mirror) a few reviews: [ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] - cnet builder.
[ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] you may be asking why i'm bothering to build this site or why anyone would want to usehomesite for active server pages (asp) development, especially when msvisual interdev exists as a relatively mature tool designed specifically for asp development.
most of these tools can work across sets of either all open  files, a directory (or dir tree), or a project.
there are actually quite a few good reasons to consider homesite for asp,  or for php which is very similar.
for team development, homesite provides shared snippets sets in addition to the private snippets.
it has an intuitive interface and good  documentation that will help you to be up and productive your first day of use,  yet it offers advanced features that you can learn and use when you're ready.
these include code validation, link checking, document  weight, spell checking, code cleanup (codesweeper andhtml tidy) and a powerful  search and replace function.
tell me your reasons either way.
that had the following question and answer:which editor do you use to develop asp?
this means that, unlike wysiwyg-style editors, it doesn't change your code.
it also has powerful and flexibleproject  management functionality.
macromedia/allaire, the producers of homesite, are extremely responsive to  suggestions and requests from users.
if anyone has a copy or  link, please let me know.
some of the features that can be extended include: - language syntax coloring schemes - help system doc sets - tag definitions, tag inspector and tag editing dialogs - tag and function insight - validation of html, cfml, smil, wml, jsp, etc - snippets (sets of user-created bits of code or text) - wsh scripts (activescript) - toolbars and other user interface elements - custom wizards - color palettes - codesweeper profiles this design for extension provides many areas where users can create simple or complex add-on's to support their preferred languages and coding styles, including asp, vbscript and jscript.
html tidy ,topstyle css editor, and linkbot.
homesite is widely considered to be the best code-based (as opposed to  wysiwyg)
there are actually quite a few good reasons to consider homesite for asp, or for php which is very similar.
some tools that work well with homesite include thecse html validator,
the pro's and con's of wysiwyg editors - a  discussion of the issues of using a code-based (text) editors vs. wysiwyg  editors for html by larisa thomason webmonkey: wysiwyg or the real thing? macromedia: street level: editors vs. authoring tools - by robert crooks ( mirror) a few reviews: cnet builder.
webtools: homesite 4.5 - coder's delight, (4/00) [ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links |  tips/faqs | submissions ] [ disclaimer | contact info | wilkinson home ] last updated: january 20, 2005 © 1999-2005 j.wilkinson
com: spotlight on production tools, code-based editors cnet builder.
com 1998 product awards - best code-based html
other external tools can be integrated with homesite in a number of ways.
(or php) [ asp4hs |  add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] you may be asking why i'm bothering to build this site or why anyone would  want to usehomesite for active server pages (asp) development, especially when  msvisual interdev exists as a relatively mature tool designed specifically for  asp development.
most of these tools can work across sets of either all open files, a directory (or dir tree), or a project.
this is useful not only for asp, but also for other technologies such as ssi, php or any server-side execution.
- homesite has integrated tools that greatly simplify many common web development tasks.
html editor available for the pc platform.
allaire and various users  have provided syntax coloring parsers and other tools to support a variety of  technologies including asp, coldfusion, htmlscript, javascript, jsp, php, perl,  sql and more.
homesite is easy to learn.
com 1998 product awards - best code-based html editor cnet builder.
it has an intuitive interface and good documentation that will help you to be up and productive your first day of use, yet it offers advanced features that you can learn and use when you're ready.
for team development, homesite  provides shared snippets sets in addition to the private snippets.
it has various aids which can help you enter or format code, but they are all optional.
in fact, the extended search & replace can do  either normal or regular expression finds or s&r's across a great many  files very quickly.
theforums are very active and most of the  current features and implementation of homesite, from major features to minute  details, can be traced back to user requests or discussions.
com: take a tour inside homesite 4.5 (1/00) web developer's journal: homesite 4.5: the coding tool (8/00) webmonkey:
-- jeff wilkinson just as a note, i've been told there was an aspwire instant poll survey (in  1999?)
using homesite 4.0 from allaire software for asp development - macromedia/allaire: street level: editors vs. authoring tools (mirror) - macromedia/allaire: speeding jsp development using homesite - macromedia/allaire: codesweeper! - macromedia/allaire: project management in homesite - hp e business magazine: understanding snippets, homesite unleashed, 1 - hp e business magazine: palette power, homesite unleashed, 2 code-based (text) editors vs. wysiwyg editors for html: - netmechanic:
visual interdev:39%  homesite:21% notepad:17% asp xpress:10% other:12%
it provides a fast, mature  editing environment and a user interface second to none for html editing plus a  strong set of supporting integrated tools.