this means that  companies who are newly starting up a dynamic website are easily able to  integrate their spreadsheets and word processor documents into their database.
server-side scripts for dynamic content can be quite complex, and there are  two leading platforms for creating them.
server-side scripting, meanwhile, causes changes when web users navigate from one page to another.
there are many hosting options available for those who wish to use asp.
but the ubiquity of asp, and  more recently, asp.net, mean that persuading large companies to switch to php  is a daunting task.
programming and coding server  technology tagged editorials search engines and optimisation (180) marketing (160)
this is in contrast with static pages, which the user simply views and navigates between.
php uses its own scripting language which is based on c/c++.
the dynamic features created with  client-side scripting occur within the context of a single impression of a web  page.
because php is open source, features such as ftp, file uploads, xml and email are included, whereas these have to be paid for as add-ons for asp users.
php is considered by most to be far easier to learn than asp, and  because of its open source status, there is a huge amount of online support and
paid licences are needed not only for asp itself, but also for ms-sql, the database software with which asp interacts.
asp scripting is usually done using the visual basic programming language, although add-ons are available to implement other languages such as jscript and perlscript.
php is considered by most to be far easier to learn than asp, and because of its open source status, there is a huge amount of online support and community which has developed around it.
server-side scripting is useful because it doesn't rely on the web user having any special browser plug-ins or other software in order to work.
it is not a particularly easy format to use, and there are only limited developers' resources available online.
one of php's main benefits is that it is extremely feature-rich, and doesn't experience many of the complications involved with asp.
it is most large business' primary choice of server-side scripting engine.
but the ubiquity of asp, and more recently, asp.net, mean that persuading large companies to switch to php is a daunting task.
php, by contrast, is completely free, because it is based on linux and is open source.
as ecommerce and other interactive website features become increasingly  important, the proportion of websites which don't feature dynamic content of  some sort is rapidly dwindling.
client- and server-side scripting there are two ways to create dynamic content: client-side scripting and  server-side scripting.
but choosing between the many available platforms for creating this  content can be a daunting task.
client-side scripting causes the web user's browser to act on particular instructions such as keyboard or mouse commands.
there are lots  of scripts available online for asp shopping carts.
asp scripting is usually done using the visual basic programming language,  although add-ons are available to implement other languages such as jscript and  perlscript.
this means that companies who are newly starting up a dynamic website are easily able to integrate their spreadsheets and word processor documents into their database.
to play flash games, the user must have flash installed in their browser.
some php aficionados would also  argue that php is faster than asp.
this is partly because asp is closely integrated with windows software such as excel and access.
php's plethora of useful features, and the fact that it is open source, make it an attractive proposition for many developers.
it is most large business'  primary choice of server-side scripting engine.
one of the main disadvantages of asp is its price.
asp asp (and asp.net) is microsoft's server-side script engine, and is used  prolifically in the business world.
one of php's main benefits is that it is extremely feature-rich, and  doesn't experience many of the complications involved with asp.
paid licences are needed  not only for asp itself, but also for ms-sql, the database software with which  asp interacts.
safe  to say, the two options have their benefits and their disadvantages.
flash games are an example of client-side scripting.
there are lots of scripts available online for asp shopping carts.
there are two ways to create dynamic content: client-side scripting and server-side scripting.
this is partly because asp is closely  integrated with windows software such as excel and access.
php php, by contrast, is completely free, because it is based on linux and is  open source.
this is in  contrast with static pages, which the user simply views and navigates between.
using server-side scripting for dynamic web content is extremely important and useful.
dynamic content is the term used to describe  features of web pages and websites with which the user can interact.
but to submit an order to a shopping website, or use a discussion board, the user need only have a reasonably up-to-date web browser, and no additional plug-ins.
this article will focus on the definition of dynamic web content and the purpose of server-side scripting, and then consider the benefits and disadvantages of usingphp or asp for dynamic web content.
discussion boards created in php are generally considered to be superior to those constructed using asp.
but to submit  an order to a shopping website, or use a discussion board, the user need only  have a reasonably up-to-date web browser, and no additional plug-ins.
php's plethora of useful features, and the fact that it is open source, make it  an attractive proposition for many developers.
some php aficionados would also argue that php is faster than asp.
asp is generally considered the best option for ecommerce websites, while php is the most popular for discussion boards.
dynamic content is the term used to describe features of web pages and websites with which the user can interact.
for more information on features of a domain name, pricing of domains, or  domain registration questions please feel free to contact domainmonster.com  support team who will be happy to assist you.
for example, server-side scripting might be used to facilitate the submitting of information to a database via an online form, or the processing of an ecommerce transaction.
these are asp (active server pages)  and php (php hypertext pre-processor, formerly known as personal home pages).
asp is  generally considered the best option for ecommerce websites, while php is the  most popular for discussion boards.
server-side scripting, meanwhile, causes changes when web users navigate  from one page to another.
06-aug-2007 dynamic web pages: asp vs. php using server-side scripting for dynamic web content is extremely important  and useful.
flash games  are an example of client-side scripting.
as ecommerce and other interactive website features become increasingly important, the proportion of websites which don't feature dynamic content of some sort is rapidly dwindling.
for example, server-side scripting might be used to  facilitate the submitting of information to a database via an online form, or  the processing of an ecommerce transaction.
because of its popularity, it  will probably continue to remain the standard for large businesses, who may  wish to be able to merge with other companies easily, and who do not wish to  retrain their staff to cope with operating systems which are not windows.
also, asp only runs on windows servers.
client-side scripting causes the web user's browser to  act on particular instructions such as keyboard or mouse commands.
programming and coding server technology
why dynamic content?
the dynamic features created with client-side scripting occur within the context of a single impression of a web page.
server-side scripting is useful because it doesn't rely on the web user
but this is only the tip of the iceberg.
there  are many hosting options available for those who wish to use asp.
safe to say, the two options have their benefits and their disadvantages.
it can connect to various different database types, including those using the free database software, mysql.
lots more information about using asp and php is available on the web.
but choosing between the many available platforms for creating this content can be a daunting task.
because of its popularity, it will probably continue to remain the standard for large businesses, who may wish to be able to merge with other companies easily, and who do not wish to retrain their staff to cope with operating systems which are not windows.
it is not a particularly easy format to use, and there are only  limited developers' resources available online.
because php is  open source, features such as ftp, file uploads, xml and email are included,  whereas these have to be paid for as add-ons for asp users.
it can connect  to various different database types, including those using the free database  software, mysql.
these are asp (active server pages) and php (php hypertext pre-processor, formerly known as personal home pages).
having any special browser plug-ins or other software in order to work.
server-side scripting is essentially used to retrieve data from a database when  the web user moves from one page to the next in a website.
php can also be run on a wide variety  of different platforms, including windows, linux, unix and solaris.
conclusion lots more information about using asp and php is available on the web.
asp is particularly useful for providing ecommerce services.
community which has developed around it.
asp (and asp.net) is microsoft's server-side script engine, and is used prolifically in the business world.
to play  flash games, the user must have flash installed in their browser.
php can also be run on a wide variety of different platforms, including windows, linux, unix and solaris.
server-side scripts for dynamic content can be quite complex, and there are two leading platforms for creating them.
discussion boards created in php are generally considered to  be superior to those constructed using asp.
for more information on features of a domain name, pricing of domains, or domain registration questions please feel free to contact domainmonster.com support team who will be happy to assist you.
server-side scripting is essentially used to retrieve data from a database when the web user moves from one page to the next in a website.
this article will focus on the definition of  dynamic web content and the purpose of server-side scripting, and then consider  the benefits and disadvantages of usingphp or asp for dynamic web content.