php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active server pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic script or jscript.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active  server pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic  script or jscript.
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the php mailing list.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php, less stable as well.
php has a less confusing and stricter format without losing  flexibility.
some of the pros of asp is that since it primarily uses  vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already know  how to program in visual basic.
is there an asp to php converter?
php and other languages php is the best language for web programing, but what about other  languages?
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind,  while php is focused on programmers.
cold fusion has better error  handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction  is addressed in php 4.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed  for scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can  because of this get very complicated.
prev home next php and com up migrating from php 2 to php 3 support phpro.org
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the  php mailing list.
php is easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
cold fusion has a good ide and is  generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more  programming knowledge.
a copy can be found at http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-general&m=95602167412542&w=1.
the components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features like interacting with ftp servers, you need to buy additional components.
there are a couple  of projects in the works that allows asp to run in other environments and  webservers:instantasp from halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft  (commercial).
php is generally referred to as more stable and less resource intensive as well.
php has a less confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
php and other languages php manual prev next chapter 67.
some of the pros of asp is that since it primarily uses vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already know how to program in visual basic.
php has  pretty much all the 'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on,  without making it as complicated as perl can be.
this limits it's availability to win32 based servers.
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's  strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a  search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting  language.
php is the best language for web programing, but what about other languages?
asp support is also enabled by default in the iis server making it easy to get up and running.
perl is a very tried and true language, it's been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very quickly.
php is generally referred to as  more stable and less resource intensive as well.
the components built in asp  are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features like  interacting with ftp servers, you need to buy additional components.
php has pretty much all the 'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on, without making it as complicated as perl can be.
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary  system that is natively used only on microsoft internet information server  (iis).
the flexibility / complexity of perl  makes it easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
asp support is also enabled by default in the  iis server making it easy to get up and running.
tutorials articles examples copyright 2008 phpro.org.
prev home next warning: participation in phpro.org polls may incorrectly lead you to believe your opinions matter.
php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only  available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
cold fusion has a good ide and is generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more programming knowledge.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php,  less stable as well.
the flexibility / complexity of perl makes it easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time reading.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex  programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
there are a couple of projects in the works that allows asp to run in other environments and webservers:instantasp from halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft (commercial).
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary system that is natively used only on microsoft internet information server (iis).
perl is a very tried and true  language, it's been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very  quickly.
yes, the server-side asp2php is the one most often referred to as  well asthis client-side option.
yes, the server-side asp2php is the one most often referred to as well asthis client-side option.
cold fusion has better error handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction is addressed in php 4.
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting language.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind, while php is focused on programmers.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can because of this get very complicated.