the website produced by these languages can interact with databases and exchange information.
php runs fasters since its codes are from its own memory space.
there are several things to consider before deciding which language to use.
asp and php are languages that are commonly used in building dynamic websites.
just be sure that whatever you choose, use it effectively to get good outcome.
your feedback will help us improve our resources section.
in terms of language, php uses c++ and the syntax is more  like a c/c++.
there are several  identified differences between these two languages.
your feedback will help us
php also has an nt server version.
one advice would be: use the language more comfortable to you!
even with other variables like the connectivity of the database, you can get something for free if you use php.
asp and php are languages use in building websites.
need an expert help in building and marketing your website?
0   1    2  3   4   5 how helpful was this information?
php is from rasmus lerdorf and it runs on unix and linux.
one advice  would be: use the language more comfortable to you!
you need to have a budget to run  asp.
need an expert help in  building and marketing your website?
even the codes used in  php can be acquired for free.
in terms of cost, asp requires a fee and can be quite expensive.
both asp and php have their own sets of advantages and disadvantages.
php can use different database connectivity.
improve our resources section.
this website is not affiliated with any search engine.
the debate as to which is better is still confusing many website builders.
del.icio.us bookmark - online  tools - grand national betting - man with van dublin - sitemap - ©  copyright 2007
there are products that you need to purchase from microsoft to make asp  work for you.
irl: (01) 289 9517 uk: (020) 7060 9517 login: password: will you use asp or php home > resources > other resources > web design among website builders, the words asp and php are very popular.
asp can  be used with internet information server or the iis while php can be used on  unix and linux servers.
it is still  the web developers’ discretion as to what language to use.
just be sure that whatever you  choose, use it effectively to get good outcome.
it is still the web developers discretion as to what language to use.
difference between asp and php asp php asp is from microsoft thus it runs on  microsoft servers alone.
asp and php are languages that are commonly used in building dynamic  websites.
0 1 2 3 4 5 how helpful was this information?
the website produced by these languages can interact with databases  and exchange information.
even the codes used in php can be acquired for free.
asp can be used with internet information server or the iis while php can be used on unix and linux servers.
there are products that you need to purchase from microsoft to make asp work for you.
to better gauge which between these two languages is more convenient to  use, please see below table of differences.
asp means active server pages while php means personal home pages.
as a programming language, they are both useful inbuilding a website.
npresence seo test - 234nklwerwerb - 213234nklwwb - 234nklwweqerwerb -
in terms of language, asp uses a visual basic form of syntax.
there are several identified differences between these two languages.
you need to have a budget to run asp.
even with other variables like  the connectivity of the database, you can get something for free if you use  php.
will you use asp or php home > resources > other resources >  web design among website builders, the words asp and php are very popular.
difference between asp and php asp php asp is from microsoft thus it runs on microsoft servers alone.
in terms of connectivity to database, asp can only use  ms-sql and no other than that.
please see ourwebsite services or apply  for afree website analysis.
although the most common database used is the mysql.
in terms of language, php uses c++ and the syntax is more like a c/c++.
in terms of connectivity to database, asp can only use ms-sql and no other than that.
please see ourwebsite services or apply for afree website analysis.
php runs on linux which is free.
to better gauge which between these two languages is more convenient to use, please see below table of differences.
asp is built on com based architecture which makes it run slower.
the debate as to which is  better is still confusing many website builders.
how helpful was this information?
del.icio.us bookmark - online tools - grand national betting - man with van dublin - sitemap - © copyright 2007
npresence seo test - 234nklwerwerb -  213234nklwwb - 234nklwweqerwerb -
for more information, please contact our website  specialists.
in terms of language, asp uses a visual  basic form of syntax.
however it can also run on linux provided there is an  asp-apache installed.
in terms of cost,  asp requires a fee and can be quite expensive.
there are several things to  consider before deciding which language to use.
however it can also run on linux provided there is an asp-apache installed.
php runs  fasters since its codes are from its own memory space.
for more information, please contact our website specialists.
as a  programming language, they are both useful inbuilding a website.
in terms of cost, php is better compared to asp.