one of the first things...
itmanagementnews.com -- devwebpro is an ientry, inc. publication -- ientry, inc. 2549 richmond rd.
php programs run on linux, which is free.
25 hours of free professional development services develop your next app faster, cheaper and with world class quality seo optimization software: web ceo 5.6 free edition includes free csem training and certification recent articles yahoo heard you about audio search the search crew at yahoo has managed to work an audio tab onto yahoo's front page, to allow users to begin their music or podcast search as soon as they hit the site.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
asp on the  other hand has a more visual basic kind of syntax that again is closely related  to only microsoft products.
those who build and manage applications and sophisticated websites.
c/c++ is still considered  the best programming language by many programmers and people who love this  language would surely feel more comfortable with the syntax of php.
ebusiness help customized hosting for the new year customize your own managed server package!
it looks like yahoo has reached more confidence in its audio search features... gofish nets deal with tribune the tribune company's online division, tribune interactive, plans to use gofish technology for multimedia search on the metromix websites.
conclusion both languages have their advantages specific to users.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language  he or she is comfortable
if we compare the speed of asp and php then php has an upper hand.
customized hosting for the new year customize your own managed server package!
with over 300,000 subscribers, devwebpro delivers via news and expert advicenew strategies in development.
one of the  first things...
however, asp can run on a linux platform  with asp-apache installed on the server.
this does not mean that php cannot provide  e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
therefore an additional cost is incurred for such components.
devwebpro is brought to you by: securityconfig.com networkingfiles.com networknewz.com
we probably won't see any samurai coders or requests for  more cowbell, but two weeks of webcasts could be very beneficial to developers  working with msn's tools.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
however, most web developers  seem to think that if they create a text-link site navigation scheme, then a  web site is automatically search-engine friendly... how to build a  successful graphic design business being in the graphic design  business is very competitive - you have to learn to swim or you will sink fast.
msn search doesn't update its blog very often, but the latest entry offers a half-dozen... cross-linking and search engine optimization web site designers and developers should know how to create search-engine friendly design templates.
all rights reserved privacy policy legal archives | advertising info | news headlines | free newsletters | comments/feedback | submit article
devwebpro is  brought to you by: securityconfig.com networkingfiles.com
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
this bloated and malformed code wastes... 12.23.05 asp vs.
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more comfortable with the syntax of php.
php programs run on linux, which  is free.
about devwebpro devwebpro is for professional developers ... those who build and manage applications and sophisticated websites.
about the author: halstatt pires is an internet marketing consultant withhttp://www.marketingtitan.com - an internet marketing firm in san diego offering automated web site systems through http://www.businesscreatorpro.com.
i've been a graphic designer for 12 years and i'd like to share the journey i  took to owning and building a successful graphic design business.
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally  capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
we probably won't see any samurai coders or requests for more cowbell, but two weeks of webcasts could be very beneficial to developers working with msn's tools.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to c/c++.
php generally  uses mysql, which is freely available.
from my  perspective, php is an all around better choice than asp.
php has  inbuilt features like ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms  but in asp such features are not built in and some additional components are  required.
php generally uses mysql, which is freely available.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different people.
what you will  most likely find is a twisted mass of inaccessible poorly written html and  large amounts of javascript that will never validate.
if a user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
it runs on unix and linux servers and it also has an nt server version.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who  originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different  people.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since  php is open source a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
partying on with the assortment of city and nightlife sites run by tribune interactive for places like chicago and los angeles will... live, on msn, it's developer webcasts!
asp mainly uses ms-sql.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and  depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be  chosen.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an  overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
asp on the other hand has a more visual basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can  interact with databases and exchange information.
by halstatt pires when building web sites, asp and php are very popular languages.
however, most web developers seem to think that if they create a text-link site navigation scheme, then a web site is automatically search-engine friendly... how to build a successful graphic design business being in the graphic design business is very competitive - you have to learn to swim or you will sink fast.
what you will most likely find is a twisted mass of inaccessible poorly written html and large amounts of javascript that will never validate.
implementing web standards in the enterprise go to most enterprise class websites and look at the code.
there are a lot of differences between asp and php.
however, asp can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on  a windows platform server, which is not free.
asp (active server pages) is  from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on  microsoft servers.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most  popular being mysql.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language he or she is comfortable database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most popular being mysql.
with over  300,000 subscribers, devwebpro delivers via news and expert advicenew  strategies in development.
it looks like yahoo has reached more confidence in its audio search  features... gofish nets deal with tribune the tribune  company's online division, tribune interactive, plans to use gofish technology  for multimedia search on the metromix websites.
here's my opinion on whether asp or php is best.
by halstatt pires when building web sites, asp and php  are very popular languages.
both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can interact with databases and exchange information.
asp (active server pages) is from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on microsoft servers.
partying on with the assortment  of city and nightlife sites run by tribune interactive for places like chicago
lexington ky, 40509 © 2005 ientry inc.
and los angeles will... live, on msn, it's developer  webcasts!
about the author: halstatt pires is an internet marketing  consultant withhttp://www.marketingtitan.com - an internet marketing firm in  san diego offering automated web site systems through http://www.businesscreatorpro.com.
php code  runs faster than asp.
databasepronews.com sqlpronews.com itcertificationnews.com sysadminnews.com linuxpronews.com wirelesspronews.com cprogrammingtrends.com
from my perspective, php is an all around better choice than asp.
php has inbuilt features like ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such features are not built in and some additional components are required.
base language php is based on c++ language  and the syntax used in php is quite similar to c/c++.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server, which is not free.
even the connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp  as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
msn search doesn't update its blog very often, but  the latest entry offers a half-dozen... cross-linking and search  engine optimization web site designers and developers should know how  to create search-engine friendly design templates.
about devwebpro devwebpro is for professional developers ...
i've been a graphic designer for 12 years and i'd like to share the journey i took to owning and building a successful graphic design business.
this bloated and  malformed code wastes... 12.23.05 asp vs.
platform compatibility php programs can run on  various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly  associated with windows platforms.
25 hours of free  professional development services develop your next app faster,  cheaper and with world class quality seo optimization software:  web ceo 5.6 free edition includes free csem training and  certification recent articles yahoo heard you about audio search the search  crew at yahoo has managed to work an audio tab onto yahoo's front page, to  allow users to begin their music or podcast search as soon as they hit the  site.
even the connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
if a  user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would  call asp the ideal choice.
php code runs faster than asp.