if your website  incorporates an online searchable database or interactive chat facilities then  windows 2000 or nt will be a better bet in most cases.
refine your organic search traffic manage your ppc advertising we will help you get there windows vs. unix web hosting
you can also incorporate online purchasing and other routine  ecommerce functions.
note that if you select "front page extensions" during website design, you must enable frontpage extensions on a linux web server also.
remember, you might be more familiar with the name windows because of your pc operating system but that doesn't mean that you need to opt for windows based web hosting.
also, it has full fledged server, and desk top applications that comes free along with the os.
these server applications (such as ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.) being free, are also very stable.
usually, a website starts with a few pages of html and grows over a period of time to suit the customers requirements.
you can still add some interactive content using forms and  php/mysql.
in simple terms, answer to this question will depend on your own unique requirements.
you can also incorporate online purchasing and other routine ecommerce functions.
you can use almost all types of file extensions (or scripts) when using linux web server.
if you plan to use mysql and php  driven interactive contents, linux or unix hosting would work well.
also, keep in mind that if your website contains data that is mostly informational and doesn't need much interactive functionality, you're going to find linux hosting most efficient and cost effective.
basically it means that you can host websites that use different types of server side scripts including .cgi, .pl, .php, and .asp
however,  you can still use php and mysql with windows hosting plan if your web host  offers these softwares and services.
but what is important is that you know what you want your website to do and what you want to offer.
as mentioned  earlier, interactive websites usually rely on asp, php, or perl type languages.
if you plan to use mysql and php driven interactive contents, linux or unix hosting would work well.
if you want to use a windows based tool such as frontpage for  uploading a website on to a linux based web server, make sure that the  frontpage extensions are enabled.
a website designed for compatibility  with a linux/unix based web server meets the salability requirement easily  without making any site wide design changes.
here are some of the advantages of using linux based web server  compared to windows based web server : stability: linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been believed to be very  stable and robust.
on the other hand, if your applications are microsoft-specific(for example,  asp, .net etc), windows hosting is your only option.
most web hosting companies offers two separate choices - linux and windows hosting.
the process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux and windows web servers.
most important questions is which application(s) are you looking to use for developing your website and its content?
copyright © , the bijnor group llc, web design services, des moines, iowa
as long as you have a good  understanding of how to publish your website and update contents, you can use  either operating system.
it is preferable to design a  website keeping this requirements in mind.
these server applications (such  as ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.) being free, are also very  stable.
you can use almost all types of file extensions (or scripts) when using  linux web server.
easy to migrate from host to host:
ease of use: when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web servers.
how about the running and upgrading costs?
you do not need to know any real detail of either to make a decision as to which you need but here a few guidelines.
commonly, the following extensions are supported: .cgi,  .html, .htm, .pl, .php, .shtml, .xml, and others.
a website designed to be hosted on a linux based web server can be hosted  on a windows web server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
you do not need to know any real  detail of either to make a decision as to which you need but here a few  guidelines.
most widely used: linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows based  web hosting.
the operating system you use on your desktop has  little to do with your choice of a web host.
scalability: usually, a website starts with a few pages of html and grows over a period  of time to suit the customers requirements.
this is what will ultimately help  determine the type of web hosting that will work best for you.
most important questions is which application(s) are you looking to use for  developing your website and its content?
when it comes to web hosting, linux has, for some time, been widely considered the best os for web servers.
the linux os comes free of cost (or at very insignificant cost, usually cost of distribution).
a website housed on a linux operating system will have very high up-time (of the order of 99.9%).
on the other hand, if your applications are microsoft-specific(for example, asp, .net etc), windows hosting is your only option.
if your website incorporates an online searchable database or interactive chat facilities then windows 2000 or nt will be a better bet in most cases.
are you going to use certain software products and scripts?
most web hosting companies offers two separate choices  - linux and windows hosting.
operating cost: the linux os comes free of cost (or at very insignificant cost, usually  cost of distribution).
as mentioned earlier, interactive websites usually rely on asp, php, or perl type languages.
basically it means that you can host websites that use different types of  server side scripts including .cgi, .pl, .php, and .asp
it will cost a bit more but you’ll get that back in reduced development time and simply better functionality.
commonly, the following extensions are supported: .cgi, .html, .htm, .pl, .php, .shtml, .xml, and others.
these days, linux web servers  come with installable frontpage extensions, and this should pose no problem for  hosting on a linux platform.
this is only required if you are uploading using http feature (http://www.yourwebsite.com) of frontpage.
the  process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux and windows web  servers.
linux (and its close relation unix) and windows 2000/nt are two types of operating software that web servers use.
indeed, most of the  clients websites of alpha net runs on the linux os precisely because of this  traditional stability.
also, it has full fledged server, and desk top  applications that comes free along with the os.
if you are using any specialized applications or development platform such as .net for your web site, it is preferable to host with a windows based web server.
in  simple terms, answer to this question will depend on your own unique  requirements.
note that if you  select "front page extensions" during website design, you must enable  frontpage extensions on a linux web server also.
what about database for your website?
if you're looking to setup your own website, you'll have to pick a web host and hosting environment.
as long as you have a good understanding of how to publish your website and update contents, you can use either operating system.
a website designed for compatibility with a linux/unix based web server meets the salability requirement easily without making any site wide design changes.
indeed, most of the clients websites of alpha net runs on the linux os precisely because of this traditional stability.
you can still add some interactive content using forms and php/mysql.
here are some of the advantages of using linux based web server compared to windows based web server : linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been believed to be very stable and robust.
of course, other factors such as power supply, network admin skills, and network load etc. also matter when it comes to maintaining the system uptime.
on the downside, linux based web server is not fully compatible with microsoft technologies.
it will cost a bit more  but you’ll get that back in reduced development time and simply better  functionality.
the operating system you use on your desktop has little to do with your choice of a web host.
linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows based web hosting.
on the downside, linux based web server is not fully compatible with  microsoft technologies.
but what is important is that you know what you want your  website to do and what you want to offer.
when it comes to web hosting, linux has, for some time, been widely  considered the best os for web servers.
remember, you might be more familiar with the name windows because  of your pc operating system but that doesn't mean that you need to opt for  windows based web hosting.
it’s typically found to be the most reliable, stable and efficient system and, as such, it’s commonly used for the demanding environment of web and mail servers.
also, keep in mind that if your website  contains data that is mostly informational and doesn't need much interactive  functionality, you're going to find linux hosting most efficient and cost  effective.
if you're looking to setup your own website, you'll have to pick a web host  and hosting environment.
this is what will ultimately help determine the type of web hosting that will work best for you.
which one is a better fit for your needs?
however, you can still use php and mysql with windows hosting plan if your web host offers these softwares and services.
a website housed on a linux operating system will have very  high up-time (of the order of 99.9%).
a website designed to be hosted on a linux based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
of course, other factors such as power  supply, network admin skills, and network load etc. also matter when it comes  to maintaining the system uptime.
if you are using any specialized applications or  development platform such as .net for your web site, it is preferable to host  with a windows based web server.
web design solutions |
linux (and its close relation unix) and windows 2000/nt are two types of  operating software that web servers use.
it is preferable to design a website keeping this requirements in mind.
these days, linux web servers come with installable frontpage extensions, and this should pose no problem for hosting on a linux platform.
what  about database for your website?
if you want to use a windows based tool such as frontpage for uploading a website on to a linux based web server, make sure that the frontpage extensions are enabled.
this is only required if you are uploading  using http feature (http://www.yourwebsite.com) of frontpage.
when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web servers.
it’s typically found to be the  most reliable, stable and efficient system and, as such, it’s commonly  used for the demanding environment of web and mail servers.