to better gauge which between these two languages is more convenient to use, please see below table of differences.
you need to have a budget to run  asp.
improve our resources section.
however it can also run on linux provided there is an  asp-apache installed.
in terms of cost, asp requires a fee and can be quite expensive.
need an expert help in  building and marketing your website?
the website produced by these languages can interact with databases and exchange information.
it is still  the web developers’ discretion as to what language to use.
as a programming language, they are both useful inbuilding a website.
asp means active server pages while php means personal home pages.
in terms of cost, php is better compared to asp.
php runs on linux which is free.
as a  programming language, they are both useful inbuilding a website.
php runs fasters since its codes are from its own memory space.
there are several  identified differences between these two languages.
for more information, please contact our website  specialists.
your feedback will help us
del.icio.us bookmark - online  tools - grand national betting - man with van dublin - sitemap - ©  copyright 2007
both asp and php have their own sets of advantages and disadvantages.
please see ourwebsite services or apply for afree website analysis.
there are several things to  consider before deciding which language to use.
one advice  would be: use the language more comfortable to you!
in terms of connectivity to database, asp can only use ms-sql and no other than that.
this website is not affiliated with any search engine.
how helpful was this information?
in terms of language, asp uses a visual  basic form of syntax.
in terms of language, php uses c++ and the syntax is more like a c/c++.
asp and php are languages that are commonly used in building dynamic websites.
it is still the web developers discretion as to what language to use.
even the codes used in  php can be acquired for free.
difference between asp and php asp php asp is from microsoft thus it runs on  microsoft servers alone.
there are several things to consider before deciding which language to use.
there are several identified differences between these two languages.
for more information, please contact our website specialists.
asp is built on com based architecture which makes it run slower.
difference between asp and php asp php asp is from microsoft thus it runs on microsoft servers alone.
php is from rasmus lerdorf and it runs on unix and linux.
irl: (01) 289 9517 uk: (020) 7060 9517 login: password: will you use asp or php home > resources > other resources > web design among website builders, the words asp and php are very popular.
0 1 2 3 4 5 how helpful was this information?
just be sure that whatever you choose, use it effectively to get good outcome.
will you use asp or php home > resources > other resources >  web design among website builders, the words asp and php are very popular.
npresence seo test - 234nklwerwerb -  213234nklwwb - 234nklwweqerwerb -
the debate as to which is  better is still confusing many website builders.
asp and php are languages that are commonly used in building dynamic  websites.
even with other variables like  the connectivity of the database, you can get something for free if you use  php.
in terms of cost,  asp requires a fee and can be quite expensive.
the debate as to which is better is still confusing many website builders.
please see ourwebsite services or apply  for afree website analysis.
in terms of language, asp uses a visual basic form of syntax.
php runs  fasters since its codes are from its own memory space.
one advice would be: use the language more comfortable to you!
php also has an nt server version.
npresence seo test - 234nklwerwerb - 213234nklwwb - 234nklwweqerwerb -
although the most common database used is the mysql.
you need to have a budget to run asp.
your feedback will help us improve our resources section.
to better gauge which between these two languages is more convenient to  use, please see below table of differences.
even with other variables like the connectivity of the database, you can get something for free if you use php.
0   1    2  3   4   5 how helpful was this information?
in terms of language, php uses c++ and the syntax is more  like a c/c++.
asp and php are languages use in building websites.
need an expert help in building and marketing your website?
asp can  be used with internet information server or the iis while php can be used on  unix and linux servers.
in terms of connectivity to database, asp can only use  ms-sql and no other than that.
del.icio.us bookmark - online tools - grand national betting - man with van dublin - sitemap - © copyright 2007
there are products that you need to purchase from microsoft to make asp work for you.
asp can be used with internet information server or the iis while php can be used on unix and linux servers.
there are products that you need to purchase from microsoft to make asp  work for you.
even the codes used in php can be acquired for free.
the website produced by these languages can interact with databases  and exchange information.
just be sure that whatever you  choose, use it effectively to get good outcome.
php can use different database connectivity.
however it can also run on linux provided there is an asp-apache installed.