2007 web content management  development $119.43 photoshop and  dreamweaver integration (one-off) $2.95 privacy  policy  copyright © , alexa internet, inc.. all rights reserved.
i don't think that a book can equal the combination of education and experience (but as an instructor, i may be biased).
regarding databases, there are chapters explaining application concepts and e-r diagrams, as well as how to use the cli client for mysql.
my goal is to be a free lance web designer and to own a web design company using mysql (open source database), php (open source scripting language), access database, and active server pages (asp).
average  customer review: ( 6 customer reviews ) write an online review and share  your thoughts with other customers.
the book also has some examples of what the screen would look like if you  did something wrong which beginners tend to do.
originally, my field of profession is financial accounting.
to start a book with the  basics of html and then take a user through to complex database design would  require more explanation and peripheral information.
i used to use wrox's beginning  asp, but at more than 1000 pages, and more errata than i could cover in a  single class, i continued looking.
i found that students should adapt and improve the code from the cd-rom as part of their studies, so that they could fix some typos, and learn how code integration works.
currently, i am a  financial administrator and partly the intranet designer of a university in  san francisco.
also, they needed to create interfaces for the samples so we could stop staring at web forms and add some color to the examples!
i wanted to learn sql knowing how powerful it is, but  because how expensive commerialize dbms softwares were it made me stick with  access.
john 2 of 7 found the following review helpful: very
so  far your book is the best and most helpful, in showing how to connect to a  server and for sure will save me and my clients alot.
the examples of the book are well-chosen, without any extraneous material, and are explained in a table, with code in one column and explanation in another.
i strongly recommend this book.
the cd-rom even has sql instructions for  importing the material from the text; and for access users, db files that  mirror the work in the text.
the examples of the  book are well-chosen, without any extraneous material, and are explained in a  table, with code in one column and explanation in another.
i was so amazed by it but there are things i know and hope will be  easier and faster.
originally, my field of profession is financial  accounting.
recently viewed web site usability handbook (internet series) $32.97 microsoft sharepoint 2007
it  is an excellent book for anyone new to web applications or someone with some  experience, who wants to know more.
but the real heart of the matter is the instruction in coding practices,  from reading and writing to databases (using mysql and dsn-less access  connections), to using cookies and session variables for data persistance.
first of all, it does start out with basic html which was reassuring for me.
this means that using the coding is not as  straightforward as she would like it to be.
in the early 1990's i learn lotus then migrated to excel spreadsheet programs.
it builds up gradually, with many examples in the text.
while this book covers both asp and php coding and the use of mysql and access, the author does little to explain the 'why' behind much of the coding.
first of all, it does start out with basic html which  was reassuring for me.
i said this because from my experience i started learning database from access then learn visual basic codes and scripts.
dr. meyer's work starts with a review of html and javascript, with an emphasis on how to use the dom in an application setting.
also, the asp uses the less-common, but more palatable asp javascript (or  jscript) instead of the more commonly utilized asp vbscript (but even  third-party asp interpreters like that used in the sunone server handled the  code).
i have not seen this  pedagogical technique in other texts.
i said this  because from my experience i started learning database from access then learn  visual basic codes and scripts.
consequently, from learning and experience, i read about mysql and php and studied it as well.
i decided to continue what i learned so far, apply it then to whatever will make it easier.
i've never seen  such a universal attempt pulled off quite as well.
wrox  box: professional sharepoint 2007 development, real world sharepoint 2007,  professional sharepoint 2007 design & ...
students  have created portfolio pieces using the concepts in this text like  psychological profile tests, e-commerce sites, calendar applications and  marketing surveys.
not as good as larry  ullmanfeb 09, 2008 by twets
so i studied access  database.
i used this book as a textbook in a class, and most students encountered similar problems.
it then adds javascript.
consequently, from  learning and experience, i read about mysql and php and studied it as well.
the chapters on  database design and sql were also very good.
this means that using the coding is not as straightforward as she would like it to be.
so i studied  access database.
i wanted to learn sql knowing how powerful it is, but because how expensive commerialize dbms softwares were it made me stick with access.
it is an excellent book for anyone new to web applications or someone with some experience, who wants to know more.
i was so amazed by it but there are things i know and hope will make things easier and faster.
so far your book is the best and most helpful, in showing  how to connect to a server and for sure will save me and my clients alot.
i don't think that a book can  equal the combination of education and experience (but as an instructor, i may  be biased).
the php code supplied in the accompanying cd-rom utilizes global  variables (which may be turned off in some production environments for security  purposes)--but that underscores the use of the text as a textbook, and not a  coding "cookbook" with samples that are "ready-to-eat."
john 2 of 7 found the following review helpful: very helpfulfeb 16, 2004 by john anthony jeanine, just wanted to let you know how helpful your book is.
i find that larry  ullman's books provide far better explanations of the coding and help the user  to understand how the coding fits in with a) the rest of the coding on the page  and b) the coding that relates to subsequent pages.
and  this is where this book has no equal: it supports both the hugely popular  open-source php/mysql as equally as it shows asp and access.
students have created portfolio pieces using the concepts in this text like psychological profile tests, e-commerce sites, calendar applications and marketing surveys.
5 of 5 found the following review helpful: terrific, concise book on learning atabase web applicationsfeb 15, 2004 i am very new to computing, having just learned the basics of html.
also, they needed to create interfaces for the samples so we  could stop staring at web forms and add some color to the examples!
i was so amazed by it but there are things i know and hope will be easier and faster.
in particular, if someone knows one of the technologies featured (php, asp, mysql, access, sql) and wants to know how this one technology relates to others, this is a good source.
currently, i am a financial administrator and partly the intranet designer of a  university in san francisco.
before i thought, it was impractical to have two scripting languages and two databases.
i liked the fact  that that it is clear and concise since i like most people don't have a lot of  time to expend on a lot of unnecessary verbiage.
i found that students should adapt and improve the code from the cd-rom as  part of their studies, so that they could fix some typos, and learn how code  integration works.
this made me confuse, what direction am i going.
i have not seen this pedagogical technique in other texts.
i've never seen such a universal attempt pulled off quite as well.
i  decided to continue what i learned so far, apply it then to whatever will make  it easier.
thank you again and more power to you.
2 of 4 found the following review helpful: very helpfulfeb 16, 2004
web developer, and i have been teaching web applications for two years both  online
in the early 1990's i learn lotus then migrated to excel  spreadsheet programs.
my goal is to be a free lance web designer and to  own a web design company using mysql (open source database), php (open source  scripting language), access database, and active server pages (asp).
i was not totally satisfied with it because vbscript is  always tied up to a giant corporation and at the time i was learning html, xml  & javascript.
i'm a seasoned (some would say salty)
i found  this book very helpful.
i've looked in vain for the right mixture  of theory, practical application and humor (a needed ingredient for this type  of instruction).
in particular, if someone knows one of the  technologies featured (php, asp, mysql, access, sql) and wants to know how this  one technology relates to others, this is a good source.
so, i studied asp with javascript langauge.
by john anthony jeanine, just wanted to let you know how helpful your book is.
also, the asp uses the less-common, but more palatable asp javascript (or jscript) instead of the more commonly utilized asp vbscript (but even third-party asp interpreters like that used in the sunone server handled the code).
my goal is to have my own server company.
i was still not comfortable & not happy with it because vbscript is always tied up with a giant corporation and at the time i was learning html, xml & javascript.
it builds up gradually, with  many examples in the text.
i wanted to learn sql knowing how powerful  it is, but how expensive commerialize dbms softwares were it made me stick with  access.
i found this book very helpful.
to start a book with the basics of html and then take a user through to complex database design would require more explanation and peripheral information.
i was still not comfortable & not happy with it  because vbscript is always tied up with a giant corporation and at the time i  was learning html, xml & javascript.
but the real heart of the matter is the instruction in coding practices, from reading and writing to databases (using mysql and dsn-less access connections), to using cookies and session variables for data persistance.
with this book, i think i've found the right  text for some of the classes i teach!
and this is where this book has no equal: it supports both the hugely popular open-source php/mysql as equally as it shows asp and access.
the book also has some examples of what the screen would look like if you did something wrong which beginners tend to do.
the chapters on database design and sql were also very good.
in the early 90's i learn lotus then migrated to excel spreadsheet programs.
i use this book for intermediate web developer students who  have a solid grounding in html, css and javascript, and some basic knowledge of  either php or asp (or other programming logic).
i was not totally satisfied with it because vbscript is always tied up to a giant corporation and at the time i was learning html, xml & javascript.
the internet period has arrived at that time, so i learned asp with  visual basic scripting.
consequently, from learning and experience, i read about mysql and php and  studied it as well.
before i thought, it  was impractical to have two scripting languages and two databases.
regarding databases,  there are chapters explaining application concepts and e-r diagrams, as well as  how to use the cli client for mysql.
while this book covers both asp and php  coding and the use of mysql and access, the author does little to explain the  'why' behind much of the coding.
the  php with mysql and the asp with access are always compared with general  previews.
i used this book  as a textbook in a class, and most students encountered similar problems.
the book has many screen shots.
if someone were to purchase this book, i strongly recommend another more hands-on book in tandem with it.
in the early 90's i learn lotus then migrated to excel spreadsheet  programs.
i found it very helpful.
i was so amazed by it but there are things i know and hope  will make things easier and faster.
john see all 6 customer reviews on amazon.com
dr. meyer's work starts with a review of html and javascript, with an  emphasis on how to use the dom in an application setting.
i liked the fact that that it is clear and concise since i like most people don't have a lot of time to expend on a lot of unnecessary verbiage.
the internet period has arrived at that time, so i learned asp with visual basic scripting.
i wanted to learn sql knowing how powerful it is, but how expensive commerialize dbms softwares were it made me stick with access.
i recommend the book, but no work is perfect.
so i studied access database.
the php with mysql and the asp with access are always compared with general previews.
i was not satisfied for what macros can do
if  someone were to purchase this book, i strongly recommend another more hands-on  book in tandem with it.
not as good as larry ullmanfeb 09, 2008 by twets
so far your book is the best and most helpful, in showing how to connect to a server and for sure will save me and my clients alot.
there is also a complete set of code on the cd.
the php code supplied in the accompanying cd-rom utilizes global variables (which may be turned off in some production environments for security purposes)--but that underscores the use of the text as a textbook, and not a coding "cookbook" with samples that are "ready-to-eat."
currently, i am a financial administrator and partly the intranet designer of a university in san francisco.
this made me confuse what  direction am i going but continue what i learned so far, apply it then and  whatever will make it easier.
i find that larry ullman's books provide far better explanations of the coding and help the user to understand how the coding fits in with a) the rest of the coding on the page and b) the coding that relates to subsequent pages.
this made me confuse what direction am i going but continue what i learned so far, apply it then and whatever will make it easier.
the cd-rom even has sql instructions for importing the material from the text; and for access users, db files that mirror the work in the text.
most helpful customer reviews 7 of 7 found the following review helpful: not perfect,  but a perfect mix!feb 16, 2004