make it easier to add toolbar buttons for vtm scripts and apps it would make it far easier to add add-ins (vtom scripts, etc)  if hs could work such that dragging-n-dropping a vtm file over a toolbar would  open up the add custom button dialog, already filled in to add it as a button  to that toolbar.
related to this is john's suggesion: "it would be useful to be  able to edit hs extensions directly from the hs editor.
frontpage extensions provide a way other than ftp to upload web files.
(threads (1) (2)) (ms fp98 server extensions reskit overview) - forum threads here are a few forum threads with a number of hs/asp requests.
tell me what would help you and i'll see if someone else will pick up the task of putting it together... or email me if you'd like to be a helper too... - an allaire/mm dedicated asp-issues point-of-contact person ...and it had come to pass... need a new one though since dan n. left.
more homesite-installable help/doc sets microsoft ado programmer's reference client document object model, the scripting object model and the server  object model (any idea where to get these?)
an allaire/mm dedicated asp-issues point-of-contact person ...
related to this is john's suggesion: "it would be useful to be able to edit hs extensions directly from the hs editor.
it would sure be easier than the currentmany-step method of  creating buttons.
- perlscript - better vbscript and jscript docs sets (decompiled?)
asp4hs: homesite/asp/php wishlist [ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] - top priority enhancement requests - here are some of the improvements that have been frequently requested for homesite's asp, asp.net and php support.
perhaps some from the tutorial examples atlearnasp.com.
- asp requests - asp support wish list - code completion for intrinsic objects and user created objects - stronger asp recognition/color coding - database connection wizard - com object wizard/browser - support (i.e wizards) for remote scripting - an add-on that would dim all the variables on a page for you.
this free debugger is good for developing and debugging asp scripts and also  vtom/wsh scripts.
useful function snippets there have got to be lots  of small, generic, useful functions that could be put in snippet sets.
this should also work for dropping other executable files over a toolbar.
some servers are set to reject ftp and only use this upload method.
this free debugger is good for developing and debugging asp scripts and also vtom/wsh scripts.
it would sure be easier than the currentmany-step method of creating buttons.
reference material for wsh in general a complete article on using microsoft's script debugger with  homesite darren forcier  at allaire posted a short write-up on it  and mentioned that he might get to write this once things settle there a bit.
and it had come to pass... need a new one though since dan n.  left.
- more homesite-installable help/doc sets - microsoft ado programmer's reference - client document object model, the scripting object model and the server object model (any idea where to get these?)
see also devguru'sa beginner's guide to using microsoft  script debugger more custom dialogs keith collison's asp database  dialog proves that we can build vtm dialogs that can generate code based upon  easy user inputs for a variety of circumstances.
does anyone have a good asp button gif?
to submit your own ideas,email me if  you like, though the best way to be heard by macromedia is to start an asp  thread in thehomesite support forum -and- to  submit a note via themacromedia software feature request and bug report form.
if i drop psp.exe, it should help me set up a button to launch it as an  application with paths already filled in, and even suggest using %current% in  the command line.
- frontpage extensions upload capability (web folders)
if i drop psp.exe, it should help me set up a button to launch it as an application with paths already filled in, and even suggest using %current% in the command line.
- does anyone have a good asp button gif?
- reference material for wsh in general - a complete article on using microsoft's script debugger with homesite darren forcier at allaire posted a short write-up on it and mentioned that he might get to write this once things settle there a bit.
easier to put option explicit in the code and see what  error messages you get to find any vars you forgot to dim. -jeff)
last updated: october 22, 2002
we could use more of these  tools to generate generic or customized-generic code to do common useful tasks  in asp.
[ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] - suggestions and ideas i've had a fair number of people offer to help with the site or with building add-ons, but they need some useful ideas to get them going.
ie i could write a js or vbs file and have access to the hs application dom via insight and i could also have a "test" option to execute it directly and options to add it straight away to toolbars, menus etc.
right clicking a custom button already  in a toolbar would also give me the option to edit it straight away."
[ asp4hs | add-on's list |  articles | wishlist | links | tips/faqs | submissions ] - top priority  enhancement requests - here are some of the improvements that have been frequently requested for  homesite's asp, asp.net and php support.
--tom king (note: this is probably not feasible without creating a full vbscript parser.
asp requests code completion for intrinsic objects and user created objects stronger asp recognition/color coding com object wizard/browser support (i.e wizards) for remote scripting an add-on that would dim all the variables on a page for you.
frontpage extensions upload capability (web folders) frontpage extensions provide a way other than ftp to upload web files.
- make it easier to add toolbar buttons for vtm scripts and apps it would make it far easier to add add-ins (vtom scripts, etc) if hs could work such that dragging-n-dropping a vtm file over a toolbar would open up the add custom button dialog, already filled in to add it as a button to that toolbar.
--tom king (note: this is probably not feasible without creating a  full vbscript parser.
easier to put option explicit in the code and see what error messages you get to find any vars you forgot to dim. -jeff)
we could use more of these tools to generate generic or customized-generic code to do common useful tasks in asp.
(thread) [ asp4hs | add-on's list | articles | wishlist | links |  tips/faqs | submissions ] last updated: october 22, 2002
tell me what would help you and i'll see if  someone else will pick up the task of putting it together... or email me if  you'd like to be a helper too...
these messages go directly to the development teams. ...
suggestions and ideas i've had a fair number of  people offer to help with the site or with building add-ons, but they need some  useful ideas to get them going.
(threads (1) (2)) (ms fp98 server extensions reskit overview) forum threads here are a few forum threads with a  number of hs/asp requests.
some  servers are set to reject ftp and only use this upload method.
to submit your own ideas,email me if you like, though the best way to be heard by macromedia is to start an asp thread in thehomesite support forum -and- to submit a note via themacromedia software feature request and bug report form.
there used to be a neat animated one around, but i can't find it now.
right clicking a custom button already in a toolbar would also give me the option to edit it straight away.
- useful function snippets there have got to be lots of small, generic, useful functions that could be put in snippet sets.
perhaps  some from the tutorial examples atlearnasp.com.
better yet, fulfill some of these yourself and send me the info.
perlscript better vbscript and jscript docs sets (decompiled?)
users have  requested that homesite be able to directly upload or deploy using this method.
ie i could write a js  or vbs file and have access to the hs application dom via insight and i could  also have a "test" option to execute it directly and options to add  it straight away to toolbars, menus etc.
there used to be  a neat animated one around, but i can't find it now.
better yet, fulfill  some of these yourself and send me the info.
users have requested that homesite be able to directly upload or deploy using this method.
see also devguru'sa beginner's guide to using microsoft script debugger - more custom dialogs keith collison's asp database dialog proves that we can build vtm dialogs that can generate code based upon easy user inputs for a variety of circumstances.