the table below summarizes the differences.
on january 4, 2009 at 7:42 am,soso wrote: thank you.
there is noway a interpreted language can beat a compiled one not bad.
the cool thing is everyone sees through that so well now.
tags: linux,  open source, php, platform, windows related articles
when it comes down to it, php is the overall winner in terms of price,  speed, platform compatibility, and the size and responsiveness of its developer  community.
i agree with ben as well.
i am biased towards php too
web design and developmentsearch php (pre hypertext processor) and asp (active server pages) are the two most popular means for building web applications.
one of the biggest costs with any project is development time, and  you can get through a huge amount more work with .net technologies.
express is free, which is great for students and newcommers (or anyone really), and the debugging tools, intellitype, and many other features make this ide really stand out.
and while they are each capable of building applications with the same functionality, there are some noteworthy differences between the two.
they can achieve similar results but they can’t do everything the other can.
the most noteworthy differences include: there is a very large difference between php and asp in terms of price.
what is open source?
but i like moreasp.net disgustingly biassed.
click here to submit details regarding your project.
platform strong  strong weak (iis only) platform any any win32 (iis only)
php code snippet: automatically updating copyright date differences between windows and linux web hosting 9 responses to “php vs. asp – which is best for your  application?”
most  of what you have said can be argued, and anyone who says that one language is  better than another is not doing enough research.
if i were making a decision based totally on language preference, it would bephp.
however, before you make your decision, you should also consider the  relative benefits of using other popular languages such as jsp (java server  pages) and ror (ruby on rails).
php is also faster than asp.
however, i think ms visual web developer is the reason why i prefer asp.net at this point in time.
many people believe that these two programming languages could be used interchangeably.
not to  mention it also being an ideal technology for many other areas such as desktop,  server, mobile etc… comparing php against .net is like comparing a  microwave to a cooker.
express is free, which is great for students and newcommers (or anyone  really), and the debugging tools, intellitype, and many other features make  this ide really stand out.
only recently have some versions ofasp been able to run on other platforms.
if i were making a decision based totally on  language preference, it would bephp.
unlike asp, php has a fairly large developer community that is active in reporting bugs and creating additionalphp libraries.
i use both – php and asp.net, depending on the current site.
the cool thing is everyone sees through that so well  now.
furthermore, any additionalasp libraries will also come with a price tag.
on february 10, 2009 at 8:37 pm,velvet blues wrote: @ben:
but when it comes to speed, asp.net wins hands  down.
in our articlewhat is open source?, we talk about some open source projects that have been built usingphp.
but when i bundle all of the various pros and cons (ide, costs, performance, development time, etc), i chooseasp.net again this year (2011) withms development tools.
this article really helped me.
if you are making a general inquiry, send an email to info@velvetblues.comcopyright © velvet blues, inc. 2005 - 2011 | velvetblues.com | privacy policy | terms of use | site map | twitter | rss feed
i doubt you have any experience in asp.net @ben:
very good article thank you.
also, code reusability with asp.net is exceptional.
asp and asp.net work totally different, and a compiled  asp.net page is very fast.
no yes yes oop weak strong strong so… which should you choose?
on march 13, 2009 at 1:35 pm,darryl wrote: this article shows a huge bias towards php.
note, i have nothing against php–i spent years in developing in it.
trackbacks trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/php-vs-asp-which-is-best-for-your-application/trackback/ click here to cancel reply.
however, before you make your decision, you should also consider the relative benefits of using other popular languages such as jsp (java server pages) and ror (ruby on rails).
especially for those one like me who are delving into this filed( php).
i  prefer asp.net though, drastically better for my needs.
on december 6, 2008 at 5:04 am,adilraheel wrote: it’s a very good article regarding difference between asp.net and  php.
i prefer asp.net though, drastically better for my needs.
so if you are looking for maximum platform compatibility, it is best to opt forphp.
i laughed when it was stated php’s speed is “strong” and asp.net’s speed is  “weak”.
asp and asp.net work totally different, and a compiled asp.net page is very fast.
but when i bundle all of the various pros  and cons (ide, costs, performance, development time, etc), i chooseasp.net  again this year (2011)
php runs on multiple platforms, both linux apache and windows iis.
this article shows a huge bias towards php.
php 4 php 5 asp.netphp 4 php 5 asp.net when it comes down to it, php is the overall winner in terms of price, speed, platform compatibility, and the size and responsiveness of its developer community.
on may 8, 2009 at 11:28 am,dev-the-web wrote: well, your title is php vs. asp but the table compares php vs. asp.net so, php vs. asp or php vs. asp.net ?
in addition to the four bullets mentioned above, there are some other points for comparison.
additionally, php developers have contributed to a variety of open source projects.
share or subscribe why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this  blog.
i laughed when it was stated php’s speed is “strong” and asp.net’s speed is “weak”.
most of what you have said can be argued, and anyone who says that one language is better than another is not doing enough research.
not to mention it also being an ideal technology for many other areas such as desktop, server, mobile etc… comparing php against .net is like comparing a microwave to a cooker.
trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/php-vs-asp-which-is-best-for-your-application/trackback/ name (required) email (required) website notify me of followup comments via e-mail contact us today for a quote.
but i  like moreasp.net on july 12, 2011 at 9:01 pm,james wrote: disgustingly biassed.
however, i think  ms visual web developer is the reason why i prefer asp.net at this point in  time.
on the other hand,asp requires both initial and ongoing costs for maintenance and debugging.
there is noway a interpreted language can beat a compiled one
while we do work primarily with php, for the obvious advantages, we do work withasp from time to time, as some of our clients have older websites which were built on that platform.
on february 10, 2009 at 6:59 pm,ben wrote: i doubt you have any experience in asp.net
one of the biggest costs with any project is development time, and you can get through a huge amount more work with .net technologies.
they can achieve similar results but they can’t do  everything the other can.
based on experience i love both php and asp.net.
tags: linux, open source, php, platform, windows it’s a very good article regarding difference between asp.net and php.
withms development tools.
on december 11, 2011 at 8:46 pm,akshay wrote: i am biased towards php too
you can also subscribe to thisarticle's comments feed.
(this table was taken fromphp and asp.net go head-to-head.)
while we do work primarily with php, for  the obvious advantages, we do work withasp from time to time, as some of our  clients have older websites which were built on that platform.
so if you have an application that performs multiple queries or is frequently accessed, it would be best to use a language that was more efficient.
what is the difference between static and dynamic websites?
well, your title is php vs. asp but the table compares php vs. asp.net so, php vs. asp or php vs. asp.net ?
why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this blog.
but when it comes to speed, asp.net wins hands down.
on december 19, 2011 at 12:00 pm,nick wrote: not bad.