the components built in asp  are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features like  interacting with ftp servers, you need to buy additional components.
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary system that is natively used only on microsoft internet information server (iis).
yes, the server-side asp2php is the one most often referred to as well asthis client-side option.
cold fusion has better error  handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction  is addressed in php 4.
cold fusion has better error handling, database abstraction and date parsing although database abstraction is addressed in php 4.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active  server pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic  script or jscript.
there are a couple  of projects in the works that allows asp to run in other environments and  webservers:instantasp from halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft  (commercial).
perl is a very tried and true  language, it's been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very  quickly.
the flexibility / complexity of perl  makes it easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time
the flexibility / complexity of perl makes it easier to write code that another author / coder has a hard time reading.
asp support is also enabled by default in the iis server making it easy to get up and running.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed  for scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can  because of this get very complicated.
some of the pros of asp is that since it primarily uses vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already know how to program in visual basic.
contact us | forums |  privacy policy | terms of use | trademarks
a copy can be found at http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?l=php-general&m=95602167412542&w=1.
some of the pros of asp is that since it primarily uses  vbscript it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already know  how to program in visual basic.
the components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features like interacting with ftp servers, you need to buy additional components.
php and com migrating from php 2 to php 3 last updated: tue, 19 sep 2006 © 2000-2012 nusphere corp.
php has  pretty much all the 'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on,  without making it as complicated as perl can be.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php, less stable as well.
cold fusion has a good ide and is generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more programming knowledge.
asp is not really a language in itself, it's an acronym for active server pages, the actual language used to program asp with is visual basic script or jscript.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for scripting for the web where perl was designed to do a lot more and can because of this get very complicated.
php is the best language for web programing, but what about other languages?
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting language.
php has a less confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
migrating from php 2 to php 3 migrating from php 3 to php 4 migrating from php 4 to php 5 miscellaneous questions php and com migrating from  php 2 to php 3 last updated: tue, 19 sep 2006 chapter 53.
asp support is also enabled by default in the  iis server making it easy to get up and running.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php,  less stable as well.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind,  while php is focused on programmers.
php is generally referred to as  more stable and less resource intensive as well.
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary  system that is natively used only on microsoft internet information server  (iis).
php has a less confusing and stricter format without losing  flexibility.
there are a couple of projects in the works that allows asp to run in other environments and webservers:instantasp from halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from chili!soft (commercial).
cold fusion has a good ide and is  generally easier to get started with, whereas php initially requires more  programming knowledge.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the  php mailing list.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex  programming tasks and trying out new ideas.
php has pretty much all the 'good' functionality of perl: constructs, syntax and so on, without making it as complicated as perl can be.
php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only  available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
another thing that is listed as one of cold fusion's  strengths is its excellent search engine, but it has been mentioned that a  search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting  language.
php and other languages php is the best language for web programing, but what about other  languages?
is there an asp to php converter?
php runs on almost every platform there is; cold fusion is only available on win32, solaris, linux and hp/ux.
php is generally referred to as more stable and less resource intensive as well.
perl is a very tried and true language, it's been around since the late eighties, but php is maturing very quickly.
php is easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
yes, the server-side asp2php is the one most often referred to as  well asthis client-side option.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind, while php is focused on programmers.
a great summary by michael j sheldon on this topic has been posted to the php mailing list.
this limits it's availability to win32 based servers.