asp is built on com based architecture, which is an overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
home free consultation internet marketing services  marketing articles packages testimonials contact asp vs. php
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more comfortable with the syntax of php.
if a user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server, which is not free.
this helps  prevent spam.
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many  programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more  comfortable with the syntax of php.
asp v. php both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can  interact with databases and exchange information.
heres my opinion on whether asp or php is best.
asp on the other hand has a more visual basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
it runs on unix and linux servers and it also has an nt server version.
however, asp  can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
asp (active server pages) is  from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on  microsoft servers.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different people.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who  originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different  people.
when building web sites, asp and php are very popular languages.
asp (active server pages) is from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on microsoft servers.
php code  runs faster than asp.
home | free consultation | internet  marketing services | marketing articles | packages | testimonials | contact site map | marketing tips | join our marketing newsletter click here to bookmark this site copyright © 1999-2011 media  titan, inc.
some would argue  that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's  requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
consultation comments please enter the  correct letters and numbers from the image into the text box.
here’s my opinion on whether asp or php is best.
if we talk about  developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the  best discussion boards are developed in php.
php generally uses mysql,  which is freely available.
php programs run on linux, which is free.
<< back to website design signup for our free web  marketing newsletter below: your email: free business creator pro trial manage your clients, stats, and more, all  from one online system.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an  overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
there are a lot of differences between asp and php.
therefore an additional cost is incurred for such components.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server,  which is not free.
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and  solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to c/c++.
marketing titan customers get 3 months free.
from my perspective, php is an all around better choice than asp.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most popular being mysql.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source  a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
php generally uses mysql, which is freely available.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most  popular being mysql.
even the  connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a  product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
however, asp can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many  people choose asp.
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
php has inbuilt features like ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such features are not built in and some additional components are required.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language he or she is comfortable
conclusion both languages have their advantages specific to users.
asp mainly uses ms-sql.
php has inbuilt features like  ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such  features are not built in and some additional components are required.
asp v. php both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can interact with databases and exchange information.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
<< back to website design request free consultation
asp on the other hand has a more visual  basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
even the connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
if a user is looking for some  e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
php code runs faster than asp.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to  c/c++.
if we compare the speed of asp and php then php has an upper hand.