create your own sign-in box - member zone login - live chat welcome, guest.
however, asp can run on a linux platform  with asp-apache installed on the server.
even the connectivity of the database is  expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to  be purchased.
php has inbuilt features like  ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such  features are not built in and some additional components are required.
as i understand it, both  are scripting languages.
this does not mean that php cannot provide  e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
asp on the other hand has a more visual basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
members and 1 guest are viewing this topic.
even the connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
asp (active server pages) is from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on microsoft servers.
- web mail login email: password: forgot your id or password?
logged doteasy - administrator - jr. member - - posts: 71 - re: asp and php « reply #1 on: september 09, 2010, 09:35:25 pm »
both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can interact with databases and exchange information.
asp (active server pages) is from microsoft and is used with iis (internet  information server) that runs on microsoft servers.
get added protection for your domain quick reference renew domain name transfer to doteasy check whois change contact info change dns - hosting hosting get high performance web hosting.
php programs run on linux, which is free.
hypertext preprocessor) is from rasmus lerdorf, who originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different people.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language he or she is comfortable
php code runs faster than asp.
conclusion both languages have their advantages specific to  users.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to c/c++.
there are a lot of  differences between asp and php.
if a  user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would  call asp the ideal choice.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and  depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be  chosen.
a friend  of mine recommended that i use a service the supports php because it is better.
all other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective holders.
if we compare the speed of asp and php then php has an upper  hand.
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more comfortable with the syntax of php.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect  to various databases, the most popular being mysql.
if a user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
managed hosting let us setup and maintain your website for you add-ons optional features for your hosting account quick reference retrieve account password upgrade services transfer to doteasy unique ip create email accounts - websites - e-commerce - support did you miss your activation email?
what are the major differences between them?
there are a lot of differences between asp and php.
please login or register.
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
author topic: asp and php  (read 1073 times) 0
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language  by many programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more  comfortable with the syntax of php.
php generally uses mysql, which is freely available.
as i understand it, both are scripting languages.
bella_1121 posts: 37 asp and php « on: july 26, 2010, 11:15:28  pm »
reference: http://www.webpronews.com/expertarticles/2005/12/22/asp-vs-php logged pages: [ 1] go up « previous next » - doteasy peer to peer support forums » - general category » - hosting services » - asp and php smf 2.0.2 | smf © 2011, simple machines - - domains - registration - transfer - add-ons - - hosting - hosting - managed hosting - add-ons - learn more - - - support - support - contact us - knowledge base - tutorials - - about doteasy - about us - career - affiliates - copyright © 2000-2012 doteasy technology inc. all rights reserved.
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source a  lot of code can be found in open source forums.
it runs on unix and linux servers and it also has an nt server version.
reference:  http://www.webpronews.com/expertarticles/2005/12/22/asp-vs-php
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
asp is built on com based architecture,  which is an overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory  space.
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally  capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
cost to run asp programs  one needs iis installed on a windows platform server, which is not free.
- doteasy homepage - domains registration get your own unique domain name transfer move your domain over to doteasy add-ons
bella_1121 asp and php « on: july 26, 2010, 11:15:28 pm »
therefore an additional cost is incurred for such components.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
platform compatibility php programs can run on  various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly  associated with windows platforms.
was that his personal opinion, or is php somehow considered better than asp?
if we compare the speed of asp and php then php has an upper hand.
php has inbuilt features like ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such features are not built in and some additional components are required.
logged posts: 71 re: asp and php « reply #1 on: september  09, 2010, 09:35:25 pm »  both asp and php are languages used to build  dynamic web sites that can interact with databases and exchange information.
hypertext  preprocessor) is from rasmus lerdorf, who originally designed this parsing  language which was later modified by different people.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server, which is not free.
it runs on unix and  linux servers and it also has an nt server version.
- domain registration agreement - terms & conditions - hosted application policy - privacy policy - site map powered by 100% hydro energy
conclusion both languages have their advantages specific to users.
however, asp can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
a friend of mine recommended that i use a service the supports php because it is better.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language he or she is comfortable database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most popular being mysql.
php  programs run on linux, which is free.
asp on the other hand has a more visual  basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
base  language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is  quite similar to c/c++.
get your own domain!
april 29, 2012, 08:09:18 pm - home - help - search - login - register « previous next » - doteasy peer to peer support forums » - general category » - hosting services » - asp and php pages: [ 1] go down author topic: asp and php (read 1073 times)
what is the different between asp and php?
asp mainly uses ms-sql.