meanwhile, thekalendar design contest has 2 weeks  remaining.
views print comments (0) coldfusion, kalendar posted by : dan wilson september 27, 2007 8:45 pm code that is not thread safe is sneaky, dangerous and leads to bewildering production errors and strange side effects.
increasing amounts of organizations understand how coldfusion can tie into disparate systems and quickly offer feature-rich applications requiring minimal maintenance manpower.
every time i look at that ben-taur image i laugh..... 2106 views print comments (0)
posted by : dan wilson october  3, 2007 1:07 pm the illustrious charlie "cj" griefer has found some interesting  cf9 artwork.
had i not used theautomated code analyzer, this thread-unsafe  code would have went into production.
sarge just posted that coldfusion 9 will be called centaur.
announcement see, everyone can play along!
so have your voice heard!
the tool parses cfscript and is now hosted on http://varscoper.riaforge.org/ .
upon closer inspection i noted the 's' and quickly made  the correction.
there is a very weird debate going on in the cf-aussie list about the  merits of the coldfusion function structfind().
one use case would be returning the  value a key in a structure that is the result of a function evaluation.
clients tell me of the extra effort in offshoring complex projects but feel  they have no choice due to the manpower needed to keep it systems current and  competitive.
take a look at this code: view plain copy to clipboard print about coldfish is developed by jason delmore.
increasing amounts of  organizations understand how coldfusion can tie into disparate systems and  quickly offer feature-rich applications requiring minimal maintenance manpower.
are you a mediocre designer, compete anyways!
if you do not, here is a picture of a funny looking cat.
structfind( struct, key ), is  an aptly-named native function that fetches the value of the specified key, in  the specified struct.
the tool parses cfscript and is now hosted on  http://varscoper.riaforge.org/ .
the kalender team is hard at work making sure the upcoming release of kalendar is the best yet.
upon closer inspection i noted the 's' and quickly made the correction.
compatibilities with other languages, integrated libraries and high levels of language functionality all make for the fastest application delivery platform available.
linking blogs coldfusion developers - spot the mistake posted by : dan wilson september  11, 2007 8:16 pm
update: mike schieberl and zac spitzer have made some improvements to the  var scoper tool.
are you a talented designer?
linking blogs new cf9 logo?
any comments containing the name or url of a certain 'publishing' (read: microsoft shill corporation) company, will be deleted out of hand.
he got interested ...
you have rsvp'd already haven't you?
i had the problem where standard ftp accounts wouldn't s...[more] russell said: you can reduce the number of processes performed by changing your code to the below: if( (window['c...[more] matt said:
posted by : dan wilson october 2, 2007 2:10 pm
apparently this is late breaking news, and details are still to come, but...... super awesome centaur image courtesy of it premium 15517 views print comments (0) coldfusion15517 views print comments (0)
14988 views print comments (0) coldfusion, rapid development14988
coldfusion del.icio.us digg
we will go over a few future topics  we have lined up, our continued direction, etc..
i consistently work with them to show how utilizing coldfusion  will accomplish their goals and reduce needed it ftes.
views print comments (0) coldfusion, rapid development posted by : dan wilson september 21, 2007 8:54 am
you have rsvp'd  already haven't you?
compete and win a copy of coldfusion 8  standard for your top design!
if, for some reason, the key does not exist, it throws an  error.(the docs are wrong)
linking blogs reminder: entries for the kalendar ui design contest are due 11:59:59pm on  friday oct 12th posted by : dan wilson october  8, 2007 9:20 am get your entries in today!
compatibilities with other languages,  integrated libraries and high levels of language functionality all make for the  fastest application delivery platform available.
every time i look at that ben-taur image i laugh..... 2106 views print comments (0) coldfusion2106 views print comments (0)
had i not used theautomated code analyzer, this thread-unsafe code would have went into production.
warning, the error is simpler than you might think.
posted by : dan wilson september  27, 2007 8:45 pm code that is not thread safe is sneaky, dangerous and leads to bewildering  production errors and strange side effects.
one use case would be returning the value a key in a structure that is the result of a function evaluation.
there are many good posts about var scoping your variables, should you need more convincing.
source code and license  information available atcoldfish.riaforge.org   1 2 "wait just a minute", i said, "there is nothing wrong with  that bit of code".
as part of my deployment procedure, i run code through an automated code  analyzer for improperly scoped variables.
1425 views print comments (0)
update: mike schieberl and zac spitzer have made some improvements to the var scoper tool.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog.
compete and win a copy of coldfusion 8 standard for your top design!
as part of my deployment procedure, i run code through an automated code analyzer for improperly scoped variables.
1504 views print comments (0)
linking blogs is your code thread safe?
apparently this  is late breaking news, and details are still to come, but...... hurry up and post more details already!!!!
if you haven't yet, i challenge you to download it and run it against some code.
thanks mike and zac for the fine work on one of the most important code checking tools out there!
digg the contest announcement see, everyone can play along!
thanks mike and zac for the fine work on one  of the most important code checking tools out there!
how should we split them up....
take this example: [more]2487 views print comments (0)
if you haven't yet, i challenge you to  download it and run it against some code.
10442 views print comments (0) coldfusion10442 views print comments (0) coldfusion
[more] dan wilson said: @applet, good question about my nephew.
there are many good posts about var scoping your variables, should you need  more convincing.
14988 views print comments (0) coldfusion, rapid  development del.icio.us digg
today, while running the analyzer, it  flagged this set of code: view plain copy to clipboard print about coldfish is developed by jason delmore.
if you get the reference, give yourself 10 points.
coldfusion2166 views print comments (0)
remember, the winner gets their name plastered  on blogs and takes home a copy of cf8 standard edition!
posted by : dan wilson october 1, 2007 9:00 am
[more] 2487 views print comments (0) coldfusion del.icio.us digg
linking blogs pablo vos presents ten facts why coldfusion beats php and asp posted by : dan wilson september  19, 2007 8:21
will this be cover art for the next coldfusion release?
it is much better than watching re-runs of hee haw on tv are you a crappy designer (like me) with a digg account?
i consistently work with them to show how utilizing coldfusion will accomplish their goals and reduce needed it ftes.
the intent of the code is to build a string containing values present in the object.
posted by : dan wilson september 11, 2007 5:28 pm effective immediately, i will be rewriting this blog software in an emerging rich web technologies such as ajax, flex or silverlight.
now if i could just figure out how to query a database using an emerging rich web technologies such as ajax, flex or silverlight......
posted by : dan wilson september 11, 2007 8:16 pm take a look at this code:view plain copy to clipboard print about i just spent 15 minutes tracing all this code out trying to find out why nothing was returned.
things i'll never finish (3) transferorm (2) wow (15) tags air application architecture coldfusion conferences flex javascript  model-glue personal random rapid development software development stupidity  tacfug tutorials wow attention rtp dwellers - tacfug meets tonight posted by : dan wilson october  9, 2007 10:58 am the triangle area coldfusion users group meets tonight.
[more] applet said: ok, it's 5 years later, tell us what happened with the nephew?
today, while running the analyzer, it flagged this set of code:view plain copy to clipboard print about "wait just a minute", i said, "there is nothing wrong with that bit of code".
we are entering a new dawn of coldfusion.
posted by : dan wilson september 19, 2007 8:21 am someone just forwarded an article from pablo vos, "10 facts why coldfusion is better than php or asp".
linking blogs digg kalendar design contest - 2 weeks remaining posted by : dan wilson october  1, 2007 9:00 am the kalender team is hard at work making sure the upcoming release of  kalendar is the best yet.
linking blogs using structfind for fun and profit posted by : dan wilson september  21, 2007 8:54
and any questions you might  have.. what do you want to see covered in topics... basic, intermediate, or  advanced topics..
in my experience, coldfusion makes the most sense as an enterprise web application development language.
3146 views print comments (0) coldfusion, kalendar3146
mike schierberl actually made and posted a video showing a  memory leak in action caused by code that is not thread safe and mike also  gives away the automated code analyzer.
structfind( struct, key ), is an aptly-named native function that fetches the value of the specified key, in the specified struct.
we will go over a few future topics we have lined up, our continued direction, etc.. and any questions you might have..
posted by : dan wilson october 8, 2007 9:20 am get your entries in today!
the 10 facts are are compelling reasons why it managers and executives should prefer coldfusion over php or asp.
source code and license  information available atcoldfish.riaforge.org
we will keep you up to date with news, events and other features.
mike schierberl actually made and posted a video showing a memory leak in action caused by code that is not thread safe and mike also gives away the automated code analyzer.
am someone just forwarded an article from pablo vos, "10 facts why  coldfusion is better than php or asp".
remember, the winner gets their name plastered on blogs and takes home a copy of cf8 standard edition!
linking blogs coldfusion 9 centaur posted by : dan wilson october  2, 2007 2:10 pm
clients tell me of the extra effort in offshoring complex projects but feel they have no choice due to the manpower needed to keep it systems current and competitive.
so if a user searches by category, userid etc, the search string is maintained.
[more] 2890 views print comments (0) coldfusion,  kalendar del.icio.us digg
there is a very weird debate going on in the cf-aussie list about the merits of the coldfusion function structfind().
super awesome centaur image courtesy of it premium 15517 views print comments (0)
1425 views print comments (0) coldfusion1425 views print comments (0)
if, for some reason, the key does not exist, it throws an error.(the docs are wrong)
bill said: thanks for posting this.
you might be surprised!
[more] air application architecture coldfusion conferences flex javascript model-glue personal random rapid development software development stupidity tacfug tutorials wow posted by : dan wilson october 9, 2007 10:58 am the triangle area coldfusion users group meets tonight.
meanwhile, thekalendar design contest has 2 weeks remaining.
what do you want to see covered in topics... basic, intermediate, or advanced topics..
why would you ever need this function?
after all, success in business is in spending less and accomplishing more  than your competitors, isn't it?
it has been 5 years since i posted this.
1504 views print comments (0) coldfusion1504 views print comments (0)
this meeting is a casual get-together.
the 10 facts are are compelling  reasons why it managers and executives should prefer coldfusion over php or asp.
2166 views print comments (0)
it is much better than  watching re-runs of hee haw on tv are you a crappy designer (like me) with a digg account?
in my experience, coldfusion makes the most sense as an enterprise web  application development language.
thanks for the write up dan, works for me!
after all, success in business is in spending less and accomplishing more than your competitors, isn't it?
[more]2890 views print comments (0) coldfusion, kalendar posted by : dan wilson october 3, 2007 1:07 pm the illustrious charlie "cj" griefer has found some interesting cf9 artwork.
3146 views print comments (0) coldfusion, kalendar del.icio.us digg it!