php programs run on linux, which is free.
asp mainly uses ms-sql.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different people.
asp v. php both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can interact with databases and exchange information.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an  overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
asp on the other hand has a more visual basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
if a user is looking for some  e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
even the  connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a  product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
asp is built on com based architecture, which is an overhead for the server whereas php code runs in its own memory space.
if a user is looking for some e-commerce application development then many would call asp the ideal choice.
home free consultation internet marketing services  marketing articles packages testimonials contact asp vs. php
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many people choose asp.
there are a lot of differences between asp and php.
however, asp can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
asp on the other hand has a more visual  basic kind of syntax that again is closely related to only microsoft products.
asp (active server pages) is  from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on  microsoft servers.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most  popular being mysql.
conclusion both languages have their advantages specific to users.
database connectivity php, being extremely flexible, can connect to various databases, the most popular being mysql.
however, asp  can run on a linux platform with asp-apache installed on the server.
heres my opinion on whether asp or php is best.
if we compare the speed of asp and php then php has an upper hand.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source  a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
asp (active server pages) is from microsoft and is used with iis (internet information server) that runs on microsoft servers.
therefore an additional cost is incurred for such components.
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many  programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more  comfortable with the syntax of php.
php has inbuilt features like  ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such  features are not built in and some additional components are required.
php code  runs faster than asp.
additional costs many of the tools used in php are free of cost and since php is open source a lot of code can be found in open source forums.
so, it depends on a person-to-person which language he or she is comfortable
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and  solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
php generally uses mysql,  which is freely available.
consultation comments please enter the  correct letters and numbers from the image into the text box.
php (personal home pages) is from rasmus lerdorf, who  originally designed this parsing language which was later modified by different  people.
from my perspective, php is an all around better choice than asp.
php has inbuilt features like ftp, email from a web page or even encryption mechanisms but in asp such features are not built in and some additional components are required.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to  c/c++.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server,  which is not free.
some would argue  that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's  requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
cost to run asp programs one needs iis installed on a windows platform server, which is not free.
<< back to website design signup for our free web  marketing newsletter below: your email: free business creator pro trial manage your clients, stats, and more, all  from one online system.
asp v. php both asp and php are languages used to build dynamic web sites that can  interact with databases and exchange information.
here’s my opinion on whether asp or php is best.
this does not mean that php cannot provide e-commerce solutions, only that many  people choose asp.
home | free consultation | internet  marketing services | marketing articles | packages | testimonials | contact site map | marketing tips | join our marketing newsletter click here to bookmark this site copyright © 1999-2011 media  titan, inc.
platform compatibility php programs can run on various platforms like linux, unix, windows and solaris whereas asp is mainly associated with windows platforms.
if we talk about developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the best discussion boards are developed in php.
if we talk about  developing a discussion board then asp is equally capable but many feel the  best discussion boards are developed in php.
c/c++ is still considered the best programming language by many programmers and people who love this language would surely feel more comfortable with the syntax of php.
when building web sites, asp and php are very popular languages.
<< back to website design request free consultation
marketing titan customers get 3 months free.
base language php is based on c++ language and the syntax used in php is quite similar to c/c++.
even the connectivity of the database is expensive in the case of asp as ms-sql is a product of microsoft that needs to be purchased.
some would argue that both the languages have their own importance and depending on the user's requirements the language and the platform can be chosen.
php code runs faster than asp.
php generally uses mysql, which is freely available.
this helps  prevent spam.
it runs on unix and linux servers and it also has an nt server version.