................... plc training in chennai|plc training in chennai logged answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
in any event, it’s nice to now have some data that  php performance on windows and linux are “in the same ballpark”.
yes, asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux)
reply #1 on: yesterday at 03:27:23 pm »
i am on  this side: php is better.
» - all categories » - other general topic » - computers, internet & technology » - which is better php or asp.net ??
let consider it but don't forget to check also  asp.net later...
it's  mostly an opinion: who loves microsoft's world will tell you that asp.net is  better even for job opportunities... who prefers the rest, will say that php is  better and will point you the huge amount of sites done with php (and open  source cms and so on...), which are more than asp sites....
asp.net (c#) operations, object use, library calls, etc. are significantly faster that the php equivalents.
note – i’m not saying “asp.net is faster so you shouldn’t choose php !!!!
in any event, it’s nice to now have some data that php performance on windows and linux are “in the same ballpark”.
members and 1 guest are viewing this topic.
yes, asp.net is universally faster than php (on windows and on linux) with the exceptions of file copy and attribute operations.
« on: yesterday at 06:26:57 am » quote which is better php or asp.net ?
every real question deserve’s a real answer.
author topic: which is better php or asp.net ??
1 hour 1 day 1 week 1 month forever login with username, password and session length connect with facebook news: - home - help - search - calendar - login - register - answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
i’ve always contended that the affable simplicity of php had some drawbacks for certain advanced applications.
« reply #1 on: yesterday at 03:27:23 pm » quote by now you have cheated and looked at the spread sheet.
now i can start writing those windows specific php libraries i’ve been dreaming about for years !!
(read 74 times) tweet share 0
every real  question deserve’s a real answer.
to me (your mileage may vary) the exciting thing about php is not the language / platform so much as it is what thousands of clever php developers have done with it (drupal, joomla, wordpress, phpbb, nuke, etc.)
« reply #1 on: yesterday at 03:27:23 pm » quote print pages: 1 « previous next »
and indeed you should choose according to the job you will  get... select a list of firms you would like to work for and check the  technology they use and want.
(just as the early learning complexity of asp.net can have  it’s drawbacks. )
note – i’m not saying “asp.net is  faster so you shouldn’t choose php !!!!
« on: yesterday at 06:26:57 am » christus re: which is better php or asp.net ??
mysql  access from php on linux is a tiny bit faster than sql server access on windows  (assuming common data types and select statements) but probably not enough to  matter.
asp.net (c#) operations, object use, library calls, etc. are  significantly faster that the php equivalents.
it's mostly an opinion: who loves microsoft's world will tell you that asp.net is better even for job opportunities... who prefers the rest, will say that php is better and will point you the huge amount of sites done with php (and open source cms and so on...), which are more than asp sites....
i know my php friends and the linux dudes (and dude-etts) will probably come out of the wood work to refute my tests and results i’ve always thought that if high end performance options were part of your needs requirements, then .net programming has some advanced options “out of the box” like multi-threading, asynchronous requests, and a number of caching options.
mysql access from php on linux is a tiny bit faster than sql server access on windows (assuming common data types and select statements) but probably not enough to matter.
................... plc  training in chennai|plc training in chennai logged answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
name: email: verification: please spell the word answernote: - smf 2.0.1 | smf © 2011, simple machines smfads for free forums - xhtml - rss - wap2
« on: yesterday at 06:26:57 am » which is better php or asp.net ?
you can still use bulletin board code and smileys as you would in a normal post.
and indeed you should choose according to the job you will get... select a list of firms you would like to work for and check the technology they use and want.
which is better php or asp.net ??
i’ve always contended  that the affable simplicity of php had some drawbacks for certain advanced  applications.
with quick-reply you can write a post when viewing a topic without loading a new page.
to me (your mileage may vary) the exciting  thing about php is not the language / platform so much as it is what thousands  of clever php developers have done with it (drupal, joomla, wordpress, phpbb,  nuke, etc.)
i know my php friends  and the linux dudes (and dude-etts) will probably come out of the wood work to  refute my tests and results i’ve always thought  that if high end performance options were part of your needs  requirements,  then .net programming has some advanced options “out  of the box” like multi-threading, asynchronous requests, and a number of  caching options.
now i can start writing those windows specific php  libraries  i’ve been dreaming about for years !!
(just as the early learning complexity of asp.net can have it’s drawbacks. )
« on: yesterday at 06:26:57 am » quote re: which is better php or asp.net ??
i am on this side: php is better.
reply #1 on: yesterday at 03:27:23 pm » pages: 1 « previous next » - answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
logged answernote: the best web-based questions and answers community!
please login or register.
« previous next » pages: 1
re: which is better php or asp.net ??
with the exceptions of file copy and attribute operations.
let consider it but don't forget to check also asp.net later...
sreelavanya which is better php or asp.net ??
by now you have cheated and looked at the spread sheet.