the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a proprietary system that is natively used only on the microsoft internet information server (iis) platform.
because of  this, perl can get very complicated.
alternatively, you can use the ***rssit*** tag.
in large part, php has all the 'good' functionality of perl - constructs, syntax, et cetera - without making it as complicated as perl can be.
cold fusion is  designed with non-programmers in mind, while php is focused on programmers.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex  programming tasks and trying out new ideas, and is considered by many to be  more stable and less resource-intensive as well.
php has a less-confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
there are a couple of projects in the works that allows asp to  function with other environments and webservers:» instantasp from »  halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from » chili!soft (commercial), and  » mono (open-source).
however, the  components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use  "advanced" features (like interacting with ftp servers), you'll need  to buy additional components.
a particular quality that is listed as one of coldfusion's strengths is its excellent search engine, but many strong arguments suggest that a search engine is not something that should be included in a web scripting language.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for scripting for the web, while perl was designed to do a lot more.
the biggest drawback of asp is that it's a  proprietary system that is natively used only on the microsoft internet  information server (iis) platform.
asp support is also  enabled by default in iis, making it easy to get up and running.
in large part, php has  all the 'good' functionality of perl - constructs, syntax, et cetera - without  making it as complicated as perl can be.
cold fusion has a good ide and is generally quicker for new programmers to achieve results for very simple applications, whereas php initially requires more programming knowledge.
php is also easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
replace the image above, with your own rss.
asp is not really a language in itself, but an acronym for active server pages; the actual languages used to program asp include visual basic script, jscript, and c#, among others.
asp support is also enabled by default in iis, making it easy to get up and running.
however, the components built in asp are really limited, so if you need to use "advanced" features (like interacting with ftp servers), you'll need to buy additional components.
php  has a less-confusing and stricter format without losing flexibility.
while coldfusion once had better error handling, database abstraction, and date parsing, the database abstraction shortfalls were addressed in php 4.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome language than php, with less overall stability.
this limits its availability to win32 based  servers.
php is the best language for web programming, but what about other languages?
this limits its availability to win32 based servers.
php and com migrating from php 4 to php 5 faq
there are a couple of projects in the works that allows asp to function with other environments and webservers:» instantasp from » halcyon (commercial), chili!soft asp from » chili!soft (commercial), and » mono (open-source).
because of this, perl can get very complicated.
asp is said to be a slower and more cumbersome  language than php, with less overall stability.
one of the pro's of asp is  that, since it primarily uses vbscript, it's relatively easy to pick up the  language if you're already proficient in visual basic.
one of the pro's of asp is that, since it primarily uses vbscript, it's relatively easy to pick up the language if you're already proficient in visual basic.
further, php runs on nearly every modern platform in existence, while cold fusion is only available on windows, solaris, linux, macos, and aix.
details of this can be found onthis page.-->
yet php's command-line interpreter  (cli) is powerful enough to perform high-level tasks much in the same way perl  has been traditionally employed.
php is commonly said to be faster and more efficient for complex programming tasks and trying out new ideas, and is considered by many to be more stable and less resource-intensive as well.
the flexibility / complexity of perl can  make it difficult for developers of varying skill levels to collaborate.
php is the best language for web programming, but what about other  languages?
perl is a very tried and true language, and  has stood its ground since the 1980's, but php has matured and evolved quickly,  and continues to make fantastic progress.
the flexibility / complexity of perl can make it difficult for developers of varying skill levels to collaborate.
cold fusion has a good ide and is generally  quicker for new programmers to achieve results for very simple applications,  whereas php initially requires more programming knowledge.
asp is not really a language in itself, but an acronym for active server  pages; the actual languages used to program asp include visual basic script,  jscript, and c#, among others.
while coldfusion once had  better error handling, database abstraction, and date parsing, the database  abstraction shortfalls were addressed in php 4.
the biggest advantage of php over perl is that php was designed for  scripting for the web, while perl was designed to do a lot more.
php is  also easier to integrate into existing html than perl.
cold fusion is designed with non-programmers in mind, while php is focused on programmers.
perl is a very tried and true language, and has stood its ground since the 1980's, but php has matured and evolved quickly, and continues to make fantastic progress.
further, php runs on nearly every  modern platform in existence, while cold fusion is only available on windows,  solaris, linux, macos, and aix.
a particular quality that is  listed as one of coldfusion's strengths is its excellent search engine, but  many strong arguments suggest that a search engine is not something that should  be included in a web scripting language.
yet php's command-line interpreter (cli) is powerful enough to perform high-level tasks much in the same way perl has been traditionally employed.