0 comments bury bookmark category:
the goods easy to learn - asp comes from the very  well known and used language, visual basic, and it's very easy to learn and  incorporate.
third party components - on asp, if you need to upload files for example, you will need a third party sofware such as aspuplod or if you want to implement email you will need another component which is frustrating.
if you are looking for hosting,  we highly recommendliquid web wl marketing - your #1 source for  building links php vs asp subscribe to our newsletter and receive a  weekly report with the best websites and resources for webmasters.
part 1this tutorial will teach you how to make a form on your website send you an e-mail without exposing your email address php »
wanna stay informed and be the first to know when we publish new content?
scripts | articles | jobs | resources | snippets | contact | search | login copyright © 2006 - 2012 roscripts.com
the goods easy to learn - asp comes from the very well known and used language, visual basic, and it's very easy to learn and incorporate.
price - php uses mysql which is free, uses apache which is free, runs on windows, unix, solaris or linux which again can be free to install.
→ no comments added yet - web tools of the monththe best web tools of the month by roscripts → no comments added yet - building a dynamic drop down menulearn how to use the power of php and css to build dynamic drop down menus → comments 27 → we recommend - sell websites → best place to sell your website.
price - asp runs on the iis server (internet information server) which requires  windows n.t/2000/2003 servers and i hate to be limited.
the goods speed - everything that runs in this language uses it's own memory space and does not require connections with other objects in different processes.
tutorials » email systems - building a dynamic drop down menulearn how to use the power of php and css to build dynamic drop down menusphp »
- simple php → learn php now with videos and books.
price - php uses mysql which is free, uses apache which is free, runs  on windows, unix, solaris or linux which again can be free to install.
conclusion php is more secure, faster, more functional  and, most of all, free.
why not, let's see what we can read out there about the two most used  programming languages: php and asp.php (an recursive acronym for php  hypertext processor)
asp (active server pages) - get the feeddo you like our posts?
they have bought websites ranging from $1k to $250k.
cross platform compatablily - you're stuck on windows baby.
functionality - it's bundled with more functionality than asp has to offer such  as ftp, data compression, encryption md5, file uploading, xml or email which is  so important.
directory forum are you interested in selling one of your websites?
asp (active server  pages)
other related articles (52) view all - form handling (basic)
price - asp runs on the iis server (internet information server) which requires windows n.t/2000/2003 servers and i hate to be limited.
i tried others including frontpage, but i always came back to dreamweaver.
considering the fact that i'm a php guy my answer was easy from that point but i've decided to study things a little more since i don't carry such a big crown in the programming world and i still consider myself a starter.
part 1this tutorial will teach you how to make a form on your website send you an e-mail without exposing your email address → comments 1 - 10 tips to speed up your web site building with dreamweaver.
error handling - every programmer has to learn how to implement the error  handling which can very often lead to other problems just because we're not  talking about standards...which can also be a good thing if we're thinking a  little further...we need inventions and new versions.
third party components  - on asp, if you need to upload files for example, you will need a third party  sofware such as aspuplod or if you want to implement email you will need  another component which is frustrating.
also covers session fixation and sql injection.
the goods speed - everything that runs in this  language uses it's own memory space and does not require connections with other  objects in different processes.
php » articles » security systems comments for coding help and further support please use the forum.
the bads speed - asp uses a com based architecture and when ever a program tries to connect to a database or he calls a com object there is an overhead on the server, all this com overhead adds up and slows things down.
if you are looking for hosting, we highly recommendliquid web wl marketing - your #1 source for building links php vs asp subscribe to our newsletter and receive a weekly report with the best websites and resources for webmasters.
the bads case insensitive functions - i don't  find it as a big problem but it seems to be annoying for some programmers.
php scripts | login | register | search | contact are you interested in selling one of your websites?
- scripts - articles - jobs - resources - snippets - directory - forum
if you are, check outwm media, which is a company that buys websites.
subscribe to our newsletterweekly newsletters with the best websites  organized by categories and other news.
i've never imagined myself using third party software to make  "emailing" possible.
i received an email  recently from a designer decided to step into programming and go dynamic to  speed things up afterwards.
why not, let's see what we can read out there about the two most used programming languages: php and asp.php (an recursive acronym for php hypertext processor)
he was asking me to suggest a language that he would learn.
this posting has no comments.
tutorials » database manipulation - translating your site the easy waythis article will try to give you all the needed information to use this great extension - gettext.
i received an email recently from a designer decided to step into programming and go dynamic to speed things up afterwards.
other - php mysql by exampleslearn by examples how to manipulate your database using phpphp »
extending php - security in your online applicationsprotect yourself, your server and your scripts.
they have  bought websites ranging from $1k to $250k.
- wordpres script generator → create wordpress plugins in minutes.
more details & rating php vs asp added by roscripts on april-18-2007, 3:53 pm what should we chose if we decide to start coding today?
add comment - recommended top hosting companies - best cheap web hosting options - web hosting - computer tipps and tricks - u.s. money reserve gold - ajax - asp - asp.net - actionscript - c and c++ - cfml - cgi and perl - css - c# - flash - html - java - javascript - mysql - php - photoshop - seo - vb - xml - websites - other → latest news & articles - form handling (basic)
- subscribe to our newsletterweekly newsletters with the best websites organized by categories and other news.
while this is my conclusion i will welcome any asp fan  to comment.
the bads case insensitive functions - i don't find it as a big problem but it seems to be annoying for some programmers.
considering the fact that i'm a php guy my answer was easy from  that point but i've decided to study things a little more since i don't carry  such a big crown in the programming world and i still consider myself a  starter.
more details & rating
wanna stay informed and be the  first to know when we publish new content?
he was asking me to suggest a language that he  would learn.
dreamweaver is one of the top html and code editors according to me.
- plr poster → post hundreds of articles to wordpress blogs at once.
the bads speed - asp uses a com based architecture and when ever a  program tries to connect to a database or he calls a com object there is an  overhead on the server, all this com overhead adds up and slows things down.
functionality - it's bundled with more functionality than asp has to offer such as ftp, data compression, encryption md5, file uploading, xml or email which is so important.
conclusion php is more secure, faster, more functional and, most of all, free.
if  you are, check outwm media, which is a company that buys websites.
speed again because the code seems to be smaller.
error handling - every programmer has to learn how to implement the error handling which can very often lead to other problems just because we're not talking about standards...which can also be a good thing if we're thinking a little further...we need inventions and new versions.
cross platform compatablily - you're  stuck on windows baby.
get the feeddo you like our posts?
speed again because the code seems to be  smaller.
i've never imagined myself using third party software to make "emailing" possible.
while this is my conclusion i will welcome any asp fan to comment.