when the attempt is made to merge application data from microsoft based  systems with php based web applications, complications can arise, so by in  large it is avoided.
these products  need to be purchased from microsoft for setup.
the keystone for deciding to use asp is the microsoft  product compatibility.
these products need to be purchased from microsoft for setup.
the keystone for deciding to use asp is the microsoft product compatibility.
corporations use these tools to make the  business work flow smoother on transaction based applications.
even though the learning curve for asp is steeper than php, it is  frequently used because: asp is well-suited for all microsoft software, which in the corporate  stratosphere is exceptionally popular.
ideas, inspiration and a creative perspective on marketing from inside the  embassy august 31, 2011 asp vs. php: understanding differences by jordan walker category digital, inspiration two  commonly used server side scripting languages implemented by aweb development  agency are asp (active server pages) and php (php hypertext preprocessor).
all other marks are property of their respective owners.
most enterprise corporations already use a variety of microsoft software,  like sharepoint or microsoft exchange server.
the official moosylvania moosylvania blog - about - clients - capabilities - work - connect - contact ideas, inspiration and a creative perspective on marketing from inside the embassy august 31, 2011 asp vs. php: understanding differences by jordan walker category digital, inspiration two commonly used server side scripting languages implemented by aweb development agency are asp (active server pages) and php (php hypertext preprocessor).
asp was developed by microsoft to run in conjunction with iis (internet information service) on windows server architecture.
some of the reasons to use php are derived in part, by the amount of  developers, designers, and programmers that currently use php.
asp typically is paired with a microsoft sequential query language (ms-sql) database.
some of the reasons to use php are derived in part, by the amount of developers, designers, and programmers that currently use php.
hosting a php based application or website costs less since web hosting  companies do not have to pay licensing fees, and is compatible with a greater  range of server operating systems.
a comment notify me of follow-up comments via email.
have additional questions about which one you should use for your  site?
they find in comparison to asp, that php is tremendously simpler.
when you are  getting ready to evaluate your requirements, keep the following information in  mind.
the open source library of  php classes has more features, which allows web development agencies to build  dynamically driven websites with less effort because: developers and users alike can create web pages that are rich with  content, modifiable with an off the shelf management system.
- most enterprise corporations already use a variety of microsoft software, like sharepoint or microsoft exchange server.
tags: php vs. asp, php vs. asp.net, should i use php  or asp, what's the difference between php and asp
an independent, full service digital advertising agency founded on the belief that there's a better place for your brand.
they find in  comparison to asp, that php is tremendously simpler.
even though the learning curve for asp is steeper than php, it is frequently used because: - asp is well-suited for all microsoft software, which in the corporate stratosphere is exceptionally popular.
tags: php vs. asp, php vs. asp.net, should i use php or asp, what's the difference between php and asp comments » no comments on asp vs. php: understanding differences rss feed for comments on this post.
they are both used to dynamically generate content on a web server, which gives interactive programmers and site owners the capability to add custom pragmatic logic, modify paragraph copy, or change the design palette.
both server-side scripting languages have their advantages.
let me know in the comments orcontact us.
while we build both asp and php websites, we usually find that php is a  good solution for most businesses because of the engaged, open source  community.
when the attempt is made to merge application data from microsoft based systems with php based web applications, complications can arise, so by in large it is avoided.
php is an open source library that normally runs in conjunction with apache  on unix based servers.
- hosting a php based application or website costs less since web hosting companies do not have to pay licensing fees, and is compatible with a greater range of server operating systems.
- - branding - digital - experiential - insights - inspiration - moose life - news - promotions - wildcard - about moosylvania ...
they  are both used to dynamically generate content on a web server, which gives  interactive programmers and site owners the capability to add custom pragmatic  logic, modify paragraph copy, or change the design palette.
have additional questions about which one you should use for your site?
learn more - now trending
php is typically paired with a mysql database engine or a postgresql database, which do not cost any money to use.
- - subscribe subscribe via rss or - categories eight categories exploding with interesting topics
the open source library of php classes has more features, which allows web development agencies to build dynamically driven websites with less effort because: - developers and users alike can create web pages that are rich with content, modifiable with an off the shelf management system.
asp typically is paired  with a microsoft sequential query language (ms-sql) database.
while we build both asp and php websites, we usually find that php is a good solution for most businesses because of the engaged, open source community.
when you are getting ready to evaluate your requirements, keep the following information in mind.
php is typically paired with a mysql database engine or  a postgresql database, which do not cost any money to use.
php is an open source library that normally runs in conjunction with apache on unix based servers.
the shortlist of our most popular posts by views - an editorial calendar template for you (and your sanity!) 17 comment(s) - designing for responsive web design 2 comment(s) - art for joplin 7 comment(s) - how to make unique package designs 0 comment(s) - 1st looks at ces: windows 8 eye control, nokia lumia & smarter tv 0 comment(s) - bacardi torched cherry leverages social & mobile 1 comment(s) - smackdown part 3: analyze your competitors’ social media strategy 2 comment(s) - mobile marketing tips: how to create an effective foursquare special 4 comment(s) - effective marketing strategy: push and pull 1 comment(s) - famous logos through the years 0 comment(s) - tlf newsletter sign up for a monthly dose of interactive marketing news, views and tips from the loud few, our interactive special forces.
learn more - what we're saying moosylvania on twitter follow us - people who like us - home - about - philosophy - what we do - space - insights - people - clients - capabilities - digital - branding - experiential - promotions - work - connect - contact - social - twitter - facebook - linkedin - vimeo ©2012 moosylvania.
asp was developed by microsoft to run in conjunction with iis (internet  information service) on windows server architecture.
corporations use these tools to make the business work flow smoother on transaction based applications.