it is a 100% export oriented unit registered with software technology parks of india (stpi).
desired profile the candidate must have sound skills and knowledge in asp & php programming.
reference: asp/01 contact information name: mr.m.krishnan… telephone: 91-079-26400685,26404218 website: http://radixweb.in address radixweb 403,anand mangal-2 b/h omkar house c.g.road ahmedabad - gujarat ,indi 380009 email: hr@radixweb.in name mail (will not be published) website please note: comment moderation is enabled and may delay your comment.
supported bykudos infomediacopyright © 2006 koolkampus.com :: hosted by trustmeher ::
desired profile the candidate must have sound skills and knowledge in  asp & php programming.
he should have done atleast any one or two projects in asp / php.
the candidate should be ready to work in any time.(us  & uk timing zone)
the candidate need to join us immediately and he should be ready to  join us immediately.
he should have done atleast one or two projects in asp or php.
there is no need to resubmit your comment.
copyright © 2006 koolkampus.com :: hosted by trustmeher ::
supported bykudos infomedia
the candidate should be ready to work in any time.(us & uk timing zone)
it software keyword: asp, asp, web programming, php, web developer, web programmer, ecommerce, asp, php location: ahmedabad education: ug - any graduate - any specialization, pg - any pg course - any specialization job description the candidate must should good knolwedge and skills in asp / php.
designation: asp / php programmer - fresher experience: 0 - 1 years industry type: software services functional area:
the candidate need to join us immediately and he should be ready to join us immediately.
he should have done atleast one or two projects in  asp or php.
continuous improvements are a part of our breath which leads us to high quality deliverable for our clients.
radixweb company profile: radix is a custom software solutions provider based in gujarat, india.
keyword: asp, asp, web programming, php, web developer, web programmer,  ecommerce, asp, php location: ahmedabad education: ug - any graduate  - any specialization, pg - any pg course - any specialization job description the candidate must should good knolwedge and skills in  asp / php.
we offer software development services in the area of system development, internet/intranet, web base applications, complete development of packaged business applications and quality assurance services.