not to  mention it also being an ideal technology for many other areas such as desktop,  server, mobile etc… comparing php against .net is like comparing a  microwave to a cooker.
well, your title is php vs. asp but the table compares php vs. asp.net so, php vs. asp or php vs. asp.net ?
i  prefer asp.net though, drastically better for my needs.
most  of what you have said can be argued, and anyone who says that one language is  better than another is not doing enough research.
most of what you have said can be argued, and anyone who says that one language is better than another is not doing enough research.
but i like moreasp.net disgustingly biassed.
the table below summarizes the differences.
in our articlewhat is open source?, we talk about some open source projects that have been built usingphp.
however, i think  ms visual web developer is the reason why i prefer asp.net at this point in  time.
i laughed when it was stated php’s speed is “strong” and asp.net’s speed is “weak”.
i laughed when it was stated php’s speed is “strong” and asp.net’s speed is  “weak”.
they can achieve similar results but they can’t do everything the other can.
trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/php-vs-asp-which-is-best-for-your-application/trackback/ name (required) email (required) website notify me of followup comments via e-mail contact us today for a quote.
click here to submit details regarding your project.
withms development tools.
no yes yes oop weak strong strong so… which should you choose?
i am biased towards php too
platform strong  strong weak (iis only) platform any any win32 (iis only)
in addition to the four bullets mentioned above, there are some other points for comparison.
on february 10, 2009 at 8:37 pm,velvet blues wrote: @ben:
note, i have nothing against php–i spent years in developing in it.
tags: linux,  open source, php, platform, windows related articles
while we do work primarily with php, for  the obvious advantages, we do work withasp from time to time, as some of our  clients have older websites which were built on that platform.
i doubt you have any experience in asp.net @ben:
not to mention it also being an ideal technology for many other areas such as desktop, server, mobile etc… comparing php against .net is like comparing a microwave to a cooker.
tags: linux, open source, php, platform, windows it’s a very good article regarding difference between asp.net and php.
but when it comes to speed, asp.net wins hands  down.
why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this blog.
however, before you make your decision, you should also consider the  relative benefits of using other popular languages such as jsp (java server  pages) and ror (ruby on rails).
based on experience i love both php and asp.net.
share or subscribe why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this  blog.
one of the biggest costs with any project is development time, and you can get through a huge amount more work with .net technologies.
php is also faster than asp.
on december 6, 2008 at 5:04 am,adilraheel wrote: it’s a very good article regarding difference between asp.net and  php.
one of the biggest costs with any project is development time, and  you can get through a huge amount more work with .net technologies.
only recently have some versions ofasp been able to run on other platforms.
the most noteworthy differences include: there is a very large difference between php and asp in terms of price.
very good article thank you.
on february 10, 2009 at 6:59 pm,ben wrote: i doubt you have any experience in asp.net
this article shows a huge bias towards php.
the cool thing is everyone sees through that so well  now.
what is the difference between static and dynamic websites?
php 4 php 5 asp.netphp 4 php 5 asp.net when it comes down to it, php is the overall winner in terms of price, speed, platform compatibility, and the size and responsiveness of its developer community.
on the other hand,asp requires both initial and ongoing costs for maintenance and debugging.
and while they are each capable of building applications with the same functionality, there are some noteworthy differences between the two.
however, before you make your decision, you should also consider the relative benefits of using other popular languages such as jsp (java server pages) and ror (ruby on rails).
while we do work primarily with php, for the obvious advantages, we do work withasp from time to time, as some of our clients have older websites which were built on that platform.
they can achieve similar results but they can’t do  everything the other can.
there is noway a interpreted language can beat a compiled one
trackbacks trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/php-vs-asp-which-is-best-for-your-application/trackback/ click here to cancel reply.
i prefer asp.net though, drastically better for my needs.
furthermore, any additionalasp libraries will also come with a price tag.
you can also subscribe to thisarticle's comments feed.
so if you are looking for maximum platform compatibility, it is best to opt forphp.
what is open source?
the cool thing is everyone sees through that so well now.
there is noway a interpreted language can beat a compiled one not bad.
express is free, which is great for students and newcommers (or anyone really), and the debugging tools, intellitype, and many other features make this ide really stand out.
however, i think ms visual web developer is the reason why i prefer asp.net at this point in time.
on march 13, 2009 at 1:35 pm,darryl wrote: this article shows a huge bias towards php.
i agree with ben as well.
if i were making a decision based totally on language preference, it would bephp.
but when i bundle all of the various pros and cons (ide, costs, performance, development time, etc), i chooseasp.net again this year (2011) withms development tools.
on december 19, 2011 at 12:00 pm,nick wrote: not bad.
if you are making a general inquiry, send an email to info@velvetblues.comcopyright © velvet blues, inc. 2005 - 2011 | velvetblues.com | privacy policy | terms of use | site map | twitter | rss feed
unlike asp, php has a fairly large developer community that is active in reporting bugs and creating additionalphp libraries.
if i were making a decision based totally on  language preference, it would bephp.
asp and asp.net work totally different, and a compiled  asp.net page is very fast.
but when i bundle all of the various pros  and cons (ide, costs, performance, development time, etc), i chooseasp.net  again this year (2011)
web design and developmentsearch php (pre hypertext processor) and asp (active server pages) are the two most popular means for building web applications.
additionally, php developers have contributed to a variety of open source projects.
on january 4, 2009 at 7:42 am,soso wrote: thank you.
but i  like moreasp.net on july 12, 2011 at 9:01 pm,james wrote: disgustingly biassed.
when it comes down to it, php is the overall winner in terms of price,  speed, platform compatibility, and the size and responsiveness of its developer  community.
i use both – php and asp.net, depending on the current site.
php runs on multiple platforms, both linux apache and windows iis.
so if you have an application that performs multiple queries or is frequently accessed, it would be best to use a language that was more efficient.
asp and asp.net work totally different, and a compiled asp.net page is very fast.
on may 8, 2009 at 11:28 am,dev-the-web wrote: well, your title is php vs. asp but the table compares php vs. asp.net so, php vs. asp or php vs. asp.net ?
but when it comes to speed, asp.net wins hands down.
express is free, which is great for students and newcommers (or anyone  really), and the debugging tools, intellitype, and many other features make  this ide really stand out.
many people believe that these two programming languages could be used interchangeably.
on december 11, 2011 at 8:46 pm,akshay wrote: i am biased towards php too
especially for those one like me who are delving into this filed( php).
this article really helped me.
(this table was taken fromphp and asp.net go head-to-head.)
php code snippet: automatically updating copyright date differences between windows and linux web hosting 9 responses to “php vs. asp – which is best for your  application?”
also, code reusability with asp.net is exceptional.