i dl'd the latest nvidia driver (179.48_notebook_winxp_32bit_beta.exe) and that helped (it doesn't crash anymore).
webuilder is much much better for html & css though, but then it beats the pants of anything that i have tried for that.
i have used visual studio for a .net project and its html/css support is dreadful.
3) the ftp is not live editing.
i am having way more difficulty trying to get used to the new menu bar in microsoft office 2007.
its integrated directly with svn and others, and easily configurable to work with xdebug.
but they have the great plus of being cross-platform
and i like that it has drupal function auto complete and function definitions which is really handy when building drupal modules.
i am using thephp ide plugin from zend and the aptana plugin which is specifically for html, css and javascript.
if i'm doing mainly php, i use eclipse pdt.
if you are unfamiliar with eclipse, i highly suggest not bothering with zend and play with komodo (or phpedit, scite, etc.).
then came this awful idea to integrate it into (what i consider) one of the worst ide platforms ever created ... eclipse.
they behave like editors and ides everyone outside of the eclipse community is used to.
i know its only a windows app...
it's free and might appeal to those who cannot make friends with eclipse.
i did not cough up $300 bucks for a retail product.
i don't have huge technical requirements and  so most of the comparison is based on nit-picky likes and dislikes.
i don't know boo about debuggers, never having used one  before
yes, there are cheaper versions of each but komodo's cheapy ($30)
i couldn't get the debugger to work though even though i went through the little wizard to set up my local php for it.
31 august 2006 geek
if i could combine the things i like about them both, i might be willing to pay $300.
( i realize java  apps are not the fastest
adjust the intellisense settings to my likings... **** all of this without any issues ****
i come from a background using visual studio for many years.
i haven't noticed peculiarities w/ the power source (i'm usually plugged-in).
anyhow i was able to do the following with a zero learning curve and it didn't interfere with my php ramp-up... 1.
now, my daytime employer is more than willing to buy me the  tools i need to do my work but we are a small department and we have one pie to  buy things from
so far komodo 4.4 does everything i need and then some.
if i could combine the things i like about them both, i might be willing to  pay $300.
i don't feel like i'm sacrificing quality becuase
while i still miss ctrl-click on a function to go to its declaration, these are things i am more than willing to give up for a stable ide that runs fast and is fully configurable.
test and debug the class file using php script or inside web page... 4.
some weak points for zend are that the editor tabs are on the bottom and  not movable (i keep looking to the top to see which files are open and then  feel lost and have to look down) whereas komodo has them at the top where i'm  used to.
( i realize java apps are not the fastest
in short, if you are an eclipse fan, go with zend and continue on your path.
i am quite pleased with eclipse/php/html and it has not given me a reason to go looking elsewhere.
i probably should try komodo.
but i do a lot of coding on the train to and from  work
other than that i want something that knows php,  xhtml and css and has ftp support.
i also really like the toolbox pane that lets me keep my own selection of snippets and templates in easy reach (which is very much like and easier to use than the clipper in jedit).
so if i am writing a lot of html/css, then i use webuilder.
zend and komodo meet my requirements and are both capable ides for  what i want to do.
eclipse, zend and komodo i have finally gotten around to seriously testing out some different ide  (integrated development environment) for my php coding.
zend and komodo meet my requirements and are both capable ides for what i want to do.
i'd like to solve this because jedit makes one killer lightweight editor.
anything less dated on ides?
so dreadful that i have to write it in webuilder and then move over to visual studio for the asp stuff.
after 1 hour of beating your head against the wall you will learn that everything must be a project.
zend is purdier and i prefer the pane expand/collapse over komodo's (it is actually very much like jedit's).
but i am getting  used to it.
it has php parsing (but no fancy autocomplete stuff), ftp, project management, snippets and some really good xml plugins but the big hangup i have with it is that, for some reason i can not discern, it is totally jacked up on my dell laptop when no ac power is plugged in.
i also like it because of the code coloring and all the useful plug ins you can get for it, but the problem i'm having with it is when i press "ctrl+f" (find) it gives me some error, have you ever experienced that with your jedit, and if so, do you know how to fix it?
knowing that i have coded with jedit for a long time and have  gotten used to that interface is important as well since features that work  like they do in jedit (as i have customized it) will be more  "intuitive" for me.
i need something that is cross-platform and will run reasonably fast on all of my machines.
now, my daytime employer is more than willing to buy me the tools i need to do my work but we are a small department and we have one pie to buy things from
if you have never used it, don't read a manual, just try and figure it out.
thus, once zend moved to eclipse, i stopped my zend subscription.
komodo 4 beta 1 (not out yet, we're still in alpha) will auto configure php debugging without user intervention in most cases.
eclipse has been user friendly enough that i haven't read the manual nor had to make any config changes to use it (except for uncommenting curl in a php.ini file).
i couldn't get the debugger to work though even though i went through the  little wizard to set up my local php for it.
i have used it for 2 weeks now and really like it.
the open source community is making it better every day, and version 4.4 is just rock solid.
i am sure they can do lots of things the way i want but a large  part of this is finding out which is most intuitive and comfortable for me from  the get-go.
the original platform was built in java, so it had some performance issues every so often, but so many cool things that made you tolerate it slowing down a bit.
so far eclipse 3.2 is the front runner mainly because it meets my basic  requirements and is free.
yes, there are cheaper versions of each but komodo's cheapy ($30) is not for business use and zend's cheapy ($100) doesn't have ftp (or svn/cvs for that matter).
i'm still playing with them during the trial period so we'll see if  either of them becomes so much more useful than eclipse that i'm willing to  pony up the cash.
i suggest to try and review also free php
i mostly use textmate which is a mac only editor.
more information about text formatstext format filtered htmlplain text
in terms of ides the newer komodo is really quite nice and so it is the one i now have installed.
i don't have huge technical requirements and so most of the comparison is based on nit-picky likes and dislikes.
its php support (using pdt) is really good
and i can't use jedit on battery power because it ends up running slower  than molassas uphill in winter.
its not a  huge deal for php files but very nice for xhtml.
i dare anyone to actually say they enjoy eclipse (outside of pure java developers).
for others, it might take some time getting used to the project approach, but once understood and embraced i don't think that there will be a reason to look for a commercial ide.
and i have added your site to my bookmarks, please keep posting, thanks.
other than that i want something that knows php, xhtml and css and has ftp support.
so far eclipse 3.2 is the front runner mainly because it meets my basic requirements and is free.
komodo also starts out of the box with tutorials to help get used to  it.
zend was the ide of choice for php for a very long time.
the awesome debug tools also made it stand out as the clear winner.
the main things about eclipse that bug me are 1) no  word wrap (!?) 2) every new file i create has to be in a project folder.
i decided to give eclipse a shot because a colleague suggested its php support was better than webuilder.
one thing i like about eclipse is the tasks list that finds your (configurable) task tags like todo and fixme in the code and creates a list in a view for you.
it isn't my favorite environment
i used eclipse, aptana, zend but only komodo convinced me to stop looking for an ide.
there are two plugins that cover what i need that are still really  betas and i think they will only get better as things move forward.
i would really appreciate it if you can shed any light on that "find" error issue, it will save me a lot of time
have you tried nusphere's phped ide?
eclipse is not user friendly and i am a pure java developer.
there are two plugins that cover what i need that are still really betas and i think they will only get better as things move forward.
i'm still playing with them during the trial period so we'll see if either of them becomes so much more useful than eclipse that i'm willing to pony up the cash.31 august 2006
on  the other hand it does actually do diffs and syncing even for ftp (and sftp),  as well as standard cvs and svn.
it kept cryptically saying i needed to make configuration changes to the php.ini and many other things... this and the fact that i didn't really immediately like the workspace/project management concepts the way they were implemented in this tool... was the reason my search continued.
and jedit seems more incompatible than other java progs i have.
so i am only dealing with one interface on multiple meachines, hence "reasonably fast".)
for $300 i want a back massage too.
i also prefer zend for its file browser and  the fact that i can have zend automatically reconnect and add my ftp servers to  it.
i'm sure it has its own philosophy
so while i realize that eclipse may be nice down the road and worth a second look once i've mastered the php language and concepts...
i put together a komodo vs. eclipse feature comparison table at wiki.dandascalescu.com/reviews/software/komodo_vs_eclipse, with a focus on perl development.
zend didn't work on the intel macs initially and komodo fit the bill.
but i do a lot of coding on the train to and from work
so, i am currently evaluating zend studio 5.2.0, komodo 3.5 and eclipse.
one thing i like about komodo is when creating  a new file it will ask me what kind of file template i want to use.
on the other hand it does actually do diffs and syncing even for ftp (and sftp), as well as standard cvs and svn.
i was planning on evaluating zend studio until i saw that they moved to the eclipse platform.
komodo also starts out of the box with tutorials to help get used to it.
the local debugger in zend worked with no issues for me.
is not for business use and zend's cheapy ($100) doesn't have ftp (or svn/cvs  for that matter).
as a back-up to my statement, i have coded in over 25 languages, used every ide known to man-kind including one my favorites in scite, visual studio, vi ... name it.
it is not the original, php-dedicated zend, but its damn close.
i currently usejedit as  an all-around editor and i love it.
i have used webuilder for a few years and love it, but it is not a fully blown ide, rather a superb code editor.
i think i'm going to pony up the bills to buy it.
the local debugger in zend worked  with no issues for me.
and i'm considering getting an intel macbook at some point and triple-booting it.
well i've coded in java/vb/c/ksh/csh/plsql/4gl for a long time and i have done some php web-sites but its been a couple years.
3) the ftp is not live  editing.
i use the edit, and plan to buy the ide.
and i can't use jedit on battery power because it ends up running slower than molassas uphill in winter.
i don't like having to use 2, but there doesn't seem to be a perfect ide yet.
netbeans is also worth having a look.
one thing i like about eclipse is the tasks  list that finds your (configurable) task tags like todo and fixme in the code  and creates a list in a view for you.
we're a small group of library systems types who are inheriting more and more open sorces stuff to 'tweak', and want to settle on a common ide.
if anyone really wants to figure this out for themselves, go download eclipse and use it for 2 weeks ...
so zend really wins here.
i am sure they can do lots of things the way i want but a large part of this is finding out which is most intuitive and comfortable for me from the get-go.
both zend suite and komodo are both $300.
this is all first  impression.
one thing i like about komodo is when creating a new file it will ask me what kind of file template i want to use.
knowing that i have coded with jedit for a long time and have gotten used to that interface is important as well since features that work like they do in jedit (as i have customized it) will be more "intuitive" for me.
sure you can do it, but try doing it easily.
i don't know boo about debuggers, never having used one before so zend really wins here.
in fact, i was even on the alpha testing group for that move and hated every moment of my life while working in eclipse (which i still think is a memory pig, even though its gotten a little better).
but, i believe the issue for me was video card incompatibilities with java.
in visual studio, you also need to put everything into a project (or even a solution which can contain several projects), so visual studio programmers will feel very fast at home.
i currently usejedit as an all-around editor and i love it.
i am using  thephp ide plugin from zend and the aptana plugin which is specifically for  html, css and javascript.
there are also lots of very cool new features in k4, hope you check that out during your evaluation.
it works fine otherwise
i find the eclipse site very confusing and it took a while to understand the basic concept of the main framework and finding the components needed to do what i particularly want - it is just not a model i have used before.
but i just wanted a clean functioning intellisense code ide that would help me create clean code, store the files where i wanted them... very good intellisense... and solid testing/debugging capabilities.
i do like the way you write!
search form search baking beer books buddhism change community cooking cph denmark docs
i landed on phpedit for windows only...
i've got a dell inspiron e1705 w/ nvidia geforce go 7900 gs.
but, it still has trouble rendering text.
so i try to not be greedy, especially if i don't reallyneed it.
my jedit has been suffering from serious jacked-up-ness, as well.
big turn-off was that eclipse did not work out of the box with testing...
perhaps it's the newer versions of jedit that have been giving us trouble?
this is all first impression.
drupal events family food friends garden geek home language learning music  navel-gazing open source photos recipe reviews site info tools travel tutorials  more php ides:
ide codelobster php edition me thinks everybody with some visual studio experiences should give eclipse a try.
really  annoying since i don't always work in "projects" nor do i want to  stop and create one when i'm in the middle of coding.
not huge but certainly not as nice as connect, save the file, refresh browser and done.
you have to create a local project and sync your files.
i like your writing style
but that has its pluses as well.
not huge but  certainly not as nice as connect, save the file, refresh browser and done.
some weak points for zend are that the editor tabs are on the bottom and not movable (i keep looking to the top to see which files are open and then feel lost and have to look down) whereas komodo has them at the top where i'm used to.
i use ide's to help me code faster, debug better, and just make my life easier.
really annoying since i don't always work in "projects" nor do i want to stop and create one when i'm in the middle of coding.
for $300 i want a back  massage too.
its not a huge deal for php files but very nice for xhtml.
so for $300 here's what i like and don't like about them.
i also prefer zend for its file browser and the fact that i can have zend automatically reconnect and add my ftp servers to it.
but they have the great plus of being cross-platform  so i am only dealing with one interface on multiple meachines, hence  "reasonably fast".)
i use ubuntu linux at home and winxp at work
anyhow as i returned to become a serious php/mysql developer i found that while trying to ramp up in php/mysql that the eclipse ide was very confusing and just added drastically to the learning curve...
i'm wondering how it might compare to komodo.
i find the eclipse site very confusing and it took a while to  understand the basic concept of the main framework and finding the components  needed to do what i particularly want - it is just not a model i have used  before.
i then tried komodo.
zend is purdier and i prefer the pane expand/collapse over komodo's (it is  actually very much like jedit's).
wondering what you settled on, and why... thanks don i don't have any more recent reviews myself.
i think for a beginner or someone switching from another language or even a non-corporate freelancer working with small teams, that this tool actually adds to the confusion when one wants to minimize the confusion.
the main things about eclipse that bug me are 1) no word wrap (!?) 2) every new file i create has to be in a project folder.
geek nice to see a good review of different ide's.
i have finally gotten around to seriously testing out some different ide (integrated development environment) for my php coding.
create a php class file... 3.
i  need something that is cross-platform and will run reasonably fast on all of my  machines.
i also really like the toolbox  pane that lets me keep my own selection of snippets and templates in easy reach  (which is very much like and easier to use than the clipper in jedit).
i've never even bothered to look at the newest zend.
it has php parsing (but no fancy  autocomplete stuff), ftp, project management, snippets and some really good xml  plugins but the big hangup i have with it is that, for some reason i can not  discern, it is totally jacked up on my dell laptop when no ac power is plugged  in.
that can be a little tricky sometimes since there are soo many ways to build/configure php, and we use the php on your system.
sorry if this is not really related to your post topic, but you mentioned that you use jedit?
so i don't have to manually go through my css files and search for the identifiers i need...
i have since moved on to a mac and i rarely use a full-blown ide anymore.
and i'm considering  getting an intel macbook at some point and triple-booting it.
it isn't my favorite environment but i am getting used to it.
please note that i have not "learned" these ides.
eclipse is getting there slowly but surely and has some nice version control integration but there are enough things about it that still annoy me that i've passed on it again.