these dogs are extremely loyal and loving companions.
chinese crested dogs • warmblood horses • adoption & payments • about us • privacy •site map ©2012 autumn-argus farm - all rights reserved.
we are tremendously happy for marco and sandal.
we post quick comments, photos, interesting stories or useful links on each of them.
i continue to promote our lovely adoptable adults.
we play hide and go seek, we watch birds and he is always friendly and happy when friends and family visit the home!
yes, we have kittens!
dallas is just one of our chinese crested adoptable adults.
we also have sphynx adoptable adults.
she is now sleeping in my bedroom at night next to bear out of the crate!
i typically ask this amongst a variety of other more health related questions about diet, supplements, exercise, etc.
we are constantly looking to improve our site.
your reward will be priceless!
you go lovie  and thanks so much karen!
if you are overseas and wish one of our little friends, do as others have and look into an agent to pick up your animal from us here.
she obviously was waiting for carmela and bear to come along and take her home.
we  are tremendously happy for marco and sandal.
the ones of the three l's are left to  right, loki's kotickee valhalla (my girl with the strange ear set),  autumn-argus love charlie (when i have her akc registered), and kotickee's  luk-kyi lindzee.
and he is always friendly and happy when friends and family visit the home!
your pets crave a taste of the wild.
he even sleeps with me like a teddy bear!
all of the adoptable adults are obviously cheaper in price, but are healthy and sure to make great family pets.
they deserve a good home and that is exactly what we want to give them!
any animal we do place will be under a contract, with all shots and paperwork in order, complete with a health guarantee.
you will be sure to warm anyone's heart  and make their dreams come true with that "doggy in the window!"
after adopting dallas we  received this great picture of dallas and her new buddy, bear, from carmela;  "wanted to send you an update on dallas.
we put some banners up on our site for places that i feel are reputable and offer reasonable prices.
i hope you continue to come back and enjoy our  site and most especially, our animals.
the crate becomes your dog's den, an ideal spot to snooze or take refuge during a thunderstorm.
and it gets better if you  look at the promotion codes, deals on shipping and on line specials.
i am still  crating during the day while i am gone until her heat is over, but anticipate  that will end soon as well."
i smile to myself when almost all of them sheepishly answer "in my bed with me."
congratulations on your new companion!
both the sphynx and crested sections have an "adoptable adults" page on the left menu bar featuring our lovely juveniles, adults and older adults for your choosing.
karen sent us these really great pictures and a real nice message, "just wanted to let you know that lovie is doing really well and truly is growing like a weed.
call or email me to discuss your next best friend!
the requirements are quite a bit to deal with and when a client changes their mind or falls off the radar so-to-speak, it causes me to be stuck with an animal that is now older and more difficult to place.
look over what we have listed online and do be sure to ask for what my friends and i don't have posted as well!
thanks again for my beautiful little girl."
consider what joy a new pet can bring into your life or that of someone you love.
if that is not possible, then  let's discuss your needs.
we serve taste of the wild® brand dog food with dramatic results.
if we can together establish a plan for the permanent retirement and care of these magnificent animals, it will be a legacy that all americans can be proud of.
if you have any thoughts at all about the possibility of having your cat declawed, please consider these alternatives first.
they love lots of attention, affection and togetherness.
should you wish to just get on with our availability, visit our chinese crested dogs section to fetch your chinese crested dog or sphynx cats section to select a warm and cuddly sphynx kitten.
i have made it easier to navigate the site to see these great pets.
cats seem to prefer having … show me the heat — that seems to be the theme song for the sphynx breed.
for more information about our program or to make a  great gift to someone and provide a great home for one of these animals, just  call me.
we offer for your selection a few sphynx cats & kittens, older retired chinese crested adults and only two chinese crested puppies.
we just recently placed "lovie" with karen in maryland.
we are so happy for her.
i really love our sphynx cats.
my friends and i may have a wonderful dream surprise!
"i think i could turn and live with animals, they are so placid and self-contained, i stand and look at them long and long.
often i am asked where one can get taste of the wild dog food, royal canin  special 33 or other pet food products and supplies.
in case you are new to our website and reside outside the usa, we welcome your visit, any pictures and comments, and we do limited shipments outside the continental united states.
if you are proud of your sphynx cat, chinese crested dog or warmblood horse, send your photos to us and we will share them with the world.
these are not rescues, rather they are good friends in need of a  good home.
shop petfood.com for everyday savings on your favorite top name brand pet foods.
share facebook twitter yahoo digg delicious stumbleupon tumblr google+ we have sphynx cats and chinese crested dogs for sale!
if there is something you would like us to include, drop us an email.
greetings animal lovers, welcome to my autumn-argus farm newsletter.
often i am asked where one can get taste of the wild dog food, royal canin special 33 or other pet food products and supplies.
quick, easy and delivered right to your door.
i figured let's just feature a standout here and you can go get what you need right now.
justemail me and i will answer quickly!
she is from our own autmn-argus pepper.
made with real roasted meats and supplemented with fruits and vegetables, these grain-free formulas provide a superior taste sensation, highly digestible energy and natural antioxidants to support a healthy immune system and overall health.
and remember: — all animals come with a health guarantee
they are wonderful animals socialized with  other cats and dogs in our own home.
we enjoy these lovely animals and always look to improve the breed.
the american public, as well as the congress, has made it clear that wild horses on federal land are living symbols of the historic and pioneer spirit of the american west and must be protected.
" ~ walt whitman we will be very happy to make an appointment to show you our animals.
autumn-argus farm shows sphynx cats, chinese crested and powder puffs dogs, and warmblood horses of distinction.
look over what we  have listed online and do be sure to ask for what my friends and i don't have  posted as well!
autumn-argus farm offers you a selection of hairless, warm and cuddlysphynx cats and kittens and chinese crested dogs and puppies!
a pet is a comfort, a joy and a  buddy forever.
people do love pets and why not, they make us feel complete!
look  over what we have listed online and be sure to ask for what we don't have  posted as well.
they are wonderful animals socialized with other cats and dogs in our own home.
let them snuggle with you under blankets and treat them to feline clothing to keep them feeling cozy … chinese cresteds become very attached to their owners.
grab your favorite beverage and get comfortable while we encourage you to take your time to enjoy our each of the sections of our website.
i have made it easier to  navigate the site to see these great pets.
for more information about our program or to make a great gift to someone and provide a great home for one of these animals, just call me.
see our limited selection of sphynx kittens available now.
we enjoy these lovely animals and always  look to improve the breed.
i figured let's just feature a standout here and you can go  get what you need right now.
you will not find a huge selection of kittens and puppies from us.
to be at their best, cats have some basic needs; providing them will help ensure your cat's long-term health and welfare.
about us — all animals come with a health guarantee — we have a small selection of animals — we support and perform  animal rescues!
would you like to show off your family's pet?
i truly enjoy receiving emails inquiring about our animals, giving updates and pictures of ones we placed, questions about health or comments you wish to share.
he  even sleeps with me like a teddy bear!
both the sphynx and crested sections  have an "adoptable adults" page on the left menu bar featuring our  lovely juveniles, adults and older adults for your choosing.
those looking for a companion best friend chinese crested dog, a winning show sphynx, a new family addition or a great gift will note all our prices clearly published with every listing.
so the client is caught a bit off guard.
keep caring for your animals and remember good health for our pets is our responsibility.
… share facebook twitter yahoo digg delicious stumbleupon tumblr google+ autumn-argus • sphynx cats •
we only concentrate on superior select breedings for quality and health.
chinese crested and powder puff
go ahead — give them one!
i have to buy these products for my animals as well.
they are the stars of our show!
our goal is to find good homes and families for our animals.
call or email us now to bring happiness home!
the ones of the three l's are left to right, loki's kotickee valhalla (my girl with the strange ear set), autumn-argus love charlie (when i have her akc registered), and kotickee's luk-kyi lindzee.
here are some recent pictures i had taken of my three girls.
i am older now and prefer concentrating on my animals here and will be happy to show anyone our selection, ship anywhere in the usa, but will help with shipments outside the usa on a limited basis!
remember that housebreaking is a training issue … the horse is an award-winning monthly magazine devoted to equine health, care, management, and welfare; thehorse.com is the award-winning website of the horse magazine that contains all content from the magazine as well as additional news and features on horses and the equine industry.
she has  adapted to her new life and her 'sisters' very well.
everyone loves to be loved.
they really work to help prevent clawing damage to your possessions, as well as painful scratches … we definitely notice a healthy difference in our pets!
consequently, i review popular and specialty  shops for dog food, cat food, and various goodies for our friends.
a pet is a comfort, a joy and a buddy forever.
i have to buy these  products for my animals as well.
here are some recent  pictures i had taken of my three girls.
consequently, i review popular and specialty shops for dog food, cat food, and various goodies for our friends.
she obviously was waiting for  carmela and bear to come along and take her home.
you go lovie and thanks so much karen!
she and bear are getting along and having a ball playing together.
we featured dallas on our site for some time.
look over what we have listed online and be sure to ask for what we don't have posted as well.
we are very proud to show our animals by appointment.
and, as we all know, it's much easier to prevent a problem than to deal with it after … if your dog is going to live inside the home, and in america over 90% of our pets do, you are going to have to go through the housebreaking process.
many thanks for allowing me  to give this wonderful testimonial!"
keep caring for your animals and remember good health for our pets is our  responsibility.
recently, we received a photo and email from marco, "not a day goes by that i am not thankful for sandal; what joy and peace he brings to life!
come back and visit us often and thanks!
we are ready to provide you with additional information uponrequest.
see our limited selection of sphynx kittens available  now.
my current online pick for pet food & supplies
karen sent us these  really great pictures and a real nice message, "just wanted to let you  know that lovie is doing really well and truly is growing like a weed.
— we have a small selection of animals — we support and perform animal rescues!
that is why they are my current featured pick.
would that be your home?
they do make purrfect gifts!
we also have  sphynx adoptable adults.
we are experienced at what we do and if you wish to select from us, we can ship by air from las vegas international or by ground.
find us on facebook, connect with us on google+, follow us on blogger or follow us onpinterest where we have several boards and continue to pin away.
right now is the perfect opportunity to get a new dog or puppy for your family or as a gift to someone special.
after adopting dallas we received this great picture of dallas and her new buddy, bear, from carmela; "wanted to send you an update on dallas.
they really do make purrfect pets!
last year clients came to pick up their new friends and we flew pets to europe, canada and across the united states right out of las vegas.
call me for what i have not put up on the website just yet, what we do have listed as available or just to chat about any of our animals or yours.
they bring so much pleasure and comfort.
i like them; their prices are good, usually have what i want in stock and provide pretty good customer service as well.
check them out and let me know what you think.
it does not have to take a long time.
if you're looking for a canine that loves to snuggle and cuddle, look no further … crate training uses a dog's natural instincts as a den animal.
autumn-argus farm shows sphynx cats, chinese crested and powder puffs dogs,  and warmblood horses of distinction.
consider what joy a new pet can bring into your life or that of  someone you love.
what else i continue to promote our lovely adoptable adults.
dogs greatest gift ever!
see what we have to offer andcontact us for additional information at any time.
these are not rescues, rather they are good friends in need of a good home.
whether you're cooking, cleaning, reading or taking a bath, your crested will be right there.
if not available locally, try these places online and do the auto ship option to save a bundle:
without exception, you will love having a warm and loving sphynx as a pet for yourself or as a great gift for someone you know and wish to delight.
a wild dog's den is his home, a place to sleep, hide from danger, and raise a family.
all of the adoptable adults are obviously cheaper in price, but are healthy  and sure to make great family pets.
it is not hard, it need not be messy, and it need not be a struggle.
many thanks for allowing me to give this wonderful testimonial!"
i'm more social now than i ever dreamed, so just email or post your pet photos and be sure to share our site with your friends and family!
a couple of the animals listed have come to us from displaced families that could no longer have a pet.
i encourage "spoiling" companion animals â "healthy spoiling" that is … while it's true that most cats will instinctively use a litter box from the time they are young kittens, some basic knowledge about cats and litter boxes can help prevent problems from starting in the first place.
if that is not possible, then let's discuss your needs.
we play hide and go seek, we watch birds
in case you are new to our website and reside outside the usa, we welcome  your visit, any pictures and comments, and we do limited shipments outside the  continental united states.
your agent can get all the tests, microships, quarantines and whatnot per your country requirements and ship your new friend as soon as it is possible.
website design bychef-d'oeuvre designs
we always ask for pictures and updates just to be sure everyone is happy.
we always ask for  pictures and updates just to be sure everyone is happy.
… "where does fido/fluffy sleep?"
because of their lack of a coat, they need to keep their bodies from losing heat.
it's his own personal den where he can find comfort and solitude while you know he's safe and secure — and not shredding your house while you're out running errands.
they are almost exactly  the same size, so they can tussle and roll and no one gets hurt.
she is  from our own autmn-argus pepper.
… the american public, as well as the congress, has made it clear that wild horses on federal land are living symbols of the historic and pioneer spirit of the american west and must be protected.
thanks for all your support.
we have bred these animals for pet and show for over twenty years now and are very committed to the breed.
you will be sure to warm anyone's heart and make their dreams come true with that "doggy in the window!"
without exception, you will love having a warm and loving sphynx as a pet  for yourself or as a great gift for someone you know and wish to delight.
i am older now and prefer concentrating on my animals  here and will be happy to show anyone our selection, ship anywhere in the usa,  but will help with shipments outside the usa on a limited basis!
questions about our animals?
it's worth givng them a look!
recently, we received a photo and  email from marco, "not a day goes by that i am not thankful for sandal;  what joy and peace he brings to life!
she has adapted to her new life and her 'sisters' very well.
they get along especially well with children.
although it is the government's obligation and duty to carry out this mandate, it is worthwhile to explore a public/private partnership to accomplish this goal.
she is now  sleeping in my bedroom at night next to bear out of the crate!
that is why they are my current featured  pick.
get started by reading ournewsletter to get a feel for what we do, our featured offerings and interesting stories with photos from our long list of clients.
i like  them; their prices are good, usually have what i want in stock and provide  pretty good customer service as well.
and it gets better if you look at the promotion codes, deals on shipping and on line specials.
our mission is to provide education to hands-on participants in the horse industry through print and electronic means.
we put some  banners up on our site for places that i feel are reputable and offer  reasonable prices.
many new clients are hesitant at first to tell me how pampered their companions truly are, but once they get to know me, they begin to almost boast about it.
intensely curious and lively, they also love to play on the carpet, learn new tricks and explore the household.
sometimes we add raw egg or nature's variety homestyle as a treat.
she and bear  are getting along and having a ball playing together.
right now is the perfect opportunity to get a new dog or puppy for your  family or as a gift to someone special.
i am beginning to get the hang of it and now you can join in on the action as well.
if these needs are not met, your cat may feel stressed, which can affect both health and behavior.
a couple of the  animals listed have come to us from displaced families that could no longer  have a pet.
my dallas cheerleader, you go girl!
your agent can get all the  tests, microships, quarantines and whatnot per your country requirements and  ship your new friend as soon as it is possible.
i hope you continue to come back and enjoy our site and most especially, our animals.
( back to top ) often we are asked what we feed our dogs?
shop petfood.com for everyday savings on your favorite top name brand pet  foods.
i am still crating during the day while i am gone until her heat is over, but anticipate that will end soon as well."
the requirements are quite a bit to deal with and  when a client changes their mind or falls off the radar so-to-speak, it causes  me to be stuck with an animal that is now older and more difficult to place.
if  you are overseas and wish one of our little friends, do as others have and look  into an agent to pick up your animal from us here.
check them out and let me know what you  think.
they are almost exactly the same size, so they can tussle and roll and no one gets hurt.