it is common for the guide dog to remain with their owner or their family or close friends who have been associated with the dog throughout its life.
however, on occasion we may  contact you and offer you a dog which is outside of your area in which case you  will be asked to travel the distance to where the dog is located.
as a  result of which waiting times can vary and could be several months to a  year’s wait.
all of  our dogs are neutered, microchipped, health checked and have regular  preventative treatment again worms and fleas.
this can be for a number of reasons either health or behaviour  related, these dogs which may not be suited to guiding may be perfect as a pet  dog.
typically these dogs will be around 12-18 months old.
withdrawn: these are commonly dogs that have been withdrawn from our training scheme before they become a guide dog.
we typically breed labrador cross golden retrievers but do also have pure  labradors, golden retrievers, flat coat retrievers and german shepherd dogs  occasionally available.
retired guide dogs have spent most of  their lives with constant human companionship and owing to this they can become  distressed if left alone too frequently or for long periods of time.
please note:   a prior appointment must be made with your rehoming officer to view the  dog.
information about particular breeds can be found on the kennel clubs website :www.kennelclub.org.uk our dogs for rehoming fall into two categories:- retired: these dogs usually retire from work around 9 to 11 years of age.
no – we do not home very young puppies.
why do you rehome retired guide dogs, isn’t it better they stay with  their guide dog owner?
yes – all of our dogs are neutered, microchipped, heath checked and  have regular preventative treatment against fleas and worms.
if you are still considering a puppy then you may wish to read about ourpuppy walking scheme.
this happens prior to the dogs being made available to the general public.
as we are not a rehoming/rescue charity we do not have specific centres.
as we are not a rehoming or rescue charity we do not advertise our dogs to be rehomed.
guide dog owners and their family and close friends can be nominated to rehome a dog.
typical behaviour reasons which make the dog unsuitable for a working life with guide dogs include various forms of distraction, suspicion and or anxiety of other animals or people.
all of our dogs are neutered, microchipped, health checked and have regular preventative treatment again worms and fleas.
retired guide dogs have spent most of their lives with constant human companionship and owing to this they can become distressed if left alone too frequently or for long periods of time.
retired dogs normally retire from work around 9 to 11 years of age.
health withdrawals can include skin, eye or  joint conditions.
for a member of the public to rehome a dog from us costs £300.00 for  a dog under 7yrs of age and £100 for a dog over 7yrs of age.
you can find details of our dog training schools here.
sometimes this is not possible so we look to find a suitable home where the dog  can enjoy their hard-earned retirement.
you can see images of rehomed guide dogs and typical working guide  dogs across the website and can also read aboutcase studies.
we would encourage all people considering rehoming a puppy to look  at our rehoming scheme and consider a withdrawn or retired dog.
some dogs are withdrawn from their training before they become a guide  dog.
health withdrawals can include skin, eye or joint conditions.
when rehoming a retired guide dog we do ask the rehomer to make contact with the guide dog owner as these dogs have been their companion and means of independence for usually between 7 and 8 years of their lives.
how much will it cost me in medical bills if i take on a dog with medical  issues?
characteristics do vary from breed to breed and  dog to dog.
this happens prior to the dogs being made available to the  general public.
health withdrawals can include skin, eye and joint conditions.
when rehoming a retired guide dog we do ask the rehomer  to make contact with the guide dog owner as these dogs have been their  companion and means of independence for usually between 7 and 8 years of their  lives.
why don’t you have pictures of the dogs for rehoming?
why are dogs withdrawn from the training program?
how does the applicant list work?
this  includes people who work full time but come home for a lunch break.
however, not all of our dogs may be suitable and  some may prefer to be the only pet, each case is dealt with on an individual  needs basis and this will always be discussed with the rehomer.
a dog has to be a certain age before a decision is made about its potential to be a working guide dog, the typical age for withdrawn dogs is usually between 6-18 months old.
you will be given the dogs history and all relevant information for the dog.
registered office: hillfields, burghfield common, reading, berkshire rg7 3yg.
you will be allocated a specific rehoming officer who will be able to answer any questions at the time of your home visit and throughout the rehoming process.
if deemed necessary a follow up visit can be arranged.
retired dogs have spent the  majority of their lives with human company and owing to this can become  distressed if left alone too frequently or for long periods of time.
yes, we are always open to rehoming a dog with other pets including cats if appropriate.
entrance to the dog training schools is by appointment only.
where can i go to see your dogs for rehoming?
however, if the dog has an ongoing or serious condition any ongoing financial  support can be discussed with your rehoming officer.
it is common for the guide dog to remain as a pet with their owner, family and/or close friends but sometimes this is not possible so we look at where the dogs can enjoy their hard-earned retirement.
typically this will be at around 12-18 months old but it can be later.
however, if the dog has an ongoing or serious condition any ongoing financial support can be discussed with your rehoming officer.
you can  find details of our dog training schools here.
can i rehome a dog from you if i already have another dog, cat or any  other pets?
a company limited by guarantee registered in england and wales (291646) and a charity registered in england and wales (209617) and scotland (sc038979) tel: 0118 983 5555 email:guidedogs@guidedogs.org.uk website: www.guidedogs.org.uk built by net efficiency, designed by h2 creative
as a result of which waiting times can vary and could be several months to a years wait.
this includes people who work full time but come home for a lunch break.
some dogs and some people  will have specific requirements and our aim to ensure that each dog is matched  to the appropriate rehomer who can best suit and deal with the needs of the  dog.
typical behaviour reasons which make the dog  unsuitable for a working life with guide dogs include various forms of  distraction, suspicion and or anxiety of other animals or people.
once you are added to the live applicant list and following your call from our rehoming officer we will look to see which dogs we have available for rehoming which best match your requirements.
all dogs are screened for their potential use in these charities  before being offered to the public for rehoming.
it is common for the guide dog to remain as a pet with their owner, family  and/or close friends but sometimes this is not possible so we look at where the  dogs can enjoy their hard-earned retirement.
information about particular breeds can be found on the  kennel clubs website :www.kennelclub.org.uk what kinds of dogs do you rehome?
for a member of the public to rehome a dog from us costs £300.00 for a dog under 7yrs of age and £100 for a dog over 7yrs of age.
yes all of our dogs are neutered, microchipped, heath checked and have regular preventative treatment against fleas and worms.
typically these dogs will be around 12-18
this can be for a number of reasons either health or behaviour related, these dogs which may not be suited to guiding may be perfect as a pet dog.
just because a dog may not make the perfect guide dog it may  still make the perfect pet!.
guide dogs regularly transfer withdrawn dogs to other assistance dog charities.
all rehoming is by appointment only.
where will i have to travel to in order to meet and collect my dog?
however, if you are open with your requirements then you are likely to be matched quicker than those with specific requirements i.e. you will take any breed, sex, medical or behavioural issue).
guide dogs is a working name of the guide dogs for the blind association.
the school where you application is processed is likely to be where we would ask you to attend for the introduction and collection of your dog.
this is not done on a first come first served basis.
health  withdrawals can include skin, eye and joint conditions.
guide dog owners and their family and close friends can be nominated to  rehome a dog.
i work full time, can i still rehome a dog from guide dogs?
all of our dogs for rehoming will normally need to be introduced to your  family at one of our four dog training schools.
some dogs are withdrawn from their training before they become a guide dog.
what breeds of dogs do you rehome, and what are the characteristics of  each one?
couldn’t other organisations take your unwanted dogs instead of  rehoming them to the public?
how old is a typical retired guide dog?
our dogs for rehoming fall into two categories:- retired: these dogs usually retire from work around 9 to 11 years of age.
we would encourage all people considering rehoming a puppy to look at our rehoming scheme and consider a withdrawn or retired dog.
in addition to this you will get a call from your  rehoming officer approximately two weeks after you rehome a dog from us.
some dogs and some people will have specific requirements and our aim to ensure that each dog is matched to the appropriate rehomer who can best suit and deal with the needs of the dog.
however, not all of our dogs may be suitable and some may prefer to be the only pet, each case is dealt with on an individual needs basis and this will always be discussed with the rehomer.
typically this will be at around 12-18 months old but it can be  later.
the reason for withdrawal from training varies and we prefer  to match our dogs and rehomers based on their needs rather than their  looks!
all dogs are screened for their potential use in these charities before being offered to the public for rehoming.
guide dogs regularly transfer withdrawn dogs to other assistance dog  charities.
characteristics do vary from breed to breed and dog to dog.
no we do not home very young puppies.
a dog has to be a  certain age before a decision is made about its potential to be a working guide  dog, the typical age for withdrawn dogs is usually between 6-18 months  old.
are your dogs microchipped and neutered before rehoming?
you will be allocated a specific rehoming officer who will be  able to answer any questions at the time of your home visit and throughout the  rehoming process.
sometimes this is not possible so we look to find a suitable home where the dog can enjoy their hard-earned retirement.
atypical behaviour reasons which make a dog unsuitable for a working life with guide dogs include many types of distractions, suspicions or anxiety around other animals or people.
yes,  we are always open to rehoming a dog with other pets including  cats if appropriate.
however, on occasion we may contact you and offer you a dog which is outside of your area in which case you will be asked to travel the distance to where the dog is located.
if at any time  your situation changes the dog must be returned to guide dogs where the  rehoming officer will source another appropriate home.
we typically breed labrador cross golden retrievers but do also have pure labradors, golden retrievers, flat coat retrievers and german shepherd dogs occasionally available.
no due to the fact that our dogs have been used to constant human companionship this would be detrimental to their ongoing welfare.
you will be given  full details and an appointment time to meet any prospective dog by your  rehoming officer.
it is  common for the guide dog to remain with their owner or their family or close  friends who have been associated with the dog throughout it’s life.
the school where you  application is processed is likely to be where we would ask you to attend for  the introduction and collection of your dog.
how much does it cost to rehome a dog from guide dogs?
what support do you give to people rehoming a dog from guide dogs?
you will be given full details and an appointment time to meet any prospective dog by your rehoming officer.
ideally we would ask rehomers to take on all costs for the dog.
the guide dogs for the blind association 2012.
you will be given the dog’s history and all relevant information for  the dog.
however, if you are open with your requirements then  you are likely to be matched quicker than those with specific requirements  – i.e. you will take any breed, sex, medical or behavioural issue).
retired dogs have spent the majority of their lives with human company and owing to this can become distressed if left alone too frequently or for long periods of time.
just because a dog may not make the perfect guide dog it may still make the perfect pet!.
atypical behaviour reasons which make a dog unsuitable for a working life  with guide dogs include many types of distractions, suspicions or anxiety  around other animals or people.
all of our dogs for rehoming will normally need to be introduced to your family at one of our four dog training schools.
as we are not a rehoming or rescue charity we do not advertise our dogs to  be rehomed.
once you are added to the live applicant list and following your call from  our rehoming officer we will look to see which dogs we have available for  rehoming which best match your requirements.
in addition to this you will get a call from your rehoming officer approximately two weeks after you rehome a dog from us.
what kinds of dogs do you rehome?
this can be for a variety of reasons either health or behaviour related.
please note: a prior appointment must be made with your rehoming officer to view the dog.
withdrawn: these are commonly dogs that have been withdrawn from our training scheme  before they become a guide dog.
if you  are still considering a puppy then you may wish to read about ourpuppy
this can be for a variety of reasons either health or behaviour  related.
do you have any puppies?
you can see images of rehomed guide dogs and typical working guide dogs across the website and can also read aboutcase studies.
the reason for withdrawal from training varies and we prefer to match our dogs and rehomers based on their needs rather than their looks!
no – due to the fact that our dogs have been used to constant human  companionship this would be detrimental to their ongoing welfare.
if at any time your situation changes the dog must be returned to guide dogs where the rehoming officer will source another appropriate home.