reading now: mars life (ben bova)
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link said better than i could...." - nov. 11th, 2009 at 9:50 am the rarity of intj women
and i love to discuss topics, not people.
to read: cryptonomicon (i started this book, but never finished it due to  school work) catch 22 will i finally finish pride and  predujice?
i want people to, uh, survive and be happy and whatever, but it's not exactly my priority, nor is it what i would consider to be my purpose or my strength.
i have  never liked annoying rich boys with no visible talent, even if they pretend to  have a purpose.
some of the events that occur are unrealistic such as the irritating love interest which manifests out of nowhere(inserted for no reason) and the whole trip is unlikely.
read this book if you want an exciting  story, but if you long for character development you will leave mostly  unsatisfied.
previous 10 welcome to my personal domain - nov. 6th, 2020 at 12:16 pm here is where i slather my deepest darkest secrets all over the keyboard.
i support stem cell research.
here's why: i hated the protaganist because he was incredibly uninteresting and inept.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: bombshell alert!
first question listed was submitted by brenden.
i am also certain that a state of the art spaceship would cost more than 10 billion dollars.
if only fuchs eccentric character styling were used on the  protagainst!
and yes, i like art and literature and writing...
dec. 14th, 2009 at 10:47 am book list recently  read: venus by bova i give it a 3/5.
the only likeable character as  one of the antagonists(fuchs).
first question listed was submitted by antagonists.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: like mobile for chocolate - dec. 23rd, 2009 at 1:03 pm if you had to give up either chocolate or your mobile phone forever, which would you sacrifice?
he does not deserve anything he earns, because he does not work hard!
read this book if you want an exciting story, but if you long for character development you will leave mostly unsatisfied.
but i also am ridiculously in love with the classification of living things... and the dewey decimal system... and taking apart my kid's toys to figure out how they work...
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the future.
i also could just say something in a jokeresque voice.
is the message that rich playboys will succeed because they can use their fathers' money?
i don't think that human cloning is currently ethical or useful.
view 1852 answers i belt out:" omg-ew, gross" with a high pitched valley girl accent.
no one expects that voice to come from a person like me.
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary pet proclivity?
do i admire any celebrities?
i will comment on this later...
first question listed was submitted by maxwearsboots.
i don't see a point in adding my personal journal unless you actually know me.
i'll give it a 3/5 for having a predictable ending.
a wealthy character certainly does not have to be vapid or stupid.
it's great to curl up with a cat and read a book.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: copy that - jan. 29th, 2010 at 12:23 pm how do you feel about human cloning?
i also did not like the fact that financial experts readily agreed to lend money to fund a ridiculosuly expensive and unlikely trip to venus.
some of the events that occur are unrealistic such  as the irritating love interest which manifests out of nowhere(inserted for no  reason) and the whole trip is unlikely.
many laws regarding the rights of clones would need to be created if human cloning were to occur.
the books  strong point is that it conjures up quite a bit of suspense and excitement.
his motivation is truly greed, rather than concern for his brother.
i use email more than i use my phone.
scroll if you're planning on reading the book i wish that the book left me with some sort of purpose, or meaning.
for example, i wrestled with the whole infj thing because, hell, i dofeel; i'm not some unemotional alien.
the worst part about him is that he succeeds where he should have failed!
i also did not like the fact  that financial experts readily agreed to lend money to fund a ridiculosuly  expensive and unlikely trip to venus.
insane voices are always a good option.
to read: dune cryptonomicon (i started this book, but never finished it due to school work) catch 22 ...
what it boils down to, essentially, is that i love to learn about things.
and i have no desire to control the world, boo hoo ha ha.
view 818 answers i tend to smile if a joke is unfunny.
first question listed was submitted by kaunis_suicide.
[+0] - writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
is the  message that rich playboys will succeed because they can use their fathers'  money?
i'm not sure how this novel is comparable to other sci-fi.
(follow-up questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
and i think cats are cute
i enjoyed the decriptions of venus, but i'm not certain whether the book is scientifically accurate.
my non-ranting or less personal entries will be visible.
and i have two children and i love all of them
tags: - bad joke, - corny joke, - writer's block - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link previous 10 | back to top profile - secretive_cat - secretive latest month march 2011 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 view all archives tags view my tags page - army service - bad joke - books - corny joke - intel - intjforum - mandatory social service - pc dreams - sadness - strange news - thoughts - wepc - writer's block page summary - welcome to my personal domain [+0] - (no subject)
i am not attached to my phone, it's used for contacting people and nothing more.
i probably would not read this  book again, however it certaintly captured my attention at the time.
the protaganist's transformation at the end is quite unbelievable.
- - open id - google - mail.ru - vkontakte create an account you are viewing secretive_cat's journal idyllic garbage - recent entries - archive - friends - user info - memories life contines in the wasteland
which do you prefer, and why?
view 973 answers people have existed without cell phones for a very long time.
i have never liked annoying rich boys with no visible talent, even if they pretend to have a purpose.
[+0] - writer's block: the kindness of strangers [+0] - writer's block: bombshell alert!
here's why: i hated  the protaganist because he was incredibly uninteresting and inept.
so far it it going a bit slow, but i will finish the book.
i had fun invisioning better endings, that would  of course be more realistic.
i probably would not read this book again, however it certaintly captured my attention at the time.
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats the most, they're so funny.
i think we can display differently than intj males, and that the intj description on a lot of sites leans toward the description of the intj male vs what an intj femalecan be like.
i am also certain that a state of the art  spaceship would cost more than 10 billion dollars.
will i finally finish pride and predujice?
the protaganist's transformation at the end is  quite unbelievable.
i can't really tell whether people are truly amused or not.
- mar. 25th, 2010 at 8:45 am if you find out that a celebrity you admire has been cheated on by her/his partner, do you typically root for them to reconcile or split up?
"you know, i don't know that we are necessarily as, um, rare as people like to think.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link book update - dec. 14th, 2009 at 10:47 am book list recently read: venus by bova
if they have kids together, how does that affect your opinion?
a land line and email also allow a person to keep in touch with others.
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet dogs are my friend.
do you get annoyed if someone else pretends to be amused?
and it was often exciting.
i had fun invisioning better endings, that would of course be more realistic.
i would not want a roommate or partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
the message about the enviroment is vague at best.
i have not enjoyed a lot of the recent writer's block questions.
what about if it's your boss or teacher?
[+0] - writer's block: copy that [+0] - writer's block: like mobile for chocolate [+0] - book update [+0] - said better than i could...."
i prefer cats,but i like dogs.
if there were a reason why it would be necessary i would like to hear it.
i'll give it a 3/5 for  having a predictable ending.
- 1 comment - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: so funny i forgot to laugh - oct. 23rd, 2009 at 12:52 pm
he does not deserve anything he earns, because he does not work  hard!
- leave a comment - add to memories - share - link mar. 24th, 2011 my wishlist for the summer and fall tan worishofer 80 red swedish hasbeen 200 new laptop 1500 fall: frye oxfords in brown or cream 188 riding boots 100 black dolce vita oxfords 60-100 2 skirts 2 dresses the rest will be acquired second hand - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: the kindness of strangers - feb. 23rd, 2011 at 9:15 am if someone insults you when you're walking down the street, what do you do?
the books strong point is that it conjures up quite a bit of suspense and excitement.
i like the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
first question listed was submitted by bored_girl_97.
do you think the long-term societal impact will be positive or negative?
dogs are fun because they're great activity partners.
if a friend cracks a corny joke, do you force yourself to laugh politely?
i don't feel much of a desire to help people, no matter how bastardly that sounds.
if only fuchs eccentric character styling were used on the protagainst!
the message about the  enviroment is vague at best.
livejournal remember me forgot your password?
i love to learn about everything.
the only likeable character as one of the antagonists(fuchs).
i enjoyed the decriptions of venus, but i'm not  certain whether the book is scientifically accurate.
if i  could i would redesign this character completely.
so far it it  going a bit slow, but i will finish the book.
in other words, harmony is not as important to me as the assertion of individuality- not that getting along and compromise isn't important, just not as."
- mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
i'm sort of concerned for a person who would give up chocolate for the use of a mobile phone.
the worst part about him is  that he succeeds where he should have failed!
the storyline was vaguely interesting
my favorite dogs are whippets.
whoever asked those stupid vampire questions should be banned from contributing.
if i could i would redesign this character completely.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
and yes, i can give good advice.
i'm  not sure how this novel is comparable to other sci-fi.
i'm not sure why this would be a difficult decision.
and i think nietzsche is a pompous windbag, although he does say a few wise things...
view 543 answers celebrities that i admire generally do not disclose details from their personal lives.
i have never liked a person who hated cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).
a corny joke can be actually funny occasionally.
and i want my children to think on their own, to feel comfortable with being who they are.
[+1] - writer's block: so funny i forgot to laugh [+0] syndicate powered by livejournal.com designed by tiffany chow