obituaries aliya violet lucero
rev. crabtree began his ministry as an associate pastor in southern  california and traveled as an itinerant evangelist from 1960-63.
this is the old corrigan place and is located between the red ryder round-up grounds and u.s. 160.
clean utensils and countertops with hot soapy water before and after  preparing food.
tickets to this year's four corners folk festival can be purchased with a  credit card by calling (970) 731-5582 or online at www.folkwest.com.
all profits the book does make will be deposited in a continuing education fund for women.
visit the museum and enjoy a walk through archuleta county's past.
everyone is  welcome to attend.
mushrooms that squirrels or other animals eat are safe for humans.
however, following release of official primary election results from madrid, the results of the recent sheriff's primary election are not.
"it's for education, not maintenance," she said.
special thanks to: coyote hill lodge, dominguez  family, the springs, superior sound, elkhorn, goodman's, the club, steve
said you'll know where he is, cause his place looks like a junkyard.
in an aug. 17 article in space.com, brown was less diplomatic.
volume 11 is entitled "federal forest reserves."
there's a relay that  primes it before ignition.
knights' spaghetti dinner you've been running around all day, so you certainly don't want to cook  dinner!
the work we do comes  from deep within ourselves.
i hope someone will donate a copy.
reserve selection: in the nose, the hayman & hill greets the taster with vanilla, toasted oak, root beer and unusual amounts of heat for a wine of just 13.5 percent alcohol.
much of our current, popular music is based on folk music.
the away game will begin at 7 p.m. pagosa may not have to worry about a wild card, however.
the  senior bus will be our mode of transportation and the cost is only $5 per  person.
sharp chilly gusts tousled the aspens and ponderosas in nearby yards, and loud low-based thunder rumbled repeatedly across the valley.
one moment, karl is traveling along at the speed limit (or a touch  above) - the next moment, the engine sputters, the vehicle loses power.
by 6 a.m., i was up again, and driving into the city, sans  coffee, for an appointment at the toyota dealer - time for a new timing belt.
they include  "miracle" by danielle steel, "sea swept" by nora roberts,  "manhunt" by janet evanovich, and "dark harbor" by stuart  woods.
the  colorado team took fourth overall.
and although some terrines are prepared for serving directly  on the plate, like the primary protein in any dinner entrée, others are  intended for consumption on slices of bread like a paté.
the cause of diabetes continues to be a  mystery, although both genetics and environmental factors play roles.
"the answer to the problem with pet population is not euthanization," said schwartz.
" in layman's terms and according to the draft definition, two conditions must therefore be met before an object can be called a planet.
his students' works reflect the joy and excitement of watercolor.
it will ask voters to approve the "stabilization" of the current mill levy, with excess revenues kept and spent rather than "refunded." dangerous?
with the usual run-around.
watch the preview for more details.
pedersen's paintings are filled with heads: heads that look like masks or ancient sculptures.
" "harl, i don't think that's " "nope, nuthin' finer than one of them meatball sandwiches.
gunther  said she hopes women will be able to use the money to get educated, but that  the money is not for amenities like food or rent.
these farsighted people and local ranchers who availed themselves of conservation easements as a way to preserve their land for their heirs, and to benefit the larger community, created a public land trust that today protects over 13,000 acres of productive ranches and beautiful forests in archuleta and surrounding counties.
according to o'donnell, the practice began in the higher levels of organized sport and has slowly trickled down to high school teams.
most folks think it's an s series.
the community has responded with an incredible offering of donations this  year.
one person acted out the homework assignment.
whether making furniture, building a house, or gardening." will and nancy bought property in pagosa in 1993, "while it was still affordable," and broke ground on their home in 1999.
the pan is deglazed with a bit of chicken broth and the broth is reduced.
all four of these factors are important, but cleanliness is crucial.
"when the kids do something like that it just strengthens their spirit, and it shows the endurance that they can muster," kurt-mason said.
game rules for the 9-10 and 11-13 divisions will be provided in next week's column.
first children's choir rehearsal sept. 13 by sue anderson special to the preview the pagosa springs children's choralewill begin rehearsals sept. 13, on  wednesdays from 3:45-5:30 p.m. at community united methodist church.
when "hand" was yelled, the player was to head the ball back  to his teammate.
each person formulated a goal he/she wanted to achieve during the course of the class.
later, there also will be presentations by talented local people as well.
pagosa springs recreation by tom carosello sun columnist registration for the 2006 youth soccer league has closed and coaches for  the 5-6 and 7-8 divisions are in the process of contacting their players for  practice.
benefit account established for gary baldwin
use an ice pack wrapped in a pillowcase with 3 layers of pillowcase cloth between your skin and the pack for 10-15 minutes.
by bart mitchell special to the sun local business owners who successfully completed their leading edge business plans celebrated aug. 11 at the pagosa springs community center.
a person cannot see around bushes and other obstacles without  pulling out far past the stop sign.
" regester memorial memorial services for charles "chase" lawrence regester iii will  be held at 2 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, 2006, at the archuleta county fairgrounds.
in the sky above, turkey vultures and red-tailed hawks are frequent companions, while a small variety of falcons and the majestic golden eagle do appear, now and then.
all participants must be able to walk on uneven terrain at high  elevations of approximately 11,200 feet.
call 264-2409 ext. 0, to schedule an appointment.
after all, in a worst-case scenario, i could always sit in the jeep and enjoy a leisurely lunch, while watching what could very well be a continuing round of robust thunderstorms.
instructors must have business ownership experience, and must provide a resume to qualify.
senior discounts join hundreds of other seniors in our community taking advantage of the many discounts available through local merchants by joining archuleta seniors, inc.
karl gears down, searching for compression.
terry attended every one of corey's soccer games regardless of rain, sun, sleet or snow and shared in both victories and defeats.
then, the writers  share their work (don't worry, if you don't feel comfortable, you can pass).
and i mean that in the best sense of the word.
(a peterson guide) houghton mifflin co. 500 species described and illustrated in color.
however, until recently, the va did not usually consider that a veteran was  exposed to agent orange unless the claimant was on the ground in vietnam.
students can opt for a  fourth day, thursday, oct. 12.
terry dee windnagel terry began this life may 24, 1947, in longmont, colorado, as the son of emma and donald windnagel and brother to peggy and tom.
he does not frame the world as do more limited souls - those for whom political affiliation serves some deep but simple need.
we thank this  organization for once again thinking of those in need here in our community.
according to prior, the assessed value for oil and gas production jumped to $8.6 million while oil and gas personal property jumped to $2.3 million.
why is everybody unhappy but the resource companies buying national forests?
edible mushrooms are known to be safe to eat because they have been eaten frequently with no ill effects.
the four projects are totally new for the psac, so if you have taken  one of joye's workshops in the past, you will be getting different projects and  methods.
raffle drawings will be held in conjunction with the live auction.
the beer comes from ska brewing, and the picnic itself is hosted by the knights of columbus.
inside the hand-built dwelling and studio (built over a  period of many years) will's woodworking expertise is visible everywhere: on  the doors, along the baseboards and wood trims, and in the multitude of  craftsman-style, hand-built furniture pieces evident everywhere you look.
after a very successful duck race (there wasn't a viewing space to be had on hot springs boulevard), the knights will turn around and put on another successful event.
community newscommunity news auction for the animals, tomorrow at community center by cristina woodall special to the preview the humane society of pagosa springs' 12th annual auction for the animals is friday at 5:30 p.m.
as part of an earlier land acquisition, the county has no foreseeable use for it.
signs stolen the landscaping surrounding the entry to the recreation center has looked so good this spring and all summer.
for information on these and other veteran's benefits, call or stop by the archuleta county veterans service office located at 46 eaton drive, suite 7 (behind city market).
despite the lack of energy, the pirates pulled off a sixth-place finish out of 18 teams, with a combined score of 253.
our renewals this week include mcdonalds, with jess donahue; scott farnham  and judy nicholson and civil design team; pagosa glass; jerry laquey and la  quey, inc.; craig taylor at treecology; and a hummingbird haven.
the show starts at 7 p.m. and food is available starting  at 6 p.m. and desserts during intermission.
the land around this great confluence of rivers was abundant was with wildlife and the rivers were teeming with marine life.
" during the run, kurt-mason encouraged players to run and finish as a team.
it allows a defense to quickly adjust to an offense and  employ a variety of man coverages and blitzes.
reynolds, former art history professor, is an author and writer who covers performing arts in durango.
participants are encouraged to bring still lives or photos to paint  and draw, or a project to complete.
his articles appear regularly in denominational periodicals.
the event will be held at the red ryder arena.
sept. 21 - watercolor club.
obituariesobituaries aliya violet lucero
high school to hold back-to-school dance
the logical choice for the pirates was the wolverines.
there is music to select, folders to organize, and nights to plan to make this year's concert one of the strongest yet.
isberg paints abstracted heads and figures, using color and geometry to express desire and emotion.
"they really 'hometown' you.
the flatbed was  located by the side of her house.
hot tubs or hot springs are also useful if you have no medical concerns of full body immersion in warm water; also limit to time in the water.
originally, will used  applications of friction finishes to create dull sheens on his pieces.
barbecue  chicken, baked beans, broccoli salad, watermelon, whole wheat roll and birthday  cake.
there is also a blacksmith shop, an artisan shop, a leather shop and a chocolate factory on location.
the festivities conclude that evening with a barbecue beef dinner provided by st. patrick's caterer joanne irons.
next week we'll announce the colorfest schedule which is just jammed,  including an art show in town park friday and saturday, sept. 15-16.
bids must be in by 5 p.m. tomorrow.
last spring, this choir of 19 young women, ages 8 to 17, received not  only a superior rating, but was awarded the judge's choice trophy in  competition with similar choirs from a six-state area held in denver.
call the center for  information.
survived by her parents, rich t. lucero and lorrena r. martinez; grandparents, violet (mariano), marlene, henry (melanie) and hector; aunts, holly, tina and debbie; uncles, jason and dale; cousins, jayce and dominic.
remember the war on drugs?
as assistant general superintendent of the pentecostal denomination,  crabtree is a member of the board of administration and the executive  presbytery.
speculations include the following: they've got a bad history with people which has created a lot of fear and huge trust issues.
the humane society began their pet overpopulation program in 1995, and since 2001 the number of homeless pets has reduced eight percent.
all presenters in lifelong learning in pagosa are volunteers who offer their knowledge and expertise gratis to our community.
pagosa golfers fare well in team play event
we will follow them on their personal journeys over a period of time.
in 1963, he was elected pastor of first assembly, des moines, iowa, and in 1974 assumed the pastorate of bethel church in san jose, calif.
hence, they're not suitable post rodeo for anyone but the most experienced sort of horse folks.
he also served as a  member of the board of directors for the pagosa fire protection district.
jean  magnelli, the director of wild spirit, has sold will's work to appreciative art  lovers from norway and belgium, and as well as from all over the united states.
in goes some tomato sauce and a glob of tomato paste.
the evening starts with  the silent auction from 5:30 to 7.
speaking to nasa, brown said, "if passed, the resolution will make anything in the solar system that's large enough to be round, due to its own gravitational pull, into a planet.
a county vehicle and the fuel are provided for the  shuttle.
many say he was the greatest martial artist who ever lived.
he turns the radio channel to an oldies station (he is an oldie, after all) and he's humming along with one of his favorite herman and the hermits hits.
terry joined a select group of only 800 fellow patriots from world war ii to the vietnam war.
he has  attached a device to a spark plug.
you never know what a film company is looking for, so if you have something unique, let her put it in her repertoire of filming ideas.
high school rodeo we would like to thank all our friends, local clubs, organizations,  businesses and members of our community for the overwhelming support we  received during fund raising efforts to assist with the expenses to send local  national high school rodeo finals qualifiers ryan montroy and charmaine talbot  to compete in springfield, ill. during july.
it should also be reported that dedios was ostracized by leading members of the community, he was kicked out of the community, and young people instructed to forget his name as if he had never lived.
the first rehearsal will be sept. 5  and will begin at 6:30 with registration.
this neil simon play is performed under the stars at 3700  cr 600 (piedra road).
for more information, contact psac at 264-5020 august - summer camp for children, spanish and art.
new staff starts work at stevens field
over the years, as my outlook on flyfishing gradually evolved, various tactics held singular appeal.
take county road 335 (blanco basin) 3 1/2 miles from u.s. 84.
he demands voters hold elected officials and bureaucrats accountable.
nearly a century of musical  experience steps onstage with them at every gig, including professional  associations with a host of musical luminaries ranging from ramblin' jack  elliot to lawrence welk.
for the main, terrine de canard, the breakfast of champions.
beta phi alumnae  group.
"just writin' some code.
birthday celebration
doo dee doo-doo, do dee doo-doo, doo dee doo-doo.
fran jenkins is a certified culinary professional with the international association of culinary professionals.
as opposed to last year's rules, goalies will be allowed to use their hands while in goal.
as i made my first cast, thunder rumbled over nearby peaks and rolled through the valley around me.
under arrest," is part of the colorado department of transportation's (cdot)
this is the last week for oteka productions and the play "i ought to be in pictures".
the tomato is cooked until sweet and reduced.
her lecture will explore the varieties of late-life artistic production.
district to hold groundbreaking ceremony for new hospital by chuck mcguire staff writer
during the humane society's biannual adopt-a-thon, local vets take turns offering discounted vaccination clinics, where shots run just $11 a pop.
gold and copper way up high, the history and beauty will make you sigh.
the baby is closed and it is ready.
let's see, the gas gauge registers full.
landing on staten island, the shore party found ripe plums and grapevines.
miss minnie mote last friday completed a successful summer term of school at the deer creek school in blanco basin and is now enjoying a brief vacation at her home in town before renewing her teaching in the juanita school for the ensuing term.
funny thing,  that yellow spark.
from sarajevo to somalia, his reflections on iraq, rwanda and finally katrina and new orleans are vivid, and one feels how deeply these events affected him and how difficult it was to separate his work from his life.
"a summer evening of american folk music" will be performed at the pagosa lakes clubhouse, where eca has presented many community concerts.
a ryder cup format was played over two days between the pagosa springs golf  club and the rio grande club.
he also served as a member of the board of directors for the pagosa fire protection district.
while there are many things i appreciate about pagosa springs and rural  colorado, big cities, such as albuquerque, have a certain allure and their  advantages - like friends who own restaurants.
i passed out on the couch with my cap pulled low over my eyes and a fresh copy of the pagosa springs sun splayed wide over my chest.
"let's explore" - art 21 is one night only oct. 12.
ball size is no. 3; seven players permitted on the field, including the goalkeeper.
most of the mushrooms  seen on a walk through a woods are beneficial.
based in the san francisco bay area, the waybacks are stevie coyle, james  nash, chuck hamilton, joe kyle jr. and warren hood.
as a peace offering, she handed me a thick, homemade slice of tarte aux  pommes and a cup of piping hot argentine espresso from a stash i'd cached with  her in albuquerque for just such emergencies.
the second day of play at pagosa saw the home team come from behind to win the cup with a two-day total of 55 to 53 points.
coached by jennifer fenton and stephen williams, all members of the  porpoises had shining performances in the eight meets they attended around the  state.
other free programs are also offered for feral cats, and also dogs or cats who have recently had a litter.
he has directed all aspects of aviation projects with budgets up to $9 million, including soliciting and reviewing bids from vendors, and establishing and maintaining vendor relations to ensure project completion.
the series is also available at moonlight books on pagosa street.
he is a good roads enthusiast and a member of the dods party, logging the spanish trail from pueblo to gallup.
the authors of the above guides are professional mycologists.
" next trip through, thinks karl, just in case, i'm toting a supply of  meatball sandwiches.
for more information: log onto http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com or call (970)  731-2766.
by denise coffee special to the preview shy rabbit, a contemporary art space and gallery, presents "mind's material: sensation, cognition & knowledge."
how bitterly ironic that introductory prayer was, at least as far as the little "wild" horses were concerned.
and put the cooler right  next to my tin foil hat.
in 1989, terry and susan celebrated the birth of son, corey, an event that was and still is the highlight of their lives.
the service, children's program, and child care begin at 10:30 a.m. in the  fellowship hall, unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
by press time, dewinter was working on state and federal aviation agency reimbursement requests for land acquisition costs related to the proposed parallel taxiway, and barter was "up to his ears" in 2007 budget matters.
there is also a scrapbook of forest-related photographs.
what a refreshing phenomenon, a politician like larson.
nevertheless,  the estancia makes for an enjoyable quaff and for the money, boasts a  tremendous finish.
we would also like to congratulate lee  gladfelter in arboles.
" "listening to friends of mine talk about their grown daughters who have no education and are financially dependent in relationships, in unhealthy relationships with one or two children; they just don't feel they have any options," said gunther.
plan to bring a bag lunch.
you can drop off your donations at the pagosa springs sun located on pagosa street.
extension viewpointsextension viewpoints mind your mushrooms, there's a lot to lose by bill nobles
we barely had them open when andré darted out from the kitchen, and with a look of childish glee, announced in french that patric had made a terrine de canard that was not to be missed.
editorialeditorial a fine role model with the primary elections a thing of the past, the slate is now set for upcoming regional general election races for the colo-rado legislature.
the class will begin  at 6:15 p.m. and last until 7.
if you should see them as part of your neighbor's yard-art  collection or your babysitter's bedroom decor, please encourage them to return  the signs.
sandy recognized that will's  wood turnings would be an asset to the gallery.
bel canto is the entry-level choir for unchanged voices and is open to all boys and girls from ages 7 to 13 who love to sing and perform.
he has been given the go-ahead to play by his  doctor.
most of the mushrooms seen on a walk through a woods are beneficial.
thus begins the author's masterful writing, taking you into the depths of  history with his exhaustive research of new york and the oyster.
visions of road kill elk and darting jackrabbits on the  jicarilla apache reservation bounced around inside my skull until the wee hours  of the morning.
(t-shirts for $8 and polos for $15 will be  available for sale at the picnic.)
wayne strauss at 731-9315 or
their much-anticipated live cd,  "way live" (2003) captures the band in their element, performing with  trademark fervor.
parents may be asked to volunteer as  linespeople.
go north to bastille drive  (at ubc), turn left and stay on bastille past hopi.
particularly when harl tosses a cigarette butt between the stacks of computers.
they continued a life outdoors and lived in pagosa springs for 20 years, during which time terry volunteered as an emt and firefighter.
events in surrounding areas will be  included when deemed of interest to our readers.
consequently, those who served in thailand, laos and cambodia or  on navy ships off the coast of vietnam may be eligible for service connection  of certain cancers, including lung and prostate cancer, as well as type 2  diabetes.
helena gunther recently published a book entitled, "ladies, are you lost?
a benefit spaghetti dinner for chase, mike maestas and travis stahr, hosted by the knights of columbus, will take place 4-8 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, at the parish hall at 451 lewis st., following the memorial service.
"it's sad that i might be done with basketball," she said.
although the flavors are odd, the wine has good acidity and if you're into blackberry bubble gum, is well balanced.
the club will  meet on the same day, the third thursday of each month, but at 5:30 p.m.  instead of in the morning.
he is credited for transforming the gallery at the university of colorado at colorado springs into one of the region's most important art spaces, and the only one dedicated to contemporary art, whether regional of from halfway around the world.
he detects possible influence peddling and  political hijinks concerning a controversial development project outside his  district and calls for action.
"mind's material" brings the work of pedersen, hauck and isberg  together for the first time since they met and became friends in 1983.
qualified swimmers from nine western states, 17 teams in all, competed in this meet.
according to medora bass, the teacher of this self-help group, the first  class as a group came up with the characteristics of a person who is physically  healthy.
he will lead a discussion of the development of jazz from the 1920s through the big band era of the '40s in the library's turner reading room from 5:30 to 6:30 p.m. that lecture will be followed by a jazz concert in the parking lot from 7 to 8.
we hope you will be able to make it to some of the events and support our great organizations as they give back to our community.
future free events in the fall will include lectures by fort lewis faculty  on topics such as "preserving western history," "women to the  rescue: creating mesa verde national park," "engineers without  borders" and "the venus figurine controversy."
give up on positives?
you can put wet kitchen sponges in the microwave for one minute to sanitize them and to start the drying process.
take u.s. 160 to north pagosa boulevard.
most artists will likely find some affinity with the show's title  and their existing work.
in loving memory of our daughter, aliya violet lucero.
the turned  vessel is created right in front of your eyes.
we have  searched the grounds for them lest someone has decided to do some redecorating.
so, come on out and enjoy all the sales friday, sept. 1, to monday, sept. 4, and shop pagosa first.
there will be a recreation center committee meeting on wednesday, aug. 30,  at the recreation center.
opening reception for artists is 5-8 p.m. saturday, oct. 21.
also included will be autographed  books and cds, fine art, children's toys, dog and cat baskets, clothing,  jewelry and so much more.
wildlife abounds and the further i go, the slower i drive.
the coaching staff will now evaluate whether he can take handoffs and carry the football with a cast.
i was on dangerous, shaky ground, but luckily, the options by the glass  were limited to just one, and i took what was being poured - some brand of  low-end juice out of california - and hoped for the best.
enjoy all your events during the  day and then come out for a relaxing evening with good food, great camaraderie,  and awesome community service.
the county has advised us of vacating certain county-built bridges, one being our carracas bridge, which the road superintendent said to me he wanted to blow up.
since  illness is often a wake-up call about something that is out of balance in one's  life, participants looked at what they want to do but currently are not doing,  such as starting a new career or speaking with integrity.
strong gusty winds brought sheets of driving rain against my windshield, but the hail had tapered off some, and i could faintly see a bright spot with a slight hint of blue in the sky to the north.
at first, karl thinks it's him - that he is having another one of those irritating ischemic events.
stop by the center if you would like copies of the handouts from the first  class.
porpoise swimmers shine in end-of-season meets the pagosa lakes porpoises, pagosa's 20 member swim club wrapped up its 2006 season in fine fashion at the seasonal state meet aug. 4-6 in craig.
in my 12 years as county commissioner, everybody got plowed out and not with pickups or suvs.
why should it be incumbent upon the town residents and the residents of the metropolitan districts within the county to fund maintenance and snow removal on county secondary roads?
this is the best discount  program in town, and a great way to help our senior community.
gobs of paint and layers of color masterfully applied to canvas creating images of heads filled with expressions of the here and now.
events in surrounding areas will be included when deemed of interest to our readers.
erosion control blankets are also available.
aikido is practiced by people of all physical abilities from children well into the senior years.
this  technique has evolved into multiple layers of higher gloss looks, as well as  recent experimentation with turquoise inlays and copper-leaf finishes.
the optional fourth day on thursday is available for $60.00 per person, minimum four students.
if you enjoy thai cuisine, why not go to the  source?
an offer at the soup counter is a steaming bowl of shrimp, chicken and  vegetables in a coconut broth with a spritz of hot sauce and raw onions.
she saw her neighbor's cat running across the yard chased by a doe and its  fawn.
originally, the federal tax advantage was the primary financial benefit to the landowner for putting land in a conservation easement.
all these changes were made by the staff to make the library look more friendly and welcoming.
" but this may not be the end of basketball for gronewoller.
rehearsals are held at the community united methodist church at 434 lewis st. every tuesday night at 7 p.m. sharp.
while the top two teams in the conference will automatically make the  playoffs, wild cards make it on their record and statistical tie-breakers, such  as strength of schedule and total points.
we were immediately shocked by the size of the horses.
we ordered a second serving.
hauck's collage figures often incorporate fine japanese papers that look as if they could be brush strokes of paint - capturing movement, laughter, emotion and spirit in tiny pieces of paper all placed together to create an image that might be equally beautiful and disturbing.
black creek is an old municipal course with prominent treelines hugging the fairways (par 70), while cobble creek is a newer links course with large greens (par 72).
coffee will be provided.
"the government rations issued at the abiquiu and cimarron agencies did not escape dedios's attention.
the concert features matthew and tiffany brunson, paul and carla roberts, steve rolig and special guests.
it was my friend m.p. she stood over me, peering down like a scientist examining some rare form  of bacteria through a microscope, appearing both pleased, but somewhat puzzled  with their discovery.
last week, at the second class, the group looked at some possible reactions and responses to having a health challenge and came up with reactions that don't work.
players described the experience as "painful" but "awesome  when you get to the top."
it would also add pluto's moon, charon, as a bona fide planet in its own right."
he is in the middle of the creation of  legislation restricting smoking in public places and is there unashamedly,
it is a tendency we admire and that we wish more leaders would develop.
cold is more useful when you can say "this hurts" or have a high degree of soreness.
"but it's not just about the academics anymore.
dear editor: i am wondering if anyone else feels that the 8th street/160 intersection is dangerous?
will has already sold one piece through the  gallery in santa fe, and many more through the local wild spirit gallery.
also, the new books section to the left of the front door as you enter the library is now much more open and inviting.
putting health and general welfare above the individual rights call of partisan  thinkers.
last season, the pirates made the second round of the playoffs after beating james irwin high school.
they establish a  relationship with roots of living trees that is mutually beneficial.
many woodland mushrooms  are essential to good growth, and even survival of trees.
survived by her parents, rich t. lucero and lorrena r.  martinez; grandparents, violet (mariano), marlene, henry (melanie) and hector;  aunts, holly, tina and debbie; uncles, jason and dale; cousins, jayce and  dominic.
in 1963, he was elected pastor of first  assembly, des moines, iowa, and in 1974 assumed the pastorate of bethel church  in san jose, calif.
sandy is well known in the area for her whimsical, semi-abstract and  sometimes realistic works.
leroy oldham editor's note: technically, the ballot issue will not seek to raise the mill levy.
he worked there for more than a year, before replacing longtime airport maintenance specialist chris scarpa.
the next meeting at 5:30 p.m. aug. 31.
maybe you know him, or perhaps you've seen his lustrous wood turnings at the downtown wild spirit gallery.
san juan basin health is located at 502 south 8th st. , across from head  start.
i'm pretty much at my  wit's end with this thing." "oh, please, don't tempt me with the wit's end thing; that's just too  easy a target.
the wines hayman & hill pinot noir santa lucia highlands 2005
classes will be held at restoration fellowship's berean room and will begin at 9 a.m. each meeting day.
copying  something exactly the way it appears falls short of art, in my opinion."
maybe you know him, or perhaps you've seen his  lustrous wood turnings at the downtown wild spirit gallery.
we sat there in disbelief and acute discomfort.
it's time to start thinking about the chamber's annual colorfest weekend, sept. 15-17, when we celebrate what some of us think is the most beautiful time of year in pagosa country.
please note st. patrick's episcopal church's annual shamrock festival will be held saturday, sept. 9, at the church located at 225 so.
the girls were led by senior emilie schur, who was selected for the all-state team four years straight.
calendars are available at the gallery for $9.95 plus tax for nonmembers  and $8.95 plus tax for psac members.
from michelangelo to matisse, hokusai to picasso, artists have often created their most profound work after age 75, reynolds points out.
reminds them of the wormhole.
"mines has always been the nerd school," said gronewoller.
goebel provides writing prompts in the form of phrases, music or visual stimuli, and writers are free to spend 20-30 minutes writing.
although the wine demonstrates a color shift from core  to edge, which is not altogether unusual, the color is uneven, wanders, and the  wine looks unusually weary for its youth - it lacks uniformity and clarity.
gunther has also published several fiction novels under the pen name victoria rose.
in lieu of flowers please donate, in terry's  name, to the pagosa fire protection district, whatcom county hospice, the  american cancer society, or the jacob finkbonner fund.
the calendar features works from local artists claire goldrick, betty slade, jan brookshier, art franz, diana baird, al olson, jeff laydon, david hunter, barbara rosner, jeanine malaney and emily tholberg.
backpacks no. 2 pencils 8-count crayons 16-count crayons 24-count crayons 4 oz. bottles of glue small pointed scissors 12-count colored pencils 24-count colored pencils family-size box of kleenex gallon-size zip lock bags quart-size zip lock bags supply box fiskars scissors 8-count markers large pink erasers one-inch hard cover 3-ring binder pencil top erasers glue sticks loose leaf wide rule notebook paper loose leaf college rule notebook paper scientific calculator pencil pouch pens 7-subject dividers spiral notebooks white out ruler with standard and metric scale erasable pens index cards 8-count classic, watercolor markers pocket portfolios, pockets on bottom red lead pencils 40-page spiral notebooks thin-tipped markers clipboard four dry erase markers basic calculator pad lock or combination
little does he know, he is about to drive into the twilight zone.
there are 26 panhellenic sororities whose alumnae are invited to this event: alpha chi omega, alpha delta pi, alpha epsilon phi, alpha gamma delta, alpha phi, alpha omicron pi, alpha sigma alpha, alpha sigma tau, alpha xi delta, chi omega, delta delta delta, delta gamma, delta phi epsilon, delta zeta, gamma phi beta, kappa alpha theta, kappa delta, kappa kappa gamma, pi beta phi, phi mu, phi sigma sigma, sigma delta tau, sigma kappa, sigma sigma sigma, theta phi alpha and zeta tau alpha.
most people agree that those ways are far inferior to the newer training methods which are based on mutual respect and fair play between human and horse.
applicants must provide their own vehicle and a background check will be completed on all applicants.
one of riggs'  long-term projects is the heller ranch center for arts and humanities on the  uccs campus, which when completed, will provide high-quality classroom,  gallery, and studio space for local and visiting artists.
given the size of the horses, the men were able to simply overpower them.
"ok, try to crank this baby up.
tickets are $15 and admission is limited to only 40 people.
on a more serious level, and still on cd, is "american theocracy:  the peril and politics of radical religion, oil and borrowed money in the 21st  century" by kevin phillips.
with folk songs, mississippi blues,  appalachian dances and old-fashioned sing-alongs, the evening celebrates our  cultural heritage.
riggs served as director/curator of the gallery of contemporary art and as and assistant professor at the university of colorado at colorado springs for more than 14 years.
eclectic in both their influences and approach, the waybacks embrace multiple genres and put their unique stamp on the lot, rendering them all with characteristic charm, wit and virtuosity.
please let us know if there are specific ways in which this program could help you.
signs stolen the landscaping surrounding the entry to the recreation center has looked  so good this spring and all summer.
she's also considering travelling to compete in one of the many professional leagues overseas.
perhaps they'll all blow away some day, he thinks.
we still have memorial t-shirts for sale for those who couldn't make it.
clouds scud overhead, lightning flashes, thunder  crashes in the distance, dogs bark.
" harl is stretched out across the engine of the vehicle, a gruesome divide widening between the bottom of his t-shirt and the top of his pants.
in an effort to assist parents to comply with the colorado law that requires childhood immunizations to be completed or be in the process by the first day of the 2006-2007 school year, san juan basin health department will extend its immunization clinic hours monday, aug. 28, and be open from 10 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.
a radio transmission comes out of nowhere.
in conjunction with moon's workshop we will be fortunate to have some of  her works on display in the community center's arts and crafts room.
persons interested in offering a program should contact biz greene at the  education center, located at the corner of 4th and lewis streets.
of a long list of concerns, delzell said drilling near the outcrop could deplete the water table, drying up or contaminating residential water wells and springs and seeps used to water livestock and pasture.
county to lease airport area property by chuck mcguire staff writer archuleta county owns a piece of property at the intersection of piedra road and condor drive, and would like to lease it to an airport-related business or operation that would enhance the airport.
refreshments will be served, and architectural drawings of the planned facility will be on display.
" well what did he do right?
attendees should bring a bag lunch, their  supplies, and be willing to have a fun creative day!
managing diabetes according to the american diabetes association, there are 20.8 million  children and adults in the united states who have diabetes; that's 7 percent of  the population.
however, if students bring a  new box of crayons, pencils, colored pencils, or pens, or a package of notebook  paper or a notebook, they will save $1.
these things are, however, are on the minds of many parents and students in archuleta county as the return to school grows near.
if you want some of my meatball sandwich, you'll go fetch him.
shy rabbit is located directly next to pine valley rental.
" - gerry riggs call for entries shy rabbit has issued a call for entries for the form, figures &  symbols exhibit.
david brooks, known for his extraordinary woodworking, will offer some decorative wooden bowls this year.
seniors, inc. has graciously agreed to pay for a portion of your birthday meal, so it will only cost $1 for a great picnic lunch and lots of fun!
in 2005, 95 students in grades k through 12 were assisted through this program.
the high school student council hopes the first-ever back-to-school dance will accomplish just that.
the workshop will explore new methods and techniques in watercolor painting.
gallery hours are tuesday, thursday and saturday from 1-4 p.m., and 1-6:30  p.m. on the second thursday of the month.
he turns and coasts to the frontage  road, swerving to the shoulder before the engine dies.
everything else about autos and engines is a mystery to him.
the skill is there; now the team is able to spend much of its time on tactics, teamwork and playing smart.
wouldn't blink  before they kill you.
this session is appropriate for beginners as well as advanced students.
senior discounts join hundreds of other seniors in our community taking advantage of the  many discounts available through local merchants by joining archuleta seniors,  inc. memberships are available for folks age 55 and older and can be purchased  at the den for $5 on mondays and fridays from 9 a.m.- 1 p.m. and tuesdays and  wednesdays from 9-11.
depending on how much you use them, wash dishrags and towels frequently in the washing machine and dry them completely.
operation helping hand, a group of dedicated citizens, has been assisting those in need for more than 15 years now.
call psac at 264-5020 for advanced registration.
the line dancing group meets in the multipurpose room monday mornings from 10 to 11:30 a.m.
these are just a few of the items lynne mccrudden and judy cole have  assembled for the silent auction at the sept. 9 shamrock festival at st.  patrick's episcopal church.
also winning high-point honors for the second year in a row at the seasonal  state meet was 9 -year-old d.j. brown.
the organization continues to operate under a voluntary local board including jan brookshier, bob bruchett, nancy cole, alan farrow, penny holmes, ralph holsworth, bill nobles, dennis schutz and mark weiler.
community choir gets ready for christmas concert
he will lead a discussion of the development of jazz from the 1920s through  the big band era of the '40s in the library's turner reading room from 5:30 to  6:30 p.m. that lecture will be followed by a jazz concert in the parking lot  from 7 to 8.
926 pages, 756 color photographs with  descriptions of all species.
rada neal, local professional musician and composer, will provide two hours of piano entertainment.
"it's designed to  be compact and simple to read."
we will  begin with a wild egg race at 11:45 a.m.
books for teens and young adults several new books have been added to the teens and young adults section of  the library that we think will interest you.
he thought that by going to the war-torn countries, he could escape his past agonies and his family's tragic history and somehow lessen his personal pain.
thank you, the montroy and talbot families sports pagesports page pirates open football season saturday by louis sherman staff writer after a schedule alteration, pirate football begins another drive toward the playoffs saturday evening with a game against bayfield high school.
those recordings and the band's reputation as performers have  preceded them, garnering invitations to play mainstage sets at such premiere  venues as the fillmore, the birchmere, the old town school of music, the great  american music hall, the freight and salvage, the station inn and the kennedy  center millennium stage, among others, as well as at such festivals as  merlefest, grand targhee, grey fox, kerrville, strawberry, winterhawk, folks  festival, wintergrass, old settlers, walnut valley and many more.
all mushrooms, whether poisonous or edible can be admired for their beauty  and the fantastic variety of form, color and texture.
this  induction is one of the highest honors bestowed on aircrew enlisted men who  flew with distinction.
he turned in six first-place, one second-place and two third-place finishes.
when the early  explorers sailed through the rivers and waterways, there were 350 square miles  of oyster beds, estimated to be over half of the world's supply in the 1600s.
i always want to thank parents who have  cooperated with staff to keep their children out of the flower beds.
the event is being organized by members of the san juan pi
"well, harl, since the truck is here," says karl.
my morning began to improve.
american folk music is a timeless river running through the heart of our country.
for more information call the center at 264-4152 or call gerry at 731-9734.
joye's  work unleashes the power of watercolors; it is bold and intense.
spread beautiful  smiles through your donation this year.
when fishing alone in such wild places, the walk out is always a bit spooky, but no particular signs gave pause that evening.
if  there's enough interest, we'll hold a town tournament in october.
suddenly, there it is.
i pulled out of the gas station and headed toward a primitive forest road leading into the high-country.
our inspiration is very personal and private.
by kate terry few people have witnessed more scenes of chaos and conflict around the world than anderson cooper whose ground-breaking work on cnn has changed the way many people watch the news.
spreading democracy iraq has now been defined by the pentagon as a civil war, so much for being greeted with roses.
"a summer evening of american folk music" is produced by elation center for the arts, a local 501(c) 3 nonprofit arts organization whose mission is to preserve, teach and perform traditional music and dance from around the world.
this series of  classes will end in october.
regular admission  tickets are $17 in advance, $20 at the door.
more immediately, players will have an opportunity to test their game legs saturday, when they will play in five scrimmages beginning at 9 a.m. at golden peaks stadium.
he named his  art "aikido," which translates to "the way of harmony with the  universe."
with hat and waders on, pack in place and rod in hand, i hiked what amounted to a glorified game trail for at least 30 minutes, before turning toward the clear drone of a tumbling creek ahead.
joye moon watercolor workshop psac will sponsor a watercolor workshop 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. on sept. 5-8.
discussions with shana young, dispatch supervisor, indicate that, although the message was broadcast on radio waves travelling county-wide, dispatch staff did not make the announcement.
you could stay here for a night or two, wait until i get a part and fix 'er up.
you were supposed to be here hours ago."
a memorial service will take place saturday, 10 a.m., at olinger hampden, 8600 e. hampden ave., denver.
individuals qualify for meets based on previous times.
some finely chopped white onion and sliced  garlic is added to the pan and cooked until soft.
for the archuleta county portion of the project area, that means 140 new wells in undeveloped portions of the county.
the nose is well defined and leads the taster to a slightly more astringent and tightly woven structure and mouthfeel.
there is an old saying, "there are old mushroom hunters, and bold mushroom hunters, but there are no old, bold mushroom hunters."
the team finished last season at 6-5-1.
kathy sees them coming and beats a hasty retreat to her car.
lepore's enterprises offers accounting, payroll, individual and business tax service and financial services.
a benefit spaghetti dinner for chase, mike maestas and travis stahr, hosted  by the knights of columbus, will take place 4-8 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, at the  parish hall at 451 lewis st., following the memorial service.
if my hair gets caught in the fan, i'll yell and you turn it off.
as assistant general superintendent of the pentecostal denomination, crabtree is a member of the board of administration and the executive presbytery.
"it's designed to be compact and simple to read."
the porpoises have shown tremendous effort and dedication.
"our goal was to find a scientific basis for a new definition of planet and we chose gravity as the determining factor.
a catering kitchen is also available.
"despite all the favorable views about the jicarilla attempting to prove their worthiness and efforts toward self reliance, there was little chance that the people of cimarron would consent to the purchase of the rayado tract or any area of land for a permanent reservation.
all profits the book does make will be deposited in a continuing education  fund for women.
this fall, the choir is offering a special sight singing class taught by  "doc" carruth in september and november.
jan, a former graphic artist, has been painting for over 30 years.
the first method would allow for a change, free of charge, due to a county oversight.
poisonous mushrooms can be detoxified by parboiling, drying or pickling.
despite the team's attention to strength and endurance, injuries remain a  concern.
he puts on a pair of sandals (made in brazil) and turns on his tv (made in japan), and ponders again why he cannot find that "good paying american job." community center newscommunity center news colorfest dance features the high rollers by becky herman preview columnist
and folk music is enjoying a boost from the likes of bruce springsteen, who is performing concerts of authentic, old-time american folk songs.
there will be eight different recipes of the popular frozen casseroles for  you to choose from.
it's a trip well worth taking.
don't forget to get your advanced tickets for the four corners folk festival, as well.
the pirates' first season game is at home against manitou springs, a week from saturday.
and granted, although the chefs, patric and  andré, two frenchmen schooled in the classic, old-school european  culinary arts, weren't quite ready to serve, coffee was on, bread was in the  oven and service was just minutes away.
terry enjoyed a special friendship and kinship with his mother- and father-in-law, dick and betty hillyer, who also resided in pagosa.
look at his recent  activity.
furthermore, grams said, much of the fruitland outcrop area in archuleta county lies in a fire fighter's no-man's-land, lying beyond the reaches of both the pagosa fire protection district and the upper pine river fire protection district.
and he thinks, always, with the best interests  of his constituents in mind.
lunch  will be served at the tournament.
the doe and the fawn looked under the flatbed  but they couldn't reach the cat.
applications  are currently being accepted in the den office.
however, with the number of options offered in pagosa to reduce costs, the excitement and joy that new pets bring don't have to be deflated by a hefty bill.
identity of election night announcer unknown by james robinson staff writer the aug. 10 issue of the sun reported the results of the archuleta county sheriff's primary were broadcast first over an archuleta county radio frequency, and prior to the county clerks's formal announcement of the election results.
fun on the run joe smith started the day early, having set his alarm clock (made in japan)
most commonly, many veterans are aware of exposure to the herbicide agent orange in vietnam and the side affects of that exposure such as diabetes type ii, prostate cancer and a number of other medical conditions.
even though not every one is interested in collecting mushrooms to eat, it is important to understand most have an important and beneficial role in the environment.
which mushrooms are safe  to eat?
the current jicarilla reservation was formally established by presidential decree in 1887.
coin collectors, look for the 1998 u.s. one-ounce gold liberty american  eagle $50 coin, donated by debra and james brown.
she took first place in all her events in sunday's competition, bringing home a total of six first-place finishes and two seconds.
another is a three-part series of books by j. b. stephens called "the big empty" about the adventures of six teens after a virus wipes out nearly half the world.
turn east on greenbrier drive off  of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the back parking lot and  look for the big sign.
this year's two-a-days have focused on conditioning in the morning and  playbook and drills in the afternoon.
(a peterson guide) houghton mifflin co. 500  species described and illustrated in color.
united way golf tourney start your saturday morning off early by attending one of pagosa's great  community golf tournaments.
superb play on the second day by jim hitchcox, david prokop, gene johnson  and anchorman norman utz sealed the victory.
but one things she's very keen on is receiving her nursing degree, as she's interested in oncology or pediatrics.
marcel and family spend their  summer vacation in a cottage in provence, where marcel befriends a local boy  who teaches him the secrets of the hills in provence.
he  is a role model for anyone who takes office next year.
in the vista subdivision  of pagosa lakes.
tickets are still available at the chamber of commerce, the humane society thrift store, moonlight books and wolftracks for $25 for the wine and beer tickets and $17 for a regular admission ticket.
the colorado department of transportation is responsible for controls at a highway intersection.
operation helping hand is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to  helping the less fortunate of pagosa springs and archuleta county by providing  school supplies, clothing, food and toys during the holiday season.
others said that it gave them a "great sense of accomplishment.
adopt a home-delivery  route today and brighten the lives of a few senior citizens.
according to iau president ron ekers, the assembly is currently debating a draft resolution that, if adopted, would change the definition of a planet and would add at least three new planets to our solar system.
why should it be  incumbent upon the town residents and the residents of the metropolitan  districts within the county to fund maintenance and snow removal on county  secondary roads?
there is an old saying, "there are old mushroom  hunters, and bold mushroom hunters, but there are no old, bold mushroom  hunters."
(t-shirts for $8 and polos for $15 will be available for sale at the picnic.)
the menu includes corn on the cob,  potato salad and tossed salad, and brownies a la mode for dessert.
gerald dahl, county attorney for the project, said the land use regulations provide uniform standards for re-zoning, and in fact, "the regs encourage the rezoning process," dahl said.
some of the works in the series will depict the outward appearance, "ego."
cost is $17 per person with a choice of roast beef or chicken, and the dinner begins at 7:30 p.m.
and dahl described updating the map as "a constant process of refinement and change.
he logged three junior olympic  qualifying times and brought in six first-place finishes and two second-place  finishes for a total of 129 points out of 144 possible.
but, if you want to  take it to some big, corporate-backed conglomerate, multinational place well, i  suppose you get what you pay for.
after just a few miles, however, the rain lessened to a light sprinkle.
the exciting festivities to support the shelter dogs and cats of archuleta  county will be held at the pagosa springs community center on hot springs  boulevard.
the more than two dozen historical oyster recipes in the book include the  stories of the famous restaurants delmonico's, waldorf-astoria and the astor  house, and the way oysters appeared on their menus.
a concert entitled "a summer evening of american folk music" will be presented at 7 p.m., saturday, aug. 26, at the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
of course, the entire archuleta county airport work force consists of just three people, with gena dewinter being the first among them to settle into her position as administrative assistant.
"sharing our folk music tradition is a great way for people to feel  pride in our country," said paul roberts, director of eca.
any of these happenings sound fun or outrageous?
all shots are given by appointment only.
the "garage"  is stacked floor to ceiling with parts of machines, boxes of leaking  who-knows-what.
he is credited for transforming the gallery at the  university of colorado at colorado springs into one of the region's most  important art spaces, and the only one dedicated to contemporary art, whether  regional of from halfway around the world.
artwork pictured in the calendar includes photography, oil, fabric art, watercolor and mixed media.
you can put wet kitchen sponges in the  microwave for one minute to sanitize them and to start the drying process.
have you heard of will?
and, perhaps more than anything else, he is unafraid to endorse a candidate for governor, from the other party.
at two dollars more than the hayman & hill, make the  investment and enjoy it alone, or, pair it with grilled rack of lamb, new  potatoes seasoned with rosemary and tomatoes provençal.
dear editor: i am wondering if anyone else feels that the 8th street/160 intersection is  dangerous?
tickets are $18 each ($20 at the  door) and this price includes valet parking.
i couldn't physically reach it without fording deep pools, but there it was, through the trees, up a side canyon a hundred yards from the far side of the river.
this was no measure of skill or horsemanship, even in a context of the old ways in which horses were broken to saddle.
they also looked at  what they are doing but do not want to be doing, such as spending more time  working than they want, etc.
the beer comes from ska brewing, and the picnic  itself is hosted by the knights of columbus.
however, the greatest benefits to landowners have come more recently with the extension of the state income tax credit system to make it possible to sell one's tax credits on the open market to people who have sufficient income to need the tax credits.
karl begins to fall asleep  and, thus, turns to the "progressive" channel.
sisson library does not have this book.
we were like a couple of homing pigeons, and even in the heat of battle, our unconscious minds had propelled us to one of the city's few temples of guaranteed, gastronomic euphoria.
i suggest that if mr. zumwalt, the county administrator and the commissioners  can find the money for this year then they should be able to find the money for  next year and future years without an increased mill levy.
i hoped it would be a fitting imitation of the small golden stoneflies fluttering about over the crystalline riffles and pools where four species of trout reside.
staff and volunteers will have worked  hard to transform the community center's multipurpose room into a showroom for  collectibles, art work, furniture, pet gifts, and much more.
in fact, cars are stacked atop cars.
who knows when the tow truck will arrive.
don't  forget to get your advanced tickets for the four corners folk festival, as  well.
"details still are being firmed up," said lisa scott, president  of the local pi phis.
substitutions shall be made every five minutes.
here 'em everyday, like clockwork.
it's about how to re-find  yourself and your identity."
fleet-fingered and muddy-booted, they can play like nobody's business.
jill marks-townley specializes in film locations and scouting services, not only to pagosa but to the four corners region.
a celebration of our unique cultural heritage, "a summer evening of  american folk music" features folk singers matthew and tiffany brunson,  paul and carla roberts and bill hudson; blues guitarist steve rolig; the clever  cloggers; and fiddler kate kelley.
the school supplies will be donated to  operation helping hand and distributed to the schools.
the winners are tim and lydia ortiz of pagosa springs, $300; marla c. underall, $200; and carla vaivoda of archuleta county, $100.
the air was cool and heavy with moisture.
tickets to this year's four corners folk festival can be purchased with a credit card by calling (970) 731-5582 or online at www.folkwest.com.
the study this session will be on leviticus, the third book of the five books of moses.
hd drilling: problems and public dollars by james robinson staff writer
trade camps were also set up, two of which he attended at cimarron and mora.
club golfers win wolf creek cup by russ hatfield special to the sun pagosa springs golf club recently won the fourth annual wolf creek cup.
writers meet writers in relaxed environment every thursday between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m., brown bag writers, at shy rabbit, provides a relaxed, casual environment for writers to drop in, listen to their muses, tap into the creative river, and learn to not take themselves so seriously.
aaron miller, who has been swimming with the porpoises for 9 years, earned  high-point honors in his 15-18 age group for the second year in a row.
miller proved a tough competitor,  bringing home fifth place in the 1,500-meter freestyle, taking nearly a minute  off of his previous best time.
beginning in  september, the den will be offering aikido classes every wednesday at 1 p.m.  please sign up with the den office by friday, aug. 25, if you would like to  participate in the september classes.
the pirates competed again yesterday at cortez, but their scores were unavailable by press time, and they have a tournament today in durango.
companies paid forty thousand for those compacs and i can get them for fifteen bucks.
the flatbed was located by the side of her house.
they may be purchased all over town, and of course,  your chamber of commerce has them as well.
in our opinion, he has been the finest elected official the district could  have hoped for, and he will be sorely missed - despite the fact he will, we  hope, live longer and happier without the stress of a race and another term in  the legislature.
and to add to our final picnic celebration, we will host our friends from arboles as they come to pagosa to join in on the festivities.
the silver foxes den senior center has an opportunity for you to make new friends while you donate one lunch hour per week to the home-delivery meal program for our senior citizens.
they include "miracle" by danielle steel, "sea swept" by nora roberts, "manhunt" by janet evanovich, and "dark harbor" by stuart woods.
many of our downtown and river center merchants often have sale items  available on the walkways to attract customers, but this weekend merchants from  the far west side of town to the far east side of town will pull out all the  stops and help us celebrate the 10th anniversary of this sale.
classes will be held at restoration fellowship's berean room and  will begin at 9 a.m. each meeting day.
although the seven-member committee has reached consensus, recent reports from the iau convention in prague say the astronomical community has not yet reached a consensus of their own.
asked what makes someone create,  after working a full week, will responded simply, "i'm compelled to  create.
if you are a member of the pagosa pines golf club, the entry fee is only $40.
delzell said lessons learned from drilling within the 1.5 mile buffer zone in la plata county, including a number of suspect, possibly methane caused fires, drawing down of the water table, water well issues and methane seeps, should have taught industry and government officials that drilling too close to the outcrop is risky business.
her writings are delightful.
clean utensils and countertops with hot soapy water before and after preparing food.
the journey starts on the main stage on reservoir hill on friday,  sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m.
then, everyone is invited to spend the rest of the evening at the community center where the high rollers from durango will provide music for listening and dancing.
" harl has his head stuck inside the engine compartment, wedging it between  the side of the truck and the motor.
i'll pack the sandwiches in a cooler and take it with me next time i drive  past that intersection, thinks karl.
" no matter where basketball takes gronewoller in the future, the "big player from a small school" has certainly left her mark at mines.
it is your last chance to enjoy the  sunshine, the food, the camaraderie, the laughs and pagosa's beautiful outdoors  all at the same time with the summer finale of a picnic in the park.
in july  "let's explore" featured a slide show and lecture on alfred  stieglitz.
i'm pretty sure it isn't a mini stroke and there's no subtle hum, so it's not an alien invasion.
she trained and taught culinary students in thailand, and has authored for thai cookbooks.
to  me, art is the integration of person to finished piece.
aaron miller, who has been swimming with the porpoises for 9 years, earned high-point honors in his 15-18 age group for the second year in a row.
the local land trust was renamed the southwest land alliance in 1987 and again a number of familiar local persons signed the new incorporation document that included the name change - herbert brodsky, bruce bailey, gordon jacober, genelle macht and joseph moore.
" mixes are ideal for establishing vegetation around newly constructed homes or to improve pasture condition.
you know, the favorite color of time travelers is yellow.
"sharing our folk music tradition is a great way for people to feel pride in our country," said paul roberts, director of eca.
so, come on out and enjoy all the sales friday,  sept. 1, to monday, sept. 4, and shop pagosa first.
for more information, you can contact diana talbot at 731-5203.
the appeal is nature, color, and the  amazing wood grains.
we have very affordable rooms for small, mid-size and large groups.
terry served with pride and respect, but also with a great sense of sadness for the loss of life.
ball size is no. 3; seven players permitted on the field, including the  goalkeeper.
there is music to select, folders to organize, and nights to plan to make  this year's concert one of the strongest yet.
by  the color, the wine appears lost and this observation holds true on the palate.
during a week of two-a-days and a second week of afternoon practices, the team has utilized "focus" drills to prepare their minds for the games to come.
we eyed the quarter inch layer of gelatin surrounding the beautifully  marbled terrine.
aside from changes made during a scheduled revision, alvord said there are two additional methods to obtain a zoning change.
cost is $75 (or $40 for golf club members) and includes green fees, cart, lunch, contests and prizes, and a silent auction of various golf packages.
we are proud to spread the word about the simple steps individuals in our community can take to make a difference.
one drill required players to run on goal, shoot and immediately switch over to defense.
" the tow truck finally arrives.
we have very affordable rooms for  small, mid-size and large groups.
couldn't be more wrong, really the t series, but that's somethin' they don't want everyone to know.
so that would add the nine things that we currently know of as planets would still be planets.
bring your friends, your relatives, or just bring yourself with a smile and an appetite to this special event.
facilitated by freelance writer leanne goebel, the group is informal and  fun.
mr. zumwalt, i will have you know the gravel along the lower san juan river has made county road specs many times, made state highway specs, made specs for archuleta county airport.
the indians traded beaver skins, hides, and medicinal plants for meat.
please make  a difference, and volunteer.
wash your hands with soap and warm water for 20 seconds under running water.
these are wooden, flower-shaped signs in bright colors.
tickets are $18 each ($20 at the door) and this price includes valet parking.
to join the aikido classes at the den or for more  information, call jeni at 264-2167.
i left pagosa springs thursday night about 8 p.m., and braced myself for  the four-hour drive with a thermos of stout coffee.
in case of rain, the  dance will be moved indoors to the commons area.
the public is cordially invited, with festivities beginning at 5 p.m. tuesday, sept. 5.
help a fellow veteran who may be going in the same direction to the same va facility.
everyone  is welcome and if you don't have a team, no problem, they'll match you with  one.
for more  information, contact the visitor center at 883-5359.
both the girls' and boys' teams qualified for state last year, the girls  finishing sixth and the boys 15th.
anyone interested in joining the troop is encouraged to attend.
the sailors traded their tools with the lenape natives for hemp, beans, and a  local delicacy - oysters.
why can't the county officials live within the limits allowed by the tabor amendment, increased spending by the amount of inflation and new construction?
the word "toadstool" is often used to indicate a poisonous  mushroom.
yoga schedule the class, which now meets tuesdays instead of thursdays, has also changed  its meeting time to 10:30-11:30 in the morning.
a background check will be completed on all candidates.
that leaves about 12,000 acres potentially open to drilling with, under the preferred alternative, 72 miles of new roads and 227 new wells - 100 on private land and 127 on federal land in the roadless area.
bel canto performs locally throughout the  holiday season.
do we simply create to sell, and sacrifice our true selves in the process?
supply donations still needed as new school year nears perhaps the return to school, school clothing and supplies are not on your mind.
on defense, the pirates will use a 3-5-3 setup - three defensive linemen, five linebackers and three defensive backs.
in the last several years a number of states, colorado among them, recognized that many landowners are depending on their land to produce funds for retirement or for their heirs.
it's time to start thinking about the chamber's annual colorfest weekend,  sept. 15-17, when we celebrate what some of us think is the most beautiful time  of year in pagosa country.
timberline builders introduces the  cottages and the enclave, pagosa's newest residential community of  single-family patio homes and townhomes, located in aspen village.
blue star moms to hold auction on sept. 1, the blue star moms of colorado will host an auction to raise funds for a ceremony honoring the mothers and fathers of colorado service members killed while serving our country.
an alternative is to place the top of your foot onto the seat of a chair if the front of the thigh is very tight or the knee does not bend well.
i have driven hundreds of miles on a hunch in pursuit of the juice from this noble grape of bourgogne, and i have spent far more money than a man of my means ought to spend for something as inconsequential as a bottle of wine.
barter retired from the department of justice at the end of july, and took up permanent residence in his pagosa springs home a few days later.
inside the suninside
"he says the best mechanic in these parts is just up this road.
this is the 12th consecutive season of boys' high school soccer.
head coach scott anderson described "cross-country as a metaphor for life," implying that it could lead to better all-around health.
please help fix this situation before someone is seriously injured or killed.
for now, gronewoller said her plans are up in the air; she may work in an engineering firm for a while, or go back to school for her ph.d. and become a professor.
isberg paints abstracted heads and figures, using color and geometry to  express desire and emotion.
the series is compiled by museum volunteers and is dedicated to collecting and publishing the history of pagosa springs, archuleta county and the surrounding area.
for more information about services and eligibility requirements, contact the workforce center, 731-3876, 46 eaton drive, ste. 7, pagosa springs.
he has been given the go-ahead to play by his doctor.
he gets out of the vehicle, walks around it and checks the tires.
new non-fiction books "supreme command" by eliot a. cohen is winning prizes and rave reviews for its coverage of soldiers, statesmen and leadership in wartime.
how are you marketing yourself and your  beautiful work?
presented by elation center for the arts, the program is chuck full of vocal harmonies, galloping banjos, soaring fiddles and guitars.
come out early to get set up, enjoy coffee and donuts, and buy those mulligans.
leave your name and your child's name and age, with a callback number, and you will be contacted.
recognizing this need and the value of productive open land to its citizens, colorado initiated a tax credit system extending the federal "gift" idea to colorado taxes.
- eat only one kind at a time and do not eat large amounts.
after two days of competition and many miles of travel, the team "looked really tired," said coach mark faber.
cost for the workshop is $250 for psac members and $275 for nonmembers.
previously tall shelves of books at its entrance obscured the  warm and cozy look of this area.
from the exterior, will is quiet, soft spoken, modest, warm.
tomorrow, it's here - the 12th annual humane society auction for the animals, at 5:30 p.m. not only can you bid on all sorts of wonderful stuff and have a glass of wine with your gourmet treats, but you are supporting the society in its caring for the dogs and cats of archuleta county.
sadly though, we lost the nicely crafted signs telling humans to stay out of the flowers.
special thanks to: coyote hill lodge, dominguez family, the springs, superior sound, elkhorn, goodman's, the club, steve wadley, the rose, old west press, kk paddywhacks, junction and wolf creek gifts, boot hill, a&m construction, weber sand and gravel, ksl construction, from the heart (durango), egg family, c.d. garcia, conoco, sunoco, joe and pat lee, aaron's fitness, home again, all about you day spa, silver dollar liquor, pine river clothing store, slices of nature, shear talk (tonya and dennis), joe steel/mainstreet antiques, walter and doris green, jackisch drugs, wild rose, dorothy's, dial oil, jem jewelers, snips, rainbow gifts, malt shop, diamond dave's, ponderosa, wild life park, paint connection, office supply store, gina willis, four seasons land co./doug and lynn cook, diane pack, tom burch, s&s distributors.
what do sacrifices,  priesthoods and feasts teach us about how we can be holy and worship god as we  were designed by him to do?
the district will accept orders until sept. 15 and the seed will be available for pickup oct. 3.
tickets for the dinner are only $8 for adults and $5 for  children 12 and younger.
heat pack may be used 3 times per day until soreness gone.
books for teens and young adults several new books have been added to the teens and young adults section of the library that we think will interest you.
in the 20th century, man began to take positive  action against this pollution and today there is hope that someday - probably  not in the near future, but someday - oysters may again thrive in new york  harbor.
others said that it gave them a "great  sense of accomplishment.
digital and slide submissions are due sept. 19, 5 p.m. notifications will be e-mailed sept. 25.
tickets for a queen-size handmade quilt will also be available until the  drawing later that afternoon.
staff and volunteers will have worked hard to transform the community center's multipurpose room into a showroom for collectibles, art work, furniture, pet gifts, and much more.
don't miss this last weekend of wit and humor in classic neil simon style.
the llama will carry the wine, cheese and a  delicious lunch for a mid-day picnic at a scenic overlook.
results of this phase iii will be available later in the fall.
august mystery trip over the mountains and through the woods, to our next adventure we must go.
an exception is the name mundo, which was changed to velarde a short time before the reservation was formed.
the calendar  features works from local artists claire goldrick, betty slade, jan brookshier,  art franz, diana baird, al olson, jeff laydon, david hunter, barbara rosner,  jeanine malaney and emily tholberg.
nature decides whether or not an object is a planet," said richard binzel, iau planet definition committee member.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is located at 400 south camino del rio, suite g, (next to big 5 sports).
instructions on how to apply are located in the book.
the dance will be held outdoors (weather permitting)  at golden peaks stadium, 7:30-10:30 p.m. friday, aug. 25.
you will need to bring water, wear layers for the changing weather, comfortable hiking boots, a hat and sunscreen.
prior said, "oil and gas will subsidize all of us," and she explained that every taxing entity, from the fire district to the library and hospital district stand to benefit from increases in oil and gas production.
for more information, contact amber clark or josh joswick of the san juan citizens alliance at 259-3583.
a single oyster filters between 20 and 50 gallons of seawater through its gills in a single day.
one of the items donated for auction comes from the community center: a table for six for the colorfest dance.
without a larger defensive line, opposing offensive linemen  can often throw unevaded blocks on one or more of the five linebackers.
there will be a yard sale with a bit of everything, a book nook offering used books, a county cupboard which will include crafts, home items and a bake sale.
this is colorado wild country.
we don't favor drilling within a mile and half of the outcrop," delzell said.
she acted with remarkable ease and proficiency the parts of her symptom and her healing force and then the healing force interacting with and healing the symptom.
terrines are cooked in a brick-shaped loaf pan of the same name, and can be  served hot, cold, or at room temperature.
in "tempo" work, runners go at 80-percent effort, a good canter, for up to 22 minutes.
we will meet at the ticket office at the durango mountain resort at 9:30 a.m. and complete our day at 4 p.m. we will ride the chairlift up the mountain and enjoy a moderate hike of approximately five to six miles, then enjoy the relaxation of riding the chairlift back down to the bottom.
by quarter after midnight i was back in my old digs, and by half past, i had peeled off my clothes and toppled into bed.
the speaker will be the rev. anne odin heller, a retired unitarian  minister, now living in taos, n.m. "the humanism of unitarianism and the philosophy of buddhism are very  close," she explains.
a commissioner should be able to oversee the roads, why do they need road, bridge and shop supervisors?
we eyed the quarter inch layer of gelatin surrounding the beautifully marbled terrine.
and it wasn't there by accident, if you know what i mean.
the nose is well defined and leads the taster to  a slightly more astringent and tightly woven structure and mouthfeel.
this season, miller clocked times that qualified him to represent the state  of colo. at the western zone meet held in fresno, calif.
you can purchase advance tickets  at the plaid pony or moonlight books.
when "head" was yelled, the ball was to be  caught.
we have a representative's seat up for grabs in our district, a senate seat to be contested.
editorial a fine role model with the primary elections a thing of the past, the slate is now set for  upcoming regional general election races for the colo-rado legislature.
the work we do comes from deep within ourselves.
although few high school students may look forward to a return to homework,  most eagerly anticipate seeing their friends and engaging in the  extracurricular activities the school provides.
a newly crafted ground lease document is now awaiting bocc approval.
marcel, a boy of 10, witnesses the success of his teacher father, as well as the success of his arrogant uncle jules.
early in his life, he lost his father to a heart attack and a brother to  suicide.
for more information, call 259-0374 or e-mail info@asadurango.com.
feral cats scatter as karl calls out: "anybody here?
consequently, it is currently inoperable and causes the county and avjet, the fixed base operator, significant revenue losses.
how are you marketing yourself and your beautiful work?
aug. 26 - drawing with randall davis.
i'll certainly never again attend a rodeo at which there is a "wild horse" event like this one without speaking directly to rodeo stock people and to local animal abuse agencies about the abuse visited upon those animals.
please consider the excitement and happiness you could bring to a child on the first day of school.
dedios remembered the corn fields along the little cimarron that were planted by the llaneros (motter the plains clan, also known as the red clan.
"i've  attended all the eca concerts for the past two years, and enjoyed every  one," she said.
please remember that reservations  for the mystery trips are on a first come first serve basis and they do fill up  quickly, so don't delay.
visions of road kill elk and darting jackrabbits on the jicarilla apache reservation bounced around inside my skull until the wee hours of the morning.
now look at the fleet of new equipment.
the more than two dozen historical oyster recipes in the book include the stories of the famous restaurants delmonico's, waldorf-astoria and the astor house, and the way oysters appeared on their menus.
a celebration of our unique cultural heritage, "a summer evening of american folk music" features folk singers matthew and tiffany brunson, paul and carla roberts and bill hudson; blues guitarist steve rolig; the clever cloggers; and fiddler kate kelley.
roughly 30 aircraft owners have expressed interest in building hangers at the site, and those eventually chosen will pay the county $.38 per square foot for the ground.
we long for some at-least-faint reflections of larson's brand of fearless, well-informed, well-meaning and principled behavior in candidates as the races for house and senate seats progress the time for knee-jerk partisan thought is over; it is dragging us down as a society.
as we grumbled and complained, the car, functioning as though on autopilot, meandered toward christiene's restaurant, and came to a stop in the parking lot.
some of the works in the series will depict the outward appearance,  "ego."
much of our current,  popular music is based on folk music.
this account has been opened to help defray costs  of travel and medical expenses.
for more information, contact psac at 264-5020 or www.pagosa-arts.com.
and he's humming along with one of his favorite herman and the hermits hits.
it is a skill that has, on several occasions, put him on the hot seat with  members of his party.
if so, join us friday to celebrate the final and ultimate picnic in the park - at town park, by the arts council building.
'figures' implies tangible, but not necessarily realistically rendered life based subject matter; figure studies, etc. '
the book is available at wolftracks bookstore and coffee, the methodist  thrift store, and at on-line bookstores such as amazon and barnes & noble.
also, the new books section to the left of the front door as you enter the  library is now much more open and inviting.
in light of the earlier storm, i wasn't surprised to find the place deserted upon my arrival.
the pirates' first season game is at home against manitou springs, a week  from saturday.
finish this newest code, i can break into darned near anything.
this may not always translate to marketability of the art.
and it's well worth it; she said in cities such as farmington where no spay and neuter discounts or requirements are offered for the public, at least 1,000 animals are euthanized per month during the summer, most of them young puppies and kittens.
menu  subject to change.
on to the bread go  slices of high-grade provolone.
"one of the important things which separates them is the notion of practice.
we will depart the den at  9:15 and arrive at our destination at approximately 11:15.
the event will be held at the home of norm whiseman.
he served with the seawolf helicopter attack squadron-three in southeast asia until november 18, 1970.
once streamside, i strung up the leonard, checked leader and tippet and tied on a small elk-hair caddis with blonde hair and a yellow silk body.
lost a couple mighty fine cats.
you're flat out of  luck."
perhaps the exploration of  their growth and dreams will lend us an insight into what it takes to live  artistically in our materialistic society.
the auction for the animals is a gala event.
because the tournament is at home, faber said, "we'll play as many  kids as we can.
as the sun dipped below the western rim, the forest darkened further and i turned for the jeep.
donations can be mailed to operation helping hand at p.o. box 3005, pagosa springs, co 81147.
so, our intrepid traveler waits, standing beside a powerless vehicle on the  shoulder of a dirt frontage road high in the colorado mountains.
"we will get more information out in mid-september.
on goes a slick of sauce from the pan, perhaps a drizzle  of olive oil, some fresh basil, a sprinkling of grated parmesan.
other interesting items include cigars from honduras, two sets of golf  clubs, wicker furniture and gift certificates from curves and isabel's.
this series of classes will end in october.
raffle  tickets for an array of items will be on sale throughout the evening.
will  loves the juxtaposition of metal and wood, but acknowledges that he hasn't  found a market for them yet.
i climbed atop a large midstream boulder, peeled my pack and sat down for a snack.
variety of programs available to local dog and cat owners
it was here that will  expanded his expertise in furniture making to include the exploration of the  art of wood turning in 2002.
will has already sold one piece through the gallery in santa fe, and many more through the local wild spirit gallery.
the plot of the ground is large enough for the facilities of the new mill and the rea crews are running power lines to serve the new mill.
in the vista subdivision of pagosa lakes.
"it was okay for us to suck at sports, because we were smart.
it tells the inspiring story of a young woman whose family was forced to leave their ranch in mexico and flee to california to face - and ultimately thrive in - a much more difficult life.
but in this battle of brains versus brawn, some students break even.
working  in the interior design industry, fresh out of school with a bachelor of arts  degree from the university of california at sacramento, will began his artistic  journey creating and restoring furniture.
terry joined a select group of only 800 fellow patriots  from world war ii to the vietnam war.
new information i recently received the following information in a va court of appeals case  that broadened the possible exposure to agent orange to include those who  served in vietnam in the navy off the coast of vietnam or in nearby countries  of thailand, laos and cambodia.
from the '50s to 1990, archuleta county had four men in maintenance, 14 operators, and one road boss, and every square foot of county road was graveled with little tandem trucks and worn-out motor graders.
the team will likely run the ball 60 to 70 percent of the time.
closely  followed by his exploration of wood finishes.
after awhile, i focused on fooling them with conventional dry flies, and for a time, i fished only custom flies of my own creation.
those who receive service connection for any disability are entitled to free treatment for that condition at any va medical facility and may be entitled to a monthly payment from the va." share-a-ride don't forget to call or stop by my office with your va health care appointments for the share-a-ride program.
on the girls' side, emily bryant garnered high-point honors in the 9-10 age  group with an amazing performance on her birthday weekend.
film society to screen french classic the pagosa springs film society's meeting tuesday, aug. 29, will screen and  discuss french director yves robert's 1990 subtitled film, "my father's  glory."
beginning in september, the den will be offering aikido classes every wednesday at 1 p.m. please sign up with the den office by friday, aug. 25, if you would like to participate in the september classes.
students will be  asked to pay and check their names on the student roster at the main ticket  gate.
dewinter replaces jennifer chavez, who now works in county finance.
in one, a young woman takes about 20 seconds to produce a crunchy, mouth-puckering green papaya salad by casually tossing the fruit, minced chilies, sprouts, crab, peanuts and fish sauce with a pinch of sugar in a big bowl while chatting with customers.
the goal of this program is to help participants be aware of factors that may affect their health and help them better realize their goals.
tomorrow, it's here - the 12th annual humane society auction for the  animals, at 5:30 p.m. not only can you bid on all sorts of wonderful stuff and  have a glass of wine with your gourmet treats, but you are supporting the  society in its caring for the dogs and cats of archuleta county.
in another drill, players were required to respond quickly to the vocal cues of another player.
aikido is practiced by people of all physical abilities from children well into  the senior years.
archuleta seniors, inc. even offers financial assistance for  medical shuttles to durango handled by the den.
the exhibition runs from aug. 26-oct. 7, with an artist's reception 5-8 p.m. saturday, aug. 26.
"eca gives local performers an opportunity to perform for the community -  and gives the community an opportunity to see talents they might not otherwise  see," remarked local cultural arts enthusiast patsy lindblad.
call the center at 264-4152 for information about classes or computer use.
students can opt for a fourth day, thursday, oct. 12.
the opening reception for this provocative exhibit is scheduled for 5-7 p.m. thursday, aug. 31 at the psac gallery.
it is well to remember that the events reported and the people involved are as real a part of jicarilla family memories today as are the memories of whites who trace their family trees back to this or that place or event.
crabtree and his wife, ramona, have three grown daughters and 11  grandchildren.
opening reception for artists is 5-8 p.m.  saturday, oct. 21.
the  porpoises have shown tremendous effort and dedication.
we live in increasingly partisan times, and nasty times they are, with party hacks on both sides filling our eyes and ears with superficial, arbitrary ideas reduced to a third-grade level in a condescending attempt to curry favor using the lowest common denominator.
she returns with a meatball sandwich, and advice from the proprietor.
she will enjoy free lunches all week.
the commission also asked that priority be given to finding a new permanent location for the self-service fuel farm.
aug. 17 - watercolor club.
natalie woodruff, republican, announced her decision tuesday to run for county assessor as a write-in candidate, by filing her paperwork with june madrid, archuleta county clerk and recorder.
"audubon society field guide to north american mushrooms," by gary lincoff.
and if anyone is making terrine de canard, give me a call, i'll bring the wine.
those assessments, once finalized, will translate into tax dollars for archuleta county - tax dollars that can be used to fund numerous county projects including county facilities, services and roads.
blue grouse and wild turkeys appear fairly tolerant whenever i've encountered them on the road or in the woods, and the rare view of a silent and often stationary great horned owl is always exhilarating.
further information
"we also hope the weather cooperates so that we can  stage a group photo outside on the riverfront," scott said.
annual memberships are available at a fee of $15 for individuals, $25 for a family, $10 for a senior citizen, $50 for a contributor and $125 for a business.
you will also be able to bid on a week's stay in a private home in  keystone, colo. a number of services will be offered this year.
senior of the week we would like to congratulate jeanne-marie banderet as senior of the week.
if you should see them as part of your neighbor's yard-art collection or your babysitter's bedroom decor, please encourage them to return the signs.
i  suppose i'll just go ahead and have him take my vehicle to the triple  a-referred garage.
many have  just returned from market, so it's time to make way for all the new goodies.
in "tempo" work, runners go at 80-percent effort, a good canter,  for up to 22 minutes.
ebay club since the ebay club has been meeting in the computer lab, the time has been changed in order not to interfere with regular use of the lab.
the smell of oil and gasoline worries him.
operation helping hand is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to helping the less fortunate of pagosa springs and archuleta county by providing school supplies, clothing, food and toys during the holiday season.
but the record-breaking didn't end there.
digital and slide submissions are due sept. 19, 5 p.m.  notifications will be e-mailed sept. 25.
terry's final wish was  that everyone "celebrate life.
advance admission tickets are available until noon friday at wolftracks, pagosa springs chamber of commerce, moonlight books, and the humane society thrift store.
the nine zoning districts include: agriculture forestry, agriculture ranching, agriculture estate, rural residential, residential, mobile home park, commercial, industrial and planned unit development.
i always want to thank parents who have cooperated with staff to keep their children out of the flower beds.
and if a team does not play enough conference games, it cannot be considered.
go north to bastille drive (at ubc), turn left and stay on bastille past hopi.
tasting notestasting notes terrine and pinot, the breakfast of champions by james robinson staff writer
as is typical when we are together in the duke city, we began to argue about where to eat.
i suppose i'll just go ahead and have him take my vehicle to the triple a-referred garage.
he pastored  two assemblies of god churches.
the lecture will take place at the sisson library, 3 p.m., saturday, oct.  28.
however, despite thousands of comments similar to delzell's, including formal statements from archuleta and la plata counties and the town councils of bayfield, ignacio and durango opposing the drilling of new wells within the proposed 1.5 mile outcrop buffer zone, the eis' preferred alternative allows gas companies to extract coal bed methane from wells drilled within the buffer zone area.
local chatterlocal chatter an interesting read from a reporter
i can't seem to find a place yet for my newer vessels that  mix wood and metal."
he named his art "aikido," which translates to "the way of harmony with the universe."
ticket prices are more at the door, so save yourself some money and spend it at the auction.
- do not eat mushrooms raw.
terry joined the united states navy in 1968.
and by southwestern colorado  standards, albuquerque is a teeming megalopolis, but in the grand scheme of  things, it is a big small town, not a culinary mecca, however there is good  dining to be had - if you know where to look.
they're mighty particular about who they do business with.
they establish a relationship with roots of living trees that is mutually beneficial.
"can't hear the pump.
all proceeds will be turned over to the three families to help defray their costs for travel, lodging and medical expenses.
games in the 5-6 and 7-8 divisions will be played mondays, wednesdays and  some saturdays (against teams from dulce, n.m.), while games in the 9-10 and  11-13 divisions will be played tuesdays, thursdays and some saturdays (against  teams from dulce).
it has its roots in the folk music of many countries, most notably  england, scotland, ireland, and the african continent.
need a place to have a party or meeting?
the community center's managing diabetes group is our small, but we hope not insignificant, way to help those in our community who have or are at risk for this disease.
the success of the group's approach is evident in its broad appeal to  audiences of all ages, shapes and tastes, whether they sit enraptured, stand  drop-jawed at breathtaking flights of fancy or just plain get up and dance.
randall works well with students of all levels providing a great deal of individual assistance.
with the colorado film industry and our own local chamber always looking for photo opportunities, peak locations will be a great addition to our membership.
she currently has an agent in germany who can help her find a spot on one of the teams in holland, norway, spain, greece, austria, ireland and many other countries.
united way golf tourney start your saturday morning off early by attending one of pagosa's great community golf tournaments.
ropers can register  around 4 p.m. after the services for this young resident .
e. p. dutton and  co.
circle the date on your calendar and come see some of your friends in "pictures.
while the weather held and the fishing was fabulous, the discovery of a huge inconspicuous waterfall was certainly a highlight.
o'donnell said he was impressed with the work ethic his team has shown so far.
it is a skill that has, on several occasions, put him on the hot seat with members of his party.
gunther said she hopes women will be able to use the money to get educated, but that the money is not for amenities like food or rent.
another item on the acaac wish list involves the installation of an automated weather observing system (awos).
team captain barbara sanborn is delighted with the team's results and commends all the members' tenacity, heart and resiliency.
o'donnell  emphasized that his team's success will be based on its strong collective  effort.
meanwhile, a large hunk of italian or french bread is cut into a  serving-size lengths, halved and the halves are toasted.
the 11x15 artwork will be matted to 16x20 and ready for you to frame.
a benefit account has been opened for gary baldwin at citizens bank of pagosa springs.
final faa approval of a proposed awos location is necessary before the equipment can be assembled, but once the faa gives the go-ahead, the system could be in place by early october.
the baby is  closed and it is ready.
please let us know as early as possible if you are interested  in joining us at that time.
for  further workshop and supplies information, call mion at 731-9781 or visit  www.pagosa-arts.com.
(or lowest number of athletes available to either team.
red faces on green backgrounds.
there will be prizes, contests, golf giveaways, golf-related silent auction items, and lunch for the players.
"grand canyon: solving the earth's grandest puzzle" by james  lawrence powell reads like a detective novel as it traces the work of  generations of geologists trying to understand this majestic landscape.
this  bivalve has an incredible capacity for filtering and cleaning water.
according to the iau, the agency "has been the arbiter of planetary and satellite nomenclature since its inception in 1919.
on the walls, enormous  vintage posters of the marlboro man on horseback count as art.
tuesday, aug. 29 - yoga, 10:30 a.m.; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; blood pressure  checks, 11:30 a.m.; canasta, 1 p.m.; final day to sign up for bar d ranch  dinner and show.
each person answered the question concerning what is the opportunity to learn and grow personally in the situation of having a health challenge.
team captain barbara sanborn is delighted with the team's results and  commends all the members' tenacity, heart and resiliency.
in march, gronewoller played her last game for the csm orediggers, but not without several titles under her arm and a true cinderella story in her wake.
applicants must provide their own vehicle and  a background check will be completed on all applicants.
they are excellent examples of what creative people can do without spending a penny!
the turned vessel is created right in front of your eyes.
there is just a plethora of musical talent this year; a year not to miss!
watercolor club the psac watercolor club, (formed in the winter of 2003) has changed its meeting day to the third thursday of each month.
he also finished sixth in the 800 freestyle and 10th in the 400 freestyle.
the first day of play was at rio grande, with the  host club taking a 29 to 25 lead.
this includes stories submitted by families whose ancestors helped settle and form the town and county.
all schedules and upcoming events are updated on a weekly basis.
after releasing the brookie, i leaned the rod against a low-hanging branch, where its clear varnish and light blonde color sparkled in the recurring summer sun.
in the words of kurlansky "the history of new york oysters is a  history of new york itself - its wealth, its strength, its excitement, its  greed, its thoughtlessness, its destructiveness, its blindness and, as any new  yorker will tell you, its filth."
we long for some at-least-faint reflections of larson's brand of fearless,  well-informed, well-meaning and principled behavior in candidates as the races  for house and senate seats progress the time for knee-jerk partisan thought is  over; it is dragging us down as a society.
thus, they need greater financial compensation and incentive for donating the development rights on their land.
parents may be asked to volunteer as linespeople.
he has  experimented with forms and finishes.
terry dee windnagel terry began this life may 24, 1947, in longmont, colorado, as the son of  emma and donald windnagel and brother to peggy and tom.
2007 calendars this is the second edition in the ongoing calendar project.
you can also mail a cd of  images and information to psac, p.o. box 533, pagosa springs, co 81147.
" "beg your pardon?" "that is some fine stuff over there in that car.
some are poisonous and some are edible and delicious when properly  prepared.
everything  else about autos and engines is a mystery to him.
entry forms are available at  http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com/2006/08/forms-figures-symbols-prospectus_07.html;  by e-mail request at shyrabbit01@aol.com; or may be picked up at shy rabbit,  333 bastille drive, b-1 and b-4.
what a full weekend of activities.
he supports  referenda designed to ease the burden of constitutional amendments on the state  budget, and leads the battle against that burden from the get-go.
he is in the middle of the creation of legislation restricting smoking in public places and is there unashamedly, putting health and general welfare above the individual rights call of partisan thinkers.
even aspens in the lower reaches are huge, as they stretch ever upward in the shadows of soaring volcanic cliffs on either side of the creek.
tuesday, aug. 29 - baked potato with barbecue beef, cheesy broccoli, plums  and drop biscuit.
now we heard the road boss say at the meeting a couple of weeks ago that he needed four more operators.
qualified but unable to attend the meet were erica pitcher, katie armbrecht, daniel armbrecht, dean scott and spence scott.
unfortunately, it works a lot of the time, with a great many people.
cheerful and energetic staffers man individual booths that each  sell a handful of specialties.
many of our downtown and river center merchants often have sale items available on the walkways to attract customers, but this weekend merchants from the far west side of town to the far east side of town will pull out all the stops and help us celebrate the 10th anniversary of this sale.
he has worked in various media including ceramics, furniture, interiors and gardens.
there will be eight different recipes of the popular frozen casseroles for you to choose from.
however, it pays to have friends who own restaurants, and when one is well connected, a "closed" sign is a mere formality and we were cordially ushered in.
it is art that expresses the human condition, with all its frailties and strengths.
here all kinds of goods were exchanged.
a single  oyster filters between 20 and 50 gallons of seawater through its gills in a  single day.
for more information, contact  psac at 264-5020 august - summer camp for children, spanish and art.
the article further states that mr. zumwalt has amazingly decided that the  county can do those secondary roads this year (see what public outcry can do).
the cause of diabetes continues to be a mystery, although both genetics and environmental factors play roles.
without a larger defensive line, opposing offensive linemen can often throw unevaded blocks on one or more of the five linebackers.
"potty training your baby" by katie warren claims its advice will  allow you to begin training before your child's first birthday and be fully  completed by the second year.
lpea hopes to achieve this goal on or before oct. 4, 2006, national energy star change a light day.
after a very successful duck race (there wasn't a viewing space to be had  on hot springs boulevard), the knights will turn around and put on another  successful event.
who knows what his work will have become by then?
cooper is the son of gloria vanderbilt and grew up on manhattan's east side.
and if a team does not play enough  conference games, it cannot be considered.
this event is the first in a new series at the library called lifelong learning, organized locally by library volunteer biz greene.
will dunbar - an artist's journey by kathleen steventon will dunbar.
he and his wife, nancy, also an artist, live quietly outside town, their house filled with works they've created out of wood, reed, feathers and other natural materials.
all told, the waybacks is a band far greater than the sum of its parts - five intrepid travelers following their muse, looking to chart new territory and bringing everyone along for the ride.
based upon your income, you may qualify for the fix-it-free program, in which the humane society gives out free spay or neuter vouchers which can be used at local veterinarians.
you can purchase advance tickets at the plaid pony or moonlight books.
after making quick work of the crab cakes, our server returned after a short respite with a simple, but perfectly presented and aromatic terrine de canard.
there is something  for everyone and the evening is packed with silent and live auctions.
lifelong learning in pagosa begins this month with john graves presenting  the highlights of jazz history at the sisson library, 5:30 p.m. aug. 31.
for her first nonfiction book, she not only drew from past experiences  but also invited local women to share their own inspirational stories.
the main workshop is limited to 10 students, so sign up for this fun-filled session right away by calling psac at 264-5020.
o'donnell said he will also put in a tight end during some plays, replacing one of the wideouts.
she took first place in all her events in  sunday's competition, bringing home a total of six first-place finishes and two  seconds.
in addition to arrest, impaired drivers often face jail time, loss of their driver's licenses, higher insurance rates, attorney fees, time away from work and other expenses.
easy business, and they'll be made with healthy turkey, in case harl is prone to gout.
pcc offers business statistics class in pagosa a business statistics class will be offered sept. 11-dec. 11, mondays,  6-8:30 p.m., at the archuleta county education center.
check out the exciting new development, offering outstanding design, superb location and exceptional value.
right now we just want to alert local sorority women to our plans so they can  put the event on their calendars.
you know, someone who looks for things that are wrong with it besides aliens and balls of electricity shooting through the air.
the goals for the day vary, with watercolorists getting together to draw, paint and experience technique demonstrations from professional watercolorists or framers.
at two dollars more than the hayman & hill, make the investment and enjoy it alone, or, pair it with grilled rack of lamb, new potatoes seasoned with rosemary and tomatoes provençal.
please join us for a casual conversation with artists pedersen, hauck and isberg from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. sunday, aug. 27.
the planing mill for the installation has arrived and construction is expected to start next week.
through community concerts and educational programs, eca strives to  serve the people of pagosa springs through artistic excellence.
the event will be held at the red ryder  arena.
sandy is well known in the area for her whimsical, semi-abstract and sometimes realistic works.
i asked will where he sees his art career going.
all are welcome, even those with no previous experience.
by 6 a.m., i was up again, and driving into the city, sans coffee, for an appointment at the toyota dealer - time for a new timing belt.
he is a role model for anyone who takes office next year.
i'd be looking at a lot of european gyms.
if you are age 60 or older and your birthday is in august, come to town park friday for lunch and celebrate your birthday.
recently i sat down as a fellow artist on yet another bright, balmy,  perfect pagosa day and discussed will's work and his journey to find a market  for it.
managing diabetes according to the american diabetes association, there are 20.8 million children and adults in the united states who have diabetes; that's 7 percent of the population.
they'd simply give up soon, broken critters, and would no longer put on the desired show.
but by the end of a long day, the miracle had happened: we had reached a unanimous agreement," gingerich said.
archuleta seniors, inc. even offers financial assistance for medical shuttles to durango handled by the den.
skunks, porcupines, coyotes and foxes have crossed my path on more than a few occasions and, while i've never actually seen one here, i have discovered recent bobcat tracks on a few local game trails between road's end and the river.
most importantly, they learn to  blend with and redirect and attacker's energy, controlling the attacker.
" this is the first time that the library district has asked for a mill levy increase, since it was originally instituted.
after the end of another discouraging and fruitless day, joe decides to  relax for a while.
the acreage is located just south of the new fixed base operations center (near mid-field), and already contains eight hangers.
when "head" was yelled, the ball was to be caught.
7-8 game rules game consists of four quarters of 10 minutes each, a five-minute halftime  and a one-minute break between quarters.
sign up for helping hand golf tournament local golf enthusiasts can put their swing to work to help the less  fortunate at the pagosa springs, operation helping hand golf tournament.
this year, they look to improve on last year's playoff results.
according to delzell, of the 85 wells proposed for the archuleta county portion of the project area, 48 wells lie within the "outcrop danger zone" - one on the edge of the outcrop, 11 within half a mile of the outcrop, 10 within half to three quarters of a mile of the outcrop, and 26 within three quarters to one and a half miles of the outcrop.
recently i sat down as a fellow artist on yet another bright, balmy, perfect pagosa day and discussed will's work and his journey to find a market for it.
what would it be like to be a practicing  unitarian universalist?" odin heller has had a wide range of ministerial and administrative  experience, having served fellowships in minneapolis, reno, and sierra  foothills, as well as stewarding the pacific northwest uu district to  impressive growth as its district executive.
join us for a real western hoedown under the stars and enjoy an incredible dinner with an entertaining performance!
one of riggs' long-term projects is the heller ranch center for arts and humanities on the uccs campus, which when completed, will provide high-quality classroom, gallery, and studio space for local and visiting artists.
the dinner will be held at the  immaculate heart of mary parish hall on lewis street.
a more equitable proposal would be to ask for a mill levy increase on all  properties not within the city limits or the boundaries of the special  districts that already pay an additional mill levy for roads and streets.
meanwhile, the airport tractor has been repaired enough to cut weeds for now, but its days are apparently numbered.
there will be many more items to bid on including a custom-built heated and cooled luxury dog house, enormous baskets of goodies from the choke cherry tree, and great getaways at the grand hyatt in downtown denver, hart's rocky mountain retreat, and the springs resort.
streets and alleys are lined with makeshift stalls and well-worn carts that proffer hot and cold dishes assembled on the spot, usually by a sole entrepreneur.
self-help for health
elk cows and calves are not uncommon, and though sightings are rare, big bulls, black bears and mountain lions are certainly in the area from time to time.
pagosa springs recreationpagosa springs recreation youth soccer season approaching by tom carosello sun columnist registration for the 2006 youth soccer league has closed and coaches for the 5-6 and 7-8 divisions are in the process of contacting their players for practice.
spending several months traveling, the family fell in love with the  mountains and oceans of the pacific northwest.
while in the la mesa gallery, she struck up a conversation with the gallery's owner.
these are just a few of the items lynne mccrudden and judy cole have assembled for the silent auction at the sept. 9 shamrock festival at st. patrick's episcopal church.
another member of the newly-reorganized intermountain league, lake county, failed to field a team this year.
eclectic in both their influences and approach, the waybacks embrace  multiple genres and put their unique stamp on the lot, rendering them all with  characteristic charm, wit and virtuosity.
and it would add three more.
by linda strathdee preview columnist the pierre mion and his students show continues through aug. 29 at the  pagosa springs arts council gallery at town park.
want a worse picture, ask any conservationist group about the devastation since george took office.
terrines are cooked in a brick-shaped loaf pan of the same name, and can be served hot, cold, or at room temperature.
doors open at 6 p.m. with a suggested donation of $5.
and, best of all, lunch with two bronco cheerleaders the following saturday.
in the end, fienberg reports that about the only thing the astronomers could agree on was that they hated the word "pluton."
we barely had them open when andré darted out  from the kitchen, and with a look of childish glee, announced in french that  patric had made a terrine de canard that was not to be missed.
out-of-school date forms were  available at the high school office and had to be returned to the office for  the administration's approval no later than wednesday, aug. 23.
entering college freshmen are encouraged to receive the meningococcal  vaccination and review tetanus/diphtheria need.
he springs into action and goes through his mechanical problem checklist.
coach fenton will train the  young swimmers in stroke technique, competition starts and turns, as well as  building endurance.
bible study sessions begin in september precept upon precept, the inductive bible study pioneered by kay arthur, will begin sept. 14 and will continue until nov. 16.
the cost if $5 per session and drop-ins are welcome.
hamstring stretch: hold onto something sturdy with your hand; put one  heel onto a low step (4 to 9 inches high); keep knee straight; bend forward  from your hips, not your low back (in other words, keep your back straight),  until a gentle stretch is felt on the back side of your thigh.
other interesting items include cigars from honduras, two sets of golf clubs, wicker furniture and gift certificates from curves and isabel's.
for inclusion in arts line, send information to  psac e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
the vouchers are given out on the first day of the month on a first-come, first-served basis.
perhaps the exploration of their growth and dreams will lend us an insight into what it takes to live artistically in our materialistic society.
as decor goes, there isn't much at some of the restaurants either.
the chorale offers local young singers the opportunity to participate in either of its two existing choirs, in addition to attending workshops and music camps.
the five-way cat shot is generally more expensive since it contains the feline leukemia vaccination, and can cost up to $12.
fleet-fingered and muddy-booted, they can  play like nobody's business.
three pagosa swimmers won overall high-point honors in their respective age  groups.
you can also put sponges in the dishwasher and run them through a cycle with your dishes.
he  turned in six first-place, one second-place and two third-place finishes.
library newslibrary news free jazz event at library
options for women in unhealthy relationships." "listening to friends of mine talk about their grown daughters who  have no education and are financially dependent in relationships, in unhealthy  relationships with one or two children; they just don't feel they have any  options," said gunther.
it tells the inspiring  story of a young woman whose family was forced to leave their ranch in mexico  and flee to california to face - and ultimately thrive in - a much more  difficult life.
cowboy benefit the cowboy benefit for the families of chase regester, mikey maestas and travis stahr was a success.
personalities, such as diamond jim brady, lillian russell and j. pierpont morgan are described as is their consumption of enormous quantities of oysters.
and granted, although the chefs, patric and andré, two frenchmen schooled in the classic, old-school european culinary arts, weren't quite ready to serve, coffee was on, bread was in the oven and service was just minutes away.
arts linearts line applegate show opens at psac gallery aug. 31
thank you, the montroy and talbot families sports page pirates open football season saturday by louis sherman staff writer after a schedule alteration, pirate football begins another drive toward  the playoffs saturday evening with a game against bayfield high school.
ironically, that tractor also broke down and is now awaiting repair.
entering college freshmen are encouraged to receive the meningococcal vaccination and review tetanus/diphtheria need.
twenty-five years ago, in late 1981, a group of dedicated local people wishing to promote conservation of the beautiful land in southwestern colorado, created a nonprofit organization to encourage and protect conservation easements.
the archuleta economic development association (aeda) would like to extend a special thanks to the following people; without them the leading edge class would not have been possible: - local banks that sponsored the class, and donated the funds for the business plan competition: bank of the san juans, bank of colorado, citizens bank, first southwest bank and wells fargo.
he finds a door, looks in and sees š more floor-to-ceiling debris - this time old mainframe computers stacked  one on top of the other, many with amber and red lights flashing.
as a reporter, he was driven to cover the suffering he found all over the world and it became impossible to separate his personal pain and loss from that he found around him.
it is open to anyone interested in land issues, taxes, estate planning or conservation.
also included in this section is a story about the heavy snows of 1931 and the rescue of men on the wolf creek pass road maintenance crew during that time.
his unswerving loyalty  to constituents.
to encourage participation in the survey, region 9 offered $600 in cash prizes.
in the beginning, i simply wanted to catch trout with a flyrod and fly.
many of the players finished the run averaging 13-minute miles, including  brief stops for stretching and water.
the den will provide transportation (limited seating available) for a $5 fee and will leave at 4:30 p.m. and return around 11.
inside the hand-built dwelling and studio (built over a period of many years) will's woodworking expertise is visible everywhere: on the doors, along the baseboards and wood trims, and in the multitude of craftsman-style, hand-built furniture pieces evident everywhere you look.
monday, aug. 28 - hungarian goulash, vegetable medley, spinach, mixed fruit with bananas, and whole wheat bread.
and i mean that in the  best sense of the word.
more and more, name-calling and the use of  virtually meaningless but emotionally loaded labels is the order of the day in  political discourse.
cost will be $20 per person,  including a pre-arranged entrée, dessert, non-alcoholic drink, tax and  tip.
the race is one of balance, speed and pure craziness.
and if you can still keep your eyes open by now, or you haven't found a function that meets your needs, let's try one more: the sky watch program at chimney rock.
he  leads the battle to minimize certain kinds of contributions to legislators  while maintaining legitimate sources of assistance that allow rural legislators  to do their jobs.
you know road binder is in the road, just add gravel.
shy rabbit gallery will remain open from 4-6:30 p.m. sept. 14 for those who wish to see the "mind's material: sensation, cognition & knowledge" exhibit prior to the film's screening.
the land around this great  confluence of rivers was abundant was with wildlife and the rivers were teeming  with marine life.
in so doing, they transcend genre altogether, conjuring up musical landscapes that defy boundaries but always find their center at the crossroads of fun and fascination.
the latest community concert by elation center for the arts is "a summer evening of american folk music," to be held at 7 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, at the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
we will also celebrate all of the august babies by recognizing their birthdays with a $1 birthday lunch, a birthday cake and the traditional birthday song.
terry attended every one of corey's soccer  games regardless of rain, sun, sleet or snow and shared in both victories and  defeats.
she waves and takes  a bite of meatball sandwich.
diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce or properly use insulin, a hormone that is needed to convert sugar, starches and other food into the energy needed for daily life.
a bright spot on the basketball and volleyball teams here in town, 2002 pagosa springs high school graduate ashley gronewoller, 21, continued her legacy on the court when she joined the colorado school of mines basketball team four years ago.
" schwartz said last year the humane society took in 446 strays and owner-surrendered animals.
runners also pay close attention to nutrition, getting the bulk of their calories from complex carbohydrates and avoiding typical teenage fare, such as soda and junk foods.
as candidates prepare campaigns for the final two months - republican ellen roberts and democrat joe colgan for the rep's slot, and democrat incumbent jim isgar and republican ron tate for the senate - we think there is enough of a lull in activity to say this without tainting the proceedings: we are going to miss rep. mark larson and what he stands for.
soccer training includes wolf creek pass run by louis sherman staff writer
the gallery is located at 315 hermosa st. and is open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. tuesday through saturday, plan to stop by and support your neighbors in pagosa.
timberline is now selling phase one - pagosa's best new home value, with  patio homes from $294,900 and townhomes from $254, 900.
the youth are the future and we are proud to live in a community where western heritage and the sport of rodeo receive such great support.
to that end, the coalition is hosting a public information meeting and public comment forum 7 p.m. aug. 28 at bayfield high school.
the county is asking for bids to lease the property, which should include an offer of compensation to the county, the intended land use, length of desired lease and other information that would aid the county in evaluating lease offers.
and for the  first time since the tradition began, everyone reached the summit.
diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce or properly use  insulin, a hormone that is needed to convert sugar, starches and other food  into the energy needed for daily life.
lpea participates in energy saving program lpea has joined the energy star® change a light, change the world campaign, a growing community of corporations, utilities, manufacturers, individuals, and countless others who have made a commitment to change the world, one light - one energy-saving step - at a time.
(the extra $25 will automatically give you a one-year psac membership.)
"let's explore" brings in guest speakers, slide presentations, films and experts to discuss the many facets of art and art history.
she was born on  august 15, 2006.
we are proud to work with them and with the thousands of americans who've already taken the pledge to make a difference for this generation and those to come.
a conservation easement is an easement on land for the purpose of protecting its important characteristics.
as usual, there will be free snacks and a cash bar.
also winning high-point honors for the second year in a row at the seasonal state meet was 9 -year-old d.j. brown.
in august, the film "rivers and tides" about environmental artist andy goldsworthy was shown.
this is the last week for oteka productions and the play "i ought to  be in pictures".
the draft map is displayed at the archuleta county courthouse, at county planning offices and online at archuletacounty.org.
the organization is currently collecting donations of school supplies for area children.
some of his work is vibrant and colorful; other paintings are muted and subdued.
leave your name and your child's  name and age, with a callback number, and you will be contacted.
it is in this choir that music reading skills are taught through the singing of rounds, call and response, and partner songs.
any and all donations will be greatly appreciated.
albuquerque vamc phone number is (800) 465-8262.
pagosa sky watchpagosa sky watch relax, pluto is (probably) still a planet by james robinson staff writer the following sun and moon data is provided by the united states naval observatory.
from mid summer to late autumn, a  great variety of mushrooms may be found in colorado.
timberline is now selling phase one - pagosa's best new home value, with patio homes from $294,900 and townhomes from $254, 900.
it was my friend m.p. she stood over me, peering down like a scientist examining some rare form of bacteria through a microscope, appearing both pleased, but somewhat puzzled with their discovery.
when the early explorers sailed through the rivers and waterways, there were 350 square miles of oyster beds, estimated to be over half of the world's supply in the 1600s.
after making quick work of the crab cakes, our server returned after a  short respite with a simple, but perfectly presented and aromatic terrine de  canard.
the nearest approved mechanic is 40 miles away.
" karl calls the company.
psac calendar all psac classes and workshops are held in the arts and craft space at the  community center, unless otherwise noted.
if you  are a member of the pagosa pines golf club, the entry fee is only $40.
campaign is to reduce the numbers of injuries and deaths caused by drunk drivers.
this  may not always translate to marketability of the art.
if you have a child interested in finding out more about the swim club,  please contact fenton or williams through the pagosa lakes recreation center.
the research of both completed phases of the study are available at region 9's web site, www.scan.org.
as originally planned the ceremonies were to be held at the summit of the pass, 10,800 feet high, but, owing to various reasons, the dedication of the new road was held 12 miles below the summit on the other side, in box canyon.
the boy's team will have two seniors and one junior returning from last year's state competition.
bible study sessions begin in september precept upon precept, the inductive bible study pioneered by kay arthur,  will begin sept. 14 and will continue until nov. 16.
'a summer evening of american folk music' set for saturday
day hike, llama and lunch the day hike with a llama and a lunch has been rescheduled to saturday,  aug. 26, for those who have made reservations with the den.
with the goal of bettering oneself rather than  trying to be better than an opponent, students of all ages and skills can  safely practice and learn together.
eat only a  small amount the first time; even morels, generally considered to be excellent,  may cause illness in some persons.
according to o'donnell, the  practice began in the higher levels of organized sport and has slowly trickled  down to high school teams.
august 24, 2006 front pageaugust 24, 2006 front page
the opening lines of the ballot question read: "shall the upper san juan library district's taxes be increased by three hundred fifty-two thousand dollars ($352,000.00) (first fiscal year dollar increase) and by whatever additional amounts are raised annually thereafter by an additional ad valorem property tax levy of one and one half (1.5) mills ...
i dreamed of fresh flounder, mussels, or sole, but lacking those options, i paired the muscadet with snow crab cakes and a mesclun salad with lemon juice, a touch of sea salt and a simple vinaigrette on the side.
although the wine demonstrates a color shift from core to edge, which is not altogether unusual, the color is uneven, wanders, and the wine looks unusually weary for its youth - it lacks uniformity and clarity.
gunther said the book has been picked up by the southwest safehouse for women in durango, and she plans on giving seminars there in the future.
barely got away with my life.
bring your writing tools (pens, paper, notebooks, laptop) and a sack lunch if you would like.
can you hear  that hum?
beginning computing, 10 a.m.-noon; yoga, 10:30-11:30 a.m.; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. aug. 30 - beginning computing for seniors, 10 a.m.-noon; weight watchers, 4:45-6:45 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. aug 31 - over-the-hill hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.; computer q&a session with becky, 1-4 p.m.; tops tourism board meeting, 4-6 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. need a place to have a party or meeting?
from a half-time professional (linda newberry) in the recent past, staff increased to a full-time executive director, michael whiting, in 2005 and now a second full-time professional, karin freeman, in 2006.
facilitated by freelance writer leanne goebel, the group is informal and fun.
beginning at 9 a.m. with a shotgun shot, the tournament will be a four-person scramble with three different flights - open, couples and "just have fun."
i love that microsoft: they make everything obsolete so fast your head  swims.
rather than touch your toes, dynamic stretching would have you do high kicks over a distance of 20 yards.
the nearest  approved mechanic is 40 miles away.
apparently the ramp's asphalt surface has deteriorated significantly and loose gravel, which poses a serious safety threat to aircraft engines, has resulted in certain pilots refusing to park there.
the film will be followed by group discussion.
mion's illustrative works have been exhibited world wide and are included  in the nasa fine arts and the smithsonian national air and space museum  collections.
you know those companies.
line dancing this comes from gerry potticary, our line dancing group leader:  "calling all line dancers back from vacation.
cowboy benefit the cowboy benefit for the families of chase regester, mikey maestas and  travis stahr was a success.
upon closer examination, it was one of many ripe raspberries, which led to a minor frenzy that left me feeling full.
local artist jan nanus is offering a watercolor titled "autumn at  engineer mountain."
the dinner will be held at the immaculate heart of mary parish hall on lewis street.
the official opening of state highway no. 15, better known as the wolf creek pass highway, took place according to schedule, monday, aug. 21.
many species are quite specific about their food source and will be found only under or near certain kinds of trees-some under pines, others under oak, etc.
"mushrooms of north america," by o. k. miler.
superintendent terry alley reported all three schools were off to a smooth start with approximately 1,040 students attending classes.
a current tribal medicine man told me that elders told him, "if you tell your enemy how to make your weapons, they'll use those weapons against you."
monetary donations are used to purchase school supplies and clothing vouchers to be distributed to those identified as needing assistance at this time of the year.
your attachment should be in a microsoft word file  document format.
since bills for spaying or neutering alone can run anywhere from $100 to $300, this bargain price is just another impetus to give a shelter dog or cat a loving home.
classes will begin in the fall.
we hope you will be able to make it to some of the events and support our  great organizations as they give back to our community.
members of the student council hope to see all high school students at the  dance to help kick off the school year on an enjoyable note.
"it'd be pretty sweet to get paid to play.
at first, i favored short fiberglass rods.
when the crab cakes arrived, we plowed through them with ravenous fervor,  gobbled the salad, and devoured hunks of fresh, hot bread slathered with  butter.
watch  the preview for more details.
randall works well with students of all levels  providing a great deal of individual assistance.
clouds scud overhead, lightning flashes, thunder crashes in the distance, dogs bark.
the club now meets at 10 a.m. in the arts and craft space at the community center.
a final version is forthcoming.
they were knocked out of competition by  arvada's faith christian.
arts line is a communication vehicle of the pagosa springs arts council,  courtesy of the pagosa sun.
you will need to  bring water, wear layers for the changing weather, comfortable hiking boots, a  hat and sunscreen.
but once again, the humane society works in conjunction with local vets to keep those costs down.
reynolds, former art history professor, is an author and writer who covers  performing arts in durango.
"in july we had vigorous discussions of both the scientific and the cultural/historical issues, and on the second morning several members admitted that they had not slept well, worrying that we would not be able to reach a consensus.
six teams will compete throughout the day, including aztec, bayfield, cortez, durango, telluride and pagosa.
fun on the run joe smith started the day early, having set his alarm clock (made in japan) for 6 a.m.
deal done, and i planned a breakfast that could not have been had anywhere but in a big city.
the exciting festivities to support the shelter dogs and cats of archuleta county will be held at the pagosa springs community center on hot springs boulevard.
"(nurses) don't have to specialize for a million years like doctors.
kurt-mason said that he hoped the team's determined preseason work will  also help players make smart and healthy choices off the field.
applications are currently being accepted in the den office.
they're mighty particular about  who they do business with.
in one, a young woman takes about 20 seconds to  produce a crunchy, mouth-puckering green papaya salad by casually tossing the  fruit, minced chilies, sprouts, crab, peanuts and fish sauce with a pinch of  sugar in a big bowl while chatting with customers.
prior is a licensed real estate appraiser and is the chair of the colorado board of real estate appraisers.
he loved being a part of corey's life.
and then there are the bad nights, the nights she  slaps you around, empties your wallet, and leaves you cold, bewildered and  wanting on the sidewalk.
attending members contribute $5 for use of the space.
she has lived in the county for 10 years.
tickets for a queen-size handmade quilt will also be available until the drawing later that afternoon.
he follows the sound, groping his  way past walls of slippery clutter.
an orvis superfine tight loop fly rod with cfo ii reel is available, as well as 20 flies tied by archuleta county 4-h fishing instructor kenneth jones.
when you're preparing foods, a clean kitchen is also essential for food  safety.
when "hand" was yelled, the player was to head the ball back to his teammate.
told me they don't need me anymore.
it's probably a reaction to that herman and the hermits tune.
entertain the rest of the family with a mizerak 7-foot pool table from terry's ace hardware after grilling burgers on the weber genesis silver b three-burner grill from ponderosa do-it-best.
the school supplies will be donated to operation helping hand and distributed to the schools.
but while many archuleta county staff stand ready to reap the benefits of coal bed methane production, delzell, the hd mountains coalition and the san juan citizens alliance are preparing to shed light on the fallout of drilling in the hd mountains roadless area and near the fruitland outcrop.
and those are the nights you swear you'll never go  back, but in the end you buckle, you give in, and you crave more.
there you can see this marvelous structure and learn about the ancient people who inhabited this area over 1,000 years ago.
"what are you doing?"
perhaps  because we had so many events this year, the time seems to have gone by a  little faster than usual.
no penalty kicks; all fouls result in an indirect free kick with opponents at least six yards away.
on to the bread go slices of high-grade provolone.
karl has had a good breakfast, he has a few dollars in the  checking account (as far as he knows), and he has a bottle of water (cleansed  by the miracle of reverse osmosis) riding in the cup holder on the dash.
he presently serves as chair of the church ministries division and is a member of numerous boards and committees.
the menu includes corn on the cob, potato salad and tossed salad, and brownies a la mode for dessert.
the event will take place at the dr. mary fisher medical center at 95 south pagosa blvd.
this year that number fell to 407, proof that the pet overpopulation program is working.
with that in mind, and still cloudy, though less threatening weather at hand, the urge to fish swelled within me that day, as i approached the tree-covered parking and pathway beyond.
it is true, bureaucrats breed taxation which in turn breeds more taxation.
tickets are also available at moonlight books downtown or at wolftracks in the pagosa country center by cash or check.
the solution: remove the bureaucrats.
for more information, contact psac at 264-5020.
there are 2,000 or more kinds of wild mushrooms throughout the united states.
'mind's material' exhibit opens saturday
a benefit spaghetti  dinner to help out the families of chase regester, mickey maestas, and
"sensual" would be a proper adjective to describe the forms will creates.
wednesday, aug. 30 - basic computer class, 10 a.m.; "recovery of the  peregrine falcon" presentation has been cancelled.
we, the residents of the aspen springs subdivision, have for the past 20 years or so funded our own road maintenance and snow removal; currently to the tune of a 10.4 mill levy in addition to the county mill levy.
the authors of  the above guides are professional mycologists.
"potty training your baby" by katie warren claims its advice will allow you to begin training before your child's first birthday and be fully completed by the second year.
leroy oldham editor's note: technically, the ballot issue will not seek to raise the  mill levy.
all white mushrooms are safe.
my addiction to pinot noir began years ago, and since that time, she has  been a demanding and cruel mistress.
this is the best discount program in town, and a great way to help our senior community.
it has its roots in the folk music of many countries, most notably england, scotland, ireland, and the african continent.
these guides are often available  in local bookstores or in public libraries.
ball size is no. 4; nine players permitted on the field, including the  goalkeeper.
chi omega also has a local alumnae club, based in durango.
whether they're mesmerizing audiences at intimate venues, or creating a  sensation at major festivals, the band has brought its onstage alchemy to  enthusiastic fans far and wide.
donations can be mailed to operation helping hand at p.o. box 3005, pagosa  springs, co 81147.
add in overall wellness exams and medications for heartworm and other common ailments, and pet owners may again be facing expensive bills.
each rose heartily to the elk hair, and all were still swimming at the end of the day.
the tournament is the kick-off event for the 2006 united way community  campaign in archuleta county.
not  unless your idea of atmosphere includes dining under fluorescent lights while  ceiling-mounted televisions blast thai soap operas.
and those are the nights you swear you'll never go back, but in the end you buckle, you give in, and you crave more.
the human image is key to each artist's work, which ends any similarities that they might otherwise exhibit.
you can help ohh make someone's first day of school (and in fact the entire school year) a brighter one by contributing some supplies.
a bum relay don't just happen; homeschoolers put it there.
turn east on greenbrier drive off of north pagosa by  the fire station, then left into the back parking lot and look for the big  sign.
and friday morning had me looking hard.
it includes writings from florence self's journal.
friday, sept. 1 - the "geezers" weekly meeting, 9 a.m.; gym walk,  11:15 a.m.; final ice cream social of the summer, following lunch;  bridge-4-fun, 12:30 p.m.; duplicate bridge, 12:30 p.m.
got my scanner here in my pocket.
this session is appropriate for beginners  as well as advanced students.
fienberg described the scene as a borderline bar room brawl, when attendees argued whether planets should be defined by mass or roundness, or by external traits such as their orbital shape or the proximity to similar objects.
four people in the most recent class completed their business plans.
a tow truck will be dispatched.
senior newssenior news 'fight bac' with simple cleaning practices by jeni wiskofske sun columnist the fight bac campaign for food safety promotes four important points: clean, cook, shill and separate.
mind's material displays three unique styles of imagery and materials  from three creative artists.
also survived by numerous loving family and friends.
terry served with pride and respect, but  also with a great sense of sadness for the loss of life.
my god, he has a 25 man crew - four in engineering, 19 in maintenance, seven fleet and five seasonal.
the pagosa team of lynne allison, marilyn smart, jane day, bonnie hoover,  cherry o'donnell, audrey johnson, josie hummel and doe stringer garnered 43  points - their highest total to date this season - against san juan country  club.
the horses and cattle were in good weight and had shiny coats.
he is missing his front  teeth and there is a cigarette jammed through the space where teeth  (presumably) once were.
per his  request, there will not be a formal memorial service; please remember his life  at a family and friend picnic.
coach lindsey kurt-mason said the purpose of the run was to build both team and individual confidence and determination.
somewhere off to the west, up the  hill.
my  name is brian; how may i help you?
and at a third station, a cook theatrically juggles a deep frying pan over  full flames, scrambling an egg while throwing in handfuls of noodles, dried  shrimp, pork, spring onions, bean sprouts and some sugar and spices.
for more information about united way in archuleta county, call stacia kemp at 264-3230.
patric's terrine de canard fell into the latter category, and out came more slices of bread.
weather date high low precip.
"the mushroom hunter's field guide," by a. h. smith and nancy weber.
she trained and taught culinary  students in thailand, and has authored for thai cookbooks.
wednesday, aug. 30 - chicken and noodles, yellow squash, spinach, orange  wedges, and whole wheat bread.
forty-five total runners have come out for the boys' and girls' teams this year, making them virtually impossible to miss on the morning drive to work.
noguchi apprenticed with constantin brancusi, the father of modern sculpture.
with prior's preliminary assessment figures in for this year, assessed value for oil and gas production and personal property have bounded exponentially.
"but it's not like i'd be sight-seeing.
why do lesser talents run dry?
"inadequate rations and scarcity of game led to the raiding, but also forced some jicarilla to cultivate crops.
be sure to replace your kitchen sponge frequently so that it's always fresh.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is located at 400 south camino del rio,  suite g, (next to big 5 sports).
however, until recently, the va did not usually consider that a veteran was exposed to agent orange unless the claimant was on the ground in vietnam.
high country reflectionshigh country reflections cutthroats amid the forest gloom
have you called triple a?" "huh?" "triple a. we pay them money every year so, if the car breaks down, they can tow it to someone who can fix it.
spending several months traveling, the family fell in love with the mountains and oceans of the pacific northwest.
last season, the team finished first in the conference, losing only one regular season game to 4a montrose.
as we grumbled and complained, the car, functioning as though on autopilot,  meandered toward christiene's restaurant, and came to a stop in the parking  lot.
region 9 completes survey of second home owners
take u.s. 160 to north pagosa boulevard, stay on north pagosa to bastille drive (at ubc), turn left and stay on bastille past hopi.
we would love to hear from you regarding suggestions for arts line.
as i walked, the deep woods grew dim with the passage of more clouds, and the sheer volcanic cliffs closed in on either side.
the ingredients are combined and left to sit for a  couple hours in the fridge, so the flavors meld.
the events going on this weekend are all for such great  causes, it's hard to choose, so try and get to all of them.
had a bunch of 'em go up on me over the years.
the exhibition runs from aug. 26-oct. 7, with an artist's reception 5-8  p.m. saturday, aug. 26.
when gronewoller was a freshman, her basketball team held a 4-24 record; admittedly, she said, not something worth celebrating.
he supports referenda designed to ease the burden of constitutional amendments on the state budget, and leads the battle against that burden from the get-go.
other drills have focused on quick thinking, while hours of conditioning will help players get through 90-minute games and a 15-match season.
see elationarts.org on the web.
mind's material displays three unique styles of imagery and materials from three creative artists.
7-8 game rules game consists of four quarters of 10 minutes each, a five-minute halftime and a one-minute break between quarters.
what better way to start the day than with a crisp,  bright, slightly effervescent white wine from near the city of nantes where the  loire river spills into the atlantic?
new books on cd books on cd are becoming more popular with our patrons every day, and we  have new ones coming in regularly from bestselling authors.
the sewage, garbage, and factory toxins dumped into the rivers destroyed the fishing industry and almost destroyed the rivers and surrounding sea.
have one  nearly every day, when i can get away from the keyboard, been writin' code, you  know.
according to the group, the eis outlines a plan to monitor water wells and vegetation along the outcrop for signs of methane seepage.
the moon is waxing crescent with one percent of the visible disk illuminated.
non-refundable entry fees are $25 for one to three images,  plus $5 for each additional image, up to a maximum of six.
aside from meeting the filing deadline, an eligible write-in candidate must live in the county for at least one year.
for more  information, contact musetta at 264-2167.
the problem was, christiene, by all  appearances, was closed.
a rosary is scheduled for 4 p.m., friday, aug. 25, at immaculate heart of  mary catholic church in pagosa springs.
coach fenton will train the young swimmers in stroke technique, competition starts and turns, as well as building endurance.
classes are free to everyone, and we try to tailor  what is taught to your individual needs.
terry enjoyed a special friendship and kinship with his mother- and  father-in-law, dick and betty hillyer, who also resided in pagosa.
or the wholesale abandonment of their government jobs for the pharmaceutical industry by those most responsible for drafting the prescription drug law.
for inclusion in arts line, send information to psac e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
waybacks on the main stage at four corners folk festival by crista munro special to the preview you still have just about a week to pick up your advanced-price tickets to  the 11th annual four corners folk festival taking place this labor day weekend,  sept. 1-3, on reservoir hill park in pagosa springs.
everyone received rations; some hung around the agencies just for the rations, which they sold and ended up without food.
how are we to live as the priests and a kingdom that god's word says we are in jesus christ?
for more information, or to obtain an order form, contact the san juan conservation district at 731-3615, or visit the office at 505a cr 600 (piedra road).
the greatest increase is in the elementary school with 40 new students and the middle school which added 42 students this year.
thursday, aug. 31 - bar d ranch dinner and show (reservations required) with transportation leaving the den at 4:30 p.m.
how is one to accomplish it all?
these discoveries have rightfully called into question whether or not they should be considered as new 'planets,'"
this account has been opened to help defray costs of travel and medical expenses.
library district to seek mill levy increase by louis sherman staff writer the upper san juan library district has delivered a ballot question to county and town officials, asking for a 1.5 mill increase to its mill levy.
monday, aug. 28 - hungarian goulash, vegetable medley, spinach, mixed fruit  with bananas, and whole wheat bread.
the .9-acre parcel is pie-shaped and includes approximately 250 feet of frontage on piedra road.
in august, the film "rivers and tides" about environmental  artist andy goldsworthy was shown.
membership also entitles those who meet annual income guidelines to scholarships for eyeglasses, hearing aids, dental, prescription drugs and medical equipment.
watercolorists of all levels are provided the opportunity to use the room for the day.
inextricably tied to the inevitable rejection of the jicarilla was the 1866 discovery of gold on willow creek, and prospectors overflowed into the nearby gullies on the western slopes of baldy mountain."
charles t. crabtree to speak at first assembly of god church rev. charles t. crabtree, assistant general superintendent of the  assemblies of god, will be guest speaker at the first assembly of god church,  110 trinity lane, at 10:30 a.m. and 6 p.m. sunday, aug. 27.
for more information: log onto http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com.
aikido students learn hand techniques for armed and unarmed attackers, and  train with the wooden sword and short staff.
despite a few rainy  performances, what a delight these productions have been to our town.
" brown said monitoring and mitigation measures play key roles in the eis' preferred alternative, but a statement from the san juan citizens alliance calls those measures "vague, voluntary and unenforceable."
based in the san francisco bay area, the waybacks are stevie coyle, james nash, chuck hamilton, joe kyle jr. and warren hood.
friday, there will be a beer, brats, and balloons picnic in the park the early part of the evening.
a background check will be  completed on all candidates.
sophomore clark riedberger led the pirates in all three days of competition with scores of 75, 80 and 83.
the pagosa team of lynne allison, marilyn smart, jane day, bonnie hoover, cherry o'donnell, audrey johnson, josie hummel and doe stringer garnered 43 points - their highest total to date this season - against san juan country club.
tuesday, aug. 29 - baked potato with barbecue beef, cheesy broccoli, plums and drop biscuit.
there are 26 panhellenic sororities whose alumnae are invited to this  event: alpha chi omega, alpha delta pi, alpha epsilon phi, alpha gamma delta,  alpha phi, alpha omicron pi, alpha sigma alpha, alpha sigma tau, alpha xi  delta, chi omega, delta delta delta, delta gamma, delta phi epsilon, delta  zeta, gamma phi beta, kappa alpha theta, kappa delta, kappa kappa gamma, pi
the silver foxes den senior center has an opportunity for you to make new  friends while you donate one lunch hour per week to the home-delivery meal  program for our senior citizens.
since there is no way to distinguish between a so-called  "toadstool" and an edible mushroom it is more precise to speak of  poisonous mushrooms or edible mushrooms.
he also finished sixth in the 800 freestyle and  10th in the 400 freestyle.
the first event was wild horse riding.
the family meal will be held following the rosary, in chromo.
the focal point of the september go jii ya celebration, the biggest religious fete of the year for the jicarilla, is a relay race between these two clans).
oh well, then there was always the incredibly misrepresented advice on social security.
all are welcome to attend.
it's not uncommon to  have several freshman show up in the top ten at state," said anderson.
this year's two-a-days have focused on conditioning in the morning and playbook and drills in the afternoon.
first, i would start with a glass of muscadet, sèvre-et-maine, mis  en bouteille sur lie, of course, and i didn't even bother to look at the  vintner nor vintage.
some mushrooms grow in, and form their fruiting structures on living  trees causing decay of the sapwood or of the heartwood.
it is hard to believe that the summer has flown by so quickly.
the russkies wanted the secret to fuel injection and chevy found a way to hide it from the reds.
oil and gas personal property on the same abstract showed a total assessment of $861,650.
a number of these are  choice edibles.
again, a limited number of vouchers are given out on the first of each month.
in the subject area of your e-mail, please  write "arts line."
if i know these merchants,  they may even start the weekend a little earlier - like they did last year.
adopt a home-delivery route today and brighten the lives of a few senior citizens.
an orvis  superfine tight loop fly rod with cfo ii reel is available, as well as 20 flies  tied by archuleta county 4-h fishing instructor kenneth jones.
while exploring the eastern seaboard of north america, hudson and his crew  entered what is known now as new york and "almost as if falling through a  keyhole, found themselves in another world."
the live auction follows soon after.
like most high-elevation roads, it roughly parallels a cascading mountain stream, as it gradually climbs toward designated wilderness and thick stands of douglas fir, engelmann spruce and colorado blue spruce.
the starter makes its best effort, but the engine remains dead.
" harl is stretched out across the engine of the vehicle, a gruesome divide  widening between the bottom of his t-shirt and the top of his pants.
ladies, here's your chance to put on a favorite dress and get your man out of his t-shirt.
for information on these and other veteran's benefits, call or stop by the  archuleta county veterans service office located at 46 eaton drive, suite 7  (behind city market).
you are invited to join in the fun evening, socializing over gourmet hors d'oeuvres by farrago market café and alley house grille and a glass of wine (with wine admission ticket) while perusing and placing your bids on myriad items, large and small.
there are 2,000 or more kinds of wild mushrooms throughout the united  states.
the region 9 economic development district of southwest colorado has completed their survey of second homeowners in archuleta, la plata, dolores, san juan and montezuma counties.
in bankok, it seems you're never more than 30 feet from food and the opportunity to eat it.
second homeowners were defined as persons with mailing addresses outside the county where they own property.
we examined and commented on the texture.
in this volume the amyx and bramwell families share their stories.
each, however, has produced and shown their  art for decades.
why will we miss him?
these classes are not meant to diagnose or treat any illness.
anyone wanting to register for the next leading edge entrepreneurial course can do so by calling aeda at 264-4722 or download an application at: www.archuletaeconomicdevelopment.org.
perhaps it was the  company, perhaps it was the terrine, perhaps it was the pinot, but whatever the  case, the california juice went down fine, and i vowed to attempt to replicate  the experience when i returned to pagosa springs.
for more information about costs and location, call the center at 264-4152.
come on out and support your local merchants by purchasing clothing, gifts,  accessories and items for your home.
some edible mushrooms are very similar in appearance to poisonous kinds and may grow in the same habitat.
san juan historical society releases new book by shari pierce special to the sun the san juan historical society announces the release of volume 11 of its popular "remembrances" series of books.
if approved, there would be an annual total of around $45 in property tax on the average home to fund the upper san juan library district.
the sun training advantage programs available to pagosans sucap/the training advantage, a partner in the southwest workforce center, has programs available for adults and youth needing assistance with job training and employment.
however, when faced with the daunting veterinarian bills that new pets often bring, many pet owners don't know where to begin.
the success of the group's approach is evident in its broad appeal to audiences of all ages, shapes and tastes, whether they sit enraptured, stand drop-jawed at breathtaking flights of fancy or just plain get up and dance.
not only will you  receive generous discounts from local businesses, but you'll be eligible for  our mystery trip program and other trips in addition to discounts at such  senior activities as oktoberfest.
on august 9, 2006, terry completed this special life's journey to travel  onto the next one, which he believed would be just as fascinating.
please remember that reservations for the mystery trips are on a first come first serve basis and they do fill up quickly, so don't delay.
woodruff also worked as deputy clerk in archuleta county for four years.
the balls are browned in olive oil over medium high  heat, then removed from the pan.
the opening reception for this provocative exhibit is scheduled for 5-7  p.m. thursday, aug. 31 at the psac gallery.
as a peace offering, she handed me a thick, homemade slice of tarte aux pommes and a cup of piping hot argentine espresso from a stash i'd cached with her in albuquerque for just such emergencies.
we were like a couple of homing pigeons, and even in the heat of battle,  our unconscious minds had propelled us to one of the city's few temples of  guaranteed, gastronomic euphoria.
what would it be like to be a practicing unitarian universalist?" odin heller has had a wide range of ministerial and administrative experience, having served fellowships in minneapolis, reno, and sierra foothills, as well as stewarding the pacific northwest uu district to impressive growth as its district executive.
the colt, head then released, was hazed across the arena to the "finish line."
nothing  flat, so that can't be it.
biz beat lisa mettscher is the sales associate with timberline builders, owned and  managed by emil wanakta and jerry pope.
tickets  are also available at moonlight books downtown or at wolftracks in the pagosa  country center by cash or check.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for application for va programs, and  for filing in the vso office.
all presenters in lifelong learning in pagosa are volunteers who offer  their knowledge and expertise gratis to our community.
shy rabbit is located at 333 bastille dr. units b-1 and b-4 and the reception is from 5-8 p.m. with the gallery regularly open tuesday, thursday and saturday from 1 - 4 p.m. and 1-6:30 p.m. on the second thursday of the month.
" psac seeks new members started in 1988, the pagosa springs arts council, a non-profit  organization, was conceived and developed to, in part, promote the awareness of  the vast array of local artistic talent; provide educational and cultural  activities in the community; sponsor exhibit and workshops by local and  regional artists; and encourage and support continued appreciation and  preservation of the aesthetic beauty of pagosa springs.
it appears to me that the bureaucrats are going to "grow" the county residents into the poor house.
first, i would start with a glass of muscadet, sèvre-et-maine, mis en bouteille sur lie, of course, and i didn't even bother to look at the vintner nor vintage.
cost is $17 per person with a choice of roast beef or chicken, and the  dinner begins at 7:30 p.m.
and once the water is gone, delzell said, it is possible for the coal to warm.
pagosa lakes clubhouse is located at 230 port ave.
if you have questions or would like more information on joining, call the psac office, 264-5020.
please bring  chairs or blankets to sit on, and remember that no alcohol is permitted on  library property.
sandy recognized that will's wood turnings would be an asset to the gallery.
the pirates run a spread option offense out of the shotgun, with one  tailback and four wide receivers.
community news auction for the animals, tomorrow at community center by cristina woodall special to the preview the humane society of pagosa springs' 12th annual auction for the animals  is friday at 5:30 p.m.
needless to say, a wide variety of birds grace the woodlands, with the most audible among them being the mountain and black-capped chickadees, steller's jays, gray jays, robins, ravens and water ouzels.
as is typical when we are together in the duke city,  we began to argue about where to eat.
higgins, county commissioner of pueblo.
i'll grab a  couple tools and we'll have a look at it.
the auction, called by calvin story, will be held at the la plata county fairgrounds .
the tranquil silence of the great forest broke only with a muted chickadee-dee-dee echoing among the trees.
he will enjoy free lunches at arboles meal day during the month of september.
look at that compac there, will yuh?
heat is used to alleviate pain when you have mild to moderate soreness after an activity.
featuring the masterworks  of doug pedersen, kelsey hauck and karl isberg.
you  can also put sponges in the dishwasher and run them through a cycle with your  dishes.
people cards of thanks volleyball club
the office number is 731-3837, the fax number is 731-3879, cell number is 946-6648, and e-mail is afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
he has attached a device to a spark plug.
lunch will be provided and we will return to the den by 4.
5-6 game rules game consists of four quarters of eight minutes each, a five-minute  halftime and a one-minute break between quarters.
a concert entitled "a summer evening of american folk music" will  be presented at 7 p.m., saturday, aug. 26, at the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
pagosa's pastpagosa's past harsh conditions for the jicarilla apache by john m. motter we've been reporting on pre-reservation jicarilla apache life as reported by juan dedios to anthropologist frank gribben in 1933 and reported in "the jicarilla apache, a history, 1846-1970," by dr. veronica e. velarde tiller, a tribal historian.
adaptive sorts association seeks donations adaptive sports association encourages the community to participate in the  organization's annual august membership drive.
pagosa lakes news broaden your culinary horizons at thai cooking class by ming steen sun columnist food is the integral part of the experience in thailand.
a few miles more, as i turned from pavement onto gravel, the surrounding landscape quickly dried under the warmth of increasing sunshine.
you are invited to join in the fun evening, socializing over gourmet hors  d'oeuvres by farrago market café and alley house grille and a glass of  wine (with wine admission ticket) while perusing and placing your bids on  myriad items, large and small.
george barter took over as airport manager aug. 7.
he's listening to a conservative radio talk show, the host saying the same simpleminded thing over and over, providing a brain-numbing mantra to those inclined to be affected by sophomoric, manly speech.
three other capable runners - matt gallegos, eric heard and mike smith -  are available to step in if necessary.
in 2005, the pirates lost in the first-round to holy family of the metro league, 45-27.
or do we create for  ourselves in the hopes of finding a market?
the human image is key in each of their works.
bob grandchamp, took in one more vote for a total of 259, and steve wadley also took an additional vote for a total of 611 votes.
by stacia kemp special to the sun the eighth annual united way golf tournament will be held saturday at the  pagosa springs golf club.
by chuck mcguire sun columnist even as i finished the last of my morning errands, towering cumulonimbus building over the north range were also backing steadily toward town.
eat only a small amount the first time; even morels, generally considered to be excellent, may cause illness in some persons.
the three-day outdoor festival features nationally touring musicians  delbert mcclinton; dar williams; eddie from ohio; robinella; drew emmitt; rani  arbo and daisy mayhem; old school freight train; the duhks; the stringdusters;  the hot strings; anne and pete sibley; the biscuit burners; brad davis, john  moore and company; and julie lee with guest sarah siskind.
others will represent "funky" things, the  "alter ego."
alvord and senior planner jason peasley said, out of 17,000 parcels, about 100 did not mesh neatly with the decision making process outlined in the zoning transition program, and therefore, county staff is willing to look at tax records and other documentation that might provide clearer insight into those properties' best zoning designation and would make a change if necessary.
sophomore clark riedberger led the pirates in all three days of competition  with scores of 75, 80 and 83.
gobs of paint and layers of  color masterfully applied to canvas creating images of heads filled with  expressions of the here and now.
"one of the important things which separates  them is the notion of practice.
those who wish to make monetary donations to the drive may send them to operation helping hand, wells fargo bank, account number 6240417424, or bank of the san juans, account number 20014379.
organizers want to thank local businesses for their donations and those individuals who came to the auction and dance and made it a success.
a country band will provide entertainment.
pedersen's paintings are filled with heads: heads that look like masks or  ancient sculptures.
black creek is an old municipal course with prominent treelines hugging the  fairways (par 70), while cobble creek is a newer links course with large greens  (par 72).
the cat would not accommodate them so they finally tired of the sport and scampered off on their adventures.
estancia pinot noir pinnacles ranches monterey 2005:
children under age 6 are admitted at no charge.
by lynne allison special to the sun the pagosa women's golf association sent eight of its low-handicap players  to dalton ranch golf club in durango for a team play event aug. 17.
the 12-week course costs $280 or $395 for those wanting three hours of college credit.
most folks think it's  an s series.
head coach sean o'donnell said he is "excited about our group ...
and folk music is enjoying a boost from the likes of bruce  springsteen, who is performing concerts of authentic, old-time american folk  songs.
while younger runners have worked primarily on endurance, veterans have  sought to build their running strength.
please note st. patrick's episcopal church's annual shamrock festival will be held  saturday, sept. 9, at the church located at 225 so.
i nibbled on sharp cheddar and crackers, mixed nuts and a granola bar, as the river steadily rushed by me.
the increase would double the district's mill levy, raising it from 1.5 to three mills.
they were knocked out of competition by arvada's faith christian.
easy business, and they'll be made with healthy turkey, in case harl is  prone to gout.
riggs served as director/curator of the gallery of contemporary art and as  and assistant professor at the university of colorado at colorado springs for  more than 14 years.
the aeda is also looking for instructors to help teach the leading edge class.
soon after, longer lighter ones of graphite composite seemed state-of-the-art.
remember to let us know it is your birthday when you check in at the desk.
a total of 61 players came out for two-a-day practices last week, including  16 seniors.
circle the date on your calendar  and come see some of your friends in "pictures.
"seems like  we've been here before, doesn't it?" kathy turns, a pained look on her face.
more importantly, there will be a home tournament tomorrow at the pagosa springs golf club, beginning at 9 a.m.
rev. crabtree began his ministry as an associate pastor in southern california and traveled as an itinerant evangelist from 1960-63.
both candidates are now gearing up for a short campaign.
and by southwestern colorado standards, albuquerque is a teeming megalopolis, but in the grand scheme of things, it is a big small town, not a culinary mecca, however there is good dining to be had - if you know where to look.
the edibility of the majority is either not known or they are not  considered for food because of their small size or poor flavor or texture.
"we also hope the weather cooperates so that we can stage a group photo outside on the riverfront," scott said.
dave blake county roads dear editor: in the past, i have addressed my concerns on how bad the road and bridge department of archuleta county is being run.
i suggest that if mr. zumwalt, the county administrator and the commissioners can find the money for this year then they should be able to find the money for next year and future years without an increased mill levy.
his presentation will be followed by a performance in the parking lot at the library.
in addition, delzell said, the pressure created by underground water plays a critical role in holding the methane in place, and once water is removed during the drilling process, methane is free to flow not only out the well head, but could seep through cracks and fissures in the rock and possibly into residential water supplies or other sensitive or hazardous areas.
insane people like yellow a whole lot, too.
to this day, the jicarilla are divided into the ollero, or mountain or white clans, and the llanero or plains or red clan.
the commission has also expressed concern with the airport's aging maintenance equipment.
not fema, remember katrina.
calendars are available at the gallery for $9.95 plus tax for nonmembers and $8.95 plus tax for psac members.
ask him a  few questions about his wood turnings, and he becomes animated, excited,  passionate.
the primary function of the organization continues to be holding conservation easements and protecting them in perpetuity.
the pan is deglazed with a  bit of chicken broth and the broth is reduced.
all around the town, merchants are offering great sales and merchandise to  make way for all the new items that will be coming in for the fall.
mark your calendar now and bring the entire  family.
right now we just want to alert local sorority women to our plans so they can put the event on their calendars.
grand finale sunshine, hanging out by the river, eating delicious barbecue, enjoying  friends, a wild egg race.
this survey portion sought information about why second homeowners decide to buy property in our region, and look at their future plans in our area.
the goal of the heat is on!
the film will be  followed by group discussion.
fran jenkins is a certified culinary professional with the international  association of culinary professionals.
by the color, the wine appears lost and this observation holds true on the palate.
the speaker will be the rev. anne odin heller, a retired unitarian minister, now living in taos, n.m. "the humanism of unitarianism and the philosophy of buddhism are very close," she explains.
for more information about energy star, visit www.energystar.gov or call toll-free 1-888-782-7937.
with the colorado film industry and our own local chamber always  looking for photo opportunities, peak locations will be a great addition to our  membership.
kathy sees them coming and beats a  hasty retreat to her car.
they finished eighth overall with combined scores of 242 and 248 (measuring the top three players), on the first and second day respectively.
the pirates boast a team full of upper classmen, with eight seniors and six  juniors.
with just eight of the 13 qualified swimmers participating, the porpoises  finished a very respectable ninth place overall.
the assumption by the va has been, if you were in country in vietnam during the vietnam war and you have certain medical problems such as those above and others, it is presumed that this medical condition is due to your exposure to agent orange.
last year's starting running back corbin mellette, now a senior, broke his  hand in last thursday's practice.
six teams will compete throughout the day, including aztec, bayfield,  cortez, durango, telluride and pagosa.
by cooperating with law enforcement at dui checkpoints and by always using designated drivers.
a buffet of exceptional snacks was prepared by the club's new cook, nicole buckley.
or do we create for ourselves in the hopes of finding a market?
according  to kurt-mason, the high school program has encouraged organized soccer at  younger ages, and current players have many years of play under their belts.
the pirates boast a team full of upper classmen, with eight seniors and six juniors.
what do sacrifices, priesthoods and feasts teach us about how we can be holy and worship god as we were designed by him to do?
all the water in new york harbor was filtered in a matter of days  by the original oyster population.
aug 28 - line dancing, 10-11:30 a.m.; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35  a.m.; bridge 4 fun, 12:30-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; pacific auction  exchange seminar, 5:30-7:30 p.m.; pagosa springs waldorf parent orientation,  6-8 p.m. aug. 29 - over-the-hill-hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.;
local artist jan nanus is offering a watercolor titled "autumn at engineer mountain."
later, there also  will be presentations by talented local people as well.
terry is survived and missed by his wife, son and in-laws; mother emma  windnagel; sister peggy schwartzkopf; brother and wife tom and linda windnagel;  uncle and wife ron and chris kingham; uncle lee and monie kingham; aunt georgia  benson; brother-in-law and wife brian and dottie hillyer; and several cousins  and nieces.
i think its easiest to stay away from the outcrop for a mile and half," delzell said.
sept. 5-8 - joye moon watercolor workshop.
in 2005,  the pirates lost in the first-round to holy family of the metro league, 45-27.
also, anyone who owns a purebred staffordshire bull terrier (pit bull) or a staffordshire bull terrier mix will qualify for a fix-it-free voucher regardless of income.
"oh what a slaughter" by larry mcmurty is a searing history of  the bloody massacres that marked - and marred - the settling of the american  west in the 19th century, and still provoke immense controversy today.
volumes in the "remembrances" series are available at the san juan historical society museum.
if you have missed several weeks, don't worry about catching up.
who  knows what his work will have become by then?
many  health experts agree that the most important thing you can do to prevent  illness is to wash your hands.
advance admission tickets are available until noon friday at wolftracks,  pagosa springs chamber of commerce, moonlight books, and the humane society  thrift store.
the all-day festival kicks off at 8 a.m. with breakfast and activities for  the entire family.
once a final site is agreed upon, the estimated expense to move it is about $17,000.
meagan's place, the special section for teens and young adults, also has  been opened up.
if so, join us friday to celebrate the final and ultimate picnic in the  park - at town park, by the arts council building.
"no one expected anything from us," said gronewoller.
they may be purchased all over town, and of course, your chamber of commerce has them as well.
barter has 25 years of aviation experience, with five years in aviation management.
in addition to tournament entry fees, operation helping hand is seeking cash contributions and donations of prizes for tournament winners.
while younger runners have worked primarily on endurance, veterans have sought to build their running strength.
on defense, the pirates will use a 3-5-3 setup - three defensive linemen,  five linebackers and three defensive backs.
you will also be able to bid on a week's stay in a private home in keystone, colo. a number of services will be offered this year.
thus begins the author's masterful writing, taking you into the depths of history with his exhaustive research of new york and the oyster.
it's a night out on the town thursday, aug. 31, with a trip to the bar d  chuck wagon ranch.
coin collectors, look for the 1998 u.s. one-ounce gold liberty american eagle $50 coin, donated by debra and james brown.
if your child is on medicaid or the chp+, remember to bring your card with you.
per his request, there will not be a formal memorial service; please remember his life at a family and friend picnic.
in a july 18 presentation to the archuleta county board of county commissioners, eis team leader walt brown, said the eis' preferred alternative acknowledges outcrop drilling concerns and "requires geologic, hydrologic and gas reservoir information from test wells in less sensitive areas before development is considered in more sensitive areas within the 1.5 mile outcrop buffer zone.
"i've attended all the eca concerts for the past two years, and enjoyed every one," she said.
two bucking chute gates opened and out sprang two horses, haltered with long lead lines attached.
with folk songs, mississippi blues, appalachian dances and old-fashioned sing-alongs, the evening celebrates our cultural heritage.
easy: his honesty, his integrity, his dedication to research and to acquiring knowledge concerning issues.
these guides are often available in local bookstores or in public libraries.
if the artist does not  make a personal impression on their work, i don't consider it art.
adding another business to their first one, we welcome the owners of jessie's elves: mike and christina lepore with lepore's enterprises of pagosa.
it is in concert with leaders like  larson that we will remain strong, creative and free of the burden of limited  political thought.
not unless your idea of atmosphere includes dining under fluorescent lights while ceiling-mounted televisions blast thai soap operas.
each person formulated a goal he/she wanted to achieve during the  course of the class.
the survey portion is phase two of region 9's social and economic impact of 2nd homes study.
admission ticket prices for this extravaganza will be $25 in advance or $30 at the door for wine and beer, including a commemorative wine glass or beer stein.
he's listening to a conservative radio talk show, the host saying the same  simpleminded thing over and over, providing a brain-numbing mantra to those  inclined to be affected by sophomoric, manly speech.
museum hours tuesday through saturday are 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
the waybacks will return to pagosa springs to headline friday's lineup at this year's event.
you must have good people skills and be a safe driver.
there is plenty of merchandise to be had from numerous great  stores in this part of pagosa.
many of the other 24 teams  from around the state had 30 or more swimmers participating.
the first rehearsal will be sept. 5 and will begin at 6:30 with registration.
bid on a wide variety of items at shamrock fest by christelle troell special to the preview need some decorative items to spruce up your home?
aside from the running that is typically associated with "conditioning," the team also employs a relatively new training regimen called "dynamic stretching."
while in the la mesa gallery, she  struck up a conversation with the gallery's owner.
the club will meet on the same day, the third thursday of each month, but at 5:30 p.m. instead of in the morning.
these records were added to her distinctions of most total points in a career (1,466), most total rebounds in a year (890), best career field goal percentage (57.4), best season field goal percentage (58.9), and most free throws made in a career (288).
o'donnell said he will also put in a tight  end during some plays, replacing one of the wideouts.
the events going on this weekend are all for such great causes, it's hard to choose, so try and get to all of them.
he scans the mountainsides for signs of odd electric transmission towers,  remembering that many years ago his cousin, roger, attempted to build a  facility nearby to test the more farfetched theories of nicolai tesla.
during tuesday's adoption hearing, much of the discussion focused on mechanisms for achieving a re-zone of a property from its present zoning status.
the initial board of directors of the nonprofit organization, listed in a january 1982 issue of the pagosa springs sun, were identified as betty feazel, dr. allan handy, jock jacober, carl macht, genelle macht, joe moore and vicki ray.
games in the 5-6 and 7-8 divisions will be played mondays, wednesdays and some saturdays (against teams from dulce, n.m.), while games in the 9-10 and 11-13 divisions will be played tuesdays, thursdays and some saturdays (against teams from dulce).
horseshoes horseshoe pitching at south pagosa park will continue each tuesday from 5-7 p.m. through september.
all money raised at the event will be used locally to support programs that  serve the people of archuleta county, including: american red cross, archuleta  county education center, archuleta county victim assistance program, community  connections, big brothers big sisters, boy scouts, girl scouts, habitat for  humanity of archuleta county, housing solutions of the southwest, pagosa  outreach connection, seeds of learning, senior center, southwest colorado  mental health, southwest youth corps and southwest safehouse.
with  estancia's fruit-driven style, it is clear this is not burgundy.
hearing will dunbar discuss his life journey and his work, it seems evident that the many challenges he faces will be met.
to a pound of 85/15 turkey is added salt, pepper, some day-old bread crumbs softened in milk and squeezed nearly dry, oregano, basil, mashed garlic, chopped parsley, finely minced white onion, a beaten egg and a batch of freshly grated parmesan cheese.
presented by elation center for the arts,  the program is chuck full of vocal harmonies, galloping banjos, soaring fiddles  and guitars.
how are we to live as the priests and a  kingdom that god's word says we are in jesus christ?
karl locates his cell phone on the front seat, beneath a stack of old art in america magazines.
let the knights of columbus do that for you and, once again, you'll support  a great organization while it helps the three families of our young adults who  were involved in that fatal accident several weeks ago.
please plan to  stop by and see some of joye's work - sept. 5-8.
rusted  machinery is crammed between the car bodies.
which led me to my next question.
shy rabbit is located at: 333 bastille drive, units b-1 and b-4.
the boy's team will have two seniors and one junior returning from last  year's state competition.
some will be hill races, demanding strength as well as endurance.
opening reception 5-7 p.m. aug. 31-sept. 19 - psac pagosa portraits: ego and alter-ego by sandy  applegate.
" gronewoller said the level of difficulty and competition for each team vary; some teams would thrive in the wnba, while others are comparable to a college level.
aug. 27 - church of christ sunday service, 10 a.m.-noon; grace evangelical  free church service, 10 a.m.-noon; high roads baptist church, 6-8 p.m.
by sarah o. smith staff writer prompted by her own experiences and the trials of others, local resident
while an estimated 14.6 million have been diagnosed with the  disease, 6.2 million (nearly one third) are unaware that they have the disease.
possessed of dazzling instrumental chops and an absolute mastery of acoustic musical styles, the waybacks have taken north america by storm.
will shook his head when i asked him these questions.
clean hands are vital to health and food safety.
marcia bledsoe bush's legacy dear editor: positive legislation ... after his only veto, research on stem cells, the all-purpose building blocks that eventually turn into specific tissue/bone, has moved with some of our leading scientists to singapore.
horseshoes horseshoe pitching at south pagosa park will continue each tuesday from 5-7  p.m. through september.
he expressed confidence that the team will make the playoffs if they can stay healthy and eligible to play.
for her first nonfiction book, she not only drew from past experiences but also invited local women to share their own inspirational stories.
another type of challenge for him.
the team will likely run  the ball 60 to 70 percent of the time.
if your child is on medicaid or the chp+, remember to bring your card with  you.
"when the kids do something like that it just strengthens their  spirit, and it shows the endurance that they can muster," kurt-mason said.
we will depart the den at 9:15 and arrive at our destination at approximately 11:15.
this neil simon play is performed under the stars at 3700 cr 600 (piedra road).
will shared a good story about his introduction to the santa fe gallery.
he recalled one incident when some apaches raided the ranches near tierra azul and soldiers were called out who shot the indians.
" "well, hell, if that's what you want.
she has been the chief title officer for one year and was a title examiner for four years.
the heat is on! campaign and refers to the fact that anyone caught driving with a blood alcohol concentration (bac) of .08 or higher will be arrested.
the high school student council hopes the first-ever back-to-school dance  will accomplish just that.
aikido is beneficial for health, coordination, stress relief and character.
it would add ceres, the largest asteroid, and it would also add 2003 ub313, the large kuiper belt object that was discovered last year in the region outside of neptune.
new information i recently received the following information in a va court of appeals case that broadened the possible exposure to agent orange to include those who served in vietnam in the navy off the coast of vietnam or in nearby countries of thailand, laos and cambodia.
he leads the battle to minimize certain kinds of contributions to legislators while maintaining legitimate sources of assistance that allow rural legislators to do their jobs.
baldwin, a lifelong resident of pagosa springs, is currently undergoing treatment cancer (lymphoma).
early in his life, he lost his father to a heart attack and a brother to suicide.
heads with  cratered eyes.
to a pound of 85/15 turkey is added salt, pepper, some day-old bread crumbs  softened in milk and squeezed nearly dry, oregano, basil, mashed garlic,  chopped parsley, finely minced white onion, a beaten egg and a batch of freshly  grated parmesan cheese.
among other things, the commission expressed a vehement desire to address the current surface condition of the north ramp, or the area where visiting aircraft owners park their planes.
there is a lot more to pirates soccer than shooting on goal.
we thank this organization for once again thinking of those in need here in our community.
the community center's managing diabetes group is our small, but we hope  not insignificant, way to help those in our community who have or are at risk  for this disease.
make sure you know what you are picking and eating?
and friday morning had me looking  hard.
so, that can't be it.
a  commissioner should be able to oversee the roads, why do they need road, bridge  and shop supervisors?
good move on the delayed response.
woodworking seemed second nature to him and so, after working an eight-hour day, will would head to his shop and begin the "real" part of his day.
for more information, log on to eleationarts.org or call 731-3117.
the meat is taken from the bowl with an ice cream scoop and each wad is shaped by hand into a ball.
gronewoller had a full plate at mines: she spent an estimated five hours a day in the gym practicing basketball, and she said there was only one semester when she took less than 19 credit hours - the equivalent of around six full-time classes.
the race is one of balance, speed and  pure craziness.
"organizations like lpea are an important part of the energy star change a light community, who have committed their time to help us spread the word about the change a light pledge.
his good friend, sandy applegate, an artist herself, was scouting gallery  possibilities in santa fe last fall of 2005.
the irs treats the value given up by putting land in a conservation easement as a charitable gift deductible from state and federal taxes.
most people don't take these terrorists seriously, but i do.
for more information, call the humane society administration office at  264-5549.
the tournament is the kick-off event for the 2006 united way community campaign in archuleta county.
"like many organizations, we want to do our part to create a better environment," said greg munro, lpea chief executive officer.
continuing with dedios's report as recorded in tiller's book we read: "dedios described the trading among the jicarilla, utes, and white travelers who crossed raton pass, the mountain branch of the santa fe trail.
by kate terry few people have witnessed more scenes of chaos and conflict around the  world than anderson cooper whose ground-breaking work on cnn has changed the  way many people watch the news.
responses that the group thought would work were: acceptance, dealing with the situation with sense of humor, loving oneself through the challenge, and rising up to meet the challenge and taking action.
watercolorists of all levels are provided the opportunity to use the  room for the day.
crabtree and his wife, ramona, have three grown daughters and 11 grandchildren.
at some point, about where the road narrows to a single lane, it penetrates dense old-growth forests of aspen, ponderosa pine and white fir.
salad bar available every day at the den beginning at 11:30 a.m. menu subject to change.
"modern science provides much more knowledge than the simple fact that objects orbiting the sun appear to move with respect to the background of fixed stars.
colorado is participating in this national crackdown on people who drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
by keeping your hands and your kitchen clean, you'll be taking an important step in preventing food borne illness for you and your family.
with the goal of bettering oneself rather than trying to be better than an opponent, students of all ages and skills can safely practice and learn together.
moonset: 8:24 p.m. moon phase:
for more information, visit www.pagosa-arts.com, or call psac.
the colorado team took fourth overall.
whether they're mesmerizing audiences at intimate venues, or creating a sensation at major festivals, the band has brought its onstage alchemy to enthusiastic fans far and wide.
heat pack may be used  3 times per day until soreness gone.
during his tour of duty in vietnam, terry flew over 400 combat missions, earning many personal ribbons and medals and combat unit citations.
another 500 discussed.
to register, $20 is due the first  night to help with the cost of music.
these guys just work so hard and do everything first class  for this community.
"sometimes, when you're in a relationship like that, where you're financially dependent - we lose our sense of identity," said gunther.
it's probably a reaction to  that herman and the hermits tune.
please let us know if there are specific ways in which this  program could help you.
this class is not only open  to the members of the choir but to the entire community.
this technique has evolved into multiple layers of higher gloss looks, as well as recent experimentation with turquoise inlays and copper-leaf finishes.
"i went to the wrong dealership, the one on the north end of town.
this show, ego and alter ego, explores portraits of people and animals.
we have searched the grounds for them lest someone has decided to do some redecorating.
false collecting wild mushrooms be sure of your identification-eat only kinds known to be edible.
we have  a representative's seat up for grabs in our district, a senate seat to be  contested.
raffle tickets for an array of items will be on sale throughout the evening.
psac calendar all psac classes and workshops are held in the arts and craft space at the community center, unless otherwise noted.
come on out and support your local merchants by purchasing clothing, gifts, accessories and items for your home.
form' allows for abstraction and even work based on amorphic or undefined shapes and/or coloration, as well as realistically rendered, non-figurative works.
can't get a part until monday at the earliest.
after cooking up some  breakfast in his new electric skillet (made in the philippines), he sits down  to figure out on his calculator (made in mexico) how much he can spend today.
the festivities conclude that evening with a barbecue beef dinner provided  by st. patrick's caterer joanne irons.
you know, someone who looks for  things that are wrong with it š besides aliens and balls of electricity  shooting through the air.
veteran's cornerveteran's corner new information on agent orange exposure by andy fautheree i recently wrote in this column about certain "presumptive" medical conditions that are considered service connected disabilities.
the team combines hill and tempo work with the usual run-around.
so, our intrepid traveler waits, standing beside a powerless vehicle on the shoulder of a dirt frontage road high in the colorado mountains.
the main workshop is limited to 10 students, so  sign up for this fun-filled session right away by calling psac at 264-5020.
what happens to the colts after their short stints as rodeo "stars"?
admission is $8 for adults, $4 for young people, 18 and under.
muscadet is a wine geek's mouthwash
while his coffee pot (made in japan) is perking, he puts his blow  dryer (made in taiwan) to work and shaves with his electric razor (made in hong  kong).
the gallery is located at 315 hermosa st. and is open 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  tuesday through saturday, plan to stop by and support your neighbors in pagosa.
this musical treat is free and open to the public.
compare roads graveled 20-25 years ago with roads being graveled today, half gravel and half dirt.
they proceeded to climb on the flatbed and  wait for the cat to come out.
as he motors up a steep hill something goes suddenly wrong with karl's  vehicle.
this class will be held 9 a.m.-3 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, at the community  center.
timberline builders introduces the cottages and the enclave, pagosa's newest residential community of single-family patio homes and townhomes, located in aspen village.
if you have never attended one of his classes, it's a treat to see what you can produce in a day under his guidance.
after learning that terry had esophageal cancer, he retired and wanted to  move north.
the leading edge entrepreneurial course is a 12-week course that teaches business owners how to write a solid business plan.
this means that ranchers can actually receive cash for their tax credits on a conservation easement today.
get ready for a hearty barbecue supper followed by a great  western stage show.
last friday, all of the 27 players who came out for soccer ran eight miles  up wolf creek pass, climbing about half of a mile in elevation.
he wears eyeglasses with 1970 frames held together with duct tape,  one lens shattered and repaired with yellowed epoxy, and a t-shirt and a pair  of jeans so dirty they could stand up by themselves.
many of the other 24 teams from around the state had 30 or more swimmers participating.
ahhh, that's just more "k street" stuff, we really don't care about george's cohorts' graft and corruption.
the senior bus will be our mode of transportation and the cost is only $5 per person.
nevertheless, school will be starting up soon, the colors will be changing, and with the fall comes our annual merchant sidewalk sale over the labor day holiday.
new books on cd books on cd are becoming more popular with our patrons every day, and we have new ones coming in regularly from bestselling authors.
drawing with randall davis psac is proud to offer a new one-day drawing workshop with local artist randall davis.
bunning would like to see a stop light, speed limit changes, and the city limit sign moved to its proper western location.
in fact, it can start with simply changing a light," said wendy reed of the environmental protection agency.
"i know exactly what you mean.
they chased the cat under a flatbed storing a boat.
i'll grab a couple tools and we'll have a look at it.
get ready for a hearty barbecue supper followed by a great western stage show.
the team combines hill and tempo work
by leanne goebel special to the preview pagosa's gerry riggs will jury "forms, figures, symbols, a juried  exhibition of contemporary works," set for oct. 21-nov. 28 at shy rabbit,  a contemporary art space and gallery.
uu service to deal with notion of practice on sunday, aug. 27, the pagosa unitarian universalist fellowship will consider "buddhism, humanism, and the notion of practice."
according to medora bass, the teacher of this self-help group, the first class as a group came up with the characteristics of a person who is physically healthy.
if the definition is approved and the resolution succeeds, the three planetary newcomers would join the ranks of the nine traditional planets, already identified as such, in our solar system - mercury, venus, earth, mars, jupiter, saturn, uranus, neptune and pluto.
she was born on august 15, 2006.
below is a list of items being collected by operation helping hand.
in case of a forest fire south of the river, we will come looking for you and the county brass.
rather than the stationary, or static stretches we can all remember from p.e. class years ago, dynamic stretching includes slow, controlled movements to increase flexibility, stamina, and power.
wednesday, aug. 30 - basic computer class, 10 a.m.; "recovery of the peregrine falcon" presentation has been cancelled.
each person answered the question concerning what is the opportunity to  learn and grow personally in the situation of having a health challenge.
the book is available at wolftracks bookstore and coffee, the methodist thrift store, and at on-line bookstores such as amazon and barnes & noble.
it is art that expresses the  human condition, with all its frailties and strengths.
humane society auction
in the words of kurlansky "the history of new york oysters is a history of new york itself - its wealth, its strength, its excitement, its greed, its thoughtlessness, its destructiveness, its blindness and, as any new yorker will tell you, its filth."
as  simple as a t instead of an s. brilliant, downright brilliant.
on november 14, 2003, terry was formally inducted into the navy enlisted combat aircrew roll of honor during a ceremony aboard the uss yorktown located at patriots point naval and maritime museum in mount pleasant, south carolina.
it's about how to re-find yourself and your identity."
furthermore, the iau has a dozen more planetary candidates on its ever-evolving planetary "watchlist" and, if the resolution passes, these and many more objects could be added in the near future.
the lecture will take place at the sisson library, 3 p.m., saturday, oct. 28.
photo images of will's work passed back and forth between pagosa and santa fe, resulting in a contract agreement between the two this past spring 2006.
then, be sure to dry your hands thoroughly with a clean paper or cloth towel.
kathy arrives and dashes off to a nearby primitive shopette.
join us for a real western hoedown  under the stars and enjoy an incredible dinner with an entertaining performance!
good to know, he thinks, that all extremists are essentially the same, that the edges of the political landscape are everywhere shallowly rooted in dense ground.
by sarah o. smith staff writer
this show, ego and alter ego, explores portraits of  people and animals.
a schedule of offerings will be published weekly in the preview.
by lynne allison special to the sun the pagosa women's golf association sent eight of its low-handicap players to dalton ranch golf club in durango for a team play event aug. 17.
in october, shy rabbit will begin the series  art 21, followed by a lecture and slide presentation in november with gerry  riggs, the juror from the "forms, figures, symbols" juried exhibition  of contemporary art.
but, "challenge" is another word for "opportunity," is it not?
after pointing this out to the  owner, whose interest was piqued, will and la mesa began an e-mail interchange  over a period of several months.
terry's final wish was that everyone "celebrate life.
with an hour-long drive ahead, before reaching the small tributary where i planned to fish, i thought to travel at least that far, then further assess weather conditions.
there were no cars or campers, no hikers or other fisherman, and at once, as i climbed from the jeep and quietly prepared equipment, a surreal sense of seclusion came over me.
in light of current growth and ongoing airport renovation projects, staff now faces a series of challenges that entail deadlines, construction concerns and some funding constraints.
along with pluto, charon and 2003 ub313 would be classified as "plutons."
after wolfing down the tarte, we walked to her car and pondered breakfast.
and to add to our final picnic celebration,  we will host our friends from arboles as they come to pagosa to join in on the  festivities.
for those students who completed nine of 12 classes but did not finish their business plans as of the date of the celebration, certificates were awarded for participation in the class.
there  is no competition in aikido because of o-sensei's beliefs and because the  techniques are too powerful.
not only will you receive generous discounts from local businesses, but you'll be eligible for our mystery trip program and other trips in addition to discounts at such senior activities as oktoberfest.
baldwin, a lifelong resident of pagosa springs, is currently undergoing  treatment cancer (lymphoma).
classes will be held at the arts and crafts room in the pagosa springs community center.
by matthew lowell brunson special to the preview the board of directors of the community choir are switching into high gear with their first night of rehearsals for the christmas concert just around the bend.
ken jones will teach you how to fly fish.
i've spent most of the morning looking for you."
if gronewoller were to join a team overseas, things like housing and food would be paid for by the league.
woodworking seemed second nature to  him and so, after working an eight-hour day, will would head to his shop and  begin the "real" part of his day.
join the community friday at the auction for the animals - the event  of the year!
remember, no line dancing on labor day."
out-of-school date forms were available at the high school office and had to be returned to the office for the administration's approval no later than wednesday, aug. 23.
the commissioners are elected (and well paid) to administer the county, why do they need a county administrator?
at recent meetings, archuleta county administrator bob campbell and finance director bob burchett both said gas production in the archuleta county portion of the hds project area would be a boon for the county, and may provide one of the keys for solving the county's long term road maintenance issues.
by carole howard sun columnist, and the library staff you are invited to a very special evening at the library on thursday, aug. 31, when john graves will entertain at a free jazz event.
the 3-5-3 can potentially run into trouble against power running teams,  like holy family.
for more information about united way in archuleta county, call stacia kemp  at 264-3230.
the season for collecting wild mushrooms usually begins after continuous rains in the upper elevations when the first morel, shaggy mane, giant puffballs and/or sponge mushrooms are found.
bent knee calf stretch: lean against the wall with your hands; put one  foot behind you but not as far as in no. 1 above and point the toes straight  ahead towards wall again; keeping heel down, lean into the wall until a gentle  stretch is felt in the lower calf muscle.
seven varsity starters will return to both the offensive and defensive squads.
first, the object must orbit a star but not be a star itself.
those  who receive service connection for any disability are entitled to free  treatment for that condition at any va medical facility and may be entitled to  a monthly payment from the va.
this is a populist band in the best sense of the term, one whose ardent fan  base spreads the word like wildfire.
the girls were led by senior emilie schur, who was selected for the  all-state team four years straight.
on friday the team moved on to another municipal course in alamosa,  cattails golf club (par 71).
board members believe the entire project will take approximately 14 months to build, with the hospital opening its doors for business by late 2007.
he has written a number of books on doctrine, church administration and pastoral theology.
"i don't expect it (the book) to be a big seller, since it's directed to women in a particular situation," said gunther.
sky watch at chimney rock
their first two albums - "devolver" (2000) and "burger after  church" (2002) - have received airplay on 100-odd radio stations worldwide  and widespread critical acclaim in the press.
for more information, contact janna at (970) 588-2266 or linda at (970) 385-5924.
mike brown and his colleagues at the california institute of technology discovered 2003 ub313 in 2005.
monthly meetings the san juan historical society meets the first thursday of each month at 6 p.m. meetings in the summer are held at the museum and in the winter are held at the chamber of commerce visitor's center.
here were gathered about 250 cars and there were present in the neighborhood of 1,000 people.
they appealed to the rich and, because they were cheap, they were a mainstay in the poor man's diet.
computer q&a session with becky, 1-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. aug. 25 - humane society auction, 5:30 p.m.; bridge 4 fun and duplicate bridge, 12:30-4 p.m.; teen center open, 2-8 p.m. aug. 26 - teen center open, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; drawing class with randall davis, 9 a.m.-3 p.m. aug. 27 - church of christ sunday service, 10 a.m.-noon; grace evangelical free church service, 10 a.m.-noon; high roads baptist church, 6-8 p.m. aug 28 - line dancing, 10-11:30 a.m.; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.; bridge 4 fun, 12:30-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m.; pacific auction exchange seminar, 5:30-7:30 p.m.; pagosa springs waldorf parent orientation, 6-8 p.m. aug. 29 - over-the-hill-hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.;
others will represent "funky" things, the "alter ego."
to return the favor, it is important for all pet owners to ensure the health and well-being of their pets, no matter what the expense.
day hike, llama and lunch the day hike with a llama and a lunch has been rescheduled to saturday, aug. 26, for those who have made reservations with the den.
the energy star change a light, change the world campaign is a national challenge sponsored by the u.s. environmental protection agency and the u.s. department of energy, to encourage americans to consider the energy they use and to switch to light bulbs and fixtures that have earned the government's energy star for energy efficiency.
you know, the favorite color of time  travelers is yellow.
this left the rest of the conference,  including the pirates, with too few games to be eligible for a wild card birth  in the playoffs, making it necessary to add a game.
poisonous mushrooms are known because someone ate them and became ill or  died.
we still have memorial t-shirts for sale for those who couldn't make  it.
rada neal, local professional musician and composer, will  provide two hours of piano entertainment.
the pirates finished eighth out of 18 on the first day of competition and  ninth out of 20 on the second.
each swimmer cut significant time off of their personal bests.
kurt-mason said that the point was to take the players' focus  away from the outcome of the shot and put it on the continuing game.
on goes a slick of sauce from the pan, perhaps a drizzle of olive oil, some fresh basil, a sprinkling of grated parmesan.
on the walls, enormous vintage posters of the marlboro man on horseback count as art.
for additional information, e-mail: shyrabbit01@aol.com, or call (970)  731-2766.
in the early 1960s there was a huge folk music revival in the us.
"i know exactly  what you mean.
from sarajevo to somalia, his reflections on iraq, rwanda and finally  katrina and new orleans are vivid, and one feels how deeply these events  affected him and how difficult it was to separate his work from his life.
woodruff is currently on the town planning commission and works for a local title company.
why can't the county officials live within the limits  allowed by the tabor amendment, increased spending by the amount of inflation  and new construction?
until the early 1900s the oyster played the leading role in the city of new york's economy, gastronomy and ecology.
tasting notes terrine and pinot, the breakfast of champions by james robinson staff writer
this history of the trashing of new york, the killing of its great estuary,  is a sobering yet fascinating read, published by ballantine books of new york  in 2006.
aikido classes the martial way of harmony.
prior has lived in the county since 1994 and worked in real estate since the 1970s.
the youth are the future and we  are proud to live in a community where western heritage and the sport of rodeo  receive such great support.
this left the rest of the conference, including the pirates, with too few games to be eligible for a wild card birth in the playoffs, making it necessary to add a game.
the evening is always entertaining and with farrago's providing the food this year, you know you will get some tasty morsels to sustain you as you bid.
as he motors up a steep hill something goes suddenly wrong with karl's vehicle.
we welcome two new member businesses this week starting off with peak locations and specialty services.
"let's explore is an opportunity to bring in experts in their field to  pagosa and for those of us actively involved in the creation of shy rabbit to  do what we love - explore art in all it's many forms and facets, sit around and  talk about it and share in the experience," said shy rabbit's michael  coffee.
bob delzell, speaking as a private landowner living in the hds near the fruitland outcrop, and as a member of the environmental group, the san juan citizens alliance, voiced one of the group's primary concerns.
they've been made essentially rescue projects for some good souls or projects for folks in institutions perhaps.
terry quickly made friends in the area and was instrumental in providing a new home for his family.
stop out to see these masterful contemporary works and meet the minds behind the material.
persons interested in offering a program should contact biz greene at the education center, located at the corner of 4th and lewis streets.
plutons, according to the resolution, are distinguished from the classical planets in "that they reside in orbits around the sun that take longer than 200 years to complete."
no memberships are sold thursdays.
riggs also served as the curator of fine art/exhibition coordinator at the colorado springs fine art center, and director/curator for the c.b. goddard center for visual and performing arts in ardmore, okla. riggs' professional accomplishments include the installation design for over 400 exhibitions.
429 pages and 48 plates.
the founder, morehei ueshiba or o-sensei, studied traditional martial arts  as a young man.
nothing flat, so that can't be it.
according to anderson, age makes all the difference with male runners,  since it often equates to greater strength.
dan pickett editor's note: neither city market nor local law enforcement determines  signage or signals at the intersection.
others had their rations stolen by the soldiers.
whether making furniture, building a house, or gardening." will and nancy bought property in pagosa in 1993, "while it was still  affordable," and broke ground on their home in 1999.
he holds his breath and clears his mind of internal dialogue, attempting to detect the oh-so-subtle hum that accompanies alien thought-projection.
hot tubs  or hot springs are also useful if you have no medical concerns of full body  immersion in warm water; also limit to time in the water.
on the other hand, i knew my options for average,  domestic pinot would be numerous, but i hoped i could find at least one  reliable option that wouldn't break the bank when the craving for pinot noir  became unbearable.
perhaps it was the company, perhaps it was the terrine, perhaps it was the pinot, but whatever the case, the california juice went down fine, and i vowed to attempt to replicate the experience when i returned to pagosa springs.
each, however, has produced and shown their art for decades.
it's official, we're zoned: commissioners approve map by james robinson staff writer
sign up with the den office by tuesday, aug. 29.
the main ingredient determines the  name of the terrine, and the dish can be made with vegetables, seafood, or more  exotic proteins such as wild boar and rabbit.
such was the penalty for revealing tribal secrets to outsiders.
"the final eis (environmental impact statement) has lots of problems.
kurt-mason said that he hoped the team's determined preseason work will also help players make smart and healthy choices off the field.
spread beautiful smiles through your donation this year.
this is a gathering for writers of all levels and abilities, an opportunity to practice writing, to prime the pump.
by quarter after midnight i  was back in my old digs, and by half past, i had peeled off my clothes and  toppled into bed.
" harl has his head stuck inside the engine compartment, wedging it between the side of the truck and the motor.
check out the exciting new development, offering outstanding design, superb  location and exceptional value.
not the demands of partisan  parrots and reductionists.
qualified swimmers from nine western states,  17 teams in all, competed in this meet.
you learn about ancient sky watching as you hike up the mesa top trail to the great house.
then, forty miles, packed into kathy's car,  back toward siberia with a view, hours behind schedule.
not the demands of partisan parrots and reductionists.
sign  up with the den office by tuesday, aug. 29.
he detects possible influence peddling and political hijinks concerning a controversial development project outside his district and calls for action.
they finished eighth overall with combined  scores of 242 and 248 (measuring the top three players), on the first and  second day respectively.
in case of rain, the dance will be moved indoors to the commons area.
gallery hours are tuesday, thursday and saturday from 1-4 p.m., and 1-6:30 p.m. on the second thursday of the month.
he found around him.
at final count, pete gonzalez maintained his win, garnering 10 more votes for a total count of 1,196.
the first two-day tournament in montrose took place at the black canyon  golf club and cobble creek golf course wednesday and thursday of last week.
the draft for all players who registered in the 9-10 and 11-13 divisions
we will meet at the  ticket office at the durango mountain resort at 9:30 a.m. and complete our day  at 4 p.m. we will ride the chairlift up the mountain and enjoy a moderate hike  of approximately five to six miles, then enjoy the relaxation of riding the  chairlift back down to the bottom.
however, medical care doesn't stop there; dogs and cats require yearly trips to the vet for vaccinations against diseases such as rabies, distemper, parvo, leptospirosis, and feline leukemia.
most artists will likely find some affinity with the show's title and their existing work.
the next two months will require an effective campaign since, as a write-in candidate, woodruff's name will not appear on the ballot.
head coach scott anderson described "cross-country as a metaphor for  life," implying that it could lead to better all-around health.
marcel and family spend their summer vacation in a cottage in provence, where marcel befriends a local boy who teaches him the secrets of the hills in provence.
watercolor club the psac watercolor club, (formed in the winter of 2003) has changed its  meeting day to the third thursday of each month.
in so doing, they transcend genre  altogether, conjuring up musical landscapes that defy boundaries but always  find their center at the crossroads of fun and fascination.
"darned if they  don't have an ambulance call all the way up on the pass.
phone number is 247-2214.
sadly though, we lost the nicely crafted signs telling humans to stay out  of the flowers.
a recreation department employee will referee and keep time on the field.
in colorado, a driver convicted of dui could end up spending a total of $10,000 or more.
oh, yes,  the day will come.
extension viewpoints mind your mushrooms, there's a lot to lose by bill nobles
to qualify, household income may not exceed $16,000 for a single person, $18,000 for two people, $20,000 for three people, $26,000 for four people, $28,000 for five people, and $30,000 for six or more people.
more importantly, there will be a home tournament tomorrow at the pagosa  springs golf club, beginning at 9 a.m.
nevertheless, school will be starting up soon, the colors will be changing,  and with the fall comes our annual merchant sidewalk sale over the labor day  holiday.
parents who registered a child in the 5-6 and/or 7-8 divisions who have not  been contacted by a coach as of monday, aug. 28, should call the recreation  office at 264-4151, ext.
the den will provide transportation (limited seating  available) for a $5 fee and will leave at 4:30 p.m. and return around 11.
featuresfeatures big player from a small school makes her mark in college sport
the united way golf tourney starts at 9 a.m. aug.  26 with a four-person scramble.
so remember to attend tuesday-evening practice and pick-up games at south  pagosa park's horseshoe courts, just north of the basketball courts.
(gps coordinates are latitude  n37 degrees, 15.193 minutes and longitude w107, 5.074 minutes).
in an effort to assist parents to comply with the colorado law that  requires childhood immunizations to be completed or be in the process by the  first day of the 2006-2007 school year, san juan basin health department will  extend its immunization clinic hours monday, aug. 28, and be open from 10 a.m.  to 5:15 p.m.
over 400 species described; 292 color photographs; illustrated glossary.
by nancy cole special to the sun the southwest land alliance is presenting a day-long series oct. 6 called "saving the ranch," to celebrate its 25th year in operation and the important acreage being conserved in this area.
he wears eyeglasses with 1970 frames held together with duct tape, one lens shattered and repaired with yellowed epoxy, and a t-shirt and a pair of jeans so dirty they could stand up by themselves.
woodruff announces for assessor's race, sheriff tally official by louis sherman staff writer not all county posts will go uncontested in november's general election.
cross country, a 'metaphor for life' by louis sherman staff writer the pirates cross country team has logged hundreds of miles on town streets and local trails in preparation for the upcoming season.
he has written a number of books  on doctrine, church administration and pastoral theology.
adding another business to their first one, we welcome the owners of  jessie's elves: mike and christina lepore with lepore's enterprises of pagosa.
the word "toadstool" is often used to indicate a poisonous mushroom.
this old-time sound has never gone away;  it's always here, waiting to be discovered and rediscovered.
according to delzell, eis map 3.3 shows four locations for such fires, and possibly a fifth fire at the la plata mine, in the la plata county portion of the project area near the new mexico state line.
membership regular admission charges for the museum are $3 for adults, and $1 for children 6-12.
featuring the masterworks of doug pedersen, kelsey hauck and karl isberg.
and, perhaps most of all because, though a republican - with no intent of being otherwise - larson has shown a remarkable ability to do what most contemporary politicians cannot do, either out of ignorance or fear: namely, think for himself and be generally non-partisan in his approach to public service.
a country  band will provide entertainment.
for more information, log on to eleationarts.org or call  731-3117.
by sarah o. smith staff writer it's no secret that student athletes have it tough; hours of practice piled up on hours of homework is enough to prompt any student to abandon the library for the field, or vice versa.
she  acted with remarkable ease and proficiency the parts of her symptom and her  healing force and then the healing force interacting with and healing the  symptom.
the logical choice for the  pirates was the wolverines.
don't take the chance.
may be used three times per day until you have reduce the pain or high soreness, then you may switch to heat or exercise.
do we simply create to  sell, and sacrifice our true selves in the process?
as the vehicle loses momentum, karl steers to the right lane and spots an intersection.
they were undefeated in conference play at 4-0.
he does, but the road to financial success, for artistic endeavors such as will's stunning wood turned vessels, is blurry.
" share-a-ride don't forget to call or stop by my office with your va health care  appointments for the share-a-ride program.
many thanks for books and other materials from william backus, charlene  baumgardner, kerry dermody, natalie gabel, zoeie lloyd, kathy mciver, pam  monteffante, richard muller, gary timmerman, barbara ward, bill witzel and  carol young.
by identifying nine specific zoning districts, the map provides the framework from within which the recently adopted land use code can operate - specifically, section three regarding zoning regulations in the new county land use code adopted may 23, 2006.
acceptance into cantare is  based on singing ability and desire, not age.
"if there was an oversight on our part, i think it's fair they don't pay anything," alvord said.
all the water in new york harbor was filtered in a matter of days by the original oyster population.
if the mill levy increase is approved, the library will look to improve its offerings, including programs and collections.
the claimant may have had to prove the exposure.
participants are encouraged to bring still lives or photos to paint and draw, or a project to complete.
they are also encouraged to eat at least four meals a day, to keep a continual flow of nutrients in the bloodstream and replenish energy stores.
film society to screen french classic the pagosa springs film society's meeting tuesday, aug. 29, will screen and discuss french director yves robert's 1990 subtitled film, "my father's glory."
all in all, schwartz said the humane society spends about $30,000 per year on sterilization surgeries.
said he's been  here a long time.
through community concerts and educational programs, eca strives to serve the people of pagosa springs through artistic excellence.
superb play on the second day by jim hitchcox, david prokop, gene johnson and anchorman norman utz sealed the victory.
and for the first time since the tradition began, everyone reached the summit.
many of the family names mentioned by dedios remain common family names in dulce, including his own.
business owners complete leading edge course
not only has she changed the landscape of athletics there, but she's also subverted the typical role of the student athlete, proving that the "nerd school" can pack some pretty big muscles, too.
the doe and the fawn looked under the flatbed but they couldn't reach the cat.
as night falls, you will see how the night sky works and how the ancient people might have used it.
poisonous mushrooms are known because someone ate them and became ill or died.
insane people like yellow a  whole lot, too.
but, if you want to take it to some big, corporate-backed conglomerate, multinational place well, i suppose you get what you pay for.
the pagosa springs volleyball club thanks the following sponsors for their  support of our summer program: circle t pro lumber and hardware, ace lumber and  hardware, colorado dream homes inc., southwest custom builders inc., buffalo  inn, joann howell accounting, ponderosa do it best, elkhorn cafe, ramon's  restaurant llc, robin auld attorney, and the pagosa springs sun.
keeping heel down, lean into the wall until a gentle stretch is felt in the upper calf muscle.
"a summer evening of american folk music" is produced by elation  center for the arts, a local 501(c) 3 nonprofit arts organization whose mission  is to preserve, teach and perform traditional music and dance from around the  world.
the library is currently surveying the public to see what services and book selections people would like to see improved.
their stellar musicianship and innate sense  of adventure puts them in good company with the few bands at the forefront of  today's new american acoustic music.
i can't find  anyone else who as seen deer chasing a cat.
have one nearly every day, when i can get away from the keyboard, been writin' code, you know.
the four projects are totally new for the psac, so if you have taken one of joye's workshops in the past, you will be getting different projects and methods.
no real difference:  name-calling, stultifying and arbitrary chatter.
this work evokes passion and stirs emotion.
there are spontaneous results, and an immediate link to the  wood.
"we hope this luncheon will help identify others, and give us  all an opportunity to get together to renew the bonds of greek life."
and, perhaps more than anything else, he is unafraid to endorse a candidate  for governor, from the other party.
cost will be $20 per person, including a pre-arranged entrée, dessert, non-alcoholic drink, tax and tip.
even then, bet you got a full tank of gas, don't you?
classes will be held at the arts and  crafts room in the pagosa springs community center.
" as the date gets closer, the organizers will decide if the event will be held outside on the riverfront patio or inside in the large patio room overlooking the river.
tom norton executive director colorado department of transportation 'proposed' levy dear editor: in reading over the "proposed" mill levy increase for maintenance of, and snow removal from secondary roads, it appears to me that the county administrator and the county commissioners have let the public outcry (at least the public living on secondary roads) taint their judgment.
okay, maybe not so easily done.
fees apply for the taxpayer initiated rezone.
standing at 6 feet 3 inches, gronewoller admits she has a distinct advantage above other girls vying for a spot on the teams.
his good friend, sandy applegate, an artist herself, was scouting gallery possibilities in santa fe last fall of 2005.
"i've  determined it isn't an empty gas tank, flat tires, or a gigantic tesla coil and  accompanying balls of electricity.
ken jones will teach you  how to fly fish.
- joe keck of the fort lewis college small business development center, for his mentoring and instruction.
the community has responded with an incredible offering of donations this year.
all works must be for sale.
friday is spirit day in the park so wear your silver foxes den  t-shirts to show your spirit!
edible versus poisonous 1.
photo images of will's work passed back and  forth between pagosa and santa fe, resulting in a contract agreement between  the two this past spring 2006.
the pirates first home game, against kirtland central, will be friday,  sept. 8, at 7 p.m. golf season opens for high school varsity by louis sherman staff writer five pagosa springs high schoolers competed in two golf tournaments last  week, claiming eighth- and sixth-place team finishes.
and an astounding forty-one percent of the 1,672 motorcycle operators who died in single-vehicle crashes in 2004 had bac levels of .08 or higher.
she had promised to take me to breakfast and to be my chauffeur until my truck was finished.
"seems like we've been here before, doesn't it?" kathy turns, a pained look on her face.
in goes  salt, pepper to taste, oregano, basil, a bit of thyme and the meatballs go back  in the pan to simmer for a while, covered, over medium low heat.
finish this newest code, i can break into darned near  anything.
i awoke nearly three hours later to someone nudging my leg with their foot.
in comparison, la plata county has a $250,000 road and bridge budget.
the color is dynamic, even and lively, and foreshadows a wine packed  with red fruits, including raspberries and cranberries with undertones of black  cherries and hints of pepper.
remember to let us know it is your  birthday when you check in at the desk.
there are serious problems confronting county residents.
then, forty miles, packed into kathy's car, back toward siberia with a view, hours behind schedule.
stop out to see these masterful contemporary works and meet the minds behind  the material.
a recreation department employee or one of the head coaches/assistants will  supervise and keep time on the field.
the san juan alumnae group of pi beta phi was formed in pagosa springs in march 2000.
also "earthy,"  "mysterious," "intuitive.
they were rangy, thin and terrified.
it is very much appreciated.
and delzell added that distance may be the best mitigation measure gas companies can use to avoid outcrop impacts, such as those seen in la plata county, from occurring in archuleta county.
college sorority alumnae sought by carole howard special to the preview women who were members of a panhellenic sorority during their college days  are asked to save the date of saturday, september 30 for the first-ever  luncheon of sorority alumnae to take place in pagosa springs.
rusted machinery is crammed between the car bodies.
at the rate the county is spending money now, they will never be able to maintain the roads throughout the county like in the past.
bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m. tuesday, aug. 29 - yoga, 10:30 a.m.; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; blood pressure checks, 11:30 a.m.; canasta, 1 p.m.; final day to sign up for bar d ranch dinner and show.
new pets can mean hard work and, oftentimes, big bills.
there are times when her velvety texture and sumptuous earthiness have driven me to heights of euphoria approaching religious exaltation, and we have spent those nights, transfixed and intertwined like lovers.
the san juan lumber co. owns the former ponderosa and duke city mills and these will be used to cut the timber for the planing mill until such time as the new mill is built.
"i've determined it isn't an empty gas tank, flat tires, or a gigantic tesla coil and accompanying balls of electricity.
i will also be looking for enough work in two- and  three-dimensional mediums to allow for an interesting, varied and balanced  installation, in keeping with the high level and broad range of contemporary  work that shy rabbit has presented in the past.
also "earthy," "mysterious," "intuitive.
sincerely, chris l. chavez rodeo woes dear editor: on friday, july 29, my partner and i went with friends to the annual fiesta days rodeo at the la plata county fairgrounds here in durango.
jean magnelli, the director of wild spirit, has sold will's work to appreciative art lovers from norway and belgium, and as well as from all over the united states.
last year's starting running back corbin mellette, now a senior, broke his hand in last thursday's practice.
the road to out next adventure is rough and bumpy so not great for those who get carsick.
the office is located next to piedra automotive.
four runners from the state competition will return to the girls team,  while three boys will return.
"given these broad themes, i will select those submissions that i feel are the most: compelling, interesting and/or well executed; appropriately and/or professionally presented; original in style, and/or contemporary/timely in feel or tone.
this study reveals tremendous insights into how we, as an unholy people, can approach the holy of holies to worship him properly.
from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. watercolor with mion internationally-known artist and illustrator pierre mion will teach his fall watercolor workshop, the lake powell class, beginning monday, oct. 9, and continuing oct. 10-11 from 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
most commonly, many veterans are aware of exposure to the herbicide agent  orange in vietnam and the side affects of that exposure such as diabetes type  ii, prostate cancer and a number of other medical conditions.
you can find out more from jill at www.peaklocations.com or call  her at 731-2771.
" volume 11 is a local collection of memories of the people who managed, worked for and enjoyed our forest.
thanks to diana baird for leading this group.
"sleeping, until you woke me up.
the pet overpopulation program includes a number of ways to make sure your pet receives this important operation.
in spite of the thunder, occasional blustery winds and intermittent cloud cover, the rain held off that afternoon, as i casually fished upstream.
we are now taking reservations for the class which will start close to the  end of october.
selling everything and  relocating to the glacier, washington area was another adventure in terry's  life.
"we take the six most competitive kids,  peaking at the right time," said anderson.
they also looked at what they are doing but do not want to be doing, such as spending more time working than they want, etc.
this call may be recorded for training purposes.
last spring, this choir of 19 young women, ages 8 to 17, received not only a superior rating, but was awarded the judge's choice trophy in competition with similar choirs from a six-state area held in denver.
the three-day outdoor festival features nationally touring musicians delbert mcclinton; dar williams; eddie from ohio; robinella; drew emmitt; rani arbo and daisy mayhem; old school freight train; the duhks; the stringdusters; the hot strings; anne and pete sibley; the biscuit burners; brad davis, john moore and company; and julie lee with guest sarah siskind.
at this time, there are about 13-15 live auction items and hundreds of silent auction items on line.
rather than touch your toes, dynamic  stretching would have you do high kicks over a distance of 20 yards.
the founder, morehei ueshiba or o-sensei, studied traditional martial arts as a young man.
after introductory comments, the rodeo got underway with a prayer, asking that no humans or animals be harmed during the course of the evening.
even then,  bet you got a full tank of gas, don't you?
it may show better with food.
with over 25 years of experience, mike is certainly qualified to assist you with your personal or business accounting needs.
call kelley at 769-2636.
prepaid reservations will be required several days before the luncheon,  which will take place at jj's upstream restaurant.
quad stretch: hold onto something sturdy with one hand; standing on one leg, bring the other foot up behind you and grasp the top of that foot with your hand on the same side of your body; pull foot up towards your buttocks until a gentle stretch is felt in the front of your thigh.
coached by jennifer fenton and stephen williams, all members of the porpoises had shining performances in the eight meets they attended around the state.
beginning at 9 a.m. with a shotgun shot, the tournament will be a  four-person scramble with three different flights - open, couples and  "just have fun."
good to know, he thinks, that  all extremists are essentially the same, that the edges of the political  landscape are everywhere shallowly rooted in dense ground.
i have seen many close call accidents at  this intersection.
as a result, i am now most content with taking fish on standard dry flies, particularly when the rod is bamboo, the flies imitate true adult aquatic insects, and the fish are colorful little natives whose local bloodlines date back to the end of the ice age.
in july "let's explore" featured a slide show and lecture on alfred stieglitz.
even though not every one is interested in collecting mushrooms to eat, it  is important to understand most have an important and beneficial role in the  environment.
karl begins to fall asleep and, thus, turns to the "progressive" channel.
we are back to hearing from the county road supervisor of the long-range plan for road improvement.
the entire program was greatly enjoyed by all present, and a neat sum realized for the benefit of the public library.
i guessed its height at about 50 feet, but its very presence beckoned closer examination at a future date.
they must also be a registered member of their party for at least one year before running.
at once, as the cloudburst finally opened, accompanied by an intense volley of pea-sized hail, i feared my plan for an afternoon of fishing was rapidly fading.
other challenging games will be against 3a alamosa, who the  pirates beat for the first time in 20 years last season, and monte vista.
barter said budget requests must be submitted to county finance by sept. 8, and as part of the process, he has asked the archuleta county airport advisory commission (acaac) for project requests and funding recommendations.
wistfully he replied that he "hopes to become independent, to make a living beyond retirement with his work.
the cat would not accommodate them so they  finally tired of the sport and scampered off on their adventures.
can you hear that hum?
artwork pictured in the calendar includes photography, oil, fabric art,  watercolor and mixed media.
if becoming involved with such a dynamic organization excites you, we hope  you will consider becoming a member.
food for thoughtfood for thought harl and karl, meatballs in the twilight zone by karl isberg karl isberg, mild-mannered and affable small town newspaper editor, is in his vehicle, westbound on the highway out of the big city, heading home to siberia with a view .
"participating in this national campaign is both easy and effective.
all but one were crimson-sided cutthroats of eight to 10 inches, and the other was a slightly larger buttery-bellied brown.
call the den at 264-2167 with any questions.
the evening starts with the silent auction from 5:30 to 7.
all programs are free and open to the public.
tickets are available at wolftracks, online at elationarts.org and at the door.
to familiarize parents and spectators with game play in the 5-6 and 7-8 divisions, this year's game rules have been provided below.
one drill required players to run on goal, shoot and immediately switch  over to defense.
my addiction to pinot noir began years ago, and since that time, she has been a demanding and cruel mistress.
american folk music is a timeless river running through the heart of our  country.
"the local vets are very supportive of the program.
environment unfortunately you just have to ask or read the periodicals of any national game or fish group to get the most negative view.
i'm pretty sure it isn't a mini stroke and  there's no subtle hum, so it's not an alien invasion.
lt.  norman whiseman at 264-5724.
mark your calendar now and bring the entire family.
the show starts at 7 p.m. and food is available starting at 6 p.m. and desserts during intermission.
you were supposed to  be here hours ago."
the public is invited to attend.
the museum is located at 96 pagosa street.
the four corners folk festival is supported by a grant from the colorado council on the arts, a state agency funded by the colorado general assembly and the national endowment for the arts, a federal agency.
there are no valid reasons or excuses why anyone should needlessly endanger their life and the lives of everyone else on the road.
by stacia kemp special to the sun the eighth annual united way golf tournament will be held saturday at the pagosa springs golf club.
if you  have questions or concerns, or need additional information about any of the  pagosa springs recreation department adult or youth sports programs, call  264-4151, ext.
as opposed to last year's  rules, goalies will be allowed to use their hands while in goal.
you could stay here for a night  or two, wait until i get a part and fix 'er up.
some mushrooms grow in, and form their fruiting structures on living trees causing decay of the sapwood or of the heartwood.
and then there are the bad nights, the nights she slaps you around, empties your wallet, and leaves you cold, bewildered and wanting on the sidewalk.
every trip in, it seems, i see a number of mule deer, often including a nice buck or two.
it was here that will expanded his expertise in furniture making to include the exploration of the art of wood turning in 2002.
one moment, karl is traveling along at the speed limit (or a touch above) - the next moment, the engine sputters, the vehicle loses power.
pagosa lakes newspagosa lakes news broaden your culinary horizons at thai cooking class by ming steen sun columnist food is the integral part of the experience in thailand.
among the speakers was robt.
this history of the trashing of new york, the killing of its great estuary, is a sobering yet fascinating read, published by ballantine books of new york in 2006.
coach lindsey kurt-mason said the purpose of the run was to build both team  and individual confidence and determination.
with the movement of high cumulous, giant shadows crept slowly across lofty metamorphic stone faces, and sound variations in the river's flow seemed to mimic young voices speaking in barely audible tones.
she waves and takes a bite of meatball sandwich.
will loves the juxtaposition of metal and wood, but acknowledges that he hasn't found a market for them yet.
he advocates pragmatic solutions to seemingly overwhelming  problems like illegal immigration.
charles t. crabtree to speak at first assembly of god church rev. charles t. crabtree, assistant general superintendent of the assemblies of god, will be guest speaker at the first assembly of god church, 110 trinity lane, at 10:30 a.m. and 6 p.m. sunday, aug. 27.
this setup is well suited for small  and quick defenses.
line dancing this comes from gerry potticary, our line dancing group leader: "calling all line dancers back from vacation.
golfers can enter as a team or as individuals by calling the club at 731-4755.
many thanks for books and other materials from william backus, charlene baumgardner, kerry dermody, natalie gabel, zoeie lloyd, kathy mciver, pam monteffante, richard muller, gary timmerman, barbara ward, bill witzel and carol young.
please plan to stop by and see some of joye's work - sept. 5-8.
from mid summer to late autumn, a great variety of mushrooms may be found in colorado.
couldn't be more wrong, really the t series, but that's somethin'  they don't want everyone to know.
anybody?" he hears a radio playing in the distance.
shy rabbit gallery will remain open from 4-6:30 p.m. sept. 14 for those who  wish to see the "mind's material: sensation, cognition &  knowledge" exhibit prior to the film's screening.
with the regional community's support, asa offers a variety of recreational  activities that change the lives of people with disabilities.
people cards of thankspeople cards of thanks volleyball club
in goes salt, pepper to taste, oregano, basil, a bit of thyme and the meatballs go back in the pan to simmer for a while, covered, over medium low heat.
you  learn about ancient sky watching as you hike up the mesa top trail to the great  house.
i was on dangerous, shaky ground, but luckily, the options by the glass were limited to just one, and i took what was being poured - some brand of low-end juice out of california - and hoped for the best.
ticket prices are more at the  door, so save yourself some money and spend it at the auction.
local chatter an interesting read from a reporter
schedules for all divisions will be finalized by the end of the month;  games in all divisions will begin after labor day.
the pirates first home game, against kirtland central, will be friday, sept. 8, at 7 p.m. golf season opens for high school varsity by louis sherman staff writer five pagosa springs high schoolers competed in two golf tournaments last week, claiming eighth- and sixth-place team finishes.
straight knee calf stretch: lean against a wall with your hands; put one foot behind you and point the toes of that foot straight ahead towards wall;
the service, children's program, and child care begin at 10:30 a.m. in the fellowship hall, unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
the event begins at 5 p.m. with entertainment and wine tasting.
he is a member of the american  association of museums, and the aam museum advocacy team.
then, everyone is invited to spend  the rest of the evening at the community center where the high rollers from  durango will provide music for listening and dancing.
he finds the location easily; junk cars litter a large expanse in front of  a beat-up and metal building.
the incredible run came to a halt in the championship game march 5 when the orediggers lost to colorado state university-pueblo 65-54.
the meeting starts at 7 p.m. in the unitarian universalist fellowship hall, unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
so, while supporting the local economy,  worldwide demand for oysters also eventually contributed to the burgeoning  society and its resultant pollution.
the final count for the 1980-81 school year had been 989 students.
since illness is often a wake-up call about something that is out of balance in one's life, participants looked at what they want to do but currently are not doing, such as starting a new career or speaking with integrity.
a total of 61 players came out for two-a-day practices last week, including 16 seniors.
all mushrooms growing on wood are edible.
cheerful and energetic staffers man individual booths that each sell a handful of specialties.
if i know these merchants, they may even start the weekend a little earlier - like they did last year.
under a taxpayer initiated re-zone request, the property was zoned correctly - based on the assessor's data as of jan. 1, 2006 and adjacent land use - however, the taxpayer wants to change to another zoning status from their present zoning status.
" united way golf tournament saturday
some edible mushrooms are very similar in appearance to poisonous kinds and  may grow in the same habitat.
we'll see  all you golfers on the course.
i passed out on the couch with my cap pulled low over my eyes  and a fresh copy of the pagosa springs sun splayed wide over my chest.
how is one to  accomplish it all?
they grow in a wide variety of habitats.
the article further states that mr. zumwalt has amazingly decided that the county can do those secondary roads this year (see what public outcry can do).
we would also like to congratulate lee gladfelter in arboles.
pagosa portraits: ego and alter ego
everyone should bring a  water bottle, a folding chair (to sit on for lunch), camera, sunscreen, sun  hat, comfortable walking/hiking shoes and please dress appropriately for the  weather (you will be outside and at high altitude).
hamstring stretch: hold onto something sturdy with your hand; put one heel onto a low step (4 to 9 inches high); keep knee straight; bend forward from your hips, not your low back (in other words, keep your back straight), until a gentle stretch is felt on the back side of your thigh.
the colorado department of  transportation is responsible for controls at a highway intersection.
"sensual" would be a proper  adjective to describe the forms will creates.
dolce cantare was established last season for young women who wish to sing more challenging literature, are able to read choral music, and have learned harmonization skills either through singing in bel canto, at church, school or at home.
all exhibits are shown at the psac gallery at town park, unless otherwise noted.
calling all cowboys you could golf in the morning and rope in the afternoon at the chase regester memorial "buckle up" team roping event.
film on noguchi part of 'let's explore' series by leanne goebel special to the preview a documentary film about japanese-american sculptor isamu noguchi, "stones and paper," directed by niro narita, will be shown at 6:30 p.m. thursday, sept. 14, at shy rabbit contemporary arts as part of the "let's explore" series.
with the regional community's support, asa offers a variety of recreational activities that change the lives of people with disabilities.
here's why: from april through july 2006, the county has spent approximately $400,000 for gravel, $84,737 for contract hauling, plus all the county employees and county equipment.
and i planned a breakfast that could not have been had anywhere but in a big  city.
as part of this national movement, lpea has volunteered to encourage at least 100 individuals to pledge to replace at least one incandescent bulb or fixture at home with one that has earned the government's energy star label - as a first step to preserve our energy resources and environment.
all sealed bids must be delivered to archuleta county, attention airport manager, 449 san juan blvd., pagosa springs, co 811747.
he was chosen from a list of 15 applicants to replace former manager rob russ, who resigned in april.
if you have a love for music and  singing please feel free to come and join.
"we are anticipating the guys to be really strong this year,"  anderson said.
he puts on a dress shirt (made in taiwan), his designer jeans (made in  singapore), and a pair of tennis shoes (made in korea).
my long runs are on u.s. 160 heading east toward wolf creek pass.
in 1988, he was appointed as the national director of the decade of harvest of the assemblies of god.
"a summer evening of american folk music" will be performed at  the pagosa lakes clubhouse, where eca has presented many community concerts.
for more information, contact mettscher at the sales office, 731-6611, or stop by the office at 300 aspen village drive.
the pagosa springs volleyball club thanks the following sponsors for their support of our summer program: circle t pro lumber and hardware, ace lumber and hardware, colorado dream homes inc., southwest custom builders inc., buffalo inn, joann howell accounting, ponderosa do it best, elkhorn cafe, ramon's restaurant llc, robin auld attorney, and the pagosa springs sun.
"well, harl, since the truck is here," says karl. "
"we hope this luncheon will help identify others, and give us all an opportunity to get together to renew the bonds of greek life."
" will's work has progressed naturally over the last five years.
" these two tournament victories were a first in the mines program's 30 years, allowing the orediggers to reach the rmac championship game - another first in the program's history, giving fans of the team that no one expected anything from something special to cheer about.
sometime during our gluttonous fervor, i lost track of my wine glass, and halfway through the first portion i realized i was in dire need of something red to cut through the layers of rich, smoky duck liver - pinot noir would be just the thing.
there, sitting on an old car seat with four scraggly cats, clutching a  big gulp cup caked with grime, a filthy computer keyboard on his lap, is harl.
the "saving the ranch" program is being funded by local sponsors and all of the special guest speakers have volunteered their time.
it is in concert with leaders like larson that we will remain strong, creative and free of the burden of limited political thought.
feral cats scatter as karl calls out: "anybody  here?
pcc offers business statistics class in pagosa a business statistics class will be offered sept. 11-dec. 11, mondays, 6-8:30 p.m., at the archuleta county education center.
please bring a dessert to share at intermission if you wish.
within minutes, as i pulled into a filling station for fuel, the sky above grew dark and foreboding.
while exploring the eastern seaboard of north america, hudson and his crew entered what is known now as new york and "almost as if falling through a keyhole, found themselves in another world."
my name is brian; how may i help you?
the main ingredient determines the name of the terrine, and the dish can be made with vegetables, seafood, or more exotic proteins such as wild boar and rabbit.
on thursday, aug. 24, 18 lucky folks will meet at the den at 9 a.m.
there you can see this marvelous structure and learn about the ancient  people who inhabited this area over 1,000 years ago.
shy rabbit is located at 333 bastille drive, units b-1, b-4, west of downtown.
they  continued a life outdoors and lived in pagosa springs for 20 years, during  which time terry volunteered as an emt and firefighter.
for more information on donating prizes to the tournament or on the tournament itself, contact rick taylor at 264-2650.
the uses allowed for each zone are described in the new land use code.
sources of information "field guide to mushrooms of north america," by kent and vera  mcknight.
reserve selection:  in the nose, the hayman & hill greets the taster with vanilla, toasted oak,  root beer and unusual amounts of heat for a wine of just 13.5 percent alcohol.
a heating pad set on medium heat and placed on the area of  soreness for 15 minutes should assist in decreasing level of soreness.
make an immediate impact on someone's life and volunteer as a driver for  medical shuttles to durango to help those with medical appointments who are  unable to drive themselves.
those who have a  presumptive disability should apply immediately for service connection.
golfers can enter as a team or as individuals by  calling the club at 731-4755.
ropers can register around 4 p.m. after the services for this young resident .
took place last night and coaches will be contacting their players for practice  as soon as possible.
a public, nonprofit agency, usually a public land trust, holds the easement and is responsible for protecting its conservation values in perpetuity.
you know, mr. zumwalt, 80 percent of our ranch is south of the river.
parents who registered a child in the 5-6 and/or 7-8 divisions who have not been contacted by a coach as of monday, aug. 28, should call the recreation office at 264-4151, ext.
cross country, a 'metaphor for life' by louis sherman staff writer the pirates cross country team has logged hundreds of miles on town streets  and local trails in preparation for the upcoming season.
" as the date gets closer, the organizers will decide if the event will be  held outside on the riverfront patio or inside in the large patio room  overlooking the river.
dear editor: from aug. 18 through labor day (sept. 4), law enforcement agencies across colorado will be out in increased numbers to find and arrest impaired drivers.
riggs is an  accomplished photographer, session drummer and avid skier.
i wish to give our constant gardener, dave kenyon, a huge pat on the back.
cold is more useful when you can say "this hurts" or have a high  degree of soreness.
young kids and grandkids would love the battery-powered john deere children's tractor and trailer filled with candy from pagosa candy company.
perhaps when we revisit will in a few years we'll discover how he has overcome some of these challenges.
we will go over all the new moves before adding music.
keyboard shortcuts are  particularly helpful for new users, and one of the handouts is a very complete  listing of these shortcuts.
supplies needed for this class include a sketch pad (preferably 11x14),  assorted drawing pencils, including a 3h or 4h, a no. 2, and a 3b or 4b,  eraser, ruler, pencil sharpener and folding chair to take outside for drawing  buildings in the downtown area.
or the war on terror: hezbollah is now leading osama as the most admired group/person in the muslim world and israel well expects the next battle.
" karl wedges himself past a stack of computer parts and peers around the  corner.
the hillyers also relocated to the birch bay area at the same time.
and a storm is  fast approaching, rolling over distant peaks and rushing eastward.
will is now represented at la mesa gallery in santa fe, wild  spirit gallery in pagosa, local color gallery in chama, and handcrafted  interiors in pagosa.
other challenging games will be against 3a alamosa, who the pirates beat for the first time in 20 years last season, and monte vista.
"committing to change the world takes less time and energy than you might think.
this volume includes selected ranger reports from the 1930s and 1940s outlining projects completed under the forest service along with bits of local history.
look at his recent activity.
shy rabbit  is located directly next to pine valley rental.
biz beatbiz beat lisa mettscher is the sales associate with timberline builders, owned and managed by emil wanakta and jerry pope.
5-6 game rules game consists of four quarters of eight minutes each, a five-minute halftime and a one-minute break between quarters.
25 years ago taken from sun files of august 27, 1981 noting increased traffic pressures along highway 160 through town, police chief tracy bunning has requested the state highway department to do a traffic count.
sign up now and acquire the benefits for 2006.
the office is open from 8 to 4, monday through  friday.
cooper is the son of gloria vanderbilt and grew up on manhattan's east  side.
take u.s. 160 to north pagosa boulevard, stay on north pagosa to  bastille drive (at ubc), turn left and stay on bastille past hopi.
copying something exactly the way it appears falls short of art, in my opinion."
he turns and coasts to the frontage road, swerving to the shoulder before the engine dies.
this class will be held 9 a.m.-3 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, at the community center.
the museum is located at the corner of pagosa street (u.s. 160) and 1st street, next to the bridge on the east side of town.
the canyon, meanwhile, seemed ancient and mysterious, as long sage-green tufts of spanish moss dangled from the lower branches of nearby spruce and fir.
acceptance into cantare is based on singing ability and desire, not age.
and at a third station, a cook theatrically juggles a deep frying pan over full flames, scrambling an egg while throwing in handfuls of noodles, dried shrimp, pork, spring onions, bean sprouts and some sugar and spices.
all works must  be for sale.
letters marathoner dear editor: i am a runner training for my first marathon.
however, it pays to have friends who own restaurants,  and when one is well connected, a "closed" sign is a mere formality  and we were cordially ushered in.
you never know what a film company is looking for, so if you  have something unique, let her put it in her repertoire of filming ideas.
hurry to get your tickets, available at wolftracks, moonlight books, the chamber, and the humane society thrift store: $17 in advance and $20 at the door.
"oh what a slaughter" by larry mcmurty is a searing history of the bloody massacres that marked - and marred - the settling of the american west in the 19th century, and still provoke immense controversy today.
armbrecht, daniel armbrecht, dean scott and spence scott.
their much-anticipated live cd, "way live" (2003) captures the band in their element, performing with trademark fervor.
the humane society also offers spay aid, which has no income restrictions.
essentially, you do not have to prove your case, the va acknowledges the presumptive and awards the service connected disability.
the fee to play is $75, which includes green fees, cart and lunch.
dedios identified a large number of places used by the jicarilla for hunting camps and religious purposes during the 1860s and 1870s.
there will be a recreation center committee meeting on wednesday, aug. 30, at the recreation center.
during his tour of duty in vietnam, terry flew over 400 combat missions,  earning many personal ribbons and medals and combat unit citations.
he scans the mountainsides for signs of odd electric transmission towers, remembering that many years ago his cousin, roger, attempted to build a facility nearby to test the more farfetched theories of nicolai tesla.
so remember to attend tuesday-evening practice and pick-up games at south pagosa park's horseshoe courts, just north of the basketball courts.
wistfully he replied that  he "hopes to become independent, to make a living beyond retirement with  his work.
options for women in unhealthy relationships.
"sometimes, when you're in a relationship like that, where you're  financially dependent - we lose our sense of identity," said gunther.
"given these broad themes, i will select those submissions that i feel  are the most: compelling, interesting and/or well executed; appropriately  and/or professionally presented; original in style, and/or contemporary/timely  in feel or tone.
everyone knows that owning a pet isn't all fun.
mounted rangers troo f to hold annual barbecue the colorado mounted rangers troop f is having its annual barbecue saturday.
shy rabbit is located  directly next to pine valley rental.
this class is not only open to the members of the choir but to the entire community.
he does not frame the world as do more limited souls  - those for whom political affiliation serves some deep but simple need.
rather than the stationary, or static stretches we can all remember from  p.e. class years ago, dynamic stretching includes slow, controlled movements to  increase flexibility, stamina, and power.
"the darned thing is stone-cold dead," he says.
when asked who the players were to watch, o'donnell said, "i'd like to  give you everybody's name for the work they're doing right now."
for answers to your  questions, call 264-9348.
in addition to tournament entry fees, operation helping hand is seeking  cash contributions and donations of prizes for tournament winners.
he called the overall proposal "a complete mess," and added that by his count, the proposed definition means there are currently 53 known objects eligible for planetary status with the possibility for countless additions.
a friend told me this story last week.
"anybody here," he calls.
pao will share  the secrets of her homeland cuisine with you.
to be part of lpea's efforts, visit lpea's website at www.lpea.coop and follow the change a light, change the world link.
next week we'll announce the colorfest schedule which is just jammed, including an art show in town park friday and saturday, sept. 15-16.
last friday, all of the 27 players who came out for soccer ran eight miles up wolf creek pass, climbing about half of a mile in elevation.
so we're probably looking at over half a million dollars for gravel and haul.
there is plenty of merchandise to be had from numerous great stores in this part of pagosa.
this important role of mushrooms results in recycling of essential nutrients.
it allows a defense to quickly adjust to an offense and employ a variety of man coverages and blitzes.
possessed of dazzling instrumental chops and an absolute  mastery of acoustic musical styles, the waybacks have taken north america by  storm.
she spent many hours in the wooden tower watching out for forest fires.
friday, there will be a beer, brats, and balloons picnic in the park the  early part of the evening.
unfortunately, the proposed fix is costly, at an estimated $55,000.
no parts to assemble, no diagrams.
"darned if they don't have an ambulance call all the way up on the pass.
all programs are free  and open to the public.
qualified but unable to attend the meet were erica pitcher, katie
they killed kennedy, you know.
arts line is a communication vehicle of the pagosa springs arts council, courtesy of the pagosa sun.
with lighting accounting for up to 20 percent of the typical home's electricity use, switching to energy-efficient options is a significant way to reduce greenhouse gases, save energy and protect the environment for future generations.
he presently serves as chair of the church ministries division and  is a member of numerous boards and committees.
veteran's corner new information on agent orange exposure by andy fautheree i recently wrote in this column about certain "presumptive"  medical conditions that are considered service connected disabilities.
this is a populist band in the best sense of the term, one whose ardent fan base spreads the word like wildfire.
last season, the  team finished first in the conference, losing only one regular season game to  4a montrose.
i have so many people saying, 'you have to do it, it's a free trip to europe,'" she said.
which leads us to a dilemma common to all artists.
for more information on donating prizes to the tournament or on the  tournament itself, contact rick taylor at 264-2650.
porpoise swimmers shine in end-of-season meets the pagosa lakes porpoises, pagosa's 20 member swim club wrapped up its  2006 season in fine fashion at the seasonal state meet aug. 4-6 in craig.
the llama will carry the wine, cheese and a delicious lunch for a mid-day picnic at a scenic overlook.
writers meet writers in relaxed environment every thursday between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m., brown bag writers, at shy  rabbit, provides a relaxed, casual environment for writers to drop in, listen  to their muses, tap into the creative river, and learn to not take themselves  so seriously.
jan, a former graphic artist, has been painting for over 30  years.
the edibility of the majority is either not known or they are not considered for food because of their small size or poor flavor or texture.
after pointing this out to the owner, whose interest was piqued, will and la mesa began an e-mail interchange over a period of several months.
shows are aug. 24-26.
this is a gathering for writers of all levels and abilities, an opportunity  to practice writing, to prime the pump.
if you have questions or concerns, or need additional information about any of the pagosa springs recreation department adult or youth sports programs, call 264-4151, ext.
we, the residents of the aspen springs subdivision, have for  the past 20 years or so funded our own road maintenance and snow removal;  currently to the tune of a 10.4 mill levy in addition to the county mill levy.
this class, another community  center-sponsored program, is free to the public of all ages.
the all-day festival kicks off at 8 a.m. with breakfast and activities for the entire family.
only the chickadees and robins spoke softly to one another, as golden sunlight still reflected off the far canyon wall.
"the clock just couldn't tick fast enough," said gronewoller of the monumental game.
if there's enough interest, we'll hold a town tournament in october.
if you miss the showing on this day, the exhibit continues until  oct. 7.
this program at the pagosa springs community center will provide information about the whys and hows of conservation easements today with guest speakers from around the region.
there are times when her velvety texture  and sumptuous earthiness have driven me to heights of euphoria approaching  religious exaltation, and we have spent those nights, transfixed and  intertwined like lovers.
in another drill, players were required to respond quickly to the vocal  cues of another player.
he will enjoy free lunches at arboles meal day during  the month of september.
" regester memorial memorial services for charles "chase" lawrence regester iii will be held at 2 p.m. saturday, aug. 26, 2006, at the archuleta county fairgrounds.
he actively supports enhanced mental health care.
owners will be responsible for the cost of the structure and any amenities, and the county is considering a cost reduction, in exchange for owner assistance in adding utilities or other infrastructure.
the skill is there; now the team is able to spend much of its time on  tactics, teamwork and playing smart.
another is a three-part series of books by j. b. stephens  called "the big empty" about the adventures of six teens after a  virus wipes out nearly half the world.
if not, just honk and wave.
he has experimented with forms and finishes.
they looked to be no older than two but may possibly have been only yearlings.
i will also be looking for enough work in two- and three-dimensional mediums to allow for an interesting, varied and balanced installation, in keeping with the high level and broad range of contemporary work that shy rabbit has presented in the past.
if they're malnourished, they're 1) easier to beat down in the event, which obviously can't drag on for an extended time- the cowboys must prevail before the audience gets bored, and 2) the rodeo stock company saves on feed, worming, vet care, etc., knowing that they won't own these colts long anyway.
beta phi, phi mu, phi sigma sigma, sigma delta tau, sigma kappa, sigma sigma  sigma, theta phi alpha and zeta tau alpha.
there is a narrow path leading back through the mountains of  debris, into the darkness.
the door to the metal building is  half open, like the maw of the beastmaster's guard dog.
yoga schedule the class, which now meets tuesdays instead of thursdays, has also changed its meeting time to 10:30-11:30 in the morning.
the price of this three-day workshop is $240 for psac members and $265 for  nonmembers.
join the community friday at the auction for the animals - the event of the year!
calendars are also available at moonlight books, lantern dancer, the chamber of commerce, pagosa photography and other area businesses.
with spay aid, the humane society will pay half of the bill to have your pet spayed or neutered.
he and other critics have questioned the definition, and have argued that under its parameters, our moon should be considered a planet.
both the girls' and boys' teams qualified for state last year, the girls finishing sixth and the boys 15th.
tickets are available at wolftracks, online at elationarts.org and at the  door.
a benefit spaghetti dinner to help out the families of chase regester, mickey maestas, and travis stahr will be held 4-8 p.m. saturday, aug. 26.
those things can explode, you know?
as usual, there will be  free snacks and a cash bar.
a number of these are choice edibles.
wouldn't blink before they kill you.
"it's not about how to fix a relationship.
barbecue chicken, baked beans, broccoli salad, watermelon, whole wheat roll and birthday cake.
from newgrass and western swing to jug band and jazz, from folk and fiddle  music to improvisational excursions that defy categorization, waybacks music is  wild, energetic and unpredictable.
the pirates schedule includes some tough teams, including state runner-up  buena vista, which is now in the intermountain league after conference  reconfiguration.
sports hotline general information concerning the pagosa springs recreation department can  be obtained by calling the pagosa springs sports hotline at 264-6658 or logging  on to townofpagosasprings.com and going to the parks and recreation link.
the mixtures have been specially developed to provide a ground cover that requires minimal watering and include a native grass mixture, dryland pasture mix, native wildflower mix and a new mix called "wildlife mix.
priority of service for veterans meeting the eligibility criteria.
if you are interested in the details of how this program works, call the center at 264-4152 or stop by for a handout which will explain the process.
you might chose to bid on a delicious  thai dinner delivered to your home.
the costs of the activities of monitoring easements annually and taking action required to protect their conservation values is funded primarily by endowments to the sla contributed by the landowners themselves and by citizens supporting conservation in the community.
the problem was, christiene, by all appearances, was closed.
the door to the metal building is half open, like the maw of the beastmaster's guard dog.
non-refundable entry fees are $25 for one to three images, plus $5 for each additional image, up to a maximum of six.
there is no test or characteristic to distinguish edible from poisonous mushrooms.
friday, aug. 25 - picnic in the park (lunch served in town park).
the approval marks the culmination of a multifaceted, multi-year project begun in 2001 with adoption of the archuleta county community plan, and is the capstone event in a comprehensive overhaul of the county's land use regulations.
mind's material also on saturday, aug. 26, there will be an artist's reception at the shy rabbit to kickoff the showing of "mind's material: sensation, cognition & knowledge," with artists kelsey hauck, karl isberg and doug pedersen.
"let's explore" brings in guest speakers, slide presentations,  films and experts to discuss the many facets of art and art history.
o'donnell said he was impressed with  the work ethic his team has shown so far.
hearing will dunbar discuss his life journey and his work, it seems evident  that the many challenges he faces will be met.
volunteers needed are you looking for a way to volunteer some time to your community and make an immediate impact on someone's life?
under the proposed iau definition, pluto would serve as the prototype for a new class of planetary objects called "plutons."
" harl looks across the road, at kathy, as she sits in her car, doors locked,  wolfing down the last of the meatball sandwich.
(the extra $25 will automatically give you a one-year psac  membership.)
no real difference: name-calling, stultifying and arbitrary chatter.
the orediggers went on the beat the no. 4-seeded university of nebraska-kearney 67-61 in the second tournament game march 4, a team that had beat the orediggers in both regular season games.
meatballs are taken from the sauce, sliced, put  on top of the cheese.
because the tournament is at home, faber said, "we'll play as many kids as we can.
make an immediate impact on someone's life and volunteer as a driver for medical shuttles to durango to help those with medical appointments who are unable to drive themselves.
926 pages, 756 color photographs with descriptions of all species.
if you enjoy thai cuisine, why not go to the source?
oct. 12-31 - juried photo show.
offsides will be called in the 7-8 division.
sounded like titanium plates banging together, didn't it?
i have driven  hundreds of miles on a hunch in pursuit of the juice from this noble grape of  bourgogne, and i have spent far more money than a man of my means ought to  spend for something as inconsequential as a bottle of wine.
some will be hill  races, demanding strength as well as endurance.
reporting for sky and telescope magazine, rick fienberg described the raucous, aug. 18 scene in prague during the iau assembly.
you must show proof of your income, and the humane society accepts income tax returns, food stamp cards, or a letter from social services.
regular admission tickets are $17 in advance, $20 at the door.
the pirates schedule includes some tough teams, including state runner-up buena vista, which is now in the intermountain league after conference reconfiguration.
knights' spaghetti dinner you've been running around all day, so you certainly don't want to cook dinner!
most importantly, they learn to blend with and redirect and attacker's energy, controlling the attacker.
if you have questions or would like more information on joining, call the  psac office, 264-5020.
did i ask if you like cats?" forty miles back to the city.
new participants are  always welcome.
as a result, teams in the conference have rescheduled their seasons, adding  a "zero week" game with a nearby rival.
according to brown, of the 20,000 inventoried acres in the hd mountains roadless area, roughly 8,000 have been identified as unsuitable for drilling or drilling infrastructure based on current coal bed methane extraction techniques.
the seven-way dog shot usually runs anywhere from $4 to $6.
the russkies wanted  the secret to fuel injection and chevy found a way to hide it from the reds.
the farm is supposed to make aviation fuel available to pilots after hours, but its present location is neither safe nor feasible.
this induction is one of the highest honors bestowed on aircrew enlisted men who flew with distinction.
then there are the rolling courses, in which the physical demand varies from one stretch to another, and the golf courses, which are flat and fast.
at an archuleta county board of county commissioners meeting aug. 15, the board approved the opening of approximately 12 acres of airport property to ground leases for the eventual construction of approximately 35 aircraft hangers.
by paul roberts special to the preview
a person cannot see around bushes and other obstacles without pulling out far past the stop sign.
the pad thai is ready in minutes.
most likely i suspect that they end their days in crowded pens of other terrified, abused and abandoned horses waiting for slaughter at a meat packing plant somewhere.
at the  same time, you should also learn to identify some of the common poisonous  mushrooms, especially those that are similar to edible kinds.
she said his name is harl." harl?
cost is $25 per volume with proceeds going to maintain the museum and its collection of artifacts from area history.
with woodruff's candidacy announcement, the assessor's race is now contested.
jerri anderson, of grace evangelical free church, will be the study leader and teacher.
by carole howard sun columnist, and the library staff you are invited to a very special evening at the library on thursday, aug.  31, when john graves will entertain at a free jazz event.
the use of conservation easements is encouraged as a matter of public policy by the u.s. internal revenue service and many states.
since then, the district board has worked feverishly to raise private donations and finalize financing arrangements.
these two handouts are particularly helpful for new computer users,  since they focus on keyboard and mouse skills.
symbols' allows for iconographic, even jungian 'dream based imagery' to be submitted; this could include imagery incorporating virtually any known symbol, logo, or other highly charged 'representative' cultural or socially based interpretations.
this fall, the choir is offering a special sight singing class taught by "doc" carruth in september and november.
beginning computing, 10  a.m.-noon; yoga, 10:30-11:30 a.m.; senior walking program, 11:15-11:35 a.m.;  teen center open, 4-8 p.m. aug. 30 - beginning computing for seniors, 10 a.m.-noon; weight watchers,  4:45-6:45 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8 p.m. aug 31 - over-the-hill hoopsters, 8-9 a.m.; computer q&a session with  becky, 1-4 p.m.; tops tourism board meeting, 4-6 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8  p.m.
this indicates a need to identify with certainty one of several of the proven edible species and pick and eat only those positively identified.
i lacked coffee, hadn't shaved, showered or eaten a decent meal, aside from a bag of barbecue corn nuts, for nearly 36 hours, and felt like crap.
adaptive sorts association seeks donations adaptive sports association encourages the community to participate in the organization's annual august membership drive.
entertain the rest of the family with a  mizerak 7-foot pool table from terry's ace hardware after grilling burgers on  the weber genesis silver b three-burner grill from ponderosa do-it-best.
the assumption by the va has been, if you were in country in vietnam during  the vietnam war and you have certain medical problems such as those above and  others, it is presumed that this medical condition is due to your exposure to  agent orange.
although  the flavors are odd, the wine has good acidity and if you're into blackberry  bubble gum, is well balanced.
as you've visited the library this summer, you may have noticed several  changes.
marcel, a boy of 10, witnesses the success of his teacher father, as well  as the success of his arrogant uncle jules.
their tenure with this rodeo would be short; they were "throwaway" items, probably bought cheaply.
if you want some of my meatball sandwich,  you'll go fetch him.
its gentle notes might have lured me to sleep, were it not for the infrequent thunder that still pealed from distant lightning strikes.
please join us for a casual conversation with artists pedersen, hauck and  isberg from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. sunday, aug. 27.
"the court of appeals for veterans claims recently held that va regulations defining who had service in vietnam for the purpose of establishing a presumption to exposure to herbicides (e.g. agent orange) were too restrictive.
the value of this gift is the difference in the value of the land without the easement restrictions (available for development) and the value with the restrictions.
"hmmmm," says karl, attempting a bit of humor.
from michelangelo to matisse, hokusai to picasso,  artists have often created their most profound work after age 75, reynolds  points out.
gunther said the book has been picked up by the southwest safehouse for  women in durango, and she plans on giving seminars there in the future.
if becoming involved with such a dynamic organization excites you, we hope you will consider becoming a member.
they appealed to the rich and, because  they were cheap, they were a mainstay in the poor man's diet.
for more information, call the humane society administration office at 264-5549.
all mushrooms in meadows and pastures are safe to eat.
the 11x15 artwork will be matted to 16x20 and ready  for you to frame.
please bring chairs or blankets to sit on, and remember that no alcohol is permitted on library property.
if you are age 60 or older and your birthday is in august, come to town  park friday for lunch and celebrate your birthday.
"audubon society field guide to north american mushrooms," by  gary lincoff.
"let's explore" - isamu noguchi is one night only, sept. 14, 6:30-8:30 p.m.
according to interim director of county development david alvord, the code provides ways to update and modify the map, including a plan for regular revisions.
the upper san juan health service district board of directors and the dr. mary fisher medical foundation board are planning a special groundbreaking ceremony to celebrate the start of constructing a new critical access hospital in pagosa springs.
in the glass and around the edges, the wine is thin and wispy with a bright cranberry colored core.
some finely chopped white onion and sliced garlic is added to the pan and cooked until soft.
shy rabbit is located at 333 bastille drive, units b-1, b-4, west of  downtown.
images should be limited to 2 (300dpi, 5x7 inches in size) and sent as a separate (individual attachments) e-mail.
but no matter the  cost, no matter the circumstance, each time, the trick is different, and the  obsession grows and the craving for pinot noir consumes like a cancer.
after returning from vietnam, terry spent his time backpacking,  snowshoeing, bow-hunting and hiking in the colorado rockies.
the optional fourth day on thursday is available for $60.00 per  person, minimum four students.
young asserts that the female voice, heard at approximately 9:45 p.m., was not one of the dispatch staffers on duty on primary election night.
the cost if $5 per  session and drop-ins are welcome.
entry forms are available at http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com/2006/08/forms-figures-symbols-prospectus_07.html; by e-mail request at shyrabbit01@aol.com; or may be picked up at shy rabbit, 333 bastille drive, b-1 and b-4.
tickets for the dinner are only $8 for adults and $5 for children 12 and younger.
offsides will not be called.
call the center for information.
some are poisonous and some are edible and delicious when properly prepared.
if you have never attended one of his classes, it's a treat to see what you  can produce in a day under his guidance.
by sarah o. smith staff writer prompted by her own experiences and the trials of others, local resident helena gunther recently published a book entitled, "ladies, are you lost?
runners also pay close attention to nutrition, getting the bulk of their  calories from complex carbohydrates and avoiding typical teenage fare, such as  soda and junk foods.
i have tried calling city market and local law officials, but no concern is felt.
"veterans who were previously denied service connection for a presumptive disability should reopen their claim with the va.
aside from the running that is typically associated with  "conditioning," the team also employs a relatively new training  regimen called "dynamic stretching."
depending on the outcome of the international astronomical union's (iau) general assembly in prague, our solar system could soon become a very different place.
dewinter began work at the airport july 5, after transferring from the archuleta county assessor's office, where she toiled for better than three years.
a buffet of exceptional snacks was  prepared by the club's new cook, nicole buckley.
let the knights of columbus do that for you and, once again, you'll support a great organization while it helps the three families of our young adults who were involved in that fatal accident several weeks ago.
bel canto performs locally throughout the holiday season.
during a week of two-a-days and a second week of afternoon practices, the  team has utilized "focus" drills to prepare their minds for the games  to come.
you can also mail a cd of images and information to psac, p.o. box 533, pagosa springs, co 81147.
substitutions shall be made every five  minutes.
the workbook costs $14.50, and you can register to attend by calling the  church office at restoration fellowship, 731-2937, ext. 21, by aug. 30.
i have seen many close call accidents at this intersection.
other drills have focused on quick thinking, while hours of conditioning  will help players get through 90-minute games and a 15-match season.
to schedule an appointment or consultation, please call 903-7607 or stop  by 175 pagosa st. unit 4.
one, called "esperanza rising" by pam munoz ryan, has won  multiple awards for outstanding young adult fiction.
david brooks, known for his extraordinary woodworking, will offer some  decorative wooden bowls this year.
and if anyone is making terrine de canard, give me a call, i'll bring the  wine.
however, if students bring a new box of crayons, pencils, colored pencils, or pens, or a package of notebook paper or a notebook, they will save $1.
film on noguchi part of 'let's explore' series by leanne goebel special to the preview a documentary film about japanese-american sculptor isamu noguchi,  "stones and paper," directed by niro narita, will be shown at 6:30  p.m. thursday, sept. 14, at shy rabbit contemporary arts as part of the  "let's explore" series.
after two years exploring the problem, the committee met in paris during june and july 2006 and reached a unanimous consensus for a proposed definition.
this is not to say i am fluent in the language, but i know terrine de canard when i hear it, and by andré's body language, patric had gone the extra mile.
"veterans who were previously denied service connection for a  presumptive disability should reopen their claim with the va.
call the church office with any questions, 731-5767.
nevertheless, the estancia makes for an enjoyable quaff and for the money, boasts a tremendous finish.
luckily, pagosa is home to a number of options for dog and cat owners to lower their costs on the basic, yet vital medical care their pets require, such as spay and neuter operations and yearly vaccinations.
activities at a glance thursday, aug. 24 - the den's monthly mystery trip, 9 a.m.
second, the object must be massive enough such that its own gravity pulls the object into a nearly spherical shape.
images should be limited to 2 (300dpi, 5x7 inches in size) and  sent as a separate (individual attachments) e-mail.
geez, i hate full tanks of gas when  the fuel pump is in the tank.
harl is under the car.
we will follow them  on their personal journeys over a period of time.
friday, august 21 marked the first day of the 1981-82 school year.
an offer at the soup counter is a steaming bowl of shrimp, chicken and vegetables in a coconut broth with a spritz of hot sauce and raw onions.
funny thing, that yellow spark.
"just finishin' up this here library.
to me, art is the integration of person to finished piece.
from beginners to experts, everyone is welcome to play and improve.
previously tall shelves of books at its entrance obscured the warm and cozy look of this area.
thank you for adding your new business onto your  existing great store.
the united way golf tourney starts at 9 a.m. aug. 26 with a four-person scramble.
he follows the sound, groping his way past walls of slippery clutter.
"the important issue is to stay away from the outcrop.
please join the society and help ensure the future of the museum.
we welcome two new member businesses this week starting off with peak  locations and specialty services.
many species are quite specific  about their food source and will be found only under or near certain kinds of  trees-some under pines, others under oak, etc.
why doesn't the county have money for snow removal?
turn north on vista and left on port.
the sewage, garbage, and factory toxins  dumped into the rivers destroyed the fishing industry and almost destroyed the  rivers and surrounding sea.
straight knee calf stretch: lean against a wall with your hands; put one  foot behind you and point the toes of that foot straight ahead towards wall;  keeping heel down, lean into the wall until a gentle stretch is felt in the  upper calf muscle.
don't miss this last weekend of wit and  humor in classic neil simon style.
join this study of leviticus, a frequently overlooked book of the bible  because of its focus on temple sacrifices, as it lays the foundation for our  christian worship of the god of israel.
all around the town, merchants are offering great sales and merchandise to make way for all the new items that will be coming in for the fall.
many presenters will come from fort lewis college and  others are permanent residents of pagosa springs.
those who have a presumptive disability should apply immediately for service connection.
each of the business owners who completed a business plan received a wooden plaque with their name inscribed, showing successful completion of the class.
for more information: log onto http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com, call (970) 731-2766, or e-mail shyrabbit01@aol.com.
sports hotline general information concerning the pagosa springs recreation department can be obtained by calling the pagosa springs sports hotline at 264-6658 or logging on to townofpagosasprings.com and going to the parks and recreation link.
albuquerque vamc  phone number is (800) 465-8262.
shy rabbit is located at 333 bastille dr. units b-1 and b-4 and the  reception is from 5-8 p.m. with the gallery regularly open tuesday, thursday  and saturday from 1 - 4 p.m. and 1-6:30 p.m. on the second thursday of the  month.
personalities, such as  diamond jim brady, lillian russell and j. pierpont morgan are described as is  their consumption of enormous quantities of oysters.
a deeply spiritual man, he became convinced that the true purpose of the martial way was self-perfection and the loving protection of all beings.
it is art that beckons a closer look, and that speaks in uniquely personal terms to each viewer who chances a better understanding.
for more information, call the humane society office at 264-5549.
to join the aikido classes at the den or for more information, call jeni at 264-2167.
miller proved a tough competitor, bringing home fifth place in the 1,500-meter freestyle, taking nearly a minute off of his previous best time.
with the proposed definition, pluto retains its planetary status, while its moon, charon, would also become a planet.
in goes some tomato sauce and a  glob of tomato paste.
by chuck mcguire staff writer faced with a number of pressing issues, three new stevens field staff members have hit the ground running.
once a pet has been spayed or neutered, owners can rest assured they've done their part to lower the number of homeless animals.
as a result, teams in the conference have rescheduled their seasons, adding a "zero week" game with a nearby rival.
bryant blew away her competition, setting a new state record in the 100-meter backstroke and four new pool records in her other events.
then there are the rolling  courses, in which the physical demand varies from one stretch to another, and  the golf courses, which are flat and fast.
in fact, during 2004, nearly 13,000 people were killed in highway crashes involving an impaired driver.
"remembrances" series editor glenn raby writes, "the mission of the federal forests has been to manage the natural resources and human use and enjoyment of this unique and priceless heritage of the american people, not for unaltered preservation, but for sustained production of those things a forest gives us and that we all need: wildlife, water, wood, natural beauty, history, home and future.
members of the student council hope to see all high school students at the dance to help kick off the school year on an enjoyable note.
self was employed by the forest service to man the eight mile lookout tower.
bryant blew away her  competition, setting a new state record in the 100-meter backstroke and four  new pool records in her other events.
substitutions shall be made  every four minutes.
karl hears the door locks engage.
dan pickett editor's note: neither city market nor local law enforcement determines signage or signals at the intersection.
all mushrooms, whether poisonous or edible can be admired for their beauty and the fantastic variety of form, color and texture.
please join ben bailey for tips on buying and selling.
this season, miller clocked times that qualified him to represent the state of colo. at the western zone meet held in fresno, calif.
many feed stores or equine suppliers sell package vaccinations for dogs and cats.
for more information call 731-3117.
earlier, i'd packed a light lunch and a small cooler of cold beverages.
goebel provides writing prompts in the form of phrases, music or visual  stimuli, and writers are free to spend 20-30 minutes writing.
they proceeded to climb on the flatbed and wait for the cat to come out.
the barbecue will start at 11:30 a.m.
if you have any questions, contact capt.
during the celebration, mark horn of the bank of colorado, and mike bonnell with wells fargo bank, awarded the first-, second- and third-place business plan competition winners.
" next trip through, thinks karl, just in case, i'm toting a supply of meatball sandwiches.
the city is full of mediocre, and truly  horrible restaurants, and it's not that we argue about where to go, its that we  agree the choices are incredibly limited, and in the end, were not really  fighting each other, were just complaining about the dearth of fine places to  eat.
fuel injection, you know?
and to that end, all 2,500 attendees at the organization's general assembly in prague will vote for or against the proposed planetary definition today.
will is now represented at la mesa gallery in santa fe, wild spirit gallery in pagosa, local color gallery in chama, and handcrafted interiors in pagosa.
the dark clouds that only moments before were an ominous gun barrel blue, brightened considerably with occasional brief appearances by the sun.
ana hale durango heat is on!
the wine and beer will flow and the hors d'oeuvres will be heavy as the  humane society of pagosa springs hosts its 12th annual auction for the animals  5:30 p.m. friday at the community center.
it was simply a demonstration of brute dominance and force, and it was awful to watch.
robbie schwartz, director of the humane society of pagosa springs, said spaying or neutering your pet is an integral step in lowering the number of homeless dogs and cats.
see you around town!
call 264-2409 ext. 0, to schedule  an appointment.
the best materials are on the san juan from wolf creek to navajo.
i can't seem to find a place yet for my newer vessels that mix wood and metal."
but no matter the cost, no matter the circumstance, each time, the trick is different, and the obsession grows and the craving for pinot noir consumes like a cancer.
friday is spirit day in the park so wear your silver foxes den t-shirts to show your spirit!
we will begin with a wild egg race at 11:45 a.m.
self-disciplined young ladies who are seeking an opportunity to develop their  vocal skills while being a part of a group that is both challenging and  rewarding are encouraged to audition for this choir.
waybacks on the main stage at four corners folk festival by crista munro special to the preview you still have just about a week to pick up your advanced-price tickets to the 11th annual four corners folk festival taking place this labor day weekend, sept. 1-3, on reservoir hill park in pagosa springs.
perhaps because we had so many events this year, the time seems to have gone by a little faster than usual.
individuals qualify  for meets based on previous times.
he expressed confidence that the team will make the playoffs if they can  stay healthy and eligible to play.
" approval of the color-coded map received a unanimous commissioner vote, and largely positive responses from those in attendance.
phase one of the study compiled property information for each of the five counties and compiled information about the property locations, age, size and improvements made by second homeowners.
quad stretch: hold onto something sturdy with one hand; standing on one  leg, bring the other foot up behind you and grasp the top of that foot with  your hand on the same side of your body; pull foot up towards your buttocks  until a gentle stretch is felt in the front of your thigh.
everyone is welcome and if you don't have a team, no problem, they'll match you with one.
more information is available from the humane society; see their latest  newsletter, paw press, for lots of details.
a map and legal description are available at the airport manager's office (nick's hangar), 777 county road 600, pagosa springs.
for many lower income families, providing school supplies may stretch the family budget already made tighter by rising energy costs.
whiseman's house is on the left.
he served with the seawolf  helicopter attack squadron-three in southeast asia until november 18, 1970.
using the experiences of abraham lincoln, georges clemenceau, winston churchill  and david ben-gurion to build his case, the author appeals not only to people  interested in military and political affairs and also to anyone interested in  leadership.
she also sits on the sixth judicial district nominating commission, which nominates candidates for the state supreme court.
after cooking up some breakfast in his new electric skillet (made in the philippines), he sits down to figure out on his calculator (made in mexico) how much he can spend today.
the festival features on-site camping, free  music workshops, food and merchandise vendors, free admission for children 12  and under and a free kids program throughout the weekend.
there are spontaneous results, and an immediate link to the wood.
today, i'm partial to tried-and-true split bamboo rods designed by the early masters, including the leonard.
these guys just work so hard and do everything first class for this community.
there is also a blacksmith shop, an artisan shop, a leather  shop and a chocolate factory on location.
the starter makes its best effort, but the engine remains  dead.
he is a member of the american association of museums, and the aam museum advocacy team.
with tuesday's commissioner approval of a county zoning map, archuleta county has joined the ranks of most colorado counties and of countless counties across the nation - archuleta county is now a zoned county.
he holds his breath and clears his mind of internal dialogue, attempting to  detect the oh-so-subtle hum that accompanies alien thought-projection.
four runners from the state competition will return to the girls team, while three boys will return.
bring your writing tools (pens, paper,  notebooks, laptop) and a sack lunch if you would like.
a benefit account has been opened for gary baldwin at citizens bank of  pagosa springs.
after a few minutes time, during which he figures out how to turn the phone on, he calls his wife, kathy, who is driving somewhere behind him on the highway.
in addition, ceres, the largest known asteroid which orbits the sun between mars and jupiter, would become a planet, as would 2003 ub 313, an object larger and more distant than pluto.
please let us know as early as possible if you are interested in joining us at that time.
"we take the six most competitive kids, peaking at the right time," said anderson.
the office is open from 8 to 4, monday through friday.
essentially, you do not have to prove your case, the va  acknowledges the presumptive and awards the service connected disability.
today, with assistance from the u.s. department of energy, the energy star program offers businesses and consumers energy-efficient solutions to save energy and money, and help protect our environment for future generations.
the goals for the day vary, with watercolorists getting together to draw,  paint and experience technique demonstrations from professional watercolorists  or framers.
from newgrass and western swing to jug band and jazz, from folk and fiddle music to improvisational excursions that defy categorization, waybacks music is wild, energetic and unpredictable.
he logged three junior olympic qualifying times and brought in six first-place finishes and two second-place finishes for a total of 129 points out of 144 possible.
for example, recent new discoveries have been made of objects in the outer regions of our solar system that have sizes comparable to and larger than pluto.
this setup is well suited for small and quick defenses.
help a fellow veteran who may be  going in the same direction to the same va facility.
it occurred to us then that the usefulness of these colts in a "wild" horse act would be quite limited.
these are called mycorrhizal mushrooms.
some are important as decay organisms, aiding in the breakdown of logs, leaves, stems and other organic debris.
rehearsals are held at the community united methodist church at 434 lewis  st. every tuesday night at 7 p.m. sharp.
"the court of appeals for veterans claims recently held that va  regulations defining who had service in vietnam for the purpose of establishing  a presumption to exposure to herbicides (e.g. agent orange) were too  restrictive.
at first, karl thinks it's him - that he is having another one of those  irritating ischemic events.
by linda strathdee preview columnist the pierre mion and his students show continues through aug. 29 at the pagosa springs arts council gallery at town park.
scarpa also transferred to another county department and now acts as building and grounds supervisor.
he and his wife, nancy, also an artist, live quietly outside town, their  house filled with works they've created out of wood, reed, feathers and other  natural materials.
the workshop will explore new methods and techniques in watercolor  painting.
there is a narrow path leading back through the mountains of debris, into the darkness.
we would love to hear from you  regarding suggestions for arts line.
by leanne goebel special to the preview pagosa's gerry riggs will jury "forms, figures, symbols, a juried exhibition of contemporary works," set for oct. 21-nov. 28 at shy rabbit, a contemporary art space and gallery.
this indicates a need to identify with certainty one of several of the  proven edible species and pick and eat only those positively identified.
the sailors traded their tools with the lenape natives for hemp, beans, and a local delicacy - oysters.
i love that microsoft: they make everything obsolete so fast your head swims.
'i ought to be in pictures'
the workbook costs $14.50, and you can register to attend by calling the church office at restoration fellowship, 731-2937, ext. 21, by aug. 30.
children will find plenty of activities in leprechaun land with a bounce house, corn shucking contest and train ride.
the upper san juan library district will begin a campaign to promote the ballot issue after labor day.
this rodeo event is  always popular and fun to watch as men and women test their roping skills  against those all-too-elusive calves.
tables,  chairs, a portable stage, a dance floor and audiovisual equipment are  available, too.
she hadn't eaten at all, and for me, the tarte was just an appetizer and i was  ready for the main event.
by matthew lowell brunson special to the preview the board of directors of the community choir are switching into high gear  with their first night of rehearsals for the christmas concert just around the  bend.
friday, sept. 1 - stuffed bell peppers, whole kernel corn, brussels  sprouts, pears with blueberries and whole wheat bread.
50 years ago taken from sun files of august 30, 1956 it was announced this week by san juan lumber co. that they had purchased the miller harris property for the site of their new mill.
if you have missed several  weeks, don't worry about catching up.
the "garage" is stacked floor to ceiling with parts of machines, boxes of leaking who-knows-what.
i'll pack the sandwiches in a cooler and take it with me next time i drive past that intersection, thinks karl.
'figures' implies tangible, but not necessarily  realistically rendered life based subject matter; figure studies, etc.
she'll end her academic career with a major in economics and business and a minor in biomedical engineering.
the meat is taken from the bowl with an ice cream scoop and each wad is  shaped by hand into a ball.
also, for any dog or cat adopted from the humane society, the surgery and vaccinations are included in the price of adopting - $65 for dogs and $22.50 for cats.
harl has long greasy gray hair falling from the sides of a major-league bald spot.
will's journey to art began more than 30 years ago in california.
judging, selection criteria "shy rabbit has wisely chosen the broad themes of 'form, figures and  symbols' to maximize the range of contemporary expression that may be  submitted.
on a more serious level, and still on cd, is "american theocracy: the peril and politics of radical religion, oil and borrowed money in the 21st century" by kevin phillips.
arts line applegate show opens at psac gallery aug. 31
the community center is open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. monday; 8 to 5:30 tuesday through friday ; and 10 to 4 saturday.
the goal of  this program is to help participants be aware of factors that may affect their  health and help them better realize their goals.
i will keep a calendar of who is  going where to coordinate this important program.
316 pages and 282 color photographs.
substitutions shall be made every four minutes.
despite the lack of energy, the pirates pulled off a sixth-place finish out  of 18 teams, with a combined score of 253.
oysters were reported to be more than a foot in length.
for answers to your questions, call 264-9348.
the dance will be held outdoors (weather permitting) at golden peaks stadium, 7:30-10:30 p.m. friday, aug. 25.
personally, i think it was a bum relay that blew up challenger and that teacher.
personally, i think it was a bum relay that blew up  challenger and that teacher.
there's a relay that primes it before ignition.
this is not to  say i am fluent in the language, but i know terrine de canard when i hear it,  and by andré's body language, patric had gone the extra mile.
be sure to replace your kitchen sponge frequently so that it's always  fresh.
these are the only items on his mechanical problem checklist.
opening reception 5-7 p.m. aug. 31-sept. 19 - psac pagosa portraits: ego and alter-ego by sandy applegate.
in time, i worked a long stretch of heretofore unfamiliar water and managed another half-dozen brilliant multicolored trout.
prepaid reservations will be required several days before the luncheon, which will take place at jj's upstream restaurant.
and if you can still keep your eyes open by now, or you haven't found a  function that meets your needs, let's try one more: the sky watch program at  chimney rock.
on friday the team moved on to another municipal course in alamosa, cattails golf club (par 71).
the show behind the food counters, on the other hand, is wildly entertaining.
you can find out more from jill at www.peaklocations.com or call her at 731-2771.
the wild egg race will be followed by a delicious lunch under the shade trees, as we listen to the river flowing by.
while an estimated 14.6 million have been diagnosed with the disease, 6.2 million (nearly one third) are unaware that they have the disease.
with just eight of the 13 qualified swimmers participating, the porpoises finished a very respectable ninth place overall.
new participants are always welcome.
slide entries must  be accompanied by an additional $5 per slide for scanning fee.
volunteers are welcome.
if it peels, you can eat it.
in our opinion, he has been the finest elected official the district could have hoped for, and he will be sorely missed - despite the fact he will, we hope, live longer and happier without the stress of a race and another term in the legislature.
turn north on vista and left  on port.
the workshop will include a review of basic drawing techniques; students  will leave with a completed drawing.
give me a call if you can provide transportation or need transportation.
or, perhaps you just need to get away for a few days of rest and relaxation.
membership also entitles those who meet annual income guidelines to  scholarships for eyeglasses, hearing aids, dental, prescription drugs and  medical equipment.
as night falls, you will  see how the night sky works and how the ancient people might have used it.
don't forget the west side of town has lots of sidewalks too, including the pagosa country center and the silverado shopping center.
"all hell broke loose today as astronomers began openly debating the definition of planet."
there will be prizes, contests, golf giveaways,  golf-related silent auction items, and lunch for the players.
doors open at 5:30 p.m. at the community center.
calendars are also available at moonlight  books, lantern dancer, the chamber of commerce, pagosa photography and other  area businesses.
he  owned the farmers insurance agency in pagosa and always said that, "every  customer was a friend that he liked well enough to invite to dinner."
they are excellent examples of what creative people can  do without spending a penny!
this season, the children's chorale is focusing on establishing a new boy's choir, featuring musical selections appropriate for young boys with unchanged voices.
" lpea will take an active role in encouraging individuals to make a simple, yet meaningful commitment by taking the online energy star change a light pledge.
and it wasn't there by accident, if you know what  i mean.
classes are free to everyone, and we try to tailor what is taught to your individual needs.
the line dancing group meets in the multipurpose room monday mornings from  10 to 11:30 a.m.
the transaction involved 137 acres, according to vernon burda, president of the company.
which mushrooms are safe to eat?
the next match is aug. 31 at hillcrest golf club in durango.
karl locates his cell phone on the front seat, beneath a stack of old art  in america magazines.
there will be spoons, eggs (not hardboiled) and a finish line to cross to win some great prizes!
lepore's enterprises offers accounting, payroll, individual and business tax  service and financial services.
on the girls' side, emily bryant garnered high-point honors in the 9-10 age group with an amazing performance on her birthday weekend.
if the  other linebackers are on a blitz or in coverage, the center of the field can be  open for a long run.
do you know how to worship god?
lifelong learning events in august, september
meatballs are taken from the sauce, sliced, put on top of the cheese.
supplies needed for this class include a sketch pad (preferably 11x14), assorted drawing pencils, including a 3h or 4h, a no. 2, and a 3b or 4b, eraser, ruler, pencil sharpener and folding chair to take outside for drawing buildings in the downtown area.
drawing with randall davis psac is proud to offer a new one-day drawing workshop with local artist  randall davis.
for many, dogs and cats offer incomparable friendship and comfort.
after the end of another discouraging and fruitless day, joe decides to relax for a while.
other  fly-fishing goodies include a guided fly fishing float trip from wolf creek  anglers, a $150 gift certificate to let it fly, and a casting lesson from jim
"i don't expect it (the book) to be a big seller, since it's directed  to women in a particular situation," said gunther.
sources of information "field guide to mushrooms of north america," by kent and vera mcknight.
also included will be autographed books and cds, fine art, children's toys, dog and cat baskets, clothing, jewelry and so much more.
there will be openings in both teams for new runners.
to register, $20 is due the first night to help with the cost of music.
and, perhaps most of all because, though a republican - with no intent of  being otherwise - larson has shown a remarkable ability to do what most  contemporary politicians cannot do, either out of ignorance or fear: namely,  think for himself and be generally non-partisan in his approach to public  service.
schedules for all divisions will be finalized by the end of the month; games in all divisions will begin after labor day.
thank you for adding your new business onto your existing great store.
the four corners folk festival is supported by a grant from the colorado  council on the arts, a state agency funded by the colorado general assembly and  the national endowment for the arts, a federal agency.
design and construction details have changed periodically, as estimated costs have increased, but construction will now begin soon after the groundbreaking.
he has  worked in various media including ceramics, furniture, interiors and gardens.
hauling gravel 60 miles round trip is nonsense.
knights spaghetti dinner to benefit families a benefit spaghetti dinner for the families of mike maestas, chase regester and travis stahr, hosted by the knights of columbus, will be held 4-8 p.m. aug. 26 at the parish hall at 451 lewis st. admission to the dinner for adults is $8, for children 12 and under $5.
menu suggested donation $3 for ages 60-plus and kids 12 and under; all others $5.
form' allows for abstraction and even work based on  amorphic or undefined shapes and/or coloration, as well as realistically  rendered, non-figurative works.
friday, sept. 1 - the "geezers" weekly meeting, 9 a.m.; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; final ice cream social of the summer, following lunch; bridge-4-fun, 12:30 p.m.; duplicate bridge, 12:30 p.m.
it looks at the history of the san juan national forest, which was created june 3, 1905, by proclamation of the president of the united states.
but that mentality started to change.
his touch on the  lathe is decisive, yet the wooden sculptures that emerge are delicately  intuitive.
and while individuals such as delzell and groups such as the san juan citizens alliance and the hd mountains coalition harbor grave concerns over drilling near the outcrop and in the hds, with 140 new wells on the horizon, archuleta county is poised to reap tax benefits from unprecedented gas production, according to archuleta county assessor keren prior, the assessed value for oil and gas production on the 2005 abstract of assessment, totaled about$ 4.4 million.
if my  hair gets caught in the fan, i'll yell and you turn it off.
the point standings are very close among the eight teams in the league, and  pagosa is currently in fifth place, only 4.5 points out of second place.
among these were: resignation, helplessness, depression, denial, resentment, anger, fear, anxiety and resistance.
in conjunction with moon's workshop we will be fortunate to have some of her works on display in the community center's arts and crafts room.
lock no. 3 pencils small pencil sharpener with shavings holder wide rule composition notebooks elmer's glue paper towels
our renewals this week include mcdonalds, with jess donahue; scott farnham and judy nicholson and civil design team; pagosa glass; jerry laquey and la quey, inc.; craig taylor at treecology; and a hummingbird haven.
san juan basin health is located at 502 south 8th st. , across from head start.
she saw her neighbor's cat running across the yard chased by a doe and its fawn.
by the time gronewoller's four-year basketball career was over, the csm orediggers had beat the odds and pulled off the unbelievable; despite the young team (gronewoller was the only senior) and "losing some games we shouldn't have," they inched their way into the rocky mountain athletic conference (rmac) tournament march 1 at the no. 8 seed and beat top-seeded regis university 71-57, becoming the first ever no. 8 seed to beat a no. 1 seed in the 14 years of rmac tournament history.
it will ask voters to approve the "stabilization" of the  current mill levy, with excess revenues kept and spent rather than  "refunded." dangerous?
i knew i would be hard pressed to find a stellar terrine de canard, so i opted for a store-bought duck pâté that would serve as an acceptable surrogate.
working in the interior design industry, fresh out of school with a bachelor of arts degree from the university of california at sacramento, will began his artistic journey creating and restoring furniture.
he turns the radio channel to an oldies station (he is an oldie, after all)
the meeting starts at 7 p.m. in the unitarian universalist fellowship hall,  unit 15, greenbriar plaza.
look at that compac there, will  yuh?
we've built the building and that's all we can do," said barbara draper of the library staff.
airport maintenance specialist chris torres assumed his duties earlier this month, after transferring from the county solid waste department.
bring your friends, your relatives, or just bring yourself with a smile and  an appetite to this special event.
future free events in the fall will include lectures by fort lewis faculty on topics such as "preserving western history," "women to the rescue: creating mesa verde national park," "engineers without borders" and "the venus figurine controversy."
more information is available from the humane society; see their latest newsletter, paw press, for lots of details.
several are planning to attend from pagosa springs.
call pueblo community college at 247-2929, ext.
everyone should bring a water bottle, a folding chair (to sit on for lunch), camera, sunscreen, sun hat, comfortable walking/hiking shoes and please dress appropriately for the weather (you will be outside and at high altitude).
but how about taking a thai cooking lesson from pao tallman on saturday, sept. 16, from 1-4 p.m.?
he was joined in the tournaments by juniors clay vickers, scoring 82, 83 and 84; caleb burggraaf, 92, 85 and 93; and cody bahn, 85, 86 and 86; and sophomore jeremy lister, who only played at black canyon, scoring 87.
the class will begin at 6:15 p.m. and last until 7.
"mind's material" brings the work of pedersen, hauck and isberg together for the first time since they met and became friends in 1983.
they play both teams twice during the season.
'symbols' allows for iconographic, even jungian 'dream based imagery' to be  submitted; this could include imagery incorporating virtually any known symbol,  logo, or other highly charged 'representative' cultural or socially based  interpretations.
the wolf creek pass improvement association will hold the annual meeting at alamosa next thursday.
for more information, contact scott at 264-2730.
for more information, call sue diffee at 731-1305 noted curator to jury 'form, figures & symbols'
children will find plenty of activities in leprechaun land with a bounce  house, corn shucking contest and train ride.
it is especially important to learn the characteristics of mushrooms which you are going to eat because several of the species are poisonous, a few causing serious illness and sometimes death.
more immediately, players will have an opportunity to test their game legs  saturday, when they will play in five scrimmages beginning at 9 a.m. at golden  peaks stadium.
if you can, come join me on a saturday morning.
since there is no way to distinguish between a so-called "toadstool" and an edible mushroom it is more precise to speak of poisonous mushrooms or edible mushrooms.
these indians retaliated by stealing from settlers.
" "harl, i don't think that's š" "nope, nuthin' finer than one of them meatball sandwiches.
i knew i would be hard pressed to find a stellar terrine de canard, so i  opted for a store-bought duck pâté that would serve as an  acceptable surrogate.
in an effort to resolve the planetary classification problem, the iau executive committee, led by ekers, formed a seven-person, planet definition committee, and the group set to work on tackling one of modern astronomy's most vexing and contentious problems - providing a contemporary definition for "planet" that takes into consideration advanced observational technologies and new discoveries, including that of 2003 ub 313.
meanwhile, a large hunk of italian or french bread is cut into a serving-size lengths, halved and the halves are toasted.
he does, but the road to  financial success, for artistic endeavors such as will's stunning wood turned  vessels, is blurry.
if elected, woodruff says she will improve the functioning of the assessor's office woodruff is challenging incumbent keren prior, also a republican, now in her eighth year as assessor.
computer lab news two new beginning computing classes started aug. 22 and 23.
wadley, the rose, old west press, kk paddywhacks, junction and wolf creek  gifts, boot hill, a&m construction, weber sand and gravel, ksl  construction, from the heart (durango), egg family, c.d. garcia, conoco,  sunoco, joe and pat lee, aaron's fitness, home again, all about you day spa,  silver dollar liquor, pine river clothing store, slices of nature, shear talk  (tonya and dennis), joe steel/mainstreet antiques, walter and doris green,  jackisch drugs, wild rose, dorothy's, dial oil, jem jewelers, snips, rainbow  gifts, malt shop, diamond dave's, ponderosa, wild life park, paint connection,  office supply store, gina willis, four seasons land co./doug and lynn cook,  diane pack, tom burch, s&s distributors.
in a special election last may, voters overwhelmingly approved a measure allowing the usjhsd to increase debt by $12 million to build the hospital.
as a reporter, he was driven to cover the suffering he found all over the  world and it became impossible to separate his personal pain and loss from that
speaking to the archuleta county board of county commissioners last year, pagosa fire protection district chief warren grams said extinguishing an underground coalbed fire is an expensive, and extremely difficult process.
these are  called mycorrhizal mushrooms.
for more information on participation in the children's chorale, call  either 264-9060 or 264-0244 prior to aug. 30.
in a matter of 30 minutes or so, i'd landed two brightly-colored colorado river cutthroats and one plump 12-inch brook trout.
it is a tendency we admire and that we wish more leaders  would develop.
"details still are being firmed up," said lisa scott, president of the local pi phis.
join this study of leviticus, a frequently overlooked book of the bible because of its focus on temple sacrifices, as it lays the foundation for our christian worship of the god of israel.
have you called triple a?" "huh?" "triple a. we pay them money every year so, if the car breaks down,  they can tow it to someone who can fix it.
the southwest land alliance grew gradually in its first decades as an almost totally volunteer effort of concerned local citizens.
woodruff said she has considered running for the last two months and formally notified the county clerk of her intent to run a week before the deadline of aug. 29.
consequently, those who served in thailand, laos and cambodia or on navy ships off the coast of vietnam may be eligible for service connection of certain cancers, including lung and prostate cancer, as well as type 2 diabetes.
organizers want to thank local businesses for their  donations and those individuals who came to the auction and dance and made it a  success.
no parts to assemble, no  diagrams.
pain management tips from nathan trout.
i  hope someone will donate a copy.
- ed morlan with region 9 economic development district, who graciously offered a scholarship for one of the students.
while there are many things i appreciate about pagosa springs and rural colorado, big cities, such as albuquerque, have a certain allure and their advantages - like friends who own restaurants.
this event is the first in a new series at the library called lifelong  learning, organized locally by library volunteer biz greene.
o'donnell emphasized that his team's success will be based on its strong collective effort.
she hadn't eaten at all, and for me, the tarte was just an appetizer and i was ready for the main event.
another member of the newly-reorganized intermountain league, lake county,  failed to field a team this year.
we wondered about the lives of those colts when they are not "performing" once or twice a day.
according to commission officials, "its costs have already been covered."
watch here for details about ticket information.
to schedule an appointment or consultation, please call 903-7607 or stop by 175 pagosa st. unit 4.
the surveys will be collected until the end of august.
high school rodeo we would like to thank all our friends, local clubs, organizations, businesses and members of our community for the overwhelming support we received during fund raising efforts to assist with the expenses to send local national high school rodeo finals qualifiers ryan montroy and charmaine talbot to compete in springfield, ill. during july.
the pirates competed again yesterday at cortez, but their scores were  unavailable by press time, and they have a tournament today in durango.
in addition, they have highly tilted orbits relative to the classical planets, and have a large orbital eccentricity, or, an orbit that is far from circular.
the teams will run on a variety of courses this year.
all are invited to come hear the inspirational, camp meeting-style preaching.
for further workshop and supplies information, call mion at 731-9781 or visit www.pagosa-arts.com.
this rodeo event is always popular and fun to watch as men and women test their roping skills against those all-too-elusive calves.
when asked who the players were to watch, o'donnell said, "i'd like to give you everybody's name for the work they're doing right now."
computer q&a session with becky, 1-4 p.m.; teen center open, 4-8  p.m. aug. 25 - humane society auction, 5:30 p.m.; bridge 4 fun and duplicate  bridge, 12:30-4 p.m.; teen center open, 2-8 p.m.
aikido students learn hand techniques for armed and unarmed attackers, and train with the wooden sword and short staff.
the second, alvord described as a taxpayer initiated re-zone.
judging, selection criteria "shy rabbit has wisely chosen the broad themes of 'form, figures and symbols' to maximize the range of contemporary expression that may be submitted.
are your specs or your engineers' specs tougher than the federal aviation specs?
admission ticket  prices for this extravaganza will be $25 in advance or $30 at the door for wine  and beer, including a commemorative wine glass or beer stein.
your attachment should be in a microsoft word file document format.
it appears to me that the bureaucrats are going to  "grow" the county residents into the poor house.
"i can see a yellow spark.
the first day of play was at rio grande, with the host club taking a 29 to 25 lead.
forty-five total runners have come out for the boys' and girls' teams this  year, making them virtually impossible to miss on the morning drive to work.
it is your last chance to enjoy the sunshine, the food, the camaraderie, the laughs and pagosa's beautiful outdoors all at the same time with the summer finale of a picnic in the park.
the other rodeo stock looked very well cared for.
pagosa reads history on the half shell by fran jenkins special to the preview mark kurlansky begins his narrative, "the big oyster: history on the  half shell," in 1609 with henry hudson, a british explorer employed by  holland to find a water route through north america to china.
today, for that matter, it wouldn't be much of a stretch to hope for a glimpse of a canada lynx, since more than 200 now run wild here in the san juan mountains.
oct. 9-11 - pierre mion's lake powell watercolor workshop.
we promise that after 30 minutes you will be back in the groove.
this t-shirt used to be yellow.
the family meal will be held following  the rosary, in chromo.
streets and alleys are lined with makeshift stalls and  well-worn carts that proffer hot and cold dishes assembled on the spot, usually  by a sole entrepreneur.
the pirates will face stiff competition this year from conference rivals  crested butte, which won the league last year, and telluride.
no students younger than ninth grade may attend the dance.
it is especially  important to learn the characteristics of mushrooms which you are going to eat  because several of the species are poisonous, a few causing serious illness and  sometimes death.
the pad  thai is ready in minutes.
attendees should bring a bag lunch, their supplies, and be willing to have a fun creative day!
" karl wedges himself past a stack of computer parts and peers around the corner.
we will go over all the new moves before  adding music.
the draft for all players who registered in the 9-10 and 11-13 divisions took place last night and coaches will be contacting their players for practice as soon as possible.
he met his wife,  susan, while snowshoeing near mosquito pass and they married in 1977.
and put the cooler right next to my tin foil hat.
give the club a call at 731-4755 with questions or to sign up.
deadline is at least two weeks prior to event.
i'm pretty much at my wit's end with this thing." "oh, please, don't tempt me with the wit's end thing; that's just too easy a target.
students will be asked to pay and check their names on the student roster at the main ticket gate.
perhaps they'll all  blow away some day, he thinks.
cdot and our law enforcement partners seek to accomplish this goal by discouraging drunk driving through increased public awareness and aggressive dui enforcement.
tables, chairs, a portable stage, a dance floor and audiovisual equipment are available, too.
don't forget the west side of town has  lots of sidewalks too, including the pagosa country center and the silverado  shopping center.
"most of my buyers select natural wood pieces, or those with turquoise inlay.
bent knee calf stretch: lean against the wall with your hands; put one foot behind you but not as far as in no. 1 above and point the toes straight ahead towards wall again; keeping heel down, lean into the wall until a gentle stretch is felt in the lower calf muscle.
tickets may also be purchased at the door.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
i wanted to work a stretch beyond the limits of earlier excursions - to see new territory and fish new pools.
the pirates finished eighth out of 18 on the first day of competition and ninth out of 20 on the second.
local author publishes book, proceeds go to education fund
100 pledges could save 28,200 kwh of energy and prevent 44,600 pounds of greenhouse gas emissions.
this bivalve has an incredible capacity for filtering and cleaning water.
(gps coordinates are latitude n37 degrees, 15.193 minutes and longitude w107, 5.074 minutes).
gunther has also published several fiction novels under the pen name victoria  rose.
until the early 1900s the oyster played the leading role in the city of new  york's economy, gastronomy and ecology.
using the experiences of abraham lincoln, georges clemenceau, winston churchill and david ben-gurion to build his case, the author appeals not only to people interested in military and political affairs and also to anyone interested in leadership.
originally, will used applications of friction finishes to create dull sheens on his pieces.
after returning from vietnam, terry spent his time backpacking, snowshoeing, bow-hunting and hiking in the colorado rockies.
75 years ago taken from sun files of august 28, 1931 the concert given at the school auditorium last evening by the pagosa orchestra, and sponsored by the women's civic club, was one of the most pleasing programs ever rendered in pagosa springs.
this important role of mushrooms results in recycling of essential  nutrients.
one, called "esperanza rising" by pam munoz ryan, has won multiple awards for outstanding young adult fiction.
the human image is key to each artist's work, which ends any similarities  that they might otherwise exhibit.
the office number is 731-3837, the fax number is  731-3879, cell number is 946-6648, and e-mail is  afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
the tournament begins 10 a.m. sept. 9 at the pagosa springs golf club and  includes a four-person scramble, with an entry fee of $50 per player.
will dunbar - an artist's journey by kathleen steventon special to the preview will dunbar.
the center is located at 451 hot springs blvd.
health department extends immunization clinic hours
walk through the past the san juan historical museum collects and displays artifacts relating to the history of pagosa springs and archuleta county.
monday, aug. 28 - susan stoffer available, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; gym walk, 11:15  a.m.; and bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m.
lost a couple  mighty fine cats.
the hershey collection of southwest books has been moved to a more visible  place, and terry hershey's furniture in front of the shelves gives you the  feeling you are in their living room or den as you peruse this remarkable  collection.
a heating pad set on medium heat and placed on the area of soreness for 15 minutes should assist in decreasing level of soreness.
the balls are browned in olive oil over medium high heat, then removed from the pan.
how about some fly fishing lessons?
ladies, here's your chance to  put on a favorite dress and get your man out of his t-shirt.
however, as the legal complexities and numbers of conservation easements have grown, the need for professional staff has increased.
if you are into fly fishing, you won't be disappointed this year.
there will be spoons, eggs (not hardboiled) and a finish line  to cross to win some great prizes!
the road to out next adventure is  rough and bumpy so not great for those who get carsick.
he met his wife, susan, while snowshoeing near mosquito pass and they married in 1977.
take county road 335  (blanco basin) 3 1/2 miles from u.s. 84.
a model home is opening soon.
doo dee doo-doo, doo dee doo-doo, doo dee doo-doo.
pagosa lakes, don't fall for improvement districts, or metro, or pid.
riggs also served as the curator of fine art/exhibition  coordinator at the colorado springs fine art center, and director/curator for  the c.b. goddard center for visual and performing arts in ardmore, okla. riggs' professional accomplishments include the installation design for  over 400 exhibitions.
if you have a child interested in finding out more about the swim club, please contact fenton or williams through the pagosa lakes recreation center.
aug. 31 - sandy applegate, psac pagosa portraits: ego and alter ego.
cost is $75 (or $40 for golf club members) and includes green fees, cart,  lunch, contests and prizes, and a silent auction of various golf packages.
in the subject area of your e-mail, please write "arts line."
i wish to give our constant gardener, dave  kenyon, a huge pat on the back.
salad bar available every day at the den beginning at 11:30 a.m.
many presenters will come from fort lewis college and others are permanent residents of pagosa springs.
a county vehicle and the fuel are provided for the shuttle.
his articles appear  regularly in denominational periodicals.
wayne strauss at 731-9315 or lt. norman whiseman at 264-5724.
" psac seeks new members started in 1988, the pagosa springs arts council, a non-profit organization, was conceived and developed to, in part, promote the awareness of the vast array of local artistic talent; provide educational and cultural activities in the community; sponsor exhibit and workshops by local and regional artists; and encourage and support continued appreciation and preservation of the aesthetic beauty of pagosa springs.
young kids and grandkids  would love the battery-powered john deere children's tractor and trailer filled  with candy from pagosa candy company.
"that game was probably even more fun," said gronewoller.
selling everything and relocating to the glacier, washington area was another adventure in terry's life.
any and all donations will be greatly  appreciated.
gallery ready artwork must be received by 5 p.m. oct. 14.
aikido is a relatively modern martial art, although its roots go back  nearly 1,000 years to secret techniques of samurai warriors.
conservation district offers seed program the san juan conservation district is offering local landowners the opportunity to purchase a variety of seed mixtures for different conservation uses such as erosion control, weed suppression and grazing land improvement.
meagan's place, the special section for teens and young adults, also has been opened up.
in addition, the definition allows for another subclass of planets, called dwarf planets, and the possibility for double, or even triple planets.
the color is dynamic, even and lively, and foreshadows a wine packed with red fruits, including raspberries and cranberries with undertones of black cherries and hints of pepper.
aug. 26 - teen center open, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; drawing class with randall  davis, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
players described the experience as "painful" but "awesome when you get to the top."
gallery ready artwork must be received  by 5 p.m. oct. 14.
all are invited to come hear the inspirational, camp meeting-style  preaching.
it was compiled using supply lists provided by local schools.
it is in this  choir that music reading skills are taught through the singing of rounds, call  and response, and partner songs.
young said for a dispatcher to have announced election results would have been extremely unprofessional.
ask him a few questions about his wood turnings, and he becomes animated, excited, passionate.
so, while supporting the local economy, worldwide demand for oysters also eventually contributed to the burgeoning society and its resultant pollution.
all exhibits are shown at the psac  gallery at town park, unless otherwise noted.
but how about taking a thai cooking  lesson from pao tallman on saturday, sept. 16, from 1-4 p.m.?
don't miss this  opportunity for some pre-holiday gift giving ideas as well as collectibles for  yourself.
some are important as decay  organisms, aiding in the breakdown of logs, leaves, stems and other organic  debris.
sounded like  titanium plates banging together, didn't it?
the team also spends time in the weight room twice during the week,  performing power-oriented lifts such as cleans, squats and bench presses that  work a variety of large muscle groups.
thank goodness it wasn't jimi hendrix ...
" - gerry riggs call for entries shy rabbit has issued a call for entries for the form, figures & symbols exhibit.
from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. watercolor with mion internationally-known artist and illustrator pierre mion will teach his  fall watercolor workshop, the lake powell class, beginning monday, oct. 9, and  continuing oct. 10-11 from 9 a.m.-4 p.m.
in october, shy rabbit will begin the series art 21, followed by a lecture and slide presentation in november with gerry riggs, the juror from the "forms, figures, symbols" juried exhibition of contemporary art.
pao will share the secrets of her homeland cuisine with you.
many of the players finished the run averaging 13-minute miles, including brief stops for stretching and water.
more than 8,000 organizations have become energy star partners and are committed to improving the energy efficiency of products, homes and businesses.
you might chose to bid on a delicious thai dinner delivered to your home.
it appeared perfect,  somewhere between the velvety smoothness of a mousse, and somewhat less coarse  than a more rustic, pâté de campagne.
my hat, fishing pack and waders were already in the jeep, and upon leaving the house, i'd grabbed a four-weight leonard and suitable raised-pillar reel for what i hoped would be a quiet interlude of classic dry-fly fishing for native cutthroat trout.
their stellar musicianship and innate sense of adventure puts them in good company with the few bands at the forefront of today's new american acoustic music.
according to anderson, age makes all the difference with male runners, since it often equates to greater strength.
she also topped the list of season leaders all four years, and made the rmac all-league team.
a more equitable proposal would be to ask for a mill levy increase on all properties not within the city limits or the boundaries of the special districts that already pay an additional mill levy for roads and streets.
aikido is a relatively modern martial art, although its roots go back nearly 1,000 years to secret techniques of samurai warriors.
give me a call if you can  provide transportation or need transportation.
there is no test or characteristic to distinguish edible from poisonous  mushrooms.
he is a pilot with licenses to fly both fixed- and rotary-wing aircraft, and recently flew for the justice department in multiple capacities.
an  alternative is to place the top of your foot onto the seat of a chair if the  front of the thigh is very tight or the knee does not bend well.
as simple as a t instead of an s. brilliant, downright brilliant.
the second day of play at pagosa saw the home team come from behind to win  the cup with a two-day total of 55 to 53 points.
the hershey collection of southwest books has been moved to a more visible place, and terry hershey's furniture in front of the shelves gives you the feeling you are in their living room or den as you peruse this remarkable collection.
joye's work unleashes the power of watercolors; it is bold and intense.
there will be many more items to bid on including a custom-built heated and  cooled luxury dog house, enormous baskets of goodies from the choke cherry  tree, and great getaways at the grand hyatt in downtown denver, hart's rocky  mountain retreat, and the springs resort.
recently,  the "oh brother, where art thou" movie and soundtrack has rekindled  the flame.
if i gotta go to the twilight zone again, i am going prepared.
"it's kind of fun to think about," she said.
there is no competition in aikido because of o-sensei's beliefs and because the techniques are too powerful.
these two handouts are particularly helpful for new computer users, since they focus on keyboard and mouse skills.
the team also spends time in the weight room twice during the week, performing power-oriented lifts such as cleans, squats and bench presses that work a variety of large muscle groups.
the colt closest to us ended up with its neck arced, nose buried in the dirt between its forelegs while it braced with all four feet but could do nothing, locked in that position by the rope, while a saddle was cinched on it and a big man threw himself aboard.
energy star was introduced by the u.s. environmental protection agency in 1992 as a voluntary, market-based partnership to reduce air pollution through increased energy efficiency.
nearly a century of musical experience steps onstage with them at every gig, including professional associations with a host of musical luminaries ranging from ramblin' jack elliot to lawrence welk.
the  claimant may have had to prove the exposure.
there will be a yard sale with a bit of everything, a book  nook offering used books, a county cupboard which will include crafts, home  items and a bake sale.
it'll pass, he thinks.
pagosa readspagosa reads history on the half shell by fran jenkins special to the preview mark kurlansky begins his narrative, "the big oyster: history on the half shell," in 1609 with henry hudson, a british explorer employed by holland to find a water route through north america to china.
the book is "anderson cooper - dispatches from the edge: a memoir of war, disasters, and survival."
he pastored two assemblies of god churches.
only students registered at the high school and their approved  out-of-school dates will be allowed to attend.
the point standings are very close among the eight teams in the league, and pagosa is currently in fifth place, only 4.5 points out of second place.
anyone interested in joining the  troop is encouraged to attend.
kurt-mason said that the point was to take the players' focus away from the outcome of the shot and put it on the continuing game.
but, the day will come.
"so the numbers are still dropping," she said.
the workshop will include a review of basic drawing techniques; students will leave with a completed drawing.
these tragedies in anderson's life had an unusual impact on his career.
this is the first in a series of articles that will explore exactly that  question - with will and many other locals who create art.
"most of my buyers select natural wood  pieces, or those with turquoise inlay.
woodruff must start by getting her name out.
please help fix this situation before someone is  seriously injured or killed.
the waybacks will return to pagosa springs to headline friday's lineup at  this year's event.
this old-time sound has never gone away; it's always here, waiting to be discovered and rediscovered.
easy daily stretches 1.
the city is full of mediocre, and truly horrible restaurants, and it's not that we argue about where to go, its that we agree the choices are incredibly limited, and in the end, were not really fighting each other, were just complaining about the dearth of fine places to eat.
the stanford study is described in an available book titled "tipi rings," written by members of a law firm that helped the tribe win the settlement.
whereas brown and iau critics see the definition and subsequent resolution as arbitrary and contradictory, iau planet definition committee chair owen gingerich says otherwise.
we are now taking reservations for the class which will start close to the end of october.
i will keep a calendar of who is going where to coordinate this important program.
through aug. 29 - psac pierre mion and students watercolor exhibit and sale.
it is a beautiful summer day; nothing out of the ordinary.
somewhere off to the west, up the hill.
" in addition, brown said the preferred alternative "requires intensive monitoring to better characterize the hydrogeology of the fruitland formation and to detect potential impacts before they manifest at the outcrop.
may be used  three times per day until you have reduce the pain or high soreness, then you  may switch to heat or exercise.
first children's choir rehearsal sept. 13 by sue anderson special to the preview the pagosa springs children's choralewill begin rehearsals sept. 13, on wednesdays from 3:45-5:30 p.m. at community united methodist church.
i can't make out what you're saying.
somebody please help straighten out this county mess.
speaking for alpha residents, beverly warburton said, "we like the result, we're the right color green."
the man thinks for himself.
by biz greene special to the preview "great geezer artists: a look at creative expressions in old age" is judith reynolds' topic for her forthcoming lecture in pagosa's new lifelong learning program, beginning this fall.
the appeal is nature, color, and the amazing wood grains.
in this case, duck was the  principal ingredient, hence, terrine de canard, and patric chose to serve his  warm, but not hot.
uu service to deal with notion of practice on sunday, aug. 27, the pagosa unitarian universalist fellowship will  consider "buddhism, humanism, and the notion of practice."
in the glass and around the edges, the wine is thin and wispy with a bright  cranberry colored core.
"james," the voice whispered.
then, the writers share their work (don't worry, if you don't feel comfortable, you can pass).
come fall, the record-breaker with a brain is headed back to school for her final semester at mines.
"we've never asked the public for money before ...
asked what makes someone create, after working a full week, will responded simply, "i'm compelled to create.
according to kurt-mason, the high school program has encouraged organized soccer at younger ages, and current players have many years of play under their belts.
the price of this three-day workshop is $240 for psac members and $265 for nonmembers.
rounding out those competing at state and contributing greatly to the  team's performance were gage lovett, briana bryant, austin miller, dane murdoch  and kai koch.
with over 25 years of experience, mike is  certainly qualified to assist you with your personal or business accounting  needs.
hauck's collage figures often incorporate fine japanese papers that look as  if they could be brush strokes of paint - capturing movement, laughter, emotion  and spirit in tiny pieces of paper all placed together to create an image that  might be equally beautiful and disturbing.
by appearances, the  estancia is dense and compact with an electric, razor sharp clarity from core  to edge.
companies paid forty thousand for those compacs and i can get them for  fifteen bucks.
the season for collecting wild mushrooms usually begins after continuous  rains in the upper elevations when the first morel, shaggy mane, giant  puffballs and/or sponge mushrooms are found.
heat is used to alleviate pain when you have mild to moderate soreness  after an activity.
as i sat on the leather couch in the service department's waiting area, i  wallowed in self-pity.
lifelong learning in pagosa begins this month with john graves presenting the highlights of jazz history at the sisson library, 5:30 p.m. aug. 31.
you like cats, do yuh?" karl and harl waddle down the road.
'proposed' levy dear editor: in reading over the "proposed" mill levy increase for maintenance  of, and snow removal from secondary roads, it appears to me that the county  administrator and the county commissioners have let the public outcry (at least  the public living on secondary roads) taint their judgment.
if the other linebackers are on a blitz or in coverage, the center of the field can be open for a long run.
nevertheless i quickened my pace.
just as the average person must learn to live within their income so should governments.
terry  quickly made friends in the area and was instrumental in providing a new home  for his family.
he finds the location easily; junk cars litter a large expanse in front of a beat-up and metal building.
we will also celebrate all of the august babies by recognizing their  birthdays with a $1 birthday lunch, a birthday cake and the traditional  birthday song.
you and the engineers and commissioners better rethink your plans for vacating bridges.
stop by the center if you would like copies of the handouts from the first class.
oh, yes, the day will come.
more and more, name-calling and the use of virtually meaningless but emotionally loaded labels is the order of the day in political discourse.
by appearances, the estancia is dense and compact with an electric, razor sharp clarity from core to edge.
his  presentation will be followed by a performance in the parking lot at the  library.
the san juan alumnae group of pi beta phi was formed in pagosa springs in  march 2000.
as i sat on the leather couch in the service department's waiting area, i wallowed in self-pity.
he also leaves behind many dear friends in colorado, new mexico and  washington.
it appeared perfect, somewhere between the velvety smoothness of a mousse, and somewhat less coarse than a more rustic, pâté de campagne.
his response, "it's been a desire of mine, and of many woodworkers, to pursue working with the lathe.
with the recently released final environmental impact statement and the forthcoming record of decision detailing plans for coal bed methane drilling in the hd mountains, concerned citizens and an area environmental group opposed to the project are gearing up to make their worries heard.
all told, the waybacks is a band far greater than the sum of its parts -  five intrepid travelers following their muse, looking to chart new territory  and bringing everyone along for the ride.
have a nice day, sir.
first place went to penelope stowell who received $500 for her plan on writing for children.
beginning in the fall, fenton will be cultivating a new pod of potential  porpoises, working with the 8 and under age group.
he advocates pragmatic solutions to seemingly overwhelming problems like illegal immigration.
the auction will start at 7 p.m. items for the auction have been donated from across the state and include everything from a generator, furniture, jewelry and artwork, to autographed items from the broncos and the avs.
shy rabbit is located at: 333  bastille drive, units b-1 and b-4.
got my scanner here in  my pocket.
they were really not horses at all but rather colts.
"it's something i think would be fun, because i love basketball."
new look at the library
his unswerving loyalty to constituents.
i asked will, why the change?
i can't find anyone else who as seen deer chasing a cat.
it was fun to be part of that transition."
if you are interested in the details of how this program works, call the  center at 264-4152 or stop by for a handout which will explain the process.
responses that the group  thought would work were: acceptance, dealing with the situation with sense of  humor, loving oneself through the challenge, and rising up to meet the  challenge and taking action.
thursday, aug. 31 - bar d ranch dinner and show (reservations required)  with transportation leaving the den at 4:30 p.m.
volunteers needed are you looking for a way to volunteer some time to your community and make  an immediate impact on someone's life?
aliens have been known to stop vehicles dead in their tracks and abduct the occupants in order to perform insidious and degrading probes.
many have just returned from market, so it's time to make way for all the new goodies.
with estancia's fruit-driven style, it is clear this is not burgundy.
enjoy all your events during the day and then come out for a relaxing evening with good food, great camaraderie, and awesome community service.
i dreamed of fresh flounder, mussels, or  sole, but lacking those options, i paired the muscadet with snow crab cakes and  a mesclun salad with lemon juice, a touch of sea salt and a simple vinaigrette  on the side.
"let's explore" - isamu noguchi is one night only, sept. 14,  6:30-8:30 p.m.
county commissioners are being misled by their department heads.
232, to obtain coaches' contact information.
sometime during our gluttonous fervor, i lost track of my wine glass, and  halfway through the first portion i realized i was in dire need of something  red to cut through the layers of rich, smoky duck liver - pinot noir would be  just the thing.
however, none of these shots include the extremely vital rabies vaccination, since colorado law requires that all rabies shots be administered by a veterinarian.
mind's material also on saturday, aug. 26, there will be an artist's reception at the shy  rabbit to kickoff the showing of "mind's material: sensation, cognition  & knowledge," with artists kelsey hauck, karl isberg and doug  pedersen.
this effort, called "over the limit.
in september we look forward to an exhibit by local artist sandy applegate.
dolce cantare was established last season for young women who wish to sing  more challenging literature, are able to read choral music, and have learned  harmonization skills either through singing in bel canto, at church, school or  at home.
for more information, contact mettscher at the sales office, 731-6611, or  stop by the office at 300 aspen village drive.
he finds a door, looks in and sees more floor-to-ceiling debris - this time old mainframe computers stacked one on top of the other, many with amber and red lights flashing.
just missing the cut times were the team's other members: samara hernandez, kelsey anderson, sydney aragon, shea johnson, kalie ray, dylan caves and first-year members clint walkup and zack irons.
calling all cowboys you could golf in the morning and rope in the afternoon at the chase  regester memorial "buckle up" team roping event.
many health experts agree that the most important thing you can do to prevent illness is to wash your hands.
this is the first in a series of articles that will explore exactly that question - with will and many other locals who create art.
while the top two teams in the conference will automatically make the playoffs, wild cards make it on their record and statistical tie-breakers, such as strength of schedule and total points.
she returns  with a meatball sandwich, and advice from the proprietor.
did you say you liked cats?" harl finally diagnoses the problem.
jerri anderson, of grace evangelical free church, will be the study leader  and teacher.
new non-fiction books "supreme command" by eliot a. cohen is winning prizes and rave  reviews for its coverage of soldiers, statesmen and leadership in wartime.
when you're preparing foods, a clean kitchen is also essential for food safety.
"it's to stop the problem before it begins.
a recreation department employee or one of the head coaches/assistants will supervise and keep time on the field.
friday, aug. 25 -the den's grand finale summer picnic in the park, noon;  bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m.; duplicate bridge, 12:30 p.m. saturday, aug. 26 -day hike with a llama and a lunch, 9:30 a.m. at durango  mountain resort (reservations required).
it is art that beckons a  closer look, and that speaks in uniquely personal terms to each viewer who  chances a better understanding.
beginning in the fall, fenton will be cultivating a new pod of potential porpoises, working with the 8 and under age group.
the sound is deafening.
if you have a love for music and singing please feel free to come and join.
obtain a copy of one or more books or publications on mushrooms.
the dirtiest arm he's ever seen.
please join ben bailey for tips on buying and  selling.
organizers report that donations are low this year and many more are needed to meet the need of our community's students.
the heat is on! in colorado, and those who choose to drive while over the limit are very likely to find themselves under arrest.
karl has had a good breakfast, he has a few dollars in the checking account (as far as he knows), and he has a bottle of water (cleansed by the miracle of reverse osmosis) riding in the cup holder on the dash.
delzell calls this type of monitoring and mitigation too little too late, and said once the impacts can be observed or monitored, the damage to the environment, the water table, and to human health and safety is already done.
under the resolution, to be decided this afternoon, "a planet is a celestial body that (a) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, and (b) is in orbit around a star, and is neither a star nor a satellite of a planet.
despite a few rainy performances, what a delight these productions have been to our town.
as do previous volumes, "remembrances volume 11" ends with the founding families section.
guess those fertilized embryos that were saved by the veto will say thanks just before they are thrown out.
i felt completely alone, but not altogether lonely.
as you've visited the library this summer, you may have noticed several changes.
and a storm is fast approaching, rolling over distant peaks and rushing eastward.
dedios's information was used as the basis for jicarilla land claims, supported by a stanford university grant and study that resulted in a multi-million dollar settlement, the first big money available to the jicarilla.
remember helen thomas' first press room question?
for more information: log onto http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com or call (970) 731-2766.
on the other hand, "girls often show up early ...
after nearly $5 billion over five years, the supply of cocaine is at it's peak with lower street pricing than in 2000.
the glowing finishes on his pieces reflect the wood's grain, its  every nuance, its very life.
heads with cratered eyes.
as candidates prepare campaigns for the final two months -  republican ellen roberts and democrat joe colgan for the rep's slot, and  democrat incumbent jim isgar and republican ron tate for the senate - we think  there is enough of a lull in activity to say this without tainting the  proceedings: we are going to miss rep. mark larson and what he stands for.
"let's explore is an opportunity to bring in experts in their field to pagosa and for those of us actively involved in the creation of shy rabbit to do what we love - explore art in all it's many forms and facets, sit around and talk about it and share in the experience," said shy rabbit's michael coffee.
for information contact the southwest land alliance office (261-7779) or one of its board members noted below.
the pirates run a spread option offense out of the shotgun, with one tailback and four wide receivers.
by biz greene special to the preview "great geezer artists: a look at creative expressions in old age"  is judith reynolds' topic for her forthcoming lecture in pagosa's new lifelong  learning program, beginning this fall.
we are pulling out all of the tricks and going out with a bang!
the latest community concert by elation center for the arts is "a  summer evening of american folk music," to be held at 7 p.m. saturday,  aug. 26, at the pagosa lakes clubhouse.
slide entries must be accompanied by an additional $5 per slide for scanning fee.
said he's been here a long time.
perhaps when we revisit will in  a few years we'll discover how he has overcome some of these challenges.
just missing the cut times were the team's other members: samara hernandez,  kelsey anderson, sydney aragon, shea johnson, kalie ray, dylan caves and  first-year members clint walkup and zack irons.
for additional information, e-mail: shyrabbit01@aol.com, or call (970) 731-2766.
karl walks up the road.
the gates will open 7-7:30 p.m. and the program begins at 8.
while his coffee pot (made in japan) is perking, he puts his blow dryer (made in taiwan) to work and shaves with his electric razor (made in hong kong).
i do struggle with this issue every time i start a new piece.
cue the weird theme song.
aliens  have been known to stop vehicles dead in their tracks and abduct the occupants  in order to perform insidious and degrading probes.
the pirates' first meet is next saturday in bayfield, with a start time of  9 a.m.
in bankok, it seems you're never more than 30 feet from food and the  opportunity to eat it.
once they have an established relationship with their veterinarian and are confident in their pet's health status, some pet owners decide to take basic health care into their own hands.
his touch on the lathe is decisive, yet the wooden sculptures that emerge are delicately intuitive.
the landowner continues to own the land, but the use of the land is restricted to activities that do not impair the so-called "conservation values" that the landowner specifies in the conservation easement.
"but i don't know if i want to saturate my life with basketball.
more next week on the pre-reservation life of the jicarilla apache.
the journey starts on the main stage on reservoir hill on friday, sept. 1 at 7:30 p.m.
he also leaves behind many dear friends in colorado, new mexico and washington.
he puts on a dress shirt (made in taiwan), his designer jeans (made in singapore), and a pair of tennis shoes (made in korea).
"other than that, we only know of a few individual sorority alumnae," scott said.
they work with (the pet owners)," said schwartz.
he thought that by going to the war-torn countries, he  could escape his past agonies and his family's tragic history and somehow  lessen his personal pain.
the evening is always entertaining and with  farrago's providing the food this year, you know you will get some tasty  morsels to sustain you as you bid.
senior news 'fight bac' with simple cleaning practices by jeni wiskofske sun columnist the fight bac campaign for food safety promotes four important points:  clean, cook, shill and separate.
she had promised to take me to breakfast and to be my chauffeur until my  truck was finished.
for instance, i was told that gravel pits used by the county in the past were no longer meeting road specs.
in the 20th century, man began to take positive action against this pollution and today there is hope that someday - probably not in the near future, but someday - oysters may again thrive in new york harbor.
on november  14, 2003, terry was formally inducted into the navy enlisted combat aircrew  roll of honor during a ceremony aboard the uss yorktown located at patriots  point naval and maritime museum in mount pleasant, south carolina.
after a few minutes time, during which he figures out how  to turn the phone on, he calls his wife, kathy, who is driving somewhere behind  him on the highway.
seniors, inc. has graciously  agreed to pay for a portion of your birthday meal, so it will only cost $1 for  a great picnic lunch and lots of fun!
in the mouth, the hayman & hill is a clumsy mélange of flavors, with blackberries, subtle earth notes and overriding hints of bubble gum.
there, sitting on an old car seat with four scraggly cats, clutching a big gulp cup caked with grime, a filthy computer keyboard on his lap, is harl.
take u.s. 160 to vista boulevard.
riggs is an accomplished photographer, session drummer and avid skier.
for more information, contact musetta.
it is my sincere hope that drivers across colorado will support the heat is on!
the first two-day tournament in montrose took place at the black canyon golf club and cobble creek golf course wednesday and thursday of last week.
keyboard shortcuts are particularly helpful for new users, and one of the handouts is a very complete listing of these shortcuts.
" the colorado school of mines is notorious for its rigorous workload and demanding curriculum, often specializing in the different branches of engineering.
grand finale sunshine, hanging out by the river, eating delicious barbecue, enjoying friends, a wild egg race.
two teams of three big men stood in the arena.
we were concerned about how small, dull-coated and thin they were.
travis  stahr will be held 4-8 p.m. saturday, aug. 26.
edible mushrooms are known to be safe to eat  because they have been eaten frequently with no ill effects.
jill marks-townley specializes in film  locations and scouting services, not only to pagosa but to the four corners  region.
the club now meets at 10 a.m. in the arts and craft space at the community  center.
if the artist does not make a personal impression on their work, i don't consider it art.
if methane seepage is detected and there is "reasonable evidence" that suggests a link between the drilling and the methane seep, water well contamination, or impacts to vegetation, the forest service can force operators to cease production.
this season, the children's chorale is focusing on establishing a new boy's  choir, featuring musical selections appropriate for young boys with unchanged  voices.
the concert  features matthew and tiffany brunson, paul and carla roberts, steve rolig and  special guests.
the final piece of the puzzle is to determine how second homes affect population growth, local job and housing markets, and their impacts on infrastructure such as transportation corridors and community services.
all these changes were made by the staff to make the library look more  friendly and welcoming.
business news chamber newsbusiness news chamber news so many events, so little time get out your running shoes, golf shoes, dress shoes, or boots and head out to one of the many events that will be held this weekend.
it's not uncommon to have several freshman show up in the top ten at state," said anderson.
did you say you  liked cats?" harl finally diagnoses the problem.
a taxpayer initiated re-zone request would then be put before county planners and the planning commission, and the board of county commissioner's would provide the ultimate approval or denial.
rounding out those competing at state and contributing greatly to the team's performance were gage lovett, briana bryant, austin miller, dane murdoch and kai koch.
karl isberg legacieslegacies shari pierce 90 years ago taken from sun files of august 25, 1916
after setting his watch (made in switzerland) to the radio (made in hong kong), he goes out, gets in his car (made in germany), and as has been his daily task for months, goes looking for a good paying american job.
in 1988, he was appointed as the national director of the  decade of harvest of the assemblies of god.
she is a cooking teacher and served on  the iacp cookbook awards committee for two years.
" harl looks across the road, at kathy, as she sits in her car, doors locked, wolfing down the last of the meatball sandwich.
patric's  terrine de canard fell into the latter category, and out came more slices of  bread.
after setting his watch (made in switzerland) to the radio (made in hong  kong), he goes out, gets in his car (made in germany), and as has been his  daily task for months, goes looking for a good paying american job.
the 3-5-3 can potentially run into trouble against power running teams, like holy family.
"we are anticipating the guys to be really strong this year," anderson said.
a memorial service will take place saturday, 10 a.m., at olinger hampden,  8600 e. hampden ave., denver.
"the mushroom hunter's field guide," by a. h. smith and nancy  weber.
you can jump from field to field more easily as your interests change.
naturally, signs of sporadic human activity are obvious, but in all my trips into this glorious land, i've seldom seen more than a car camper or two, and once i've set foot on the primordial trail, i've never encountered another soul.
this study reveals tremendous insights into how we,  as an unholy people, can approach the holy of holies to worship him properly.
he was joined in the tournaments by juniors clay vickers, scoring 82, 83  and 84; caleb burggraaf, 92, 85 and 93; and cody bahn, 85, 86 and 86; and  sophomore jeremy lister, who only played at black canyon, scoring 87.
seven varsity starters will return to both the offensive and  defensive squads.
"eca gives local performers an opportunity to perform for the community - and gives the community an opportunity to see talents they might not otherwise see," remarked local cultural arts enthusiast patsy lindblad.
the map also identifies gas seep locations.
there'd be no need to invest much care in them.
all money raised at the event will be used locally to support programs that serve the people of archuleta county, including: american red cross, archuleta county education center, archuleta county victim assistance program, community connections, big brothers big sisters, boy scouts, girl scouts, habitat for humanity of archuleta county, housing solutions of the southwest, pagosa outreach connection, seeds of learning, senior center, southwest colorado mental health, southwest youth corps and southwest safehouse.
the book is "anderson cooper - dispatches from the edge: a memoir of  war, disasters, and survival."
as the vehicle loses momentum, karl steers to  the right lane and spots an intersection.
the community center is open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. monday; 8 to 5:30 tuesday  through friday ; and 10 to 4 saturday.
other fly-fishing goodies include a guided fly fishing float trip from wolf creek anglers, a $150 gift certificate to let it fly, and a casting lesson from jim hill.
- eat only mushrooms in good condition.
some of his work is vibrant and colorful; other  paintings are muted and subdued.
it's a night out on the town thursday, aug. 31, with a trip to the bar d chuck wagon ranch.
but,  "challenge" is another word for "opportunity," is it not?
monday, aug. 28 - susan stoffer available, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; gym walk, 11:15 a.m.; and
pledges taken to-date will result in the reduction of more than 23 million kwh of energy and 33 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions.
three other capable runners - matt gallegos, eric heard and mike smith - are available to step in if necessary.
but no matter what the competition level, the commitment level is a huge step up from college basketball.
in a matter of minutes, one of the servers took us to a table, and we sat  down to peruse the menu.
only students registered at the high school and their approved out-of-school dates will be allowed to attend.
use an ice pack wrapped in a pillowcase with 3 layers of  pillowcase cloth between your skin and the pack for 10-15 minutes.
but, no, it's the vehicle.
easy: his honesty, his integrity, his dedication to  research and to acquiring knowledge concerning issues.
sign up for helping hand golf tournament local golf enthusiasts can put their swing to work to help the less fortunate at the pagosa springs, operation helping hand golf tournament.
qualified applicants should call the aeda at 264-4722 to apply.
what better way to start the day than with a crisp, bright, slightly effervescent white wine from near the city of nantes where the loire river spills into the atlantic?
had a bunch  of 'em go up on me over the years.
the decision to approve the map came with little fanfare, and was made before an audience of about 25 people in the board of county commissioners meeting room, the bulk of whom were either archuleta county or la plata county staff - la plata county sent planning staff to observe the proceedings.
large scissors clear ruler with standard and metric scale medium size pencil box graph spiral notebooks pocket folders with brads small dixie cups small, rounded scissors outdoorsoutdoors land trust presents program to celebrate 25th year
the chorale offers local young singers the opportunity to participate in  either of its two existing choirs, in addition to attending workshops and music  camps.
harl has long greasy gray hair falling from the sides of a major-league  bald spot.
lunch will be served at the tournament.
three pagosa swimmers won overall high-point honors in their respective age groups.
the wild egg race will be followed by a  delicious lunch under the shade trees, as we listen to the river flowing by.
recently, the "oh brother, where art thou" movie and soundtrack has rekindled the flame.
closely followed by his exploration of wood finishes.
on august 9, 2006, terry completed this special life's journey to travel onto the next one, which he believed would be just as fascinating.
last season, the pirates made the second round of the playoffs after  beating james irwin high school.
despite the team's attention to strength and endurance, injuries remain a concern.
the coaching staff will now evaluate whether he can take handoffs and  carry the football with a cast.
the oyster fills another important role beyond filling stomachs.
no penalty kicks; all fouls result in an indirect free kick with opponents  at least six yards away.
"other than that, we only know of a few individual sorority alumnae,"  scott said.
i left pagosa springs thursday night about 8 p.m., and braced myself for the four-hour drive with a thermos of stout coffee.
drunk driving is one of america's deadliest crimes.
to date, the identity of the unauthorized and unidentified radio announcer remains unknown.
although few high school students may look forward to a return to homework, most eagerly anticipate seeing their friends and engaging in the extracurricular activities the school provides.
college sorority alumnae sought by carole howard special to the preview women who were members of a panhellenic sorority during their college days are asked to save the date of saturday, september 30 for the first-ever luncheon of sorority alumnae to take place in pagosa springs.
thank you to all the drivers, especially the truck drivers, who go out of their way to move to the center of the road as i am running.
poisonous mushrooms tarnish a silver spoon.
the show behind the food counters, on the other hand, is wildly  entertaining.
r .11 .11 8/17 80 46 - - - 8/18 81 47 - - - 8/19 71 56 r .01 .01 8/20 76 50 - - - 8/21 79 46 - - - 8/22 77 48 r .06 .06
at the same time, you should also learn to identify some of the common poisonous mushrooms, especially those that are similar to edible kinds.
according to draper, the current building was constructed debt-free, and no taxpayer dollars were used for its recent expansion.
in a matter of minutes, one of the servers took us to a table, and we sat down to peruse the menu.
" "the form is the favorite part of what i do," will said.
the glowing finishes on his pieces reflect the wood's grain, its every nuance, its very life.
geez, i hate full tanks of gas when the fuel pump is in the tank.
the wine and beer will flow and the hors d'oeuvres will be heavy as the humane society of pagosa springs hosts its 12th annual auction for the animals 5:30 p.m. friday at the community center.
i lacked coffee, hadn't shaved, showered or eaten a  decent meal, aside from a bag of barbecue corn nuts, for nearly 36 hours, and  felt like crap.
sign up now and  acquire the benefits for 2006.
the pirates' first meet is next saturday in bayfield, with a start time of 9 a.m.
at this time, there are about 13-15 live auction items and hundreds of  silent auction items on line.
come out early to  get set up, enjoy coffee and donuts, and buy those mulligans.
the festival features on-site camping, free music workshops, food and merchandise vendors, free admission for children 12 and under and a free kids program throughout the weekend.
when the crab cakes arrived, we plowed through them with ravenous fervor, gobbled the salad, and devoured hunks of fresh, hot bread slathered with butter.
in this case, duck was the principal ingredient, hence, terrine de canard, and patric chose to serve his warm, but not hot.
he is missing his front teeth and there is a cigarette jammed through the space where teeth (presumably) once were.
friday, sept. 1 - stuffed bell peppers, whole kernel corn, brussels sprouts, pears with blueberries and whole wheat bread.
there is something for everyone and the evening is packed with silent and live auctions.
the commissioners are elected (and well  paid) to administer the county, why do they need a county administrator?
though weed mowing was underway by press time, the airport tractor has reportedly broken down several times, even to the point of borrowing one from another county department.
"a lot of teams over there need that height," she said.
ball size is no. 4; nine players permitted on the field, including the goalkeeper.
" does he think he can get there from here?
the tournament begins 10 a.m. sept. 9 at the pagosa springs golf club and includes a four-person scramble, with an entry fee of $50 per player.
" the energy star change a light pledge is already having a dramatic impact.
those recordings and the band's reputation as performers have preceded them, garnering invitations to play mainstage sets at such premiere venues as the fillmore, the birchmere, the old town school of music, the great american music hall, the freight and salvage, the station inn and the kennedy center millennium stage, among others, as well as at such festivals as merlefest, grand targhee, grey fox, kerrville, strawberry, winterhawk, folks festival, wintergrass, old settlers, walnut valley and many more.
a ryder cup format was played over two days between the pagosa springs golf club and the rio grande club.
according to fienberg, the question of whether pluto should be considered a planet, a controversy that has raged for years, emerged in the debate, and speakers went toe-to-toe to hammer their points home.
just as the average  person must learn to live within their income so should governments.
this class, another community center-sponsored program, is free to the public of all ages.
public comments made at the meeting will be delivered to the forest service and bureau of land management as the agencies develop and draft their final record of decision for the eis.
they are also encouraged to eat at least four meals a day, to keep a  continual flow of nutrients in the bloodstream and replenish energy stores.
friday, aug. 25 -the den's grand finale summer picnic in the park, noon; bridge 4 fun, 12:30 p.m.; duplicate bridge, 12:30 p.m. saturday, aug. 26 -day hike with a llama and a lunch, 9:30 a.m. at durango mountain resort (reservations required).
by denise coffee special to the preview shy rabbit, a contemporary art space and gallery, presents "mind's  material: sensation, cognition & knowledge."
with a liberal swig of water, i quietly wished for something sweet to top off my meal, when a small, bright red object suddenly caught my eye in the foliage near my rod.
we'll see all you golfers on the course.
if you miss the showing on this day, the exhibit continues until oct. 7.
bel canto is the entry-level choir for unchanged voices and is open to all  boys and girls from ages 7 to 13 who love to sing and perform.
for more information: log onto  http://shyrabbit.blogspot.com, call (970) 731-2766, or e-mail  shyrabbit01@aol.com.
in her last game at csm, gronewoller beat school records, including most points scored in a season (450).
noguchi is best known for his naturalistic designs of open space.
he owned the farmers insurance agency in pagosa and always said that, "every customer was a friend that he liked well enough to invite to dinner."
their first two albums - "devolver" (2000) and "burger after church" (2002) - have received airplay on 100-odd radio stations worldwide and widespread critical acclaim in the press.
to familiarize parents and spectators with game play in the 5-6 and 7-8  divisions, this year's game rules have been provided below.
among these were: resignation, helplessness, depression, denial,  resentment, anger, fear, anxiety and resistance.
after two days of competition and many miles of travel, the team  "looked really tired," said coach mark faber.
the cost for the dance is $5 for each person.
whatcha need?" karl explains his predicament.
she would be looking at 10 to 11 months of basketball, with practice three to four times a day; something that, gronewoller admits, makes her a bit nervous.
a  deeply spiritual man, he became convinced that the true purpose of the martial  way was self-perfection and the loving protection of all beings.
ebay club since the ebay club has been meeting in the computer lab, the time has been  changed in order not to interfere with regular use of the lab.
tickets are still available at the chamber of commerce, the humane society  thrift store, moonlight books and wolftracks for $25 for the wine and beer  tickets and $17 for a regular admission ticket.
wednesday, aug. 30 - chicken and noodles, yellow squash, spinach, orange wedges, and whole wheat bread.
for more information, contact the visitor center at 883-5359.
his response, "it's been a desire of  mine, and of many woodworkers, to pursue working with the lathe.
in 1989,  terry and susan celebrated the birth of son, corey, an event that was and still  is the highlight of their lives.
hurry to get your tickets, available at wolftracks, moonlight books, the  chamber, and the humane society thrift store: $17 in advance and $20 at the  door.
he puts on a pair of sandals (made in brazil) and turns on  his tv (made in japan), and ponders again why he cannot find that "good  paying american job." community center news colorfest dance features the high rollers by becky herman preview columnist
lunch will be  provided and we will return to the den by 4.
she is a cooking teacher and served on the iacp cookbook awards committee for two years.
the study this session  will be on leviticus, the third book of the five books of moses.
library news free jazz event at library
beta phi alumnae group.
for more information, contact musetta at 264-2167.
for more information on participation in the children's chorale, call either 264-9060 or 264-0244 prior to aug. 30.
please make a difference, and volunteer.
don't miss this opportunity for some pre-holiday gift giving ideas as well as collectibles for yourself.
we live in increasingly partisan times, and nasty times they are, with  party hacks on both sides filling our eyes and ears with superficial, arbitrary  ideas reduced to a third-grade level in a condescending attempt to curry favor  using the lowest common denominator.
"grand canyon: solving the earth's grandest puzzle" by james lawrence powell reads like a detective novel as it traces the work of generations of geologists trying to understand this majestic landscape.
for more information,  visit www.pagosa-arts.com, or call psac.
"we'll see," she said.
you're flat out of luck."
kitchen sponges, dishrags and towels can harbor bacteria.
a rosary is scheduled for 4 p.m., friday, aug. 25, at immaculate heart of mary catholic church in pagosa springs.
the pirates will face stiff competition this year from conference rivals crested butte, which won the league last year, and telluride.
game rules for the  9-10 and 11-13 divisions will be provided in next week's column.
said  you'll know where he is, cause his place looks like a junkyard.
karl  gears down, searching for compression.
in lieu of flowers please donate, in terry's name, to the pagosa fire protection district, whatcom county hospice, the american cancer society, or the jacob finkbonner fund.
and he thinks, always, with the best interests of his constituents in mind.
edible versus poisonous true or false?
a suggested $3 donation will benefit the friends of the library.
and, if the coal is exposed to sufficient amounts of oxygen, it can reach a point where spontaneous combustion occurs, thus causing an underground coalbed fire.
carole howard, spokesperson for the mill levy committee, said that the levy increase will only raise property taxes about $22 per year, on an average home valued at $184,641 (determined by the county assessor, not the market).
terry is survived and missed by his wife, son and in-laws; mother emma windnagel; sister peggy schwartzkopf; brother and wife tom and linda windnagel; uncle and wife ron and chris kingham; uncle lee and monie kingham; aunt georgia benson; brother-in-law and wife brian and dottie hillyer; and several cousins and nieces.
and although some terrines are prepared for serving directly on the plate, like the primary protein in any dinner entrée, others are intended for consumption on slices of bread like a paté.
self-disciplined young ladies who are seeking an opportunity to develop their vocal skills while being a part of a group that is both challenging and rewarding are encouraged to audition for this choir.
heads with mouths agape, or lips pursed.
many woodland mushrooms are essential to good growth, and even survival of trees.
on the other hand, i knew my options for average, domestic pinot would be numerous, but i hoped i could find at least one reliable option that wouldn't break the bank when the craving for pinot noir became unbearable.
a second throw-in will be allowed, if necessary.
there were no fresh bear or cat tracks in the mud along the creek, and no eerie sounds sparked my sometimes wild imagination.
business news chamber news so many events, so little time get out your running shoes, golf shoes, dress shoes, or boots and head out  to one of the many events that will be held this weekend.
the ingredients are combined and left to sit for a couple hours in the fridge, so the flavors meld.
membership benefits include admission to the museum for the season and a 10-percent discount on items purchased there.
i have tried calling city market and local law officials,  but no concern is felt.
elk meat and coffee were served gratis, after which came several speeches.
last week, at the second class, the group looked at some possible reactions  and responses to having a health challenge and came up with reactions that  don't work.
after learning that terry had esophageal cancer, he retired and wanted to move north.
all participants must be able to walk on uneven terrain at high elevations of approximately 11,200 feet.
they're spirited and enthusiastic."
depending on how much you use them, wash dishrags and towels frequently in the  washing machine and dry them completely.
turn east on greenbrier drive off of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the back parking lot and look for the big sign.
mion's illustrative works have been exhibited world wide and are included in the nasa fine arts and the smithsonian national air and space museum collections.
food for thought harl and karl, meatballs in the twilight zone by karl isberg karl isberg, mild-mannered and affable small town newspaper editor, is in  his vehicle, westbound on the highway out of the big city, heading home to  siberia with a view .
by keeping your hands and your kitchen clean, you'll be taking an important  step in preventing food borne illness for you and your family.
everyone is welcome to attend.
one of the  items donated for auction comes from the community center: a table for six for  the colorfest dance.
memberships are available for folks age 55 and older and can be purchased at the den for $5 on mondays and fridays from 9 a.m.- 1 p.m. and tuesdays and wednesdays from 9-11.
in the mouth, the hayman & hill is a clumsy mélange of flavors, with  blackberries, subtle earth notes and overriding hints of bubble gum.