some people are interested in a very specific breed of dog, cat, puppy or kitten and they think the only way to find that specific breed is to buy a dog for sale or buy a cat for sale from a puppy breeder or a kitten breeder.
if you rent and wish to adopt please be prepared to  provide the humane society staff with authorization from your landlord
adoption prices on 2nd pet: adoption fees include: you can fill out an online adoption form on our website at www.yakimahumane.org vet examination
you will need to present both shelter receipts upon arrival to verify that your  pet was adopted from the humane society of central washington.
we strongly encourage you to make and keep this  appointment as this helps to assess the general overall health of the animal.
you will need to present both shelter receipts upon arrival to verify that your pet was adopted from the humane society of central washington.
for a return/refund you must take your pet to a veterinarian and have him indicate the cause of illness and write a diagnosis on the adoption receipt.
24petwatch microchip implant - includes national registration (dogs only) you can fill out an online adoption form on our website at www.yakimahumane.org vet examination after adopting a pet from us you may take  him/her to the veterinarian of your choice (in yakima county) within 3 business  days for a complimentary exam.
unfortunately, due to the nature of this business we do not always  know their health or behavioral history.
we also have no way of knowing what they may have been exposed to prior to coming to the shelter.
we do our best to ensure that the pet you adopt is in  good health.
what is the difference between adopting a dog,  adopting a cat, adopting a kitten or adopting a puppy versus getting dogs for  sale, cats for sale, puppies for sale or kittens for sale from a dog breeder or  a cat breeder?
after adopting a pet from us you may take him/her to the veterinarian of your choice (in yakima county) within 3 business days for a complimentary exam.
some people are interested in a very  specific breed of dog, cat, puppy or kitten and they think the only way to find  that specific breed is to buy a dog for sale or buy a cat for sale from a puppy  breeder or a kitten breeder.
the exchange is good for up to one year from the date you returned the ill pet to us.
the humane society of central washington is not responsible for any veterinarian bills that you may incur.
we do our best to ensure that the pet you adopt is in good health.
when someone is breeding puppies or breeding kittens, they are creating new dogs and cats who need homes.
the exchange is good for up to one  year from the date you returned the ill pet to us.
the humane society of central washington is not responsible for any  veterinarian bills that you may incur.
verifying that it is acceptable for you to have pets in your home.
if your pet becomes ill within 14 days of adoption you have two options: if you choose to keep your pet you may seek treatment at your own expense.
adopt a dog or adopt a cat and you'll have a friend for life!
so rather than buying a dog or puppy for sale from a dog  breeder or buying a cat or kitten for sale from a cat breeder, we encourage  people to adopt a dog, adopt a cat, adopt a puppy or adopt a kitten at their  local animal shelter, spca, humane society or pet rescue group.
so rather than buying a dog or puppy for sale from a dog breeder or buying a cat or kitten for sale from a cat breeder, we encourage people to adopt a dog, adopt a cat, adopt a puppy or adopt a kitten at their local animal shelter, spca, humane society or pet rescue group.
we also have no way of knowing what  they may have been exposed to prior to coming to the shelter.
if your pet  becomes ill within 14 days of adoption you have two options: if you choose to keep your pet you may seek treatment at your own expense.
then bring your pet, the signed adoption receipts and all other documents  received during the adoption process to the shelter and you will be issued a  refund or an exchange, whichever you prefer.
if you rent and wish to adopt please be prepared to provide the humane society staff with authorization from your landlord verifying that it is acceptable for you to have pets in your home.
when someone is breeding puppies or breeding kittens, they are  creating new dogs and cats who need homes.
yet animal shelters are filled with dogs and cats who must find homes.
dog adoption and cat adoption saves lives.
we strongly encourage you to make and keep this appointment as this helps to assess the general overall health of the animal.
unfortunately, due to the nature of this business we do not always know their health or behavioral history.
what is the difference between adopting a dog, adopting a cat, adopting a kitten or adopting a puppy versus getting dogs for sale, cats for sale, puppies for sale or kittens for sale from a dog breeder or a cat breeder?
then bring your pet, the signed adoption receipts and all other documents received during the adoption process to the shelter and you will be issued a refund or an exchange, whichever you prefer.
adopt a dog or adopt a cat and  you'll have a friend for life!
these receipts  will also tell the veterinarian what vaccinations and procedures your new pet  may have received during his/her stay at our facility.
yet animal shelters are filled with dogs and cats  who must find homes.
these receipts will also tell the veterinarian what vaccinations and procedures your new pet may have received during his/her stay at our facility.
for a return/refund you must take your pet to a veterinarian and have him  indicate the cause of illness and write a diagnosis on the adoption receipt.