dog people will argue that canines are more loyal, more friendly and playful and more demonstrative.
however, when we look at it logically, there are a number of reasons people might choose one species over the other: elaine pendlebury, senior veterinary surgeon at the people’s dispensary for sick animals (pdsa) says: 'in my experience, people either prefer cats or dogs, with a few who love both pets equally.
if the figures from the pet food manufacturers association are anything to go by, the uk is a divided nation with the dog population standing at 7.3 million and the cat population at 7.2 million in 2008.
the  list goes on and on.
of course, these are all practical reasons why people might choose one animal over the other, but what is it that makes us prefer cats or dogs.
ask anyone whether they prefer cats or dogs and why they feel that way and  you are likely to elicit a strong response.
however, when we look at it logically, there are a number of reasons people  might choose one species over the other: history some people have grown up around either cats  or dogs and they base their preferences on their experience.
and whichever  pet you choose make sure you insure it against accidents and illness withdirect  line pet insurance.
practicality some people may want the companionship  of any pet, but are limited either by space or spare time.
equally, our data suggests that cats prove quite popular with city dwellers, probably because they are far more independent'.
find out  more some handy tips and advice for making sure your pet is well behaved.
it would also be easy to suggest that cat people are more  relaxed as cats prefer to do their own thing whereas dog people are more  controlling and like to tell the dog to sit and stay and to keep it on a leash.
dog ownership  seems higher in rural areas indicating that the many dog-walking opportunities  available in the countryside might be an influential factor.
what  makes us cat or dog people?
however, people's busy lifestyles and their geographical surroundings can influence their choice of pet.
find out more follow this step-by-step guide to our simple claims process.
the more common replies you might  encounter are:'cats are standoffish and aloof', 'dogs are stupid ', 'cats are more independent', 'dogs protect you'.
cat people will argue that felines are affectionate, more independent, cleaner, aren't as demanding and are more self-sufficient.
cat people will argue that felines are affectionate, more independent,  cleaner, aren't as demanding and are more self-sufficient.
you are here: homepage > pet insurance > tips and advice > buying a dog or cat >
what makes us cat or dog people?
however, people's busy lifestyles and their  geographical surroundings can influence their choice of pet.
it would also be easy to suggest that cat people are more relaxed as cats prefer to do their own thing whereas dog people are more controlling and like to tell the dog to sit and stay and to keep it on a leash.
find out more direct line general insurance policies are underwritten by u k insurance limited.
dog people will  argue that canines are more loyal, more friendly and playful and more  demonstrative.
company registered no. 1179980.
elaine pendlebury, senior veterinary surgeon at the people’s  dispensary for sick animals (pdsa) says: 'in my experience, people either prefer cats or dogs, with a few who  love both pets equally.
ask anyone whether they prefer cats or dogs and why they feel that way and you are likely to elicit a strong response.
some have always  had cats or dogs and it's what they are comfortable with and understand.
buying a pet - advice on finding the best place to go if you're thinking of adding a dog or cat to the family.
on the  other hand, some people may have had a bad experience – perhaps they were  scratched by a cat or bitten by a dog.
get a quote are you a cat or dog person?
are you a cat or dog person?
get a quote get a handy overview of the levels of cover we offer before you buy.
find out more helpful advice if you’re planning on taking your pet abroad.
the financial services authority's register can be accessed throughwww.fsa.gov.uk/pages/register/
find out more some handy tips and advice for making sure your pet is well behaved.
related information training your dog or training your cat - you can't take on a puppy or  kitten without understanding what will be involved in its training.
u k insurance limited is authorised and regulated by the fsa, registered number 202810.
and whichever pet you choose make sure you insure it against accidents and illness withdirect line pet insurance.
children some people may think it's not practical to  have a dog around a very small child and that a cat could lash out at an  over-loving child.
whatever the reasons are for people preferring cats or dogs, we may as well  accept it's just a matter of choice and live happily together!
if the figures from the pet food manufacturers association are anything to  go by, the uk is a divided nation with the dog population standing at 7.3  million and the cat population at 7.2 million in 2008.
the more common replies you might encounter are:'cats are standoffish and aloof', 'dogs are stupid ', 'cats are more independent', 'dogs protect you'.
dog ownership seems higher in rural areas indicating that the many dog-walking opportunities available in the countryside might be an influential factor.
some may choose to  have cats because they have a small property, whereas others may not have the  time to walk a dog.
personality traits of course, these are all practical reasons why people might choose one  animal over the other, but what is it that makes us prefer cats or dogs.
whatever the reasons are for people preferring cats or dogs, we may as well accept it's just a matter of choice and live happily together!
buying a pet - advice on finding the best place to go if you're thinking of  adding a dog or cat to the family.
registered office: the wharf, neville street, leeds ls1 4az.
the list goes on and on.
training your dog or training your cat - you can't take on a puppy or kitten without understanding what will be involved in its training.
equally, our data  suggests that cats prove quite popular with city dwellers, probably because  they are far more independent'.
on the other hand, those that do have the time and space  may opt for dogs.
there is an argument that it is down to what we want out of our relationship with them, and in that respect we prefer one to the other because of perceived personality traits in terms of human qualities that we ascribe to them.
there is an argument that it is down to what we  want out of our relationship with them, and in that respect we prefer one to  the other because of perceived personality traits in terms of human qualities  that we ascribe to them.