livejournal remember me forgot your password?
i would not want a roommate or partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
it's great to curl up with a cat and read a book.
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet  dogs are my friend.
i like the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
dogs are fun because they're great activity  partners.
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats  the most, they're so funny.
first question listed was submitted by antagonists.
i like  the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
life contines in the wasteland previous entry | next entry writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the future.
(follow-up questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
- mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
which do you  prefer, and why?
mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
which do you prefer, and why?
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats the most, they're so funny.
i would not want a roommate or  partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
it's great to curl up  with a cat and read a book.
i have never liked a person who hated  cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).
dogs are fun because they're great activity partners.
i have never liked a person who hated cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary  pet proclivity?
(follow-up  questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
i prefer cats,but i like dogs.
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary pet proclivity?
- - open id - google - mail.ru - vkontakte create an account you are viewing secretive_cat's journal idyllic garbage - recent entries - archive - friends - user info - memories life contines in the wasteland previous entry | next entry writer's block:
my favorite dogs are whippets.
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the  future.
raining cats or dogs?
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link profile - secretive_cat - secretive latest month march 2011 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 view all archives tags view my tags page - army service - bad joke - books - corny joke - intel - intjforum - mandatory social service - pc dreams - sadness - strange news - thoughts - wepc - writer's block powered by livejournal.com designed by tiffany chow
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet dogs are my friend.