it becomes something that "everyone knows".
this keeps cat populations at a much lower natural limit, as the cats will still keep other cats out of a territorial area but cannot produce new kittens that keep a colony growing and then go out to form new colonies.
the phrase, regrettably, is frequently wielded as a blunt weapon to silence criticism and stifle critical thinking.
starvation is definitely a limiting factor, at least in suburban areas.
and what they say is that basically not only some numbers pulled out of some pr bullshitter's ass get taken for gospel, but basically they become nearly impossible to debunk.
13.7% of undergraduate women had been victims of at least one completed sexual assault since entering college: 4.7% were victims of physically forced sexual assault; 7.8% of women were sexually assaulted when they were incapacitated after voluntarily consuming drugs, alcohol or both; and 0.6% were sexually assaulted when they were incapacitated after having been given a drug without their knowledge finally, a national-level study of college and community based women found that approximately 673,000 of nearly 6 million current college women (11.5 percent) have ever been raped, and approximately twelve percent of these rapes were reported to law enforcement i'm not questioning the underlying idea that rape is pervasive and wrong.
most credulous people are actually quite cunning when it comes to selecting facts.
no, that's the radio station you heard it on!
sounds more scientific that way.
since she was a pet, she had readily available food and water.
a really feral cat cannot be made a pet.
also, the breeding availability of feral cats is more limited than you assume
a stray cat in a suburban neighborhood may live very happily, as there are not many natural predators around (except humans).
if you actually have to force someone to have sex with you, you're raping them.
some may be trapped and sent off to the pound and subsequently euthanized.
but my guess is that the vast majority of the time it is what they wanted.
i'll admit, it's easy to think that when you see the phrase abused.
share twitter facebook i wonder how many loccats that would end up being.
that could include... food supply.
that group doesn't count as "rape" in my book.
do you have any pictures?
my brain hurts from trying to read that.
parent share twitter facebook what exactly is the natural control at work?
even basically "[citation needed]" doesn't help there, because some piece of bs (with statistics or not) that's been bouncing around for 30 years, can be a bitch to track to the actual source.
the groups posting these figures may be giving you a number somewhat too high but they are not as far off as you and other people thinking of statistics in simple terms seem to think.
i did lower the number of litters to 3 to account for some variance in how often a female cat could get pregnant.
they're all out to get me!
you know, that's a great example.
but it's been echoed all over the place and taken for a fact.
i thought the chupacabra had spread all around the world, but they're still good at hiding themselves.
the cats that we domesticated were comfortable laying around the house (the porch was enclosed, but the doors were left open).
no new comments can be posted.
(something important seems to be missing from your comment ... like the body or the subject!)
feral cats are rarely killed by coyotes, even if there were enough in urban populations to matter.
some right at the first step, because, hey, it does point to a source.
can you at least agree that the environment needs some protection?
those are the questions that drove peter j. wolf to create vox felina, a blog dedicated to examining the basis of claims made about cat numbers and behavior, and debunking those that don't withstand scrutiny.
i heard [wikipedia.org] that the african elephant population has tripled in the past six months.
age to maturity: 6 to 10 months
it is rampant in feral cat colonies.
one might even end up with the idea that it's an inherently wrong idea, that we in no way have a rape culture.
the coyote population won't decline.
the best solution is to trap cats, spay/neuter, and then release them.
the resulting increase in blood flow would explode the mosquito quite nicely.
the environment needs more protection than it currently has.
people who take cold baths never have rheumatism, but they have cold baths.
some die at only a few days or weeks old due to health problems.
you'd have to spend the equivalent of several episodes to debunk one sound bite that takes just 5 seconds to mindlessly repeat all around.
doesn't matter: you're using it as a "bumper sticker".
lies, damned lies and cat statistics 175 posted by samzenpus on  wednesday august 18 2010, @05:53pm from the nine-lies dept.
the problem with the "lies, damned lies, and statistics" argument is that it leads people to conclude that all statistics are invalid unless they happen to agree with our political proclivities, which is far more dangerous than bad numbers floating around out there.
i think the case can be made that people who accept sensationalist statistics without sufficient media literacy to understand the various biases involved in poorly conducted studies may, in fact, be only using 10% of their brain.
that way they continue disease, most likely.
the low end of your range is thus not realistic.
every time i smashed one fat with blood, i relished the idea that i had just killed a female mosquito who was about to lay thousands of eggs.
you could get close, and if they were curious, they'd let you touch them.
as a bonus, without cats to eat the coyotes would starve.
and, yes, it does matter.
wild cats don't have many diseases that kill them or prevent them from mating.
the worst were a couple that were popular a couple of years ago: obama/biden 08 and mccain/palin 08
there is something extremely patronising, or condescending, which presumes that people cannot be motivated by subtle or nuanced arguments – every problem doesn’t have to directly affect 98.43% of the population to count.
that varies tremendously by their local environment.
parent share twitter facebook unkaptshunned kittehs aer a kryme agaynst kitteh-hood.
not every animal is born perfectly.
i think i can debunk the statement about cats.
you can get a feral cat to take food from you but it's never going to be a pet.
maybe they use the same technique the invisible moose use.
some proponents even suggest that anyone challengi [feministing.com] the fundamental problem is that most people are credulous morons.
sometimes the distance between the two is only a few miles.
publication a cites official report b (see the politicians using them above,) which in turn has a footnote pointing at newspaper article c, which points to out-of-print book d, which even if you find a copy and read it, in turn points out to some study that's behind a paywall, and if you got even there, you find out it's really a meta-study quoting the numbers published in yet another article e. most people will give up somewhere along that chain, and assume it's actually a valid and proven claim.
gadget pointless thread:share twitter facebook unkaptshunned kittehs aer a kryme agaynst kitteh-hood.
the most "friendly" was that we could then get them fixed.
as with the statistics in the article, you cannot blindly assume either set of statistics is correct.
i've had a lot of cats over the years, and have paid attention to their behaviors.
my mom's neighborhood has seen an increase in stray cats since the housing bust.
all it took was for one guy to do a little digging into the stats, find the body of literature that criticized the methodology of that one source, and campus rape became a joke to half the community.
i never said we domesticated them to make them pets.
what you should really do is use an average figure as a base, which is four cats per littler (of course for the purposes of growth you would use something like half that number to account for only t
disease, most likely.
community, i found this column onhow a fabricated statistic takes on a life of  its own interesting.
are you unable to grasp this?
parent share twitter facebook exactly - and some bogus claims just feel too true to be false.
you seriously think "birds of prey" in a modern city are enough to do anything to a feral cat population?
very ironic, considering that tfa was about how bumper sticker phrases spread so much bs.
as you are the first to have noticed my .sig, i'll give you the opportunity to tell me where it is from and what it relates to.
this discussion has been  archived.
i mean, hey, what are you, some conspiracy theorist?
i'd have used more text, but the .sig field is limited.
"the question they asked was not whether men would rather date bosses or secretaries," she [pulitzer-prize winning science writer deborah blum] told me.
the survival rates of feral cats are probably good, but they're not perfect.
it's that it isn't as outrageously bad as the stats that are being claimed.
the statistics can be dramatically swayed by who paid for the study to be done.
there were a few reasons.
especially given that a number of women still do the "no means yes" game for testing mates.
" the unsterilized offspring of a cat will '...result in 420,000 cats in 5 years,' sounds like an opportunity for a new fast food chain.
and again, try to do that without sounding like a ct-er inventing reasons not to trust those guys, and without falling into "tl;dr" range either.
if you don't care about any other wildlife then ignoring wild cat populations is a great way to see most of it decline.
you're a hazard to all of us while you're flying blind!
maybe their intention was unmistakably clear to someone else, but it wasn't to me.
effectively shitting all over your home is not a wise decision, closing your eyes doesn't make it stink any less.
starting with the humane society of the united states'  (hsus) claim that the unsterilized offspring of a cat will '...result in  420,000 cats in 5 years,' the author looks at other erroneous numbers, where  they came from and why they won't go away."
if we were still using ddt there'd be no songbirds.
litters per year: 0 to 3 litter size: 1 to 8 so, using a changing multipler for newborns of year1= 0 to 12 offspring year2,3,4,5 = 0
i agree that your numbers are probably closer to reality, but i think the minimum should still stand at 1, or even 0.
teh orinj wuns aer poyson.
if one cat turns into 420000 over 5 years, then if a single cat was abandoned or escaped 15 years ago in the usa, there should now be 13.8 quadrillion offspring accumulated, or 13.8 peta-cats if you will.
and of course we have to mention human influences.
are you sure her phd isn't in cryptozoology?
furthermore, cats are great natural predators and left unchecked will decimate a bird population.
actually, if you actually read the article to the end, they do say it applies to just about any kind of statistics.
of course, i suppose they could have been lying to me "no" means "no", you dope.
however if you have been trained to reject all statistical evidence, you no longer have any reasonable tools for sepa i'll rush to publish this statistic and start a new one on rodent population, stay tuned.
they can be used to prove or disprove anything, and you can usually find statistics to argue both sides of the same issue.
and that 20% "forced sex" study includes women who chose to have sex even though they didn't want to.
to 24 offspring i get values around end year1: 1 to 25 cats end year2: 1 to 300 cats end year3: 1 to 3900 cats end year4: 1 to 54k cats end year5: 1 to 835k cats
others are killed through accidents, such as catastrophic intersections between the animal and vehicle vectors (i.e., run over).
fact was that they'd just been a bit too subtle for my simple mind.
under ideal conditions i suspect you could breed a heck of a lot of cats from a single female ancestor in 5 years.
i actually rtfa), but according to the maths that i do from the unfashionable side of my mother's basement, the actual number of offspring after 5 years starting with a single unspayed female cat is zero.
also: cat got your tongue?
i think there's needs to be a study that shows that 99.99% of all statistics are complete and utter hogwash
so once you manage to get centenarian, your chances to ever die drop very low, and you're almost immortal!
we are not responsible for them in any way.
i wonder if part of it was almost like a sense of relief to find out it wasn't 25%, but more like 13%?
ah great a unicorn believer.
even people who wouldn't just believe it the first time, start falling for it when they hear it from 10 different sources as common knowledge.
one of them had a litter of kittens, and the population went up to about 7, but dwindled down on it's own to 4, which then became 3 when one of a healthy female cat is going to have a littler every year.
the word is caramel, not carmel.
they'll also likely have access to food and water left outside for pets.
presumably, i'm told (many years ago) that if you pinch t i had a friend who would clench his muscle until the mosquito was getting ready to disengage, and then would release.
to get an idea how bogus that was, not only didn't the calculated numbers add up to "less likely than being killed by a terrorist" (they even admitted they made that up for sensationalism sake), but it was based on the critically flawed assumption that a woman would _only_ marry older men.
making ludicrously wild claims that simple logic will negate may get some attention initially, but in the long run it will damage your cause a lot more than it will help it.. real world example of self-limiting cat populations: barn cats.
in 5 years, 1 unspayed mouse will have 60,466,176 offspring.
" i should derive a bullshit statistic on how many pulitzer prize winners don't know the difference between the plural "women" and the singular "woman", though i'm pretty sure it is christie keith's own error in fai oh, drug policy is the proverbial low hanging fruit there.
the real reason though was so we didn't have wild animals fighting with our domesticated animals.
sorry to hear you feel otherwise.
basically at some point some falsehoods have taken off so well, that you don't even have to be a gullible moron to just take them for granted.
if there are too many cats, not enough food, some cats die of starvation.
the area was almost infested with large snakes.
i haven't been able to confirm that he gave a specific percentage, but he did say "we are making use of only a small part of our possible men [straightdope.com] basically.
100 of 175 comments loaded twitter  facebook math idle its minority report style iris scanners in mexico submission: cats, lies and the research pr machine owning  virtual worlds for fun and profit
i don't know what kind of maths they do in the wall st journal (yeah,
[cats-or-dogs.com]share twitter facebook now, if one starts with two cats however, the number could well be higher...
i worked with a phd student doing research on a specific strain of fiv unique to the country i live in - you should've seen some of the feral monsters she dissected.
maybe the number quoted is theoretically possible, but if this were as much of a problem as the statistic implies, we'd have been buried in cats long ago.
there are a ton of "x is better than y" or "a is 10% more scalable than b" pseudo-facts thrown around, that everyone just repeats and nobody questions them.
it's not just that people will believe some bs or another.
it practically implies that you have a scient "sort of how like in the article it wasn't just "cats sometimes have more kittens" or "cats kill a lot of birds" that got to be circulated into near impossible to debunk, but catchier stuff with numbers, like "an unspayed cat can produce 42,000 cats in 5 years" or "a cat can kill a billion birds".
especially almost nobody in management who heard it in some it-for-managers ragazine _and_ from the nice salesman using it to sell his snake oil.
yeah, if we're doing a top of domains where it happens the most, i'll have to admit that drug-related politics would be way up there.
if you're a dorf [magmawiki.com], you don't even need to leave.
from now on, well you would say that, wouldn't you, you dirty terrorist?
and that was in a rural area, where easy access to food is harder to come by - in an urban or city environment a cat really doesn't need your handouts as much, because there is so much garb feral are wild.
it's a quote and a quote is a quote is a quote.
what i'm getting at is that by dragging out exaggerated, faulty numbers you introduce weakness into an argument.
if someone says no, you leave.
i don't think they are - my numbers assume only that the cats get pregnant, not from who.
it's not logical to claim the feral cat population will decline because of adoption, when there are many perfectly ready cats already available for adoption at any given moment in time.
if that isn't what they wanted, that is their fault for not being clear.
sorry, we use all of it, nature isn't wasteful, the premise that we only use a fraction was invented before modern medicine/science, over a century ago.
to halt computing is to shackle the mind very ironic, considering that tfa was about how bumper sticker phrases spread so much bs.
parent share twitter facebook
and those mosquitoes would in turn breed and lay thousands of eggs
or you can take the myth that a woman who's not married by 35 is even less likely to marry than to be killed by a terrorist.
and we shouldn't believe any of this bullshit.
" and even if you got past that, you often find that a) they have the same gross misunderstanding of statistics as the journalists who mis-represented it in the first place, so good luck getting them to see why it doesn't actually say that, or b) you need to first teach them what an equivocation or amphibology fallacy is, before they're even equipped to understand why the study doesn't actually say what they think it says c) you'd need to first teach them a lot about the psychology and pitfalls of polling, i.e., that basically you can produce vastly different results from the same people and to essentially the same question, by just exploiting the tendency of people to say "yes" more than "no", or pick the answer which sounds more agreeable, or just pick the first one more in multi-choice polls.
to me, a .sig/quotation is not a bumper sticker.
the statistic counts an unf with cats that i've had, i've noticed a few different behaviors with food, including kills.
but, if there is a good food supply (rodents, birds, snakes, etc), they will reproduce more.
when i moved in, the first day i saw an osprey
with urban sprawl, "urban" or "suburban" areas have grown into what was wild natural areas.
people who prefer dogs to cats are 4.8 times as likely to prefer scotch to vodka, but people who prefer cats to dogs are equally likely to prefer scotch or vodka.
sick animals without treatment have a lower chance of survival.
a friend of mine had "barn cats" they were mostly domesticated, but not fixed.
there are an abundance of natural controls at work there.
serious polling companies know and compensate for that, but a pr agency can deliberately exploit that to skew the results.
size of frikkin' horses with fangs that would make dracula jealous.
who stole all the fucking 'u's ?
the sexy meme will propagate much faster than the rational one!
for example, there's that idea doing the rounds that the superbowl leads to a spike in domestic violence.
when i was a kid, i used to sit there smashing mosquitoes that bit me.
if you get them really, really early as kittens (a few weeks old) you can, but after that - forget it.
there may be more comments in this discussion.
they lived in the barn, and were perfectly happy catching mice.
but you still could read it...
lets assume that a cat can get pregnant after it's 0.75 years old (what i've read online says 6-9 months), that pregancy takes a quater of a year (seems to be an overestimate) and that each litter produces four kittens (the soruce i've read says 3-6 is normal)two of which are female (guess).
that's right, i saw you smoking that marijuana.
and i had essentially just ended the lives of an infinite number of mosquitoes!
never was successful in the timing myself.
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
and what on earth do canadians think they are doing ?
in 3 million years you get a race of bipeds evolved from cats that are uber cool and fight wars over what colors their hats
but mean yes" is sexist bullshit that should have died out in the 20's.
they'll fight a little with each other when they're eating (growling, and the occasional paw smack), but they aren't very interested in protecting it.
parent share twitter facebook the fundamental problem is that most people are credulous morons.
if you do not know the context, then you do not understand the quotation.
if they actually wanted this to occur, the intention would be unmistakably clear.
please, just let me have this -- your environmental constraints and logical reasoning be damned!
f i just got the results from the latest survey, they say it's actually 103.7%.
i believe this is some sort of conspiracy.
but i'd like did you find yourself hip-deep in cats the last time you left the house?
"it was whether they'd be more attracted toa women who could tell you if you could go to the bathroom or not, ora women who brought you coffee.
coyotes are eating pets, who are not at all wary like a feral cat is.
(libraries of congresses filled with cats)
a litter is going to be greater than one cat, guaranteed.
should be?parent share twitter facebook seems to work for the yanks.
and i think that shouldn't be dismissed as just some idle lolcat joke.
there are plenty of statistics on the likelihood of a feral animal surviving to maturity.
15 years prior, it wasn't uncommon to see wild foxes or otters.
especially in it and cs, we see the same phenomenon every day.
of course it's a worthless statistic, that's why they use it.
shouldn't that read 99 out of 100 people are credulous morons?
to give only the upper end of that range is misleading but not as bad as your range, which hides a real problem by saying that there may not be one.
sort of how like in the article it wasn't just "cats sometimes have more kittens" or "cats kill a lot of birds" that got to be circulated into near impossible to debunk, but catchier stuff with numbers, like "an unspayed cat can produce 42,000 cats in 5 years" or "a cat can kill a billion birds".
the argument wasn't for or against adoption.
the population was about 3.
they usually don't care much, but it's food so they eat it.
it's just not true - the washingdon post even managed to track down where the falsehood originated, and there's avery informative snopes entry [snopes.com] on the topic.
a bunch of warm fuzzy kittens running around make good snacks for birds of prey.
unlike hiv it spreads via bites and scratches btw.
not to mention shelters have to kill plenty of cats that are not feral to begin with, because there aren't even enough people to take cats simply abandoned...
they never (and can't) account for population restrictions.
there are several people around who seem to thrive on posting basically "who are you to question teh scientists???
there's a difference between being coy -- a very strict and limited set of behaviours, which are flagrantly obvious as such -- and resisting somebody's advances.
though imho it is a bit more than that.
not to mention the rape that is committed to the letter 'h' onor ?
in the absence of any other limit the population will grow to the limit of the food supply.
more seriously, it's not that feral cats are no problem or that it's a problem to just ignore.
pretending that there are in fact many women out their just that'll "tell you no
a stray cat in a wooded area will have less of a chance.
and sometimes even if you make it all the way to the root source, you'll have trouble convincing anyone that that common knowledge is false.
i used a spade on one i found in my garage last month.
without a billion songbirds to eat those 420,000 cats would starve.
plus, as they say in tfa, eventually it even gets picked by some newspaper, or repeated by some politician trying to support some bill, and it kinda becomes official.
plus, supposedly some scientist said that (though usually he actually didn't, and some pr department or journalist mis-represented him), and who are you to question scientists???
better to vasectomize the males.
we'll need a lot of captions!
also, parasites and spoiled food are two large contributors to weakened feral animals and inability to reproduce.
there is abundant food in an urban environment thanks to dumpsters.
parent share twitter facebook illnesses.
my studies show that only about 80% of people are credulous morons, while 50% of people are moronic intellectuals.
if we can't believe that one cat can produce 420,000 more cats over the course of 5 years, then maybe we shouldn't believe any other statistic.
while that's still horrendous (as you point out) it's lower, and therefore sounds much better, almost like the actual rate had dropped by half, when the first number was just bullshit.
so it must be true, right?parent share twitter facebook
where it is from and what it relates to.
those men in that room would have been horrified to hear that 13.7% of women had been sexually assaulted on campus - but that numbers not sexy enough for widespread hyperbole.
everyone knows x is true.
at one house i lived in, i was talking to people who had lived there since the community was built.
you can even see that kind of idiot on slashdot.
but you are totally ignoring the reality of a very specific situation - feral cats in urban areas.
instead of disgust we had widespread disdain for the claim itself, and that is extremely damaging.
what i'm saying is that in an urban area that limit is very high, since there is food everywhere.
i think i can see where a number like that came from.
such a thing doesn't exist.
i only mentioned it and cs because we're on slashdot, but,
my favorite, even recently featured in the movie "inception", is that we only use 10% of our brains.
though you need to put some number or hyperbole comparison on it, and make it a short and catchy sound bite for best results.
he was never comfortable coming into the house, exactly.
nickname: password:public terminal 100 of 175 comments loaded twitter facebookmath idle its nickname: password:public terminal the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
e.g., an example they use is a statistics which supposedly said that men prefer dating secretaries than female managers -- and you can see how that helped fuel that prejudice that women who pursue a that kind of career won't get laid, and probably are cold hearted bitches who don't have time for love anyway -- but then when someone actually got to the bottom of it, the poll didn't actually ask that.
that just means we have the opportunity to make our own captions!
i had a cat who was bitten twice by poisonous snakes.
let's say that "just" one peta-cat is still alive.
she could have died without medical assistance.
if someone is "saying no while meaning yes" (and i doubt they are), th if you actually have to force someone to have sex with you, you're raping them.
it has also mutated so that there are strains unique to specific areas and/or colonies.
sometimes it doesn't have to be a predator that can actually eat it.
people taking feral cats out of the population to make fixed house pets out of them.
i don't think people want lead in their water, asbestos in their homes or acid rain in their cities.
and without songbirds, we'd be overrun with dirty great spiders.
you see the nice thing about statistics is that when someone fudges something, it's possible toprove that something was fudged.
what exactly is the natural control at work?
it practically implies that you have a scientific study somewhere that backs it up to within one significant digit."
that's 3.2 mega-cats per capita, or a bit over 100 cats per square meter of american territory.
wtf- who spays mice??
the truth is more of a range but the reality is on the high end of the range, in any modern city.
these are some general categories of their behaviors with food.
that is going to happen regardless of territory issues, and there will always be mates...
and there was just a poll (even posted here on slashdot) that claimed that iphone user have more sex partners.
also, the breeding availability of feral cats is more limited than you assume due to competition for territory, mates and resources.
most people die before the age of 100.
lies, damned lies and cat statistics  more login lies, damned lies and cat statistics archived discussion load all  comments full  abbreviated  hidden
not only it turns out it was bs unsubstantiated hyperbole, but the perpetrators actually eventually apologized for it.
cats are wary, not many are killed by accidents.
unkaptshunned kittehs aer a kryme agaynst kitteh-hood.
they were never fed, but were still healthy and happy.
well, also for foxes, coyotes, snakes, alligators, etc, etc, etc.
spopepro  writes"while un-captioned cats might be of limited interest to the /.
reminds me of the following: http://www.straightdope.com/columns/read/21/if-i-hadnt-killed-52-flies-as-a-child-how-many-descendants-would-they-have-had-by-now a survey of college women found that 2.8 percent had experienced either a completed (1.7 percent) or an attempted (1.1 percent) rape within a 9-month timeframe.
so it pretty much stands as a useless rangeshare twitter facebook
the fundamental problem is that most people are credulous morons.
i've been told by several women, usually several years after the fact, that i'd disappointed them by ignoring their offers of sex.
rape culture is the idea that our culture minimizes the damage of rape, marginalizes rape victims, blames the victims for being raped, and gives rapists the idea that they can safely get away with rape.
malnurished animals don't tend to reproduce very well.
yet it lives on and on and on because it feels right somehow - the superbowl is a very violent, aggressive, and above all male event.
now, if one starts with two cats however, the number could well be higher... not if all that changes is the number of cats involved, it couldn't.
how do you get people to listen to the rational answer--especially when the rational answer is "don't make decisions based on that--i don't know it and neither do you.
that's a nice textbook analysis of natural limits to population.
maybe we need a more critical eye towards every number hurled at us in information overload land.
hey, better a few decades later than never, right?
the same can't be said for feral animals.
i'm pretty sure th an unspayed cat can produce 42,000 cats in 5 years
last i heard, the dating/mating game frequently isn't like that.
it's that one piece of bs can get so circulated around, that it becomes basically common knowledge.
pretending it does is just perpetuating the rape culture embedded in our society.
the 10 percent statistic has been attributed to the pioneering psychologist and philosopher william james (1842-1910).
that sounds more like she was dissecting chupacabra, not feral cats.
but what about those neighborhoods that are so tough the squirrels have uzis?
and even then, you won't get as much exposure as the mass of idiots repeating the falsehood because they heard it somewhere, and even to a lot of those who hear you debunking it, you'll just sound like some conspiracy-theorist for attacking what they know for a fact.