likewise, if you are going to keep the cat as an indoor cat, you need to ensure the one you choose has not previously had an outdoor lifestyle.
it is exciting to choose your cat, get to know him and settle him in but  there is lots to consider before you even approach your local rescue centre.
keep him in for at least three to four weeks but let him see outside so he can familiarize himself with his surroundings.
after 20 minutes separate the cats, returning each to their own rooms.
subscribe to your cat magazine - save money on the cover price and get free uk delivery!
the great outdoors once he's been introduced to everyone you can let your cat explore the rest  of the house, making sure he can't escape.
what happens before surgery?
don't worry, he'll find his way back - especially if he's hungry!
travel safety for cat owners video:
give them separate beds, food, water and litter trays.
why is my cat scratching?
do this for at least a week before letting both cats into the same room, ensuring there is an escape route.
from a cat with the cats that are there - not just to go for the coat colour  you like.'
avon cat rescue in warwickshire, where there are  between 80 and 100 cats at any one time, offers the following tips:your  new cat's room should be out of bounds to your resident cat.
rescue cats  may not have had much human contact so could be slow to welcome affection.
food and water should be nearby, but some distance from the litter tray, and don't forget to give him some toys to play with.
'it very much depends what you want from the cat.
why do cats need scratching posts?
she explains: 'in many cases they  become firm friends but it is important to take care over the introduction  process and allow time for their scent signals to integrate before they meet.
put your new cat in a wire mesh carrier and let the resident cat into the room.
increase the  time of each introduction and use a different room each time so the new cat  establishes a presence throughout the house.
everyone is different, but the important thing is to try to match what you want
ask your own cat question!
we have 248 guests and 8 members online user name password remember me
offer him a friendly hand and call his name.
do this for a week and when the cats seem  settled you can plan their first meeting.
subscribe to your cat magazine - save money on the cover price and get free  uk delivery!
do this for a week and when the cats seem settled you can plan their first meeting.
the your cat forum 14 mar, 2012  text size you are here: home cat advice kittens & rescue cats how do i  settle in my rescue cat?
introductions leave him to explore before you make any formal introductions.
make sure each cat is on different sides of the room and give  them a really tasty treat such as chicken.
the menu feeding him little and often will give you lots of opportunities to get to  know each other.
don't forget to make sure doors and windows are closed.
one of the first things you should do is find out as much as you can about  the cat's background.
be patient with him as it could take weeks before he is confident enough to be in the same room as you.
he will be naturally curious so give him time to adjust and with a little persuasion he'll soon be exploring his new kingdom.
if he is  stressed he may not eat for a few hours but don't worry, he'll let you know  when he's hungry.
pet cremations - advice can easter eggs poison cats?
alternatively, why not treat him to a commercial cat milk!
a new cat and a resident cat will often grow to at least tolerate one  another, says behaviourist sarah heath.
she explains: 'in many cases they become firm friends but it is important to take care over the introduction process and allow time for their scent signals to integrate before they meet.
give them  separate beds, food, water and litter trays.
everyone is different, but the important thing is to try to match what you want from a cat with the cats that are there - not just to go for the coat colour you like.'
a new cat and a resident cat will often grow to at least tolerate one another, says behaviourist sarah heath.
checking in your new cat will need a secure room with a comfy, safe hideaway and litter  tray en-suite.
give them time  to come to terms and expect some unpleasant vocalization at first.
if you have a question, emailthis email address is being protected from spambots.
a confident and friendly cat will be more trusting than a timid cat, who may be cautious, fearful and even aggressive towards other pets.
if your cat refuses to come out of his hiding place, just continue to visit him, calling his name and encouraging him to come out.
feeding him little and often will give you lots of opportunities to get to know each other.
do this just before feeding time and have someone else on hand so you can each feed one cat.
be  patient with him as it could take weeks before he is confident enough to be in  the same room as you.
alternatively, why not treat him to a  commercial cat milk!
and if you have children - but it is down to you to ensure the experience is as stress-free for your new cat as possible.
the dog will also learn that he can get your attention by showing interest in the cat.
if the dog is behaving well (not growling, barking or focusing on the cat) let them continue to get to know one another.
visit our your cat bookshop (powered by amazon) for cat books recommended by your cat magazine.
for many people there is nothing better than offering a home to an unwanted  cat.
for example, if  you have a dog it is useful to take on a cat that is used to dogs.
if your cat refuses to come  out of his hiding place, just continue to visit him, calling his name and  encouraging him to come out.
when they do meet ensure this happens under careful supervision.
remember try not to rush things; successful introductions can take up to three months.
this way their attention is focused on the food and not on each other.
rescue cats may not have had much human contact so could be slow to welcome affection.
if you talk to, touch or reassure the cat or dog, or hold a tight lead, you'll increase the dog's interest in the cat and encourage his chase instinct.
don't talk, touch or give eye contact to the dog.
keep him in for at least three to  four weeks but let him see outside so he can familiarize himself with his  surroundings.
put your new cat in a wire mesh  carrier and let the resident cat into the room.
it is exciting to choose your cat, get to know him and settle him in but there is lots to consider before you even approach your local rescue centre.
the  dog will also learn that he can get your attention by showing interest in the  cat.
why will my cat not use the litter tray?
following these steps should help: place the cat in a large indoor kennel or separate the cat and dog with a child-gate, giving the dog immediate access to investigate the cat.
repeat  these steps a couple of times a day for the first few days.
do your homework staff at the animal shelter will give you lots of advice as well as  considering if your circumstances are suitable - arranging a home visit to  check if you have room for a pet, if you are at home during the day, whether  you go away frequently, what other pets you have
some gentle grooming may help him to feel at ease but some cats just don't like to be picked up and this must be respected.
shelter staff will tell you what your cat prefers to eat and  feeding the diet he is familiar with will help to avoid tummy upsets.
you  and your family gain a loving companion, while at the same time giving a cat a  second chance of finding a happy, permanent home.
make sure youngsters understand that he is not a toy and show them how to hold him.
cats protection says allowing your cat  to make the initial response means your relationship will probably be all the  more satisfying.
and when he's comfortable with you he won't mind eating in your presence and his meals can be reduced to two a day.
when they are relaxed with each other they can meet without the use of the gate or kennel but the dog should still be on a lead.
offer  him a friendly hand and call his name.
pettrac, part of the avid global recovery system, is one of three main databases in the uk that could hold your details.
how do i settle in my rescue cat?
if you talk to, touch or reassure the cat or dog, or hold a tight lead, you'll  increase the dog's interest in the cat and encourage his chase instinct.
how did my cat get fip?
increase the time of each introduction and use a different room each time so the new cat establishes a presence throughout the house.
however, let him jump down if he's  uncomfortable and stroke him only if he shows you his whole body or rubs  against your legs.
once he's been introduced to everyone you can let your cat explore the rest of the house, making sure he can't escape.
make sure water is  available at all times and avoid giving cow's milk as it can cause diarrhoea in  cats because of the lactose it contains.
do  this just before feeding time and have someone else on hand so you can each  feed one cat.
making friends once your new cat has accepted you, other members of your family can follow  the same approach but do not leave children under five alone with him.
cats protection says allowing your cat to make the initial response means your relationship will probably be all the more satisfying.
keep repeating his name, sit down and let him get onto your lap.
and if you have children - but  it is down to you to ensure the experience is as stress-free for your new cat  as possible.
avon cat rescue in warwickshire, where there are between 80 and 100 cats at any one time, offers the following tips:your new cat's room should be out of bounds to your resident cat.
try these short introductions twice a day.
don't worry, he'll  find his way back - especially if he's hungry!
there's no doubt that adopting a rescue cat can be extremely rewarding.
repeat these steps a couple of times a day for the first few days.
after 20 minutes separate the cats, returning each  to their own rooms.
and you will receive a personal reply plus your question may feature in the magazine.
it is also possible for your new cat to get along with your resident dog without too many problems.
you need javascript enabled to view it.
and you  will receive a personal reply plus your question may feature in the magazine.
'ensure that your resident cat continues to feel secure in  his home and has unchallenged access to all his important resources such as  food and resting places.
following these steps should help: place  the cat in a large indoor kennel or separate the cat and dog with a child-gate,  giving the dog immediate access to investigate the cat.
claire bessant, chief executive of the feline advisory  bureau, says: 'the more information you have on the cat and its background and  the more you understand its personality and needs, the better. '
likewise, if  you are going to keep the cat as an indoor cat, you need to ensure the one you  choose has not previously had an outdoor lifestyle.
if he offers his head for you to touch, purrs and invites you  to stroke his back, or even invites you to lift him up and stroke him, you  could also try putting him on your lap.
'when they  are together for the first time it may be sensible to have a blanket ready in  case there is a physical confrontation - you need to be able to separate them  without being injured by sharp claws but try to resist the temptation to  intervene too soon.
why does my cat turn aggressive?
you and your family gain a loving companion, while at the same time giving a cat a second chance of finding a happy, permanent home.
start by letting him out just before dinner time, making sure the route back to the house can be seen and is away from the danger of traffic.
every month, your cat magazine has up to 20 pages of cat questions answered  by our panel of experts.
'when they are together for the first time it may be sensible to have a blanket ready in case there is a physical confrontation - you need to be able to separate them without being injured by sharp claws but try to resist the temptation to intervene too soon.
we look at how to ensure the experience is positive for you and the cat.
block any areas  where he could hide and get stuck, such as chimneys, behind washing machines or  under kitchen units.
if the dog is  behaving well (not growling, barking or focusing on the cat) let them continue  to get to know one another.
if your pet has an avid microchip contact avid plc, po box 19, uckfield, east sussex tn22 3tf or visit www.avidplc.com if your details have changed tel: 0800 652 8977 or to report your pet lost or found 24 hours a day tel: 0800 652 9977.
once your new cat has accepted you, other members of your family can follow the same approach but do not leave children under five alone with him.
'it very much depends what  you want from the cat.
if you have a question, emailthis email address is  being protected from spambots.
(if the cat is in an indoor kennel it is important that he has a place to hide in if he feels threatened.
leave him to explore before you make any formal introductions.
if you get off to a good start it will pay off and your relationship will blossom.
make sure water is available at all times and avoid giving cow's milk as it can cause diarrhoea in cats because of the lactose it contains.
help, other cats use my cat flap!
some gentle grooming may help him to feel at ease but some cats just don't  like to be picked up and this must be respected.
try not to reinforce your dog's behaviour.
my cat has been shot - help!
for many people there is nothing better than offering a home to an unwanted cat.
don't speak or touch them but  watch their reactions and give them both some of their favourite food as this  will help to distract them and may also lead to pleasant associations with the  presence of the other cat.
if he is stressed he may not eat for a few hours but don't worry, he'll let you know when he's hungry.
'ensure that your resident cat continues to feel secure in his home and has unchallenged access to all his important resources such as food and resting places.
make  sure youngsters understand that he is not a toy and show them how to hold him.
staff at the animal shelter will give you lots of advice as well as considering if your circumstances are suitable - arranging a home visit to check if you have room for a pet, if you are at home during the day, whether you go away frequently, what other pets you have
keeping track don't forget to make sure your rescue cat is micro-chipped and if he is  making sure your contact details are logged.
one of the first things you should do is find out as much as you can about the cat's background.
food and water should be nearby, but some distance from the  litter tray, and don't forget to give him some toys to play with.
keep repeating his name, sit down and let him get onto your  lap.
however, meetings should be supervised and your dog  should be on a lead.
you can then encourage him outside into your garden.
(if the cat is in an  indoor kennel it is important that he has a place to hide in if he feels  threatened.
a  confident and friendly cat will be more trusting than a timid cat, who may be  cautious, fearful and even aggressive towards other pets.
however, let him jump down if he's uncomfortable and stroke him only if he shows you his whole body or rubs against your legs.
remember - if you are seriously concerned about your cat’s health or behaviour, and especially if your cat is in distress, please take him or her along to your vet as soon as possible.
my cat's been poisoned - help!
do you want a confident interactive cat or are you happy to take on a more nervous individual because you want to give a cat a home?
give them time to come to terms and expect some unpleasant vocalization at first.
pettrac, part of the avid global  recovery system, is one of three main databases in the uk that could hold your  details.
do you want a confident interactive cat or are you happy  to take on a more nervous individual because you want to give a cat a home?
make sure each cat is on different sides of the room and give them a really tasty treat such as chicken.
introducing dogs it is also possible for your new cat to get along with your resident dog  without too many problems.
rub each cat with a separate towel  and then place it in the other cat's area to let each cat become familiar with  the other's smell before they meet.
remember - if you are seriously concerned about your cat’s health or  behaviour, and especially if your cat is in distress, please take him or her  along to your vet as soon as possible.
related articles what is the invisible fence?
shelter staff will tell you what your cat prefers to eat and feeding the diet he is familiar with will help to avoid tummy upsets.
don't forget to make sure your rescue cat is micro-chipped and if he is making sure your contact details are logged.
for example, if you have a dog it is useful to take on a cat that is used to dogs.
approach him on his  level and do not move suddenly as he will perceive this as threatening.
don't speak or touch them but watch their reactions and give them both some of their favourite food as this will help to distract them and may also lead to pleasant associations with the presence of the other cat.
when they are  relaxed with each other they can meet without the use of the gate or kennel but  the dog should still be on a lead.
call the dog and wait for him to come back and stay  with you for at least ten seconds then reward him for staying with you.
block any areas where he could hide and get stuck, such as chimneys, behind washing machines or under kitchen units.
claire bessant, chief executive of the feline advisory bureau, says: 'the more information you have on the cat and its background and the more you understand its personality and needs, the better. '
however, meetings should be supervised and your dog should be on a lead.
start by  letting him out just before dinner time, making sure the route back to the  house can be seen and is away from the danger of traffic.
browse our kittens for sale adverts or find your nearest cat rescue centre
approach him on his level and do not move suddenly as he will perceive this as threatening.
and when he's comfortable with you he won't mind eating in  your presence and his meals can be reduced to two a day.
if you get  off to a good start it will pay off and your relationship will blossom.
remember try not to rush things; successful introductions  can take up to three months.
if your pet has an avid microchip contact avid plc, po box 19,  uckfield, east sussex tn22 3tf or visit www.avidplc.com if your details have  changed tel: 0800 652 8977 or to report your pet lost or found 24 hours a day  tel: 0800 652 9977.
how do i entertain my indoor cat?
call the dog and wait for him to come back and stay with you for at least ten seconds then reward him for staying with you.
every month, your cat magazine has up to 20 pages of cat questions answered by our panel of experts.
he will be naturally curious so give him time to  adjust and with a little persuasion he'll soon be exploring his new  kingdom.
your new cat will need a secure room with a comfy, safe hideaway and litter tray en-suite.
do this for at least a week before  letting both cats into the same room, ensuring there is an escape route.
rub each cat with a separate towel and then place it in the other cat's area to let each cat become familiar with the other's smell before they meet.
this way their attention is focused  on the food and not on each other.
if he offers his head for you to touch, purrs and invites you to stroke his back, or even invites you to lift him up and stroke him, you could also try putting him on your lap.