in fox's experiment (1975) with various wild and domesticated canines,  there was a surge in aggressivity in male jackals and wolves at the onset of  puberty which increased until it peaked at 2 years.
w w when it is raised in isolation in a closed environment (0.2 m²  cage) the flight reaction does not develop; instead only inhibition or  fear-provoked aggression develop (fisher, 1955; fuller, clark, walker, 1960 in  scott and fuller, 1965).
male chihuahuas raised by cats until 16 weeks of age demonstrate  preference for the presence of cats, and submission - or fear - in the presence  of dogs (they also show no reaction to their reflection in a mirror).
puppies raised in surroundings  poor in stimuli ("stimulus-poor puppies") and placed for the first  time in a highly stimulating environment at 12 or 16 weeks are inhibited (fear)  and search less complex environments.
this can also be compared to the development of so-calledterritorial aggressivity.
the anthropomorphic tendency of a human-dog relationship to develop  into that of parent-child, or parent-baby postpones the puppy's training  towards adulthood at 5-10 months as well as the order-obedience relationship  that is part of hierarchization.
a bibliographic study confirms there is a phylogenetic and/or epigenetic  tendency for pre-puberty sensitization.
this reflects cyrulnik's (1991) remarks that the brain becomes  atrophied when [an animal] is raised in sensorial isolation, and it develops more than average in an environment of hyperstimulation in  noise, affectivity, odors, tastes, sight, etc.... neurobiological studies have showed that prolonged precocious isolation  was responsible for long-lasting structural or functional cerebral modifications .
the cognitive process it entails leads to a dog'santicipating harmful situations that exist only in its mind (in a way, fear of being attacked) and thus behavioral strategies (defense mechanisms: flight, aggression, inhibition).
the acquirer (when he receives the 7-9 week old puppy) must then respect these socio-ecological conditions - he must limit the space available when the puppy is not under human control and provide the adequate elimination medium (why not a large litter box in an apartment?) placed at the right location (at least 2-3 meters from where the puppy eats and sleeps).
when put on the defensive a cocker's bite is "softer" than that of other breeds tested (basenji, terrier, beagle, sheltie).
the answer is  "yes".
in another station the mother was taken from the breeding kennel when her  puppies were 5 weeks old; these puppies were not submissive to adults when they  were first placed with the rest of the group at 12 to 16 weeks.
the identification phase at birth the puppy has not an innate recognition of members of its  species; in a way it does not know it is a dog.
in this single-breed kennel (little variation in genotype) in a relatively  deprived sensorial environment, there was a high degree of phenotype variation  with, nevertheless, a large percentage (more than 50%) of dogs displaying  inhibited behavior (more than 75% of the dogs were anxious).
he also accustomed wolf cubs  to humans, then isolated them: in this case there wasde-socialization (instability of precocious socialization).young animals need continuous  reinforcement.
enriched puppies are systematically dominant in the presence of stimulus-poor dogs.
food hierarchization is average in cockers and beagles with no  predominance of either sex.
it no longer has the right to greetings,  licking and other social attentions given by the other dogs.
for one's own species over a neighboring species, and for this species over a more distant one (such as humans).
the third aggressivity surge does not appear at this time.
this is probably linked to the social species' innate  need for contact.
this is because in a group, the dominant members react and put the young dog in its place each time it tries to compete aggressively, barring its access (satellisation) to socially invested areas and sexual partners.
the lack of human contact between 3 and 12 ± 2 weeks fosters the development of fear/wariness of humans (feral dog).
elimination behavior (1) is preceded by sniffing around, probably in  search of typical odors (urine, feces, chlorine, ammonia, etc.) that will spark  the elimination reflex, (2) occurs almost every waking hour, (3) is not  activated for several hours during sleep.
w w when it is raised in isolation in a closed environment (0.2 m² cage)
in dogs, precocious neutering can delay or preclude the emergence of wariness towards strangers (brunner, 1968, in fox, 1978), which could possibly confirm the tendency's hormonal cause.
our knowledge is partially extrapolated from ethology studies in birds.
risk factors there can be several risks involved in acquiring a puppy as a pet: -
active nerve endings are eliminated all the while the nervous system itself is expanding...
as cyrulnik wrote, "the world of each animal is built around the double constraint of genetics and development".
the wild canines all remained attached to the trainer, at least until they reached maturity, and then became less tolerant to contact with or proximity to the trainer all the while welcoming him with appeasement postures (whereas in the beginning he was welcomed with active postures: jumping, licking, nudging).
when the experimenters mimeplay-fights against these same dogs, they are able to recover a positive dog-dog interaction and complete integration in the same pack within a few days (fuller, 1961 in scott and fuller, 1965).
this attraction subsidesin an almost linear manner after the  fifth weekuntil at least 9 weeks.
aggressivity was directed  toward males (canines and humans).
and this is precisely one of the "rules of the game": to change roles, with the biter becoming the bitten and vice versa.
from 3 weeks on, the elimination reflex disappears and the puppy tends to leave its bedding to eliminate.
barking is easy to condition.
wariness of strangers develops: - quickly in the solitary species (from 4 months in foxes), - later in species of average sociability (around 1 year for jackals and coyotes), - and much later in social species such as wolves (between 6 and 18 months) or dogs (beagle, pointer or chihuahua - between 1 and 2 years).
it is  possible that this is a factor insexual imprinting, but it has yet to be  proven.
an adult  sheltie (who had lived with a cat and two children) showed sexual attraction  for the cat and attacked all dogs (male and female alike); a beagle became  "attached" to a vacuum cleaner bag; a basenji (who lived with a  female dog) became a delinquent stray who attacked other dogs (scott and  fuller, 1965).
the object of attachment is a being whose presence soothes and whose absence causes distress, who possess the signs of familiarization; a "reference being" (eibl-eibesfeldt 1984).
in rhesus monkeys, thisdeprivation syndrome leads to high level of blood  cortisol.
through species identification a puppy is able to recognize its parents ( filial imprinting), and develop preferential intraspecific social  relations (fraternal imprinting) and the relations (sexual imprinting ) which mean the survival of the species (filial and sexual imprinting).
we thus have a phase of facilitated spontaneous learning that begins with a dog's sensorial opening and investigation of stimuli (3 ± ½ weeks) and ends when it develops fear of the unknown (12 ± 2 weeks).
we thus have a phase of facilitated spontaneous learning that begins with  a dog's sensorial opening and investigation of stimuli (3 ± ½ weeks) and ends when it develops fear of the unknown (12 ± 2 weeks).
dehasse j. la socialization du chiot et la  privation de socialization, conference geprec (groupe d'etude pour les  problèmes de reproduction et d'elevage canin), néonatalogie  canine, 28 october 1990, louvain-la-neuve, belgium.
this can also be compared to the development of so-calledterritorial  aggressivity.
this interaction must last until at least, if not beyond, the 6th week.
the end of this phase varies depending on factors that are internal  (breed, line of descendants, individual) and external (behavior of the mother,  other dogs, quality of the surroundings).
it is thus normal to see the appearance of wariness towards strangers (or the unknown) or a loss of certain social experience and sensorial references between 4 months (as in foxes) and 2 years (as in wolves).
according to fox (1975, in fox 1978)  this activates the parasympathetic system, facilitating relaxation, digestion  and emotionalattachment, and thus socialization as well.
it no longer has the right to greetings, licking and other social attentions given by the other dogs.
the role of the veterinarian is essential because he/she sees the  animal from 6 to 16 weeks for its vaccinations.
this identification is persistent, occasionally for life.
in fox's experiment (1975) with various wild and domesticated canines, there was a surge in aggressivity in male jackals and wolves at the onset of puberty which increased until it peaked at 2 years.
in a semi-open milieu, the dog tends to flee (and is impossible to catch after the age of 4 months) (scott and fuller, 1965).
the neonatal period we will only say a few words about this period, which arbitrarily ranges  from birth to the opening of the eyes at approximately 13 days.
cahiers d'ethologie, 12 (4) 443-66, 1993 dehasse j. the semiology of communication patterns between dog and man.
this attitude is extended towards other mother-young conflicts and adopted  in the presence of other adults, as shown by the following personal  observation.
sensory, emotional, and social development of the young dog
the  fight is rarely traumatic since adult fighting capacities are as yet  undeveloped.
vincent j-d. biologie des passions , paris: odile jacob, 1986.
l'examen comportemental du chiot, prat.
risk factors sensitization (and the often indissociable generalization) is the process that engenders wariness, fear, phobia and anxiety.
there follows avulnerable period of cognitive sensitization at pre-puberty or puberty during which minor trauma  can occasionally entrench wariness or fear, (ill­)adaptations, and  cognitive and emotional distortions that are undesirable in a dog living among  humans in a city environment.
according to scott and fuller (1965), it is predominant in short-haired fox terriers and basenjis (the male dominates the female); and rare in shelties at 11 and even 15 weeks (less than 50% of couples although this figure increases to 75% around 1 year).
according to fox (1975, in fox 1978) this activates the parasympathetic system, facilitating relaxation, digestion and emotionalattachment, and thus socialization as well.
the sensitive period is preceded and  followed by periods of lower sensitivity, and the transition is gradual.
- failure to control the intensity of biting and risk of serious (wounding) biting in minor confrontations.
in rhesus monkeys, thisdeprivation syndrome leads to high level of blood cortisol.
nothing, however, enables us to affirm or deny that rapid habituation to close stimuli cannot be achieved after 12 weeks.
at pre-puberty, however, dogs  emit pheromones that activate demonstrations of authority by the group's  dominant dogs.
food hierarchization is average in cockers and beagles with no predominance of either sex.
this phase corresponds to the first surge of social aggressivity identified by pageat.
they learn slowly and forget easily (every trial is  like a new experience).
"there is a critical period during which the abnormal functioning of a system causes irreversible lesions."
this is  because in a group, the dominant members react and put the young dog in its  place each time it tries to compete aggressively, barring its access  (satellisation) to socially invested areas and sexual partners.
the intensity and frequency of this vocalization normally diminish, to be replaced by intraspecific communication such as postures and rituals.
risk factors domestication depends on the presence of humans between 3 and 12 ±  2 weeks in the surroundings in which a puppy develops and this socialization  must be continued throughout the animal's life.
is there a sensitive phase during which it would be easier to establish emotional homeostasis, enabling the individual to develop frames of reference ( referential, thymostat) and long-term habituation?
it is possible that this is a factor insexual imprinting, but it has yet to be proven.
in clinical practice we have observed cases where phobic behavior (both  towards the dog's immediate surroundings and towards humans with which the dog  has little contact) and anxiety develop in pre-puberty.
in these cases biting is uncontrolled and the attacked puppy can  be wounded (sometimes fatally).
le syndrome de privation du  chiot, le point vétérinaire, june-july 1986, vol.18, n°98.
(these young rats are raised by another mother that has not  been placed under stress to preclude the possibility of postnatal maternal  influence.)
thus before socialization can be acquired,  the subjective (cognitive) element of fear must first mature.
the total absence of other dogs (own species) between 3 and  12±5 weeks fosters identification with another species that is closest  (in general humans, but occasionally cats, rabbits, etc.) or an appropriate  substitute (stuffed animal, vacuum cleaner bag, etc.).
vocalization is used to ward off strangers ('territorial' defense) from the age  of 11-15 weeks (see below).
in conclusion, species identification (filial, fraternal and sexual imprinting) is acquired during a sensitive phase of development, and depends on "play-fighting" among puppies (litter-mates).
these experiments enable us to deduce that when a gestating pet is given a friendly and caring human environment (with affectionate physical contact), the domestication and emotional balance of her offspring is facilitated, as compared with an environment where there is no contact and interaction with people.
these very short periods justify the termcritical .
"there is a critical period during which the abnormal functioning of a  system causes irreversible lesions."
(these young rats are raised by another mother that has not been placed under stress to preclude the possibility of postnatal maternal influence.)
- after 2 months they ranged from 8 to 21.
here we can directly see the overall differences between a city and rural environment of development.
living in a group and adapting to varied environments calls for a certain degree of emotional equilibrium (with minor fluctuations).
dantzer r. les emotions , paris: presses universitaires de france, 1988.
dehasse j.le comportement de défense anticipé pathologique et la paranoïa, prat.
the emotional self-regulation  (homeostasis) phase the precocious learning-conditioning phase the cognitive  sensitization-rationalization in pre-puberty puberty and  hierarchization bibliography introduction
the result can be attachment, evenhyper-attachment, later engendering a separation anxiety syndrome.
we recommend reading vastrade (1986),  markwell & thorne (1987), and nott (1992) for an overview, or scott and  fuller (1965) or fox (1965) for a more in-depth study.
here are a few examples: a dog's typical reaction to an unfamiliar situation is fear: starting, fleeing or inhibition.
the relationship risks reverting to one with a demanding-dominant dog and a obedient-submissive owner.
dehasse j. la socialization du chiot et la privation de socialization, conference geprec (groupe d'etude pour les problèmes de reproduction et d'elevage canin), néonatalogie canine, 28 october 1990, louvain-la-neuve, belgium.
the puppies share and fight over what is left, and gobble it up  rapidly, to the complete indifference of the dominant members who return to  other activities.
mon chien est d'une humeur de chien, brussels: editions vander, 1989, 2d edition 1991.
the mother does not compete with her young (7 weeks of age) and allows them full access to the food (even if it is a bone) (scott and fuller, 1965).
the identification phase at birth the puppy has not an innate recognition of members of its species; in a way it does not know it is a dog.
the interactive presence of other animals leads to interspecific socialization and attachment, and it counters predatory behavior.
lactation wanes around 7 to 10 weeks.
the main phases in neurological development like humans, dogs belong to a species that matures slowly after birth: the  new-born is not completely developed and is incapable of surviving on its own.
to my knowledge, no  experiments have been made to determine the duration of the food imprinting  phase.
an adult sheltie (who had lived with a cat and two children) showed sexual attraction for the cat and attacked all dogs (male and female alike); a beagle became "attached" to a vacuum cleaner bag; a basenji (who lived with a female dog) became a delinquent stray who attacked other dogs (scott and fuller, 1965).
confinement and hand feeding enable it to accept contact with its laboratory handler(s) but not with strangers, and it still prefers the presence of dogs to that of humans (scott and fuller, 1965).
we all know how the age of puberty, temperament, emotivity, sociability etc. can vary among breeds and individuals.
a quel  âge doit/peut-on sortir un chiot, veterinaria, february 1989,  n°193, p.26. dehasse j., de buyser colette.
dogs  raised in isolation and placed in contact with others of their species at 16  weeks are attacked and rejected.
among birds, imprinting lasts throughout parental care and this period is shortened when there is a danger of mixing species.
this neuronal hecatomb is part of the normal development. ...
clinical practice shows that when a puppy is acquired at 6 weeks this is  already a handicap in developing its adult social and sexual preferences.
editions  de l'homme, 1983 & 1993.
the new-born puppy is a completely  dependent being, and apparently hardly influenceable psychologically in  classical conditioning tests.
a bernese sheep-dog (raised in belgium) developed  intermittent anxiety (with pathological anticipations) around the age of 6  months, despite a social and sensorial enrichment between 3 weeks and 4 months.
in another station the mother was taken from the breeding kennel when her puppies were 5 weeks old; these puppies were not submissive to adults when they were first placed with the rest of the group at 12 to 16 weeks.
elimination elimination is a reflex present at birth (it is provoked when the mother licks the puppy's perineum) and becomes spontaneous around2-3 weeks.
without this  contact the mother will reject her young in the last two cases (collias, 1956,  in scott and fuller, 1965).
likewise for emotional and relational homeostasis we could also envisage the existence of a "sensoriostat ", "thymostat" or "sociostat" respectively measuring a being's sensorial perception, and emotional and social equilibrium.
the rising curve  reflects aprogressive attachment to a familiar place (attachment  location) while the descending curve after 7-8 weeks is a sign ofemotional  maturing (more than habituation) and motivation to explore the unknown.
this begins about the third (3±½) week and ends somewhere between 11 and 17 weeks (12±5), when the dogs loose their ability to play with unfamiliar dogs and become "serious" in defending their group.
furthermore the lack of rituals lead to their malfunction,  and even changes in their significance: if a dog in a submissive posture is  petted (positive reinforcement) it will adopt this posture more often in the  search for attention.
figures given for dogs, however, are hardly conclusive.
if guide dogs for the blind are placed in a foster family at 12 weeks, they generally adapt well, but placement at 14 weeks can prove to hinder performance in later training (scott and fuller, 1965).
this notion of learning in phases has various names: sensitive period,  critical moment, optimal period, vulnerable point, crucial stage, susceptible  period, and so on.
the notion of sensitive period is used in the place of critical period  because the former extends over a longer period of time.
it is possible, however, that the future holds surprising discoveries  about the epigenetic importance of this neonatal period, especially as concerns  the "manipulation" effect on neuro-hormonal development.
it is thus the dog breeder who conditions the location and medium favored  for elimination.
this is why this  phase is social, spatial and sexual.
the cognitive sensitisation-rationalisation phase in pre-puberty
a third phase of hierarchization occurs at maturity (adulthood), an age that varies in dogs depending on the breed (from8 months to3 years).
they did not  use the submissive posture (rolling over); the ritual was not acquired.
this phase corresponds  to the first surge of social aggressivity identified by pageat.
the adolescent is pushed from areas occupied by the dominant members (high-placed positions, controlling passages, preferential sleeping areas, etc.).
in a one-on-one or one-on-two fight the bitten puppy is  able to turn the tide of the 'battle' and bite its adversary(ies).
in conclusion, species identification (filial, fraternal and sexual  imprinting) is acquired during a sensitive phase of development, and depends on  "play-fighting" among puppies (litter-mates).
risk factors they are similar to those found among birds.
fear in the  presence of a human that handled him decreased from 3 to 5 weeks, was minimal  at 5 weeks, then increased again afterwards.
the boldest ones are generally the  most dominant; they push back their submissive pack-mates, barring access.
in rodents always, precocious exposition to other species odors eases future interspecific socialization (decrease in aggressions, lowering of corticosteroïds hormones) (caston: 1993).
dogs raised in isolation and placed in contact with others of their species at 16 weeks are attacked and rejected.
from 11 to 15 weeks play-fighting recedes; it becomes less aggressive and more controlled.
the result can be attachment, evenhyper-attachment,  later engendering a separation anxiety syndrome.
agonistic co-operation is  directed towards outsiders who are investigated and attacked in a manner more  "serious" than play-fighting.
in clinical practice we have observed cases where phobic behavior (both towards the dog's immediate surroundings and towards humans with which the dog has little contact) and anxiety develop in pre-puberty.
clinics of north america, vol.15, n°2, march, 1985, 289-295.
i was one of the people who helped spread this concept in french-speaking  countries (dehasse and de buyser: 1983, 1989, 1991) by emphasizing on several  occasions that the sensitive period in the behavioral epigenesis in puppies  extended from3 weeks to 3 months of age.
we recommend reading vastrade (1986), markwell & thorne (1987), and nott (1992) for an overview, or scott and fuller (1965) or fox (1965) for a more in-depth study.
(before birth) to +7 weeks imprinting-identification from 3±½ to 12±5 weeks filial, fraternal and sexual imprinting intraspecific sociability emotional-relational from 3±½ to 12±2 weeks socialization - thymostasis - conditioning, etc. cognitive 5±1 to 18±10 months hierarchization - rationalization - territorialisation each phase presents a series of risks that can undermine the dog-dog and dog-human relationship.
at about 16 weeks the puppies must take their  place in line for food, i.e. after the dominant and sub-dominant members,  almost last.
fox (1975) experimented with puppies placed in contact with increasingly  complex stimuli (enrichment) at 5, 8, 12 and 16 weeks: as they grow the  puppies tended to seek out complex environments.
according to fuller (1961), puppies raised in isolation in a laboratory develop adequate socialization to humans if they receive two 20-minute periods of human contact per week.
play-fighting and learning to control biting play-fighting, which begins at 3 weeks, can sometimes be painful when a  puppy begins cutting teeth, especially when its ears are bitten.
this effect, called the "gentling", "petting" or "caress" effect, can be prolonged by caresses to the new-born.
the relative absence of other dogs between 3 and 12±5 weeks  leads to relative, total or no handicaps depending on circumstances: possible recovery of the dog's species identity at 9 weeks when it plays  with other puppies, attachment to the identification species and disinterest or aggression  towards canines, despite the (almost) normal capacity to reproduce, the imprinting effects of a mirror placed in the surroundings of a  puppy isolated from other puppies have not been studied (to my knowledge).
freedman d., king j.a., elliot o. critical period in the social development of dogs, science, 1961, 133: 1016-7 (in fox, 1965).
their activity level is 6 times higher than average dogs raised in normal surroundings ( motor hyperexcitement).
in these cases biting is uncontrolled and the attacked puppy can be wounded (sometimes fatally).
this is probably linked to the social species' innate need for contact.
the human desire to give and receive attention is opposed to the normal (agonistic) parental behavior to wean the puppy, detach oneself and encourage autonomy.
l'education du chien - de 0 à 6 mois, montreal: editions de l'homme, 1983 & 1993.
in females,  progesterone favors territorial defense behavior, just as it favors whelping  and pseudocyesis.
if the dominant members fail to react, aggressivity is reinforced and the young dog rises in hierarchy.
advantages a puppy's malleability enables it to rapidly adapt to almost all human  environments without undo stress.
(before birth) to +7 weeks imprinting-identification from 3±½ to 12±5  weeks filial, fraternal and sexual imprinting intraspecific sociability from 3±½ to 12±2 weeks socialization - thymostasis - conditioning, etc. 5±1 to 18±10 months hierarchization - rationalization - territorialisation each phase presents a series of risks that can undermine the dog-dog and  dog-human relationship.
the corollary to the development of a puppy's attachment to its  surroundings is its detachment from its parent(s).
let's look at a few experimental cases: puppies raised in a semi-open environment in (nearly) complete isolation from humans reacted differently towards an active unfamiliar observer depending on their age.
this identification is  persistent, occasionally for life.
nott helen m.r. behavioral development of the dog, in thorne ed.:
it is clear how the western world's custom of acquiring pets favors the emergence of hyper-attachment and sociopathies (dog as a toy, an object (a live teddy bear), a substitute for children, a catalyser for social reactions, spoiled dog, etc.).
the duration of this sensitive  period had to be verified by delving into the literature on experiments in this  realm and clinical review.
it is clear how the western world's  custom of acquiring pets favors the emergence of hyper-attachment and  sociopathies (dog as a toy, an object (a live teddy bear), a substitute for  children, a catalyser for social reactions, spoiled dog, etc.).
when the experimenters mimeplay-fights against these same dogs, they are able to recover a positive dog-dog  interaction and complete integration in the same pack within a few days  (fuller, 1961 in scott and fuller, 1965).
her sister acquired the same tendency in a completely different environment  (netherlands), as did her brother (in switzerland).
superficial, limited observation of the new-born puppy could lead one to believe it did not even belong to the canine species: awkward, dragging itself around, oriented to contact, the mother's teats and the smell of milk, yapping in distress when isolated, cold, hungry or in pain, and having only a limited capacity to keep itself warm and to learn.
pampiglione (1963) observed marked changes in eeg patterns at  7-8 days, 5-6 weeks (reaching adult levels), and 4-5 months (fox, 1965).
discussion and conclusions no quantitative studies have been made on intra-breed variability, and  inter-breed studies have only concerned a few family lines in selected breeds.
enriched puppies are systematically  dominant in the presence of stimulus-poor dogs.
various measurements (volume, weight, percentage of dry matter, oxygen consumption) of the brain show that growth is rapid until the 6-7th week when development suddenly slackens considerably.
this short contact, however, is not enough for basenji puppies; this variability is thus truly linked to breed (genetics) (scott and fuller, 1965).
barking from distress when left alone in an unknown place increases from 3  to6-8 weeks (maximum) then decreases until 12 weeks.
cyrulnik b. mémoire de singe  et paroles d'homme,paris: hachette, 1983, pluriel, 1984.
cahiers d'ethologie, 12 (4) 443-66, 1993 dehasse j. the semiology of  communication patterns between dog and man.
it is thus infra-species: it is a "type"  socialization (human: man, woman, adolescent, child, baby, black, white,  with/without beard, hat, white apron, etc.).
the emotional self-regulation (homeostasis) phase homeostasis is the ability of an organism to maintain an  equilibrium in a variable environment.
to my knowledge, no experiments have been made to determine the duration of the food imprinting phase.
it is thus infra-species: it is a "type" socialization (human: man, woman, adolescent, child, baby, black, white, with/without beard, hat, white apron, etc.).
advantages this ease of conditioning can be put to an advantage in teaching dogs to eliminate in gutters and other sewer outlets.
this free access ends as the puppy becomes autonomous and takes its place in  the adult hierarchy (pageat).
in rats, once again, manipulation (contact, exposure to cold, etc.) at a young age or before birth (manipulation of the pregnant mother) gives greater resistance to stress (cold, hunger) and disease (implanted tumors).
when a puppy is acquired at 7 weeks and left alone at night it will bark  in distress.
(1956).the analysis of socialization in sheep and goats, ecology,  37: 228-38 (in scott, fuller, 1965).
risk factors interspecific communication with humans, also a vocal and verbal animal,  reinforces the vocal element (learning by imitation), which then becomes  preponderant, even disruptive.
- the threshold of socialization (number of interactions) is variable and depends on factors that are internal (breed, individual) or external (mother's fearful behavior, quality of the surroundings, etc.).
a bernese sheep-dog (raised in belgium) developed intermittent anxiety (with pathological anticipations) around the age of 6 months, despite a social and sensorial enrichment between 3 weeks and 4 months.
just as we have thermo-regulation  (thermal homeostasis), we can also speak of emotional and relational  homeostasis (vincent, 1986).
among birds, imprinting lasts  throughout parental care and this period is shortened when there is a danger of  mixing species.
the beagles were chosen for their anxious-inhibited (depressive) behavior.
the characteristics of this learning phase are the same as those of interspecific socialization (facilitated but requiring reinforcement, low level of generalization, etc.).the characteristics of this learning phase are the same as those of interspecific socialization (facilitated but requiring reinforcement, low level of generalization, etc.).
isolation leads to a diminution of the dendritic network in the monkey frontal cortex; it also induces a reversible diminution of the activity of the mesocorticofrontal dopaminergic pathways (with hyperreactivity to stress), associated with a slight increase of the activity of the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways (verdoux and bourgeois: 1991).
depending on the information presented (learning), he/she either continues (motivation) or stops (habituation, impregnation, or self-limitation) looking out the open window.
it is possible that this phase is similar to the self-regulation phase, both in its duration and characteristics, since it engenders a food or feeding preference that is persistent but changeable over time.
we should also mention that the first signs of humping (pre-imitation of future sexual behavior) appear as early as 3 to 4 weeks (scott and fuller, 1965).
this adaptation is  possible only through habituation (disappearance of reactions) to certain  stimuli.
puppies raised in surroundings poor in stimuli ("stimulus-poor puppies") and placed for the first time in a highly stimulating environment at 12 or 16 weeks are inhibited (fear) and search less complex environments.
fox (1978) studied primary and secondary socialization in wild dogs and other canines that were raised in identical environments and had daily contact with the trainer and intermittent contact with unfamiliar humans.
this referential determines the stimulation level at which the individual  must begin to adjust by activating the appropriate emotion (fear, wariness,  etc.) and adopting the most appropriate adaptive behavior (investigation,  avoidance, flight, aggression, inhibition, etc.).
in a husky breeding station the presence of the mother beyond the 5th week led to her puppies' spontaneous submission to the adults of the pack.
in conclusion: "industrial" kennel conditions suffice to cause anxiety and inhibition (undoubtedly favored in this case by the breed and enclosure in a 9m² cage).
this barking disappears spontaneously after a few days as it becomes familiar with its new home (with reassuring significance), unless its behavior receives positive reinforcement from its new masters (who come to pet, calm or scold the distressed puppy, or take it into their room, all signs of attention - thus positive reinforcement).
a puppy raised in a deprived environment may be tempted to compensate for this lack of sensorial stimulation byself-stimulation: this is how certain stereotyped behavior develops, as well as self-centered behavior (fox, 1975), such as self-induced dermatoses.
note that, unlike goats and sheep, adult dogs show no parental rejection of their young!
the presence of the mother is thus favorable, even necessary, for the development of appeasement-submission rituals and for the puppy's hierarchization in the adult pack.
an overall inhibition index was established (4 tests each rated from 1 to 6, for a total ranging from 4 to 24 points, with 24 being the value for a normal dog).
development thus seems to come about in stages; although  these stages are possibly nothing more than a "simplified classification  system where the classifier traces a straight line through a continuum"  (bateson, 1981).
- at the start of the experiment, all the dogs tested between 4 to 10 points.
three behavioral situations are of particular interest in precocious learning: elimination, eating, and vocalization.
at the mother's arrival the puppies assemble in the attempt to nurse and wait for their mother to regurgitate pre-digested food: they wag their tails, lick and bite at the mother's chops and try to take regurgitated food directly from her mouth.
nevertheless a mere daily contact, and handling  every other week were enough to lower the level of inhibition and anxiety in  this group of young adult dogs significantly.
here are a few examples: christy, a female puppy, was raised in complete isolation from other dogs  by the "colony" of students at the jackson laboratory.
pieters a.. socialization et syndrome d'isolement chez le chien  domestique, cahiers d'ethologie appliquée, 1983, 3 (1), 59-88.
i also participated in a study on the effects of a serotoninergic psychotropic drug on the behavior of beagles raised in a kennel.
biting in minor confrontations.
in  some breeds it occurs earlier, appearing from 2 months.
he was placed with other dogs also raised in isolation; the dogs lived alongside each other, without aggression but also without interaction (fisher, 1955 in scott and fuller, 1965).
weaning-detachment and (food) hierarchization a mother's care and attachment towards her puppies are strongest during the first 3 weeks of life, and after that progressively recede.
at 12 weeks socialization requires active manipulation (mimicking play-fights), at 14 weeks socialization seems to be impossible.
this occasionally leads  to an anxiety syndrome which i call "anticipated defense behavior"  (dehasse, 1990a).
fox also pointed out that competitive  aggressivity may not appear in wolves (males as well as females) until 4-5  years of age (maturity).
the fights become ritualized, a sign that stable hierarchical relations are being established.
these play-fights also lead to a certain hierarchization of relations (less than 25% among litter-mates at 5 weeks of age)
the concept of sensitive periods bateson (1981) has described the developing individual as a train with its  windows closed - at a certain point (maturing) the windows open and the  traveler is encouraged to study the information passing by outside.
(scott and fuller, 1965).
the waltham book of dog and cat  behavior, oxford: pergamon press, 1992, ch.4, 65-78.
our hypothesis is the following: an optimal period of intraspecific  socialization (identification) is followed by severalcrucial periods of hierarchization that occur in successive phases: food, territory,  socio-sexual atpuberty and maturity.
there follows avulnerable period of cognitive sensitization at pre-puberty or puberty during which minor trauma can occasionally entrench wariness or fear, (ill)adaptations, and cognitive and emotional distortions that are undesirable in a dog living among humans in a city environment.
risk factors differences in the quality and amount of stimuli a puppy receives in its  environment of development as compared to its adult surroundings determine the  degree ofrisk it may not be able to adapt its sensorial referential  (thymostat) and thus achieve emotional homeostasis (this includes development of phobias and anxieties).
for one's own species over a neighboring  species, and for this species over a more distant one (such as humans).
advantages the interactive presence of different types of humans between 3 and 12  ± 2 weeks facilitates a puppy's generalized socialization to humans.
risk factors if adolescent dogs do not undergo hierarchization-satellisation, they gain  hierarchy - access to the privileges of the dominant member.
de comp., 1986, 21, (4), pp.
at 9 weeks she was introduced to other dogs: the adults growled at her but showed no further signs of aggression and the puppies (litter-mates) began to play-fight and she responded.
since no interaction is possible with a mirror image, this seems to be a poor  substitute for suitable "imprinting".
risk factors if the puppy's owners fail to reproduce play-fighting postures and allow it to bite their hands, arms and legs, this can lead to: - the puppy's hierarchical dominance that can induce relational problems later on (competitive aggressivity, sociopathy).
le syndrome de privation chez les carnivores: genèse et symptômes, prat.
indeed, the process of organizing stimuli from the outside world, classifying them as known or unknown, agreeable, disagreeable or indifferent (their "significance", meaning, socialization) is similar to the process ofinterspecific socialization.
the adolescent is pushed from areas  occupied by the dominant members (high-placed positions, controlling passages,  preferential sleeping areas, etc.).
advantages the interactive presence of different types of humans between 3 and 12 ± 2 weeks facilitates a puppy's generalized socialization to humans.
this fearful reaction has been found in all breeds tested.
agonistic co-operation is directed towards outsiders who are investigated and attacked in a manner more "serious" than play-fighting.
to my knowledge, no statistical studies have been made on dogs raised in  isolation, covering a broad range of breeds (for ethical reasons?), which means  that crucial experimental data are lacking.
fear in the presence of a human that handled him decreased from 3 to 5 weeks, was minimal at 5 weeks, then increased again afterwards.
thecapacity to generalize varies from one species to another (dog and wolf, more than coyotes), breed  (watchdogs less than other dogs, according to fox, 1978), the family line and  individual (no statistical studies available).
puppies attempting to snitch food while the dominant members  are eating are snapped at, growled at and threatened with being bitten.
play-fighting and learning to control biting play-fighting, which begins at 3 weeks, can sometimes be painful when a puppy begins cutting teeth, especially when its ears are bitten.
eventually, this is merely one  element in the acquisition of self-regulation as regards particular stimuli  because they areinteractive.
they did not use the submissive posture (rolling over); the ritual was not acquired.
this attitude is extended towards other mother-young conflicts and adopted in the presence of other adults, as shown by the following personal observation.
furthermore, the studies we have cited have never been conducted on a  large number of animals.
at pre-puberty, however, dogs emit pheromones that activate demonstrations of authority by the group's dominant dogs.
the intensity and frequency of this vocalization normally diminish, to be  replaced by intraspecific communication such as postures and rituals.
advantages a puppy's malleability enables it to rapidly adapt to almost all human environments without undo stress.
this has been demonstrated in rodents: certain strains of mice (dbj/2j) have  shown an innate hypersensitivity to certain sound frequencies which give them  convulsions (dantzer, 1988).
it is possible that this phase is similar to the self-regulation phase,  both in its duration and characteristics, since it engenders a food or feeding  preference that is persistent but changeable over time.
this barking disappears spontaneously after a few days as it  becomes familiar with its new home (with reassuring significance), unless its  behavior receives positive reinforcement from its new masters (who come to pet,  calm or scold the distressed puppy, or take it into their room, all signs of  attention - thus positive reinforcement).
this occasionally leads to an anxiety syndrome which i call "anticipated defense behavior" (dehasse, 1990a).
our hypothesis is the following: an optimal period of intraspecific socialization (identification) is followed by severalcrucial periods of hierarchization that occur in successive phases: food, territory, socio-sexual atpuberty and maturity.
the puppy learns to make an empathetic link between the opponent's  squeal and the pain invoked.
this reflects cyrulnik's (1991) remarks that the brain becomes atrophied when [an animal] is raised in sensorial isolation, and it develops more than average in an environment of hyperstimulation in noise, affectivity, odors, tastes, sight, etc.... - neurobiological studies have showed that prolonged precocious isolation was responsible for long-lasting structural or functional cerebral modifications .
we should also mention that the first signs of humping (pre-imitation of  future sexual behavior) appear as early as 3 to 4 weeks (scott and fuller,  1965).
and lastly, failure to develop a dog's general motor control encourages hyperkinetic forms of behavior.
for caston, sensorial and social deprivation has impeached the maturation of the brain: it can not exert an inhibitory influence on the mesencephalic reticular formation (mrf) anymore; mrf is becoming hyperactive, and produces unfocalised and unadaptative behaviors.
this phenotypical effect is transmitted non-genetically for several generations (denenberg and rosenberg, in fox 1978).
twelve thousand years of domestication, however, has shown that this is  possible.
risk factors if the puppy's owners fail to reproduce play-fighting postures and  allow it to bite their hands, arms and legs, this can lead to: the puppy's hierarchical dominance that can induce relational problems  later on (competitive aggressivity, sociopathy).
he also accustomed wolf cubs to humans, then isolated them: in this case there wasde-socialization (instability of precocious socialization).young animals need continuous reinforcement.
it is thus normal to see the appearance of wariness  towards strangers (or the unknown) or a loss of certain social experience and  sensorial references between 4 months (as in foxes) and 2 years (as in wolves).
we shall also point out the risk factors that can undermine the harmonious interaction between humans and their dogs.
it is worth  mentioning that the brain is totally unmyelinated at birth, except for the  trigeminal nerve and the non-acoustic part of the auditory nerve which  correspond to the new-born's orientation reflexes (herman 1958, in scott &  fuller 1965).
bibliography bateson b. ontogénie, in mcfarland d., 654-674, 1981 & 1990.
the threshold of socialization (number of interactions) is variable  and depends on factors that are internal (breed, individual) or external  (mother's fearful behavior, quality of the surroundings, etc.).
it is my hypothesis that an optimal period of  attraction-habituation (acquiring sensorial and emotion homeostasic  referentials) closes with an emotional and behavioral phase of aversion-fear of  the unknown (5-14 weeks).
a puppy raised in a deprived environment may be tempted to compensate  for this lack of sensorial stimulation byself-stimulation: this is how  certain stereotyped behavior develops, as well as self-centered behavior (fox,  1975), such as self-induced dermatoses.
although  the behavioral signs are precocious, thesubjective element evolves  gradually over a year (at least).
the  redundancy is temporary.
by dr. joël dehasse, behaviorist veterinarian www.joeldehasse.com version 1.1 - 6 feb.97 dr. joël dehasse 3 ave du cosmonaute 1150 brussels - belgium
failure to control the intensity of biting and risk of serious (wounding)
it is worth mentioning that the brain is totally unmyelinated at birth, except for the trigeminal nerve and the non-acoustic part of the auditory nerve which correspond to the new-born's orientation reflexes (herman 1958, in scott & fuller 1965).
the new-born puppy is a completely dependent being, and apparently hardly influenceable psychologically in classical conditioning tests.
but they must first be aware of the problem and know where to go for advice.
we can postulate an intra-uterine and post-natal food acculturation.
this attraction subsidesin an almost linear manner after the fifth weekuntil at least 9 weeks.
the duration of this sensitive period had to be verified by delving into the literature on experiments in this realm and clinical review.
thisdelay can foster sociopathy and certainly does not facilitate obedience.
a dog's epigenesis engenders multiple temperaments that can be partially foreseen by controlling its environmental stimuli.
dogs that are family pets must be given more thorough training in controlling the intensity of their bite.
pageat (1984) demonstrated the existence of a triple surge of social aggressivity in dogs (male spaniels): - the first peaks around 4-5 months with the dog returning to normal around 6-6½ months, when it begins obedience lessons (the owners assert their dominance); - the second surge coincides with the production of sexual steroids (±5 months); - the third corresponds to a "second attempt to obtain reproduction rights" and only occurs in dogs who are allowed to live in the house.
one factor favorable to emotional and relational well-balance of a dog that must live with humans in a city context is enrichment in the breeding environment.
cyrulnik b. sous le signe du lien, paris: hachette, 1989.
the attraction recedes under the  influence offear of the unknown behavior which grows after 5 weeks;  the puppy "recovers" from its initial fearful reaction  instantaneously from 3 to 5 weeks (investigation behavior effect), and then it  remains wary for longer periods as it grows older.
- development thus seems to come about in stages; although these stages are possibly nothing more than a "simplified classification system where the classifier traces a straight line through a continuum" (bateson, 1981).
interspecies socialization (attachment) does not have the same characteristics as species identification: - it is easily acquired but requires permanent reinforcement to avoid de-socialization; - it is not generalized (generalisable) to all individuals of the species concerned, but remains relatively limited to the individual's characteristics.
the mother does not compete with her young (7 weeks of age) and allows  them full access to the food (even if it is a bone) (scott and fuller, 1965).
in clinical practice we continually observe cases of  conflicts (competitive aggression) at puberty, and later in adulthood.
this referential determines the stimulation level at which the individual must begin to adjust by activating the appropriate emotion (fear, wariness, etc.) and adopting the most appropriate adaptive behavior (investigation, avoidance, flight, aggression, inhibition, etc.).
the cognitive process it  entails leads to a dog'santicipating harmful situations that exist only  in its mind (in a way, fear of being attacked) and thus behavioral strategies  (defense mechanisms: flight, aggression, inhibition).
put in the presence of a bitch in oestrus, they show a state of increased excitement but they direct it towards stereotyped habitual behaviors and not towards the stimuli coming from the bitch.
the motor cortex is the more developed at birth.
when put on the  defensive a cocker's bite is "softer" than that of other breeds  tested (basenji, terrier, beagle, sheltie).
the emotional self-regulation (homeostasis) phase homeostasis is the ability of an organism to maintain an equilibrium in a variable environment.
the prenatal period pregnant rats that have been placed under stress or injected with acth or adrenaline give birth to young rats that are emotive and perform less well than a control group.
fox m.w.canine behavior, springfield, ill.:
they are tested at 10 months old.
risk factors interspecific communication with humans, also a vocal and verbal animal, reinforces the vocal element (learning by imitation), which then becomes preponderant, even disruptive.
fox m.w. socialization  patterns in wild and domesticated canids (ch.8), stages and periods in  development: environmental influences and domestication (ch.9), in the  dog; its domestication and behavior, new york & london: garland stpm  press, 1978, p. 141-152, 153-176.
nevertheless, a dog's ethogenesis evolves in (at least) three overlapping  phases, each related to a particular system: theneuro-vegetative (neuro-glandular) - 1 to 7 weeks, theemotional (limbic) system - 3  ± ½ to 12 ± 5 weeks, and thecognitive system  (cortex) - 5 ± 1 to 18 ± 10 months).
chez les carnivores domestiques , diss., lyon, 1984.
her sister acquired the same tendency in a completely different environment (netherlands), as did her brother (in switzerland).
and we could even stretch the analogy somewhat:  the organism has a thermostat for heat regulation, and a 'ponderostat' to  maintain an ideal weight (vincent, 1986).
it is best to begin group courses around 3 months of age, so  that the dogs can become familiar with each other and hierarchies before  puberty.
pieters a.. socialization et syndrome d'isolement chez le chien domestique, cahiers d'ethologie appliquée, 1983, 3 (1), 59-88.
the more "aggressive" the litter (line, breed), the greater the tendency for linear hierarchization.
risk factors sensitization (and the often indissociable generalization) is the process  that engenders wariness, fear, phobia and anxiety.
l'examen  comportemental du chiot, prat.
the beagles  were chosen for their anxious-inhibited (depressive) behavior.
this implies a structured and caring parental environment (caring for the young), reflexes that orient the young puppy to its parents, and the existence of optimal, even crucial, periods in the development of the animal's nervous system.
collias n.e. (1956).the analysis of socialization in sheep and goats, ecology, 37: 228-38 (in scott, fuller, 1965).
the characteristics of this learning phase are the same as  those of interspecific socialization (facilitated but requiring reinforcement,  low level of generalization, etc.).
hierarchization for food privileges thus occurs around 16 weeks.
when a pair of puppies not competing for maternal attention are given a bone there is aggressive competition ending with a winner and a looser.
the young dog develops an interest for the opposite sex and for areas occupied by the dominant members, who react by pushing the adolescent to the fringe of the group.
it reproduces the same characteristics as the second phase, only this time with all the weapons, strength and passions of a mature adult.
the wild canines all remained attached to the  trainer, at least until they reached maturity, and then became less tolerant to  contact with or proximity to the trainer all the while welcoming him with  appeasement postures (whereas in the beginning he was welcomed with active  postures: jumping, licking, nudging).
mon chien est d'une  humeur de chien, brussels: editions vander, 1989, 2d edition 1991.
scott (1958, 1962) (in scott and fuller: 1965, and fox: 1965) speaks of several stages of neurological, reflexive and behavioral development that are particularlydidactic: neonatal (0-14 days), transitional (14-21 days, starting when the eyes open and ending when the animal starts on hearing a noise), socialization (21-70 days) and juvenile (70 days and older).
voith v.l. attachment of people to companion animals, symposium on the human-companion animals bond, the vet.
an overall  inhibition index was established (4 tests each rated from 1 to 6, for a total  ranging from 4 to 24 points, with 24 being the value for a normal dog).
the socialization-domestication phase a puppy is not programmed to interact socially with another species.
cyrulnik b. la naissance du sens, paris: hachette, 1991.
this enables us to proposetwo hypotheses: the hypothesis of inherited temperament and that of the phase of pre-puberty sensitization.
in a now classic experiment (by weisel and hubel from 1963, in changeux 1983) with monkeys, noticeable visual defects were caused when one eye was sewn shut during the first six weeks of life; the problems were reversible if the eye was re-opened after three weeks' time.
dog owners must find adequate counseling to prevent multiple  relational (systemic) and behavioral dysfunctions in their dogs.
puppies manipulated this way show a greater tolerance to touching than dogs born of a mother who was not petted.
the second phase of hierarchization, puberty, is sexual,  social and zonal-spatial.
an  aggression-inhibition relationship - a dominant-submissive hierarchization - is  then established between the mother and puppy for access to the mother's teats.
bvce 1 (1) 13-19, 1993.
- the growth of the nervous system underlies behavioral epigenesis.
de comp., 1990,  vol.25, n°4, pp 445-451.
he/she thus theoretically has  several occasions to assess the puppies' early emotional and behavioral  development and can recommend preventive measures and training techniques.
cyrulnik b. mémoire de singe et paroles d'homme,paris: hachette, 1983, pluriel, 1984.
the results mentioned are thus qualitative and speculative, as are the dates and periods.
but they must  first be aware of the problem and know where to go for advice.
the process is complex: sexual pheromones are awakened at puberty, activating "desire" (vincent, 1986), the dog exhibits courting behavior and is rejected outright by the dominant member of the same sex, the only one of the group with the right to exhibit his/her sexuality openly.
dogs have a cynomorphic approach to the human-dog relationship,  seeing it first as one between puppy-adult dog, then as an interaction between  pack-mates (pre-adult-adult).
hierarchization between litter-mates varies with age and  breed (scott and fuller, 1965): 25% at 5 weeks, 75% at 15 weeks in terriers, 75% at 1 year in basenjis and shelties, 50% maximum in cockers and beagles.
the trainer must not only inculcate the bases for instrumental  learning, he/she must also take advantage of having a group of dogs to continue  their socialization and avoid de-socialization, both towards other dogs and  towards humans.
i was one of the people who helped spread this concept in french-speaking countries (dehasse and de buyser: 1983, 1989, 1991) by emphasizing on several occasions that the sensitive period in the behavioral epigenesis in puppies extended from3 weeks to 3 months of age.
dehasse j., de buyser colette.
in other words, fear of the unknown has both an emotional and behavioral phase (starting around 5 weeks) and acognitive phase (near puberty).
thecapacity to generalize varies from one species to another (dog and wolf, more than coyotes), breed (watchdogs less than other dogs, according to fox, 1978), the family line and individual (no statistical studies available).
nott helen m.r. behavioral  development of the dog, in thorne ed.:
5),the development of social relationship (ch. 6), in dog behavior: the genetic basis, chicago: the university of chicago press, 1965, phoenix edition 1974., 84-182.
in a husky breeding station the presence of the mother beyond the  5th week led to her puppies' spontaneous submission to the adults of the pack.
fox also pointed out that competitive aggressivity may not appear in wolves (males as well as females) until 4-5 years of age (maturity).
the occipital cortex, however, then grows more rapidly than the motor and frontal lobes; it also contains several immature neuroblasts that reach full development only around 3 weeks of age (fox, 1965).
risk factors feeding a puppy solely on standardized food, invariable in taste and  appearance (dry or moist) can lead to long-term preferences and rejection of  other types of food (this has been clinically proven in cats).
at 9 weeks, 3 days; at 14 weeks it no longer investigated the observer.
according to charles and fuller (1956) (in scott and fuller: 1965) the alpha  rhythm that appears at 21 days signals an activation of the sense of sight.
the total absence of other dogs (own species) between 3 and 12±5 weeks fosters identification with another species that is closest (in general humans, but occasionally cats, rabbits, etc.) or an appropriate substitute (stuffed animal, vacuum cleaner bag, etc.).
similar experiments on cats show there is a sensitive period for visual development between 3 and 7 weeks of age, and incapacity to recover vision after three months (weisel and hubel, in vastrade, 1987).
this conclusion can most  likely also be applied to dogs.
puppies attempting to snitch food while the dominant members are eating are snapped at, growled at and threatened with being bitten.
in adults this leads to: - courting behavior and attempts to copulate with the identification species (despite activation by pheromones of one's own species), no behavior of this type or else awkward attempts with a sexual partner of the same species, - social preference for the identification species, - rejection (flight or fight) of one's own species (including mirror images).
if the dominant  members fail to react, aggressivity is reinforced and the young dog rises in  hierarchy.
freedman d., king j.a., elliot o. critical period in the social development of dogs, science, 1961, 133:  1016-7 (in fox, 1965).
markwell p.j.,  thorne c.j.early behavioral development of dogs, the journal of small  animal practice, 1987, vol.58, 984-991.
there is a correlation in canines between wariness and the arrival of puberty (10 months in the coyote, 2 years in the wolf), except in foxes (wariness largely precedes puberty) and dogs (wariness follows puberty which appears around 6 months).
it is possible, however, that the future holds surprising discoveries about the epigenetic importance of this neonatal period, especially as concerns the "manipulation" effect on neuro-hormonal development.
on the other hand, puppies raised in a family from 4 weeks of age  (becoming used to dogs, cats and/or children), without renewed contact with the  laboratory dogs, show greater familiarity with people than with dogs.
in adults this leads to: courting behavior and attempts to copulate with the identification species  (despite activation by pheromones of one's own species), no behavior of this  type or else awkward attempts with a sexual partner of the same species, social preference for the identification species, rejection (flight or fight) of one's own species (including mirror images).
behavioural epigenesis is influenced by environmental factors, by the  surroundings.
indeed, the process of organizing stimuli from the outside world,  classifying them as known or unknown, agreeable, disagreeable or indifferent  (their "significance", meaning, socialization) is similar to the  process ofinterspecific socialization.
a dog's tactile capacities develop before birth, and it is possible that it already becomes used to contact in the uterus, when the mother is petted.
this type of conditioning  is also well-known in humans: preferences or aversions for certain odors or  tastes are already determined before birth (preference-aversion experiments  with a rubber teat dipped in garlic sauce) (cyrulnik, 1989).
this neuronal hecatomb is part of the  normal development. ...
in conclusion: behavioral patterns develop over successive phases,  according to internal and external factors that interact in a complex and  continuous manner.
it is best to begin group courses around 3 months of age, so that the dogs can become familiar with each other and hierarchies before puberty.
the relative absence of other dogs between 3 and 12±5 weeks leads to relative, total or no handicaps depending on circumstances: - possible recovery of the dog's species identity at 9 weeks when it plays with other puppies, - attachment to the identification species and disinterest or aggression towards canines, despite the (almost) normal capacity to reproduce, the imprinting effects of a mirror placed in the surroundings of a puppy isolated from other puppies have not been studied (to my knowledge).
w biting is thus stopped, inhibited and controlled.
- dogs have a cynomorphic approach to the human-dog relationship, seeing it first as one between puppy-adult dog, then as an interaction between pack-mates (pre-adult-adult).
the immaturity of the nervous system at birth is obvious: cragg  (1975) calculated that in cats the number of synapses per cortical neuron grows  from a few hundred to nearly 12,000 in the 10th to 35th day after birth (in  changeux, 1983).
in conclusion: behavioral patterns develop over successive phases, according to internal and external factors that interact in a complex and continuous manner.
similar experiments on cats show there is a sensitive  period for visual development between 3 and 7 weeks of age, and incapacity to  recover vision after three months (weisel and hubel, in vastrade, 1987).
the precocious learning-conditioning phase this is another variant of the phase sensitive to emotional development that occurs between 3 ± ½ and 12 ± 2 weeks.
this phase is generally accompanied by territorial defense behavior.
the dog's particular nature - a puppy has to learn to identify its  own species - can serve to foster socialization with other species (called  domestication when it involves interaction with humans).
this ability is an opportunity, but also a cause for risk.
the sheltie, on the other hand, develops a strong hierarchy in defending the nest (spatial-territorial) and submissive members (females) are pushed inside the nest.
this  interaction must last until at least, if not beyond, the 6th week.
as the effects of the psychotropic drug were not significantly demonstrated compared to that of a placebo, the evolution towards 'normal' behavior could be imputed to the effects of the experiment itself, since the dogs were tested every other week (5 minutes maximum per dog) and given medicine twice a day.
a stressful environment (feral dog)  will close this phase ahead of time (probably around 7 to 9 weeks).
experiments by  cyrulnik with cats have shown that attachment depends on the cholinergic  system; anti-cholinergics block the attachment process.
these risks are avoided when dog owners behave in a way that can be  assimilated to the parent-dog relationship.
all puppies that are correctly socialized will "leap" towards humans who enter their area (bed, cage,...).
* stimulus-poor primates show a greater degree of attachment to their mother  (pathological hyper-attachment), which led bobbitt (1968, in fox 1975) to  propose thatdetachment from the mother is a continual process linked to a  young being's attachment to the environment.
it is up to the veterinarian to inform them!
for caston,  sensorial and social deprivation has impeached the maturation of the brain: it  can not exert an inhibitory influence on the mesencephalic reticular formation  (mrf) anymore; mrf is becoming hyperactive, and produces unfocalised and  unadaptative behaviors.
the number of brain  cells and their myelination reaches full adult maturity at 4 weeks.
"recovery" (improvement  or disappearance of fear) after a week of interaction-socialization was more  efficient at 3 weeks; it was roughly the same at 5, 7 and 9 weeks (freedman,  king, elliott, 1961, in scott and fuller, 1965).
the referentials that come into play are level of noise, visual agitation,  intensity of olfactory stimulation, number of vibrations, occupation of  three-dimensional space, flexibility or rigidity of movements, etc.
- dog owners must find adequate counseling to prevent multiple relational (systemic) and behavioral dysfunctions in their dogs.
risk factors differences in the quality and amount of stimuli a puppy receives in its environment of development as compared to its adult surroundings determine the degree ofrisk it may not be able to adapt its sensorial referential (thymostat) and thus achieve emotional homeostasis (this includes development of phobias and anxieties).
trans:dictionnaire du  comportement animal, paris: robert laffont, 1990).
it is fox's opinion that domestication led to a dissociation between gonadal maturing (precocity) and maturing of the central nervous system (late).
is there a  sensitive phase during which it would be easier to establish emotional  homeostasis, enabling the individual to develop frames of reference ( referential, thymostat) and long-term habituation?
in rats, once again, manipulation (contact, exposure to cold, etc.) at a  young age or before birth (manipulation of the pregnant mother) gives greater  resistance to stress (cold, hunger) and disease (implanted tumors).
puppies manipulated this way show a greater tolerance to touching than dogs  born of a mother who was not petted.
les périodes sensibles de développement, cahiers d'ethologie appliquée, 1984, 4 (1), 121-142.
this has been demonstrated in rodents: certain strains of mice (dbj/2j) have shown an innate hypersensitivity to certain sound frequencies which give them convulsions (dantzer, 1988).
eventually, this is merely one element in the acquisition of self-regulation as regards particular stimuli because they areinteractive.
the same holds for dogs: when a normally socialized puppy is isolated from  humans and placed in a kennel from 3-4 months of age to 6-8 months he becomes  fearful in the presence of humans, even the trainer.
although the behavioral signs are precocious, thesubjective element evolves gradually over a year (at least).
all puppies that are correctly socialized will "leap" towards  humans who enter their area (bed, cage,...).
a sensitive period is a point in the maturing process when events are susceptible to leaving long-term effects, or a period when learning is easier and knowledge gained is stored in the long-term memory.
the dog's relation  with its master thus becomes ambivalent, withconflicting messages:  demands (dominance) - tolerance (submission).
according to fuller (1961), puppies raised in isolation in a laboratory  develop adequate socialization to humans if they receive two 20-minute periods  of human contact per week.
a puppy - raised in the same type of surroundings - was placed 10 minutes a day with a passive observer, calmly sitting in the room and paying no attention to the dog (scott and fuller, 1965): - at 3 to 5 weeks, the puppy investigated the observer openly; - at 7 weeks, it took 2 days before it investigated (2 10-minute sessions) - at 9 weeks, 3 days; - at 14 weeks it no longer investigated the observer.
the same experiment on adult monkeys showed  no effect on vision.
the human tends to fear for the puppy's health and thus pays particular attention to its appetite, watching it while it eats, indulging it when it  begs, worrying about finicky appetites or loss of appetite, varying food, and  hand-feeding, which become invested with the social symbol of dominance.
ducklings become attached to their mother between the 13th and 16th hour of life (hess 1959, in cyrulnik 1989), it takes 5 minutes of contact during the first hour after birth for a she-goat to become attached to the odor of her kid (bateson, 1981), and a ewe needs contact within 4 hours after the birth of her lamb.
the young dog develops an interest for the  opposite sex and for areas occupied by the dominant members, who react by  pushing the adolescent to the fringe of the group.
this type of conditioning is also well-known in humans: preferences or aversions for certain odors or tastes are already determined before birth (preference-aversion experiments with a rubber teat dipped in garlic sauce) (cyrulnik, 1989).
- human skin is more fragile than a dogs.
just as we have thermo-regulation (thermal homeostasis), we can also speak of emotional and relational homeostasis (vincent, 1986).
isolation leads to a diminution of the dendritic network in the monkey  frontal cortex; it also induces a reversible diminution of the activity of the  mesocorticofrontal dopaminergic pathways (with hyperreactivity to stress),  associated with a slight increase of the activity of the mesolimbic and  nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathways (verdoux and bourgeois: 1991).
furthermore, the studies we have cited have never been conducted on a large number of animals.
the lack of comprehensible  appeasement rituals favors attitudes of competitive aggression (sociopathy) or  substituting behavior (sometimes self-directed).
the media can also play a role in educating potential dog owners to  adapt their relational needs to the dog's ecological and social reality, rather  than their own personal wishes.
psycho-physiologie (tome i), ellipses, paris, 1993 changeux j.-p. l'homme neuronal, paris: fayard, 1983.
this effect, called the  "gentling", "petting" or "caress" effect, can be  prolonged by caresses to the new-born.
learning to control the intensity of its bite is actually part of a  puppy's growing generalcontrol of its movements, enabling it to  adopt postures and facial mimics which become the prevalent form of  communication in animals having highly developed brains.
this is why this phase is social, spatial and sexual.
hierarchization for food privileges thus occurs  around 16 weeks.
put in the presence of a bitch in oestrus, they show a state of  increased excitement but they direct it towards stereotyped habitual behaviors  and not towards the stimuli coming from the bitch.
superficial, limited observation of the new-born puppy could lead one to  believe it did not even belong to the canine species: awkward, dragging itself  around, oriented to contact, the mother's teats and the smell of milk, yapping  in distress when isolated, cold, hungry or in pain, and having only a limited  capacity to keep itself warm and to learn.
to my knowledge, no statistical studies have been made on dogs raised in isolation, covering a broad range of breeds (for ethical reasons?), which means that crucial experimental data are lacking.
trans:dictionnaire du comportement animal, paris: robert laffont, 1990).
thisdelay can foster sociopathy and  certainly does not facilitate obedience.
feeding food conditioning studies have been conducted on cats that became vegetarian or imitated their mother who ate bananas.
advantages this ease of conditioning can be put to an advantage in teaching dogs to  eliminate in gutters and other sewer outlets.
this adaptation is possible only through habituation (disappearance of reactions) to certain stimuli.
risk factors clinical observation shows that when some puppies are limited to one spot and medium until the age of 15 weeks (puppies kept in the house and elimination on newspapers, for example) it becomes almost impossible for them to learn to use other media and locations (conditioning) and they retain themselves for hours when walking outside until they can eliminate on their preferred medium and spot.
behavioural epigenesis (ethogenesis) is linked to the way neuronal  connections areorganised (theory of selective stabilization ).
the precocious learning-conditioning phase this is another variant of the phase sensitive to emotional development  that occurs between 3 ± ½ and 12 ± 2 weeks.
the master then obeys by petting it.
clinical observation has also confirmed  that it is easier to transfer from an environment with a high level of  stimulation (city) to an environment with a low level (rural) than the  contrary.
according to  klosovskii (1963), puppies and kittens that undergo periods of forced rotation  for several days have vestibular neurons that are larger than those of animals  that have not received this stimulus (in fox: 1965).
interspecies socialization (attachment) does not have the same characteristics as species identification: it is easily acquired but requires permanent reinforcement to avoid de-socialization; it is not generalized (generalisable) to all individuals of the species concerned, but remains relatively limited to the individual's  characteristics.
in a semi-open milieu, the dog tends to flee (and is  impossible to catch after the age of 4 months) (scott and fuller, 1965).
woolpy (1968, in fox, 1975) accustomed adult wild wolves to contact with  humans in 6 months' time; he then isolated them somewhat from humans: in this  case they retained their socialization experience.
note that canines are perfectly capable of distinguishing the sex of humans, even when they are dressed alike; this is probably through their sense of smell.
this begins about the  third (3±½) week and ends somewhere between 11 and 17 weeks  (12±5), when the dogs loose their ability to play with unfamiliar dogs  and become "serious" in defending their group.
since these stages are still used in the literature, they are worth mentioning.
in a one-on-one or one-on-two fight the bitten puppy is able to turn the tide of the 'battle' and bite its adversary(ies).
dehasse j.le comportement de défense anticipé pathologique et  la paranoïa, prat.
the results mentioned are thus qualitative and  speculative, as are the dates and periods.
the presence  of other species during this period does not hamper identification with one's  own species.
this notion of learning in phases has various names: sensitive period, critical moment, optimal period, vulnerable point, crucial stage, susceptible period, and so on.
it is my hypothesis that an optimal period of attraction-habituation (acquiring sensorial and emotion homeostasic referentials) closes with an emotional and behavioral phase of aversion-fear of the unknown (5-14 weeks).
pageat (1984) demonstrated the existence of a triple surge of social  aggressivity in dogs (male spaniels): the first peaks around 4-5 months with the dog returning to normal around  6-6½ months, when it begins obedience lessons (the owners assert their  dominance); the second surge coincides with the production of sexual steroids  (±5 months); the third corresponds to a "second attempt to obtain reproduction  rights" and only occurs in dogs who are allowed to live in the house.
male dogs are raised in normally lightened cages for the 10 first months of their life, but without any contact with the outside world (restricted sensorial situation).
the intensity of the bite is (congenitally) variable depending on the  individual, line and breed, and can be modified considerably by training.
puberty and hierarchization dogs are social animals that need company, living in a hierarchical pack (or family-pack).
in conclusion, puppies demonstrate an investigation-attraction  behavior towards the unfamiliar as soon as they are able to express this  attraction (almost adult motor capacity), in other words at3±½  weeks.
vocalization is used to ward off strangers ('territorial' defense) from the age of 11-15 weeks (see below).
the relative absence of human contact leads to relative handicaps, such as fear/wariness/phobia towards a type of human (children, men,...).
this implies a structured and caring parental environment (caring for the  young), reflexes that orient the young puppy to its parents, and the existence  of optimal, even crucial, periods in the development of the animal's nervous  system.
charles c. thomas publ., 1965 fox m.w..integrative development of the brain and behavior in the dog, chicago: university of chicago press, 1971.
at 9 weeks she  was introduced to other dogs: the adults growled at her but showed no further  signs of aggression and the puppies (litter-mates) began to play-fight and she  responded.
from 3 weeks on, the elimination reflex disappears and the puppy tends to leave  its bedding to eliminate.
"recovery" (improvement or disappearance of fear) after a week of interaction-socialization was more efficient at 3 weeks; it was roughly the same at 5, 7 and 9 weeks (freedman, king, elliott, 1961, in scott and fuller, 1965).
barking from distress when left alone in an unknown place increases from 3 to6-8 weeks (maximum) then decreases until 12 weeks.
without this contact the mother will reject her young in the last two cases (collias, 1956, in scott and fuller, 1965).
the intensity of the bite is (congenitally) variable depending on the individual, line and breed, and can be modified considerably by training.
this free access ends as the puppy becomes autonomous and takes its place in the adult hierarchy (pageat).
the attraction recedes under the influence offear of the unknown behavior which grows after 5 weeks; the puppy "recovers" from its initial fearful reaction instantaneously from 3 to 5 weeks (investigation behavior effect), and then it remains wary for longer periods as it grows older.
at the mother's arrival the puppies assemble in the attempt to  nurse and wait for their mother to regurgitate pre-digested food: they wag  their tails, lick and bite at the mother's chops and try to take regurgitated  food directly from her mouth.
the oxford companion to animal behavior , oxford university press, 1981, 1985, 1987.
the boldest ones are generally the most dominant; they push back their submissive pack-mates, barring access.
in conclusion, puppies demonstrate an investigation-attraction behavior towards the unfamiliar as soon as they are able to express this attraction (almost adult motor capacity), in other words at3±½ weeks.
when a puppy is acquired at 7 weeks and left alone at night it will bark in distress.
markwell p.j., thorne c.j.early behavioral development of dogs, the journal of small animal practice, 1987, vol.58, 984-991.
de comp., 1990, vol.25, n°4, pp 445-451.
de comp.,  1986, 21, (4), pp.
risk factors there can be several risks involved in acquiring a puppy as a pet:
this problem can  be avoided by giving the puppy a variety of food.
he was placed with other dogs also  raised in isolation; the dogs lived alongside each other, without aggression  but also without interaction (fisher, 1955 in scott and fuller, 1965).
it is the breeder's role is to ensure temperamental selection and  to enrich the development environment (under veterinary guidance).
the interactive presence of other animals leads to interspecific  socialization and attachment, and it counters predatory behavior.
with mixed imprinting, there is a preference (innate predisposition?)
interspecific socialization counters predatory behavior towards the type of attachment individual.
the development of the neuronal networks is a characteristic process: "the phase of synaptic redundancy followed by a phase of regression in the axonal and dendritic branches is a critical period of development...
w reciprocal biting negatively reinforces its intensity.
cyrulnik b. la  naissance du sens, paris: hachette, 1991.
pieters a..socialization et syndrome d'isolement chez le chien domestique,  ii.
since puppies do not have such short periods of facilitated learning, we will use the term sensitive period.
le syndrome de  privation chez les carnivores: genèse et symptômes, prat.
we shall also point out the risk factors that  can undermine the harmonious interaction between humans and their dogs.
in 4 days time her behavior was indistinguishable from that of the  other puppies (scott and fuller, 1965).
here are a few examples: a dog's typical reaction to an unfamiliar situation is fear: starting,  fleeing or inhibition.
our knowledge is partially  extrapolated from ethology studies in birds.
each puppy was taken from the surrounding in which it was raised,  placed in contact with humans for one week, and again tested.
* stimulus-poor primates show a greater degree of attachment to their mother (pathological hyper-attachment), which led bobbitt (1968, in fox 1975) to propose thatdetachment from the mother is a continual process linked to a young being's attachment to the environment.
depending  on the information presented (learning), he/she either continues (motivation)  or stops (habituation, impregnation, or self-limitation) looking out the open  window.
lastly, stimulus-poor puppies run the risk of developing hyper-attachments to their biological or adoptive parents (transposition of hyper-attachment to its new human masters), which is a source of intolerance to isolation, attention-seeking behavior, reutilization of behavior acquired during illnesses, etc.
the concept of sensitive period the prenatal period the neonatal period the identification phase the socialization-domestication phase the emotional self-regulation (homeostasis) phase the precocious learning-conditioning phase weaning-detachment and hierarchization the cognitive sensitization-rationalization in pre-puberty puberty and hierarchization discussion and conclusions bibliography introduction in our western culture, the relation between humans and dogs is played out in a historical and socio-economic context that fosters the emergence of behavioral dysfunctions in animals (the discrepancy between the imagined dog and reality).many behavioral problems in dogs arise from a failure to recognize social and environmental constraints during their growth.
fox m.w. socialization patterns in wild and domesticated canids (ch.8), stages and periods in development: environmental influences and domestication (ch.9), in the dog; its domestication and behavior, new york & london: garland stpm press, 1978, p. 141-152, 153-176.
scott j.p., fuller j.l. (1965):the development of behavior (ch.4), the critical period (ch.
bibliography bateson b. ontogénie, in mcfarland d., 654-674, 1981 &  1990.
the media can also play a role in educating potential dog owners to adapt their relational needs to the dog's ecological and social reality, rather than their own personal wishes.
male dogs are raised in normally lightened cages for the 10 first months  of their life, but without any contact with the outside world (restricted  sensorial situation).
this type of learning presents several characteristics: it is stable, rigid and persistent (sometimes for life); it is easily acquired; sexual imprinting occurs on supra-individual and supra-breed  characteristics, which permits species generalization; filial imprinting (attachment) seems to be more discriminating and is  limited to parents; fraternal imprinting is the basis of sociability; attachment is an interactive process.
this breed has been shown to "respect" (accept) the female's priority to food.
furthermore the lack of rituals lead to their malfunction, and even changes in their significance: if a dog in a submissive posture is petted (positive reinforcement) it will adopt this posture more often in the search for attention.
a puppy - raised in the same type of surroundings - was placed 10 minutes  a day with a passive observer, calmly sitting in the room and paying no  attention to the dog (scott and fuller, 1965): at 3 to 5 weeks, the puppy investigated the observer openly; at 7 weeks, it took 2 days before it investigated (2 10-minute sessions)
the process is complex:  sexual pheromones are awakened at puberty, activating "desire"  (vincent, 1986), the dog exhibits courting behavior and is rejected outright by  the dominant member of the same sex, the only one of the group with the right  to exhibit his/her sexuality openly.
l'education du chien - de 0 à 6 mois, montreal:
risk factors if adolescent dogs do not undergo hierarchization-satellisation, they gain hierarchy - access to the privileges of the dominant member.
nothing, however, enables us to affirm or deny that rapid habituation to  close stimuli cannot be achieved after 12 weeks.
the puppy learns to make an empathetic link between the opponent's squeal and the pain invoked.
and we could even stretch the analogy somewhat: the organism has a thermostat for heat regulation, and a 'ponderostat' to maintain an ideal weight (vincent, 1986).
- behavioural epigenesis is influenced by environmental factors, by the surroundings.
the sheltie, on the other hand, develops a strong  hierarchy in defending the nest (spatial-territorial) and submissive members  (females) are pushed inside the nest.
food hierarchization varies by race and age.
an aggression-inhibition relationship - a dominant-submissive hierarchization - is then established between the mother and puppy for access to the mother's teats.
this  breed has been shown to "respect" (accept) the female's priority to  food.
the sensitive period is preceded and followed by periods of lower sensitivity, and the transition is gradual.
the presence of the mother is thus favorable, even necessary, for the  development of appeasement-submission rituals and for the puppy's  hierarchization in the adult pack.
these  conflicts revolve around access to the opposite sex (intra- or interspecific),  but they can also arise over occupation of certain areas of the group's common  space (in the house in cases of conflicts with the dog's owners, and rarely  outdoors), in particular feeding and sleeping areas.
in this  article we shall briefly trace these phases of a dog's social and behavioral  ontogeny and epigenesis.
risk factors feeding a puppy solely on standardized food, invariable in taste and appearance (dry or moist) can lead to long-term preferences and rejection of other types of food (this has been clinically proven in cats).
the lack of comprehensible appeasement rituals favors attitudes of competitive aggression (sociopathy) or substituting behavior (sometimes self-directed).
this enables us to proposetwo  hypotheses: the hypothesis of inherited temperament and that of the phase of pre-puberty sensitization.
in birds fear of the unknown is delayed when they are raised in isolation; this phenomenon thus appears to depend on experience rather than maturing of the nervous system (mcfarland, 1981) - one must first be able to refer to something "known" before fearing the unknown.
likewise for emotional and relational  homeostasis we could also envisage the existence of a "sensoriostat ", "thymostat" or "sociostat"  respectively measuring a being's sensorial perception, and emotional and social  equilibrium.
in some breeds it occurs earlier, appearing from 2 months.
a dog's tactile capacities develop before birth, and it is possible that  it already becomes used to contact in the uterus, when the mother is petted.
there is a correlation in canines between wariness and the arrival of  puberty (10 months in the coyote, 2 years in the wolf), except in foxes  (wariness largely precedes puberty) and dogs (wariness follows puberty which  appears around 6 months).
in dogs, precocious neutering can delay or preclude  the emergence of wariness towards strangers (brunner, 1968, in fox, 1978),  which could possibly confirm the tendency's hormonal cause.
the fights become ritualized, a sign that  stable hierarchical relations are being established.
in conclusion: this period leads to food hierarchization among  litter-mates from 5 to 15 weeks (occasionally later), between puppies  and adults from 4 ± ½ months, and reutilization of submissive  postures (dorsal-lateral decubitus) towards adults (from 5 weeks) and  appeasement postures(nibbling the chop and extending the paw) from 8  weeks.
the acquirer (when he receives the 7-9 week old puppy) must  then respect these socio-ecological conditions - he must limit the space  available when the puppy is not under human control and provide the adequate  elimination medium (why not a large litter box in an apartment?) placed at the  right location (at least 2-3 meters from where the puppy eats and sleeps).
these risks are avoided when dog owners behave in a way that can be assimilated to the parent-dog relationship.
in birds fear of the unknown is delayed when they are raised in isolation;  this phenomenon thus appears to depend on experience rather than maturing of  the nervous system (mcfarland, 1981) - one must first be able to refer to  something "known" before fearing the unknown.
lastly, stimulus-poor puppies run the risk of developing hyper-attachments to their biological or adoptive parents (transposition of  hyper-attachment to its new human masters), which is a source of intolerance to  isolation, attention-seeking behavior, reutilization of behavior acquired  during illnesses, etc.
we have seen that hierarchization occurs during a first "food" phase between puppies (from 5 weeks and is practically established, depending on the breed, between 3 to 12 months), then between adults and puppies (around 4 ± ½ months).
these experiments enable us to deduce that when a gestating pet is given a  friendly and caring human environment (with affectionate physical contact), the  domestication and emotional balance of her offspring is facilitated, as  compared with an environment where there is no contact and interaction with  people.
the notion of sensitive period is used in the place of critical period because the former extends over a longer period of time.
in conclusion: "industrial" kennel conditions suffice to cause  anxiety and inhibition (undoubtedly favored in this case by the breed and  enclosure in a 9m² cage).
in other words, fear of the unknown has both an emotional and behavioral  phase (starting around 5 weeks) and acognitive phase (near puberty).
teaching a young puppy social  behavior (part 1).
in rodents always, precocious exposition to  other species odors eases future interspecific socialization (decrease in  aggressions, lowering of corticosteroïds hormones) (caston: 1993).
some breeds have a greater tendency to bark than others (hounds, poodles, yorkshires, etc.).
*in rodents, postnatal temporary occlusion of the ears leads to subsequent difficulties to locate sounds in space and to reduction of discrimination of auditive patterns (caston: 1993).
from 7 weeks on puppies of a litter occasionally form groups to gang up on  a lone puppy.
a large number of fears arise from an individual's development.
the result is frames of reference acquired for each isolated or  grouped sense (multi-sensorial referential, or tolerance level (according to fox, 1975), or even "thymostat"), since  each referential is probably a "mental object" identified by an  activated assembly of neurons, according to changeux, 1983).
when they have learned some behavior, they reproduce it  even when the rewarding factor has been removed (lack of the extinction  process).
from the age of 5 weeks the puppies begin to growl to gain possession of  their food.
when they have learned some behavior, they reproduce it even when the rewarding factor has been removed (lack of the extinction process).
since no interaction is possible with a mirror image, this seems to be a poor substitute for suitable "imprinting".
it is at this sensitive age that dogs often begin group training courses.
pageat p. etude  clinique et expérimentale du comportement
the main phases in neurological development like humans, dogs belong to a species that matures slowly after birth: the new-born is not completely developed and is incapable of surviving on its own.
according to klosovskii (1963), puppies and kittens that undergo periods of forced rotation for several days have vestibular neurons that are larger than those of animals that have not received this stimulus (in fox: 1965).
pampiglione (1963) observed marked changes in eeg patterns at 7-8 days, 5-6 weeks (reaching adult levels), and 4-5 months (fox, 1965).
the puppies share and fight over what is left, and gobble it up rapidly, to the complete indifference of the dominant members who return to other activities.
fox  m.w.canine behavior, springfield, ill.:
here we can  directly see the overall differences between a city and rural environment of  development.
clinical practice shows that when a puppy is acquired at 6 weeks this is already a handicap in developing its adult social and sexual preferences.
dehasse j. epigenèse sensorielle, émotionnelle et relationnelle du chiot.
nonetheless, you can talk about acoustic sensitivity in individuals or breeds.
woolpy (1968, in fox, 1975) accustomed adult wild wolves to contact with humans in 6 months' time; he then isolated them somewhat from humans: in this case they retained their socialization experience.
the end of this phase varies depending on factors that are internal (breed, line of descendants, individual) and external (behavior of the mother, other dogs, quality of the surroundings).
de comp., jan.-feb. 1987, n°1, pp.
as cyrulnik wrote, "the world of each animal is built  around the double constraint of genetics and development".
it is thus impossible to form conclusions based on breed in view of the number  of dog breeds identified up to now (more than 200).
in this single-breed kennel (little variation in genotype) in a relatively deprived sensorial environment, there was a high degree of phenotype variation with, nevertheless, a large percentage (more than 50%) of dogs displaying inhibited behavior (more than 75% of the dogs were anxious).
it is thus the dog breeder who conditions the location and medium favored for elimination.
a family of briards (brie  sheep-dogs) displayed the same tendency, despite differences in the  surroundings in which they were raised.
the first phase of weaning begins around 5 ± ½ weeks; the mother growls and bares her teeth when puppies attempt to nurse (painful when the puppies cut their teeth); the puppy yaps and rolls over on its back and then learns to keep away from its mother's teats (scott and fuller, 1965).
dogs that are family pets must be  given more thorough training in controlling the intensity of their bite.
the dog's particular nature - a puppy has to learn to identify its own species - can serve to foster socialization with other species (called domestication when it involves interaction with humans).
- the role of the veterinarian is essential because he/she sees the animal from 6 to 16 weeks for its vaccinations.
pageat explains this as follows: in a dog-pack, adolescent males at puberty are  pushed to the fringe of the group (by the alpha male and the other older  males).
various measurements (volume, weight, percentage of dry  matter, oxygen consumption) of the brain show that growth is rapid until the  6-7th week when development suddenly slackens considerably.
the first phase of weaning begins around 5 ± ½ weeks; the  mother growls and bares her teeth when puppies attempt to nurse (painful when  the puppies cut their teeth); the puppy yaps and rolls over on its back and  then learns to keep away from its mother's teats (scott and fuller, 1965).
hierarchization between litter-mates varies with age and breed (scott and fuller, 1965): - 25% at 5 weeks, - 50% at 11 weeks, - 75% at 15 weeks in terriers, - 75% at 1 year in basenjis and shelties, - 50% maximum in cockers and beagles.
a stressful environment (feral dog) will close this phase ahead of time (probably around 7 to 9 weeks).
fox (1978) studied primary and  secondary socialization in wild dogs and other canines that were raised in  identical environments and had daily contact with the trainer and intermittent  contact with unfamiliar humans.
choosing a bold puppy (to avoid adopting a seemingly unsociable one who stays  at the back of the cage) may thus mean selecting a dog that will be more  aggressive to other dogs.
preference is given to visual and auditory imprinting whose effects last almost a whole lifetime.
an arbitrary limit can thus be set for spontaneous socialization to  another species, during afirst encounter, at 12 ± 2 weeks.
an arbitrary limit can thus be set for spontaneous socialization to another species, during afirst encounter, at 12 ± 2 weeks.
these periods overlap considerably.
if guide dogs for the blind are placed in a foster family at 12 weeks,  they generally adapt well, but placement at 14 weeks can prove to hinder  performance in later training (scott and fuller, 1965).
according to scott and  fuller (1965), it is predominant in short-haired fox terriers and basenjis (the  male dominates the female); and rare in shelties at 11 and even 15 weeks (less  than 50% of couples although this figure increases to 75% around 1 year).
the occipital  cortex, however, then grows more rapidly than the motor and frontal lobes; it  also contains several immature neuroblasts that reach full development only  around 3 weeks of age (fox, 1965).
during the  sensitive period, a small number of determining experiences have major effects  (or damages) on future behavior.
according to charles and fuller (1956) (in scott and fuller: 1965) the alpha rhythm that appears at 21 days signals an activation of the sense of sight.
- the human tends to fear for the puppy's health and thus pays particular attention to its appetite, watching it while it eats, indulging it when it begs, worrying about finicky appetites or loss of appetite, varying food, and hand-feeding, which become invested with the social symbol of dominance.
elimination behavior (1) is preceded by sniffing around, probably in search of typical odors (urine, feces, chlorine, ammonia, etc.) that will spark the elimination reflex, (2) occurs almost every waking hour, (3) is not activated for several hours during sleep.
a dog views human behavior through the social  lens of its own species and attempts to gain privileges as high as possible on  the hierarchical scale.
the same holds for dogs: when a normally socialized puppy is isolated from humans and placed in a kennel from 3-4 months of age to 6-8 months he becomes fearful in the presence of humans, even the trainer.
ducklings become  attached to their mother between the 13th and 16th hour of life (hess 1959, in  cyrulnik 1989), it takes 5 minutes of contact during the first hour after birth  for a she-goat to become attached to the odor of her kid (bateson, 1981), and a  ewe needs contact within 4 hours after the birth of her lamb.
this type of learning presents several characteristics: - it is stable, rigid and persistent (sometimes for life); - it is easily acquired; - sexual imprinting occurs on supra-individual and supra-breed characteristics, which permits species generalization; - filial imprinting (attachment) seems to be more discriminating and is limited to parents; - fraternal imprinting is the basis of sociability; - attachment is an interactive process.
les périodes sensibles de développement, cahiers  d'ethologie appliquée, 1984, 4 (1), 121-142.
i also participated in a study on the effects of a serotoninergic  psychotropic drug on the behavior of beagles raised in a kennel.
the fight is rarely traumatic since adult fighting capacities are as yet undeveloped.
among animals, innate fears do exist, although in dogs they remain  to be demonstrated: for example the fear of "beating" or  "gunshots" is not innate, despite various writings along these lines.
he/she thus theoretically has several occasions to assess the puppies' early emotional and behavioral development and can recommend preventive measures and training techniques.
activity regulates neuronal development.
a fox terrier puppy (male) raised in complete isolation and introduced to  other dogs at 16 weeks displayed inhibited behavior and was attacked by the  other puppies that were normally socialized.
after 2 months they ranged from 8 to 21.
note that canines are perfectly capable of  distinguishing the sex of humans, even when they are dressed alike; this is  probably through their sense of smell.
a dog views human behavior through the social lens of its own species and attempts to gain privileges as high as possible on the hierarchical scale.
in 4 days time her behavior was indistinguishable from that of the other puppies (scott and fuller, 1965).
from 7 weeks on puppies of a litter occasionally form groups to gang up on a lone puppy.
charles c. thomas publ., 1965 fox m.w..integrative development of the brain and behavior in the dog,  chicago: university of chicago press, 1971.
the relative absence of human contact leads to relative handicaps, such as  fear/wariness/phobia towards a type of human (children, men,...).
le syndrome de privation du chiot, le point vétérinaire, june-july 1986, vol.18, n°98.
veterinary times, april 1992: 12-13.
the same experiment on adult monkeys showed no effect on vision.
it is thus impossible to form conclusions based on breed in view of the number of dog breeds identified up to now (more than 200).
and this is  precisely one of the "rules of the game": to change roles, with the  biter becoming the bitten and vice versa.
these  periods overlap considerably.
dehasse j., de buyser  colette.
these conflicts revolve around access to the opposite sex (intra- or interspecific), but they can also arise over occupation of certain areas of the group's common space (in the house in cases of conflicts with the dog's owners, and rarely outdoors), in particular feeding and sleeping areas.
it reproduces the same characteristics as the second  phase, only this time with all the weapons, strength and passions of a mature  adult.
the more "aggressive" the litter (line, breed), the greater the  tendency for linear hierarchization.
weaning-detachment and (food) hierarchization a mother's care and attachment towards her puppies are strongest during  the first 3 weeks of life, and after that progressively recede.
twelve thousand years of domestication, however, has shown that this is possible.
the result is frames of reference acquired for each isolated or grouped sense (multi-sensorial referential, or tolerance level (according to fox, 1975), or even "thymostat"), since each referential is probably a "mental object" identified by an activated assembly of neurons, according to changeux, 1983).
teaching a young puppy social behavior (part 1).
in a similar vein, when a pregnant animal is petted her litter is more  docile (denenberg and whimbey 1963, in fox 1978).
it is imperative for the training environment to be controlled to ensure the  dog does not suffer any psychological trauma.
in our western culture, the relation between humans and dogs is played out  in a historical and socio-economic context that fosters the emergence of  behavioral dysfunctions in animals (the discrepancy between the imagined dog  and reality).many behavioral problems in dogs arise from a failure to  recognize social and environmental constraints during their growth.
a bibliographic study confirms there is a phylogenetic and/or epigenetic tendency for pre-puberty sensitization.
active nerve endings are eliminated all the while the  nervous system itself is expanding...
preference is given to visual and auditory imprinting whose  effects last almost a whole lifetime.
in this article we shall briefly trace these phases of a dog's social and behavioral ontogeny and epigenesis.
pageat p. etude clinique et expérimentale du comportement chez les carnivores domestiques , diss., lyon, 1984.
a fox terrier puppy (male) raised in complete isolation and introduced to other dogs at 16 weeks displayed inhibited behavior and was attacked by the other puppies that were normally socialized.
the corollary to the development of a puppy's attachment to its surroundings is its detachment from its parent(s).the corollary to the development of a puppy's attachment to its surroundings is its detachment from its parent(s).
from the age of 5 weeks the puppies begin to growl to gain possession of their food.
this behavior is provoked by pressing on the sternum or the stomach.
male chihuahuas raised by cats until 16 weeks of age demonstrate preference for the presence of cats, and submission - or fear - in the presence of dogs (they also show no reaction to their reflection in a mirror).
a family of briards (brie sheep-dogs) displayed the same tendency, despite differences in the surroundings in which they were raised.
woolpy's interpretation  (for wolves) is that socialization is limited by fear of the unknown.
from 11 to 15 weeks play-fighting recedes; it becomes less  aggressive and more controlled.
*in rodents, postnatal temporary occlusion of the ears leads to subsequent  difficulties to locate sounds in space and to reduction of discrimination of  auditive patterns (caston: 1993).
on the other hand, puppies raised in a family from 4 weeks of age (becoming used to dogs, cats and/or children), without renewed contact with the laboratory dogs, show greater familiarity with people than with dogs.
5),the development of social relationship (ch. 6), in dog  behavior: the genetic basis, chicago: the university of chicago press,  1965, phoenix edition 1974., 84-182.
as such this phase holds only minor interest in  our study.
their activity  level is 6 times higher than average dogs raised in normal surroundings ( motor hyperexcitement).
three  behavioral situations are of particular interest in precocious learning: elimination, eating, and vocalization.
the different phases of development neuro-vegetative from -4
this phenomenon is more prominent in certain  breeds or lines (fox terriers, according to scott and fuller, 1965; schnauzers,  huskies, and malamutes among others, in my experience).
as the effects of the psychotropic drug were not significantly  demonstrated compared to that of a placebo, the evolution towards 'normal'
at 12 weeks a puppy is easily frightened.
note that, unlike goats and sheep, adult dogs show no parental rejection  of their young!
fox (1975) experimented with puppies placed in contact with increasingly complex stimuli (enrichment) at 5, 8, 12 and 16 weeks: as they grow the puppies tended to seek out complex environments.
since these stages are still used in the  literature, they are worth mentioning.
a dog encouraged to pull at objects it holds in its jaws reinforces  the biting reaction, which is undesirable in a family pet (although it may be  useful for police and guard dogs).
one factor  favorable to emotional and relational well-balance of a dog that must live with  humans in a city context is enrichment in the breeding environment.
pageat explains this as follows: in a dog-pack, adolescent males at puberty are pushed to the fringe of the group (by the alpha male and the other older males).
in conclusion: this period leads to food hierarchization among litter-mates from 5 to 15 weeks (occasionally later), between puppies and adults from 4 ± ½ months, and reutilization of submissive postures (dorsal-lateral decubitus) towards adults (from 5 weeks) and appeasement postures(nibbling the chop and extending the paw) from 8 weeks.
that this process is essentially learned, rather than genetically acquired is a sign of the species' ability to conquer - and adapt to - varied and new environments.
- it is the breeder's role is to ensure temperamental selection and to enrich the development environment (under veterinary guidance).
it is fox's opinion  that domestication led to a dissociation between gonadal maturing (precocity)  and maturing of the central nervous system (late).
this  phenotypical effect is transmitted non-genetically for several generations  (denenberg and rosenberg, in fox 1978).
living in a group and adapting to varied environments calls for a certain  degree of emotional equilibrium (with minor fluctuations).
a dog's epigenesis engenders multiple temperaments that  can be partially foreseen by controlling its environmental stimuli.
at8½ weeks it defecates in specific spots, usually at a distance from its eating and sleeping area.
at8½ weeks it defecates in specific  spots, usually at a distance from its eating and sleeping area.
through species identification a puppy is able to recognize its parents ( filial imprinting), and develop preferential intraspecific social relations (fraternal imprinting) and the relations (sexual imprinting ) which mean the survival of the species (filial and sexual imprinting).
the rising curve reflects aprogressive attachment to a familiar place (attachment location) while the descending curve after 7-8 weeks is a sign ofemotional maturing (more than habituation) and motivation to explore the unknown.
when they  are placed with other dogs at 16 weeks, they recover intraspecies socialization  in two weeks; they now prefer dogs to cats and react to images of themselves in  a mirror (fox, 1971, in pieters 1984).
the object of  attachment is a being whose presence soothes and whose absence causes distress,  who possess the signs of familiarization; a "reference being"  (eibl-eibesfeldt 1984).
this has been verified by eeg recordings (in rabbits).
- the anthropomorphic tendency of a human-dog relationship to develop into that of parent-child, or parent-baby postpones the puppy's training towards adulthood at 5-10 months as well as the order-obedience relationship that is part of hierarchization.
the prenatal period pregnant rats that have been placed under stress or injected with acth or  adrenaline give birth to young rats that are emotive and perform less well than  a control group.
confinement and hand feeding  enable it to accept contact with its laboratory handler(s) but not with  strangers, and it still prefers the presence of dogs to that of humans (scott  and fuller, 1965).
the relationship  risks reverting to one with a demanding-dominant dog and a obedient-submissive  owner.
- the trainer must not only inculcate the bases for instrumental learning, he/she must also take advantage of having a group of dogs to continue their socialization and avoid de-socialization, both towards other dogs and towards humans.
feeding food conditioning studies have been conducted on cats that became  vegetarian or imitated their mother who ate bananas.
in clinical practice we continually observe cases of conflicts (competitive aggression) at puberty, and later in adulthood.
the referentials that come into play are level of noise, visual agitation, intensity of olfactory stimulation, number of vibrations, occupation of three-dimensional space, flexibility or rigidity of movements, etc.
behavior could be imputed to the effects of the experiment itself, since the  dogs were tested every other week (5 minutes maximum per dog) and given  medicine twice a day.
in other cases the windows close when a new point is reached.
aggressivity was directed toward males (canines and humans).
woolpy's interpretation (for wolves) is that socialization is limited by fear of the unknown.
during the sensitive period, a small number of determining experiences have major effects (or damages) on future behavior.
as such this phase holds only minor interest in our study.
some breeds have a greater tendency to bark than  others (hounds, poodles, yorkshires, etc.).
the growth of the nervous system underlies behavioral  epigenesis.
elimination elimination is a reflex present at birth (it is provoked when the mother  licks the puppy's perineum) and becomes spontaneous around2-3 weeks.
some  puppies nonetheless manage through appeasement rituals to grab some food and  escape with it to a corner.
the immaturity of the nervous system at birth is obvious: cragg (1975) calculated that in cats the number of synapses per cortical neuron grows from a few hundred to nearly 12,000 in the 10th to 35th day after birth (in changeux, 1983).
when they are placed with other dogs at 16 weeks, they recover intraspecies socialization in two weeks; they now prefer dogs to cats and react to images of themselves in a mirror (fox, 1971, in pieters 1984).
wariness of strangers develops: quickly in the solitary species (from 4 months in foxes), later in species of average sociability (around 1 year for jackals and  coyotes), and much later in social species such as wolves (between 6 and 18 months)  or dogs (beagle, pointer or chihuahua - between 1 and 2 years).
risk factors domestication depends on the presence of humans between 3 and 12 ± 2 weeks in the surroundings in which a puppy develops and this socialization must be continued throughout the animal's life.
experiments by cyrulnik with cats have shown that attachment depends on the cholinergic system; anti-cholinergics block the attachment process.
each puppy was taken from the surrounding in which it was raised, placed in contact with humans for one week, and again tested.
puberty and hierarchization dogs are social animals that need company, living in a hierarchical pack  (or family-pack).
the flight reaction does not develop; instead only inhibition or fear-provoked aggression develop (fisher, 1955; fuller, clark, walker, 1960 in scott and fuller, 1965).
this article has been published extensively, with images and charts, in the bulletin for veterinary clinical ethology, vol.2, n°1-2, pp 6-29, 1994 (brussels) and is in its original format on the author's website at http://www.joeldehasse.com/a-english/puppy-ima.html table of contents introduction the main phases in neurological development
a bitten puppy  whimpers or squeals.
the number of brain cells and their myelination reaches full adult maturity at 4 weeks.
in the absence of siblings, a puppy establishes identification through care-giving, care-searching and/or playful interaction with its parents or other dogs.
we have seen that hierarchization occurs during a first  "food" phase between puppies (from 5 weeks and is practically  established, depending on the breed, between 3 to 12 months), then between  adults and puppies (around 4 ± ½ months).
an  animal that is badly imprinted is lost for the species.
interspecific socialization counters predatory behavior towards the  type of attachment individual.
with mixed imprinting, there is a  preference (innate predisposition?)
pieters a..socialization et syndrome d'isolement chez le chien domestique, ii.
scott j.p., fuller j.l.  (1965):the development of behavior (ch.4), the critical period (ch.
the presence of other species during this period does not hamper identification with one's own species.
thus before socialization can be acquired, the subjective (cognitive) element of fear must first mature.
this short contact, however, is not enough for  basenji puppies; this variability is thus truly linked to breed (genetics)
human skin is more fragile than a dogs.
a quel âge doit/peut-on sortir un chiot, veterinaria, february 1989, n°193, p.26. dehasse j., de buyser colette.
at 12 weeks socialization  requires active manipulation (mimicking play-fights), at 14 weeks socialization  seems to be impossible.
in clinical practice we have observed dogs acquired at 3 or 4 months that  had phobic behavior, whereas their siblings, acquired at 2 months, were  emotionally balanced.
- and lastly, failure to develop a dog's general motor control encourages hyperkinetic forms of behavior.
here are a few examples: christy, a female puppy, was raised in complete isolation from other dogs by the "colony" of students at the jackson laboratory.
verdoux h., bourgeois m.modèles animaux et psychiatrie, monographies de l'anpp, vol.5, 18-59.
the lack of human contact  between 3 and 12 ± 2 weeks fosters the development of fear/wariness of  humans (feral dog).
the development of the neuronal networks is a characteristic process:  "the phase of synaptic redundancy followed by a phase of regression in the  axonal and dendritic branches is a critical period of development...
risk factors clinical observation shows that when some puppies are limited to one spot  and medium until the age of 15 weeks (puppies kept in the house and elimination  on newspapers, for example) it becomes almost impossible for them to learn to  use other media and locations (conditioning) and they retain themselves for  hours when walking outside until they can eliminate on their preferred medium  and spot.
the waltham book of dog and cat behavior, oxford: pergamon press, 1992, ch.4, 65-78.
the redundancy is temporary.
the dog's relation with its master thus becomes ambivalent, withconflicting messages: demands (dominance) - tolerance (submission).
choosing a bold puppy (to avoid adopting a seemingly unsociable one who stays at the back of the cage) may thus mean selecting a dog that will be more aggressive to other dogs.
a bitten puppy whimpers or squeals.
a sensitive period is a point in the maturing process when events  are susceptible to leaving long-term effects, or a period when learning is  easier and knowledge gained is stored in the long-term memory.
- behavioural epigenesis (ethogenesis) is linked to the way neuronal connections areorganised (theory of selective stabilization ).
some puppies nonetheless manage through appeasement rituals to grab some food and escape with it to a corner.
at the start of the experiment, all the dogs tested between 4 to 10 points.
among animals, innate fears do exist, although in dogs they remain to be demonstrated: for example the fear of "beating" or "gunshots" is not innate, despite various writings along these lines.
the second phase of hierarchization, puberty, is sexual, social and zonal-spatial.
the concept of sensitive periods bateson (1981) has described the developing individual as a train with its windows closed - at a certain point (maturing) the windows open and the traveler is encouraged to study the information passing by outside.
clinical observation has also confirmed that it is easier to transfer from an environment with a high level of stimulation (city) to an environment with a low level (rural) than the contrary.
nevertheless, a dog's ethogenesis evolves in (at least) three overlapping phases, each related to a particular system: theneuro-vegetative (neuro-glandular) - 1 to 7 weeks, theemotional (limbic) system - 3 ± ½ to 12 ± 5 weeks, and thecognitive system (cortex) - 5 ± 1 to 18 ± 10 months).
in exactly  identical conditions, with limited human contact (kennel staff) it was easy to  choose 16 dogs of 8 - 13 months in which the following symptomatic behavior  towards the presence of humans could be observed: -expectancy posture (pageat, 1986) (locomotor inhibition, almost  crouching, tail between the legs, head extended towards the stimulus presented), refusing, or cringing from, hand contact, lack of interest or catatonic immobility in the presence of a colored  moving object, inhibited movements outside the kennel (limited city noise).
in clinical practice we have observed dogs acquired at 3 or 4 months that had phobic behavior, whereas their siblings, acquired at 2 months, were emotionally balanced.
they learn slowly and forget easily (every trial is like a new experience).
an animal that is badly imprinted is lost for the species.
let's look at a few experimental cases: puppies raised in a semi-open environment in (nearly) complete isolation  from humans reacted differently towards an active unfamiliar observer depending  on their age.
scott (1958, 1962) (in scott and fuller: 1965, and fox: 1965) speaks of several  stages of neurological, reflexive and behavioral development that are  particularlydidactic: neonatal (0-14 days), transitional (14-21 days,  starting when the eyes open and ending when the animal starts on hearing a  noise), socialization (21-70 days) and juvenile (70 days and older).
we all know how  the age of puberty, temperament, emotivity, sociability etc. can vary among  breeds and individuals.
in exactly identical conditions, with limited human contact (kennel staff) it was easy to choose 16 dogs of 8 - 13 months in which the following symptomatic behavior towards the presence of humans could be observed: -expectancy posture (pageat, 1986) (locomotor inhibition, almost crouching, tail between the legs, head extended towards the stimulus presented), - refusing, or cringing from, hand contact, - lack of interest or catatonic immobility in the presence of a colored moving object, - inhibited movements outside the kennel (limited city noise).
this problem can be avoided by giving the puppy a variety of food.
- a dog encouraged to pull at objects it holds in its jaws reinforces the biting reaction, which is undesirable in a family pet (although it may be useful for police and guard dogs).
in females, progesterone favors territorial defense behavior, just as it favors whelping and pseudocyesis.
in the absence of  siblings, a puppy establishes identification through care-giving,  care-searching and/or playful interaction with its parents or other dogs.
nevertheless a mere daily contact, and handling every other week were enough to lower the level of inhibition and anxiety in this group of young adult dogs significantly.
the human desire to give and receive attention is opposed to  the normal (agonistic) parental behavior to wean the puppy, detach oneself and  encourage autonomy.
this conclusion can most likely also be applied to dogs.
the hypothesis that spontaneous, and later evoked,  nervous activity contributes to the development of neural networks and synapses  appears to be plausible" (changeux, 1983).
the neonatal period we will only say a few words about this period, which arbitrarily ranges from birth to the opening of the eyes at approximately 13 days.
at about 16 weeks the puppies must take their place in line for food, i.e. after the dominant and sub-dominant members, almost last.
learning to control the intensity of its bite is actually part of a puppy's growing generalcontrol of its movements, enabling it to adopt postures and facial mimics which become the prevalent form of communication in animals having highly developed brains.
voith v.l. attachment of people to  companion animals, symposium on the human-companion animals bond, the vet.
in a similar vein, when a pregnant animal is petted her litter is more docile (denenberg and whimbey 1963, in fox 1978).
since puppies do not have such short periods of facilitated learning, we  will use the term sensitive period.
that this process is essentially learned, rather than genetically  acquired is a sign of the species' ability to conquer - and adapt to - varied  and new environments.
these play-fights also lead to a certain hierarchization of relations  (less than 25% among litter-mates at 5 weeks of age)
discussion and conclusions no quantitative studies have been made on intra-breed variability, and inter-breed studies have only concerned a few family lines in selected breeds.
in a now  classic experiment (by weisel and hubel from 1963, in changeux 1983) with  monkeys, noticeable visual defects were caused when one eye was sewn shut  during the first six weeks of life; the problems were reversible if the eye was  re-opened after three weeks' time.
it is imperative for the training environment to be controlled to ensure the dog does not suffer any psychological trauma.
this phenomenon is more prominent in certain breeds or lines (fox terriers, according to scott and fuller, 1965; schnauzers, huskies, and malamutes among others, in my experience).
the hypothesis that spontaneous, and later evoked, nervous activity contributes to the development of neural networks and synapses appears to be plausible" (changeux, 1983).