it is unfortunate that more people do not consider looking at their localanimal shelter first.
by the same token, mutts can make just as good if not better pets as purebreds.
tender vittles - treatments for a torn anterior cruciate ligament (acl) in dogs - diagnosing feline kidney infections - how to treat urinary blockages in neutered male cats - animal facts: orca killer whales - raising a baby owl: what you need to know - top five most expensive cat breeds - keeping geese as pets - how reptiles breathe - how to care for starfish - what causes fluid in a dogs ear lobes?
- common allergies in the bichon frise and how to treat them - how to relax a nervous dog - how whaling impacts the environment - how to stop your dog from destroying your home - small animals that make the best pets - how to determine if your dog is pregnant - how to keep a male dog away from a female dog in heat - how to treat eye infections in horses - how to give your pet rat a bath - reviews: petsmart petshotel - how to care for a sick parakeet - causes of excessive licking in cats - pros and cons of keeping wild animals as pets - mud fever in horses: causes, signs, prevention and treatment - bird facts: roadrunner - feline parvo in cats: causes, signs and treatment - symptoms of low blood pressure in dogs - animal facts:
there are, however, specific dog breed rescues around the country if  you are looking for a particular breed.
- causes and corrections of cherry eye in dogs - when to put your pet down - how to tell the gender of your cockatiel or parakeet - how many fish can go into a 10-gallon tank?
helium debate should companies that use animals in their advertising campaigns  support animal welfare efforts?
- conjunctivitis in rabbits: symptoms and treatment - guide to painting or staining bird houses and feeders - all about the gestation period of rabbits - guide to different american pit bull terrier bloodlines - how to treat rain rot and rain scald in horses - saliva gland infections in dogs - why do dogs chase their tails?
- how music can affect your pet’s mood - thumps in horses: symptoms and treatments - do cats understand us?
testimonies: pet adoptions that go wrong
hightower - how to clean a rabbit’s ears - sharks for saltwater fish tanks - how to make a homemade snake trap - how to make a belly band for a dog - mange in goats: causes and treatment - comparing silky terriers and yorkshire terriers - how to tell if your puppy has worms - how to train a black mouth cur puppy - behavior traits of rabbits - common health problems in miniature pinschers - kidney infections in dogs: symptoms and treatments featured partner pulitzer center on crisis reporting the pulitzer center promotes in-depth engagement with global affairs through its sponsorship of quality international journalism across all media platforms and an innovative program of outreach and education.more connect with us follow us on twitter like us on facebook read our blog write and get published join our active writing community share with other writers polish your freelancing skills quality articles from proven freelancers get custom content today!
as long as dogs are properly matched up with owners, all will be well.
myth #1: all rescue dogs are mutts.
the easiest aquarium fish to care for when do dogs go into heat?
explaining the behavior of female dogs tips for owners that need to leave a dog at home alone top 10 biggest dog breeds euthanasia of a pet at home week by week development of newborn puppies causes of excessive thirst in dogs alternative treatments for fatty tumors in dogs
symptoms and treatments - boxer/bulldog mixes: better than bulldogs?
- how to tell the gender of a fish - how to make a refugium for your saltwater aquarium - how to build a wet/dry aquarium filter - which dog breed makes the best pet?
at the very least, you know what  you are getting with an older dog.
sometimes dogs just aren't the right match for a particular family but might be the right fit for you.
how to cure a dog’s stomach ache the cat’s meow: what cat noises really mean guide to the different spaniel dog breeds what do i do if my dog eats chocolate?
symptoms and treatment - marek’s disease in poultry: signs and prevention - the dangers of oak trees and acorns to dogs - disadvantages of owning a cat - how to tame a guinea pig - understanding the moulting process of chickens - is keeping aquarium fish cruel?
the jugular groove plants that are poisonous to cats when to wean a baby pig (piglet) from its mother ketosis in cattle: symptoms and treatments mange in horses: signs and treatments best goat breed for a pet how to train a black and tan coonhound puppy do capuchin monkeys make good pets?
if you are one of them and thinking of - 2 of 17 by dorann winburn pets provide a great source of companionship for people young and old and there are many different places to acquire the - 3 of 17 by kim remesch i've made some forever friends-friends with cold, wet noses-at the humane society and local animal shelters.
by the same token, mutts can make just  as good if not better pets as purebreds.
- cold-weather tips for outdoor pet rabbits - dog breed facts: blue heeler - how to make money raising rabbits - how to treat your dog’s paw pad injury - plants that are toxic to rabbits - is it dangerous to let a cat catch mice?
the problem of animal cruelty tips for knowing when it’s time to euthanize pets and bottom licking, scooting behavior: understanding the anus sack
- explaining the behavior of female dogs - tips for owners that need to leave a dog at home alone - top 10 biggest dog breeds - euthanasia of a pet at home - week by week development of newborn puppies - causes of excessive thirst in dogs - alternative treatments for fatty tumors in dogs -
angus easy home remedies for your horse how to safely contain your dog without a fence signs of sickness in a rabbit how to remove small cactus needles from a dog’s coat chlamydia in sheep: causes and treatment thoughts on ravens as pets feline endocrine alopecia: signs and treatments swollen sheath in horses: causes and treatments canine stress syndrome (canine malignant hyperthermia): causes, signs and  treatment how to make homemade cat shampoo breeding horses: stallion selection and mating finding the best room for your goldfish: dark vs light why your dog may hate your boyfriend or girlfriend how to tell if a dog is choking common health problems in munchkin cats famous horse profile: hightower how to clean a rabbit’s ears sharks for saltwater fish tanks how to make a homemade snake trap how to make a belly band for a dog mange in goats: causes and treatment comparing silky terriers and yorkshire terriers how to tell if your puppy has worms how to train a black mouth cur puppy behavior traits of rabbits common health problems in miniature pinschers kidney infections in dogs: symptoms and treatments featured partner pulitzer center on crisis reporting the pulitzer center promotes in-depth engagement with global affairs  through its sponsorship of quality international journalism across all media  platforms and an innovative program of outreach and education.more connect with us on twitter like us on facebook read
the easiest aquarium fish to care for - when do dogs go into heat?
consider that the cost of adopting a rescue dog is often much less than buying from a reputable breeder, and the money goes toward other needy dogs.
sometimes dogs have dysfunctional  owners.
balanitis in dogs: causes, signs and treatment blackleg in cows: symptoms and treatments differences between the siberian husky and alaskan malamute infectious coryza in poultry: signs and treatments kfc:
it is true that many rescue dogs end up at the pound because they couldn't be trusted around small children.
exploring why we need to protect animals causes of mouth ulcers in dogs gapeworms in chickens: causes and treatment signs of mental illness in dogs how to purify tap water for your aquarium how to tell if a dog is a purebred advantages and disadvantages of prairie dogs as pets diagnosis and treatment for lipomas in dogs fly strike in animals: signs and treatments dog breed facts: lhasa apso facts about blobfish when to separate kittens from their mother and littermates foot-and-mouth disease in cows: symptoms and treatments why some people hate cats physical characteristics of the red fox why some birds have bright-colored feathers fish that eat brown algae signs a dog has a stomach ache whales in danger of extinction due to whaling how to train a rat terrier puppy rodent facts: cape dune mole rat how to bathe and groom silky terriers kids’ guide to hamster care how to care for baby chinchillas how to set up a low-maintenance aquarium how to introduce your new pet rabbit to your cat hutch burn in rabbits: causes and treatments compatible fish for a convict cichlid rabbit noises and what they mean horse anatomy: the cannon or cannon bone adrenal gland diseases in dogs guide to raising bantam chickens what to keep in a first aid kit for pets difference between playing and fighting in kittens how to build a cat condo common eye problems found in goats
- how to guides | - community where knowledge rules search helium - pets & animals - animal facts & resources - animal rescue & adoption - animal rights & issues - aquarium fish - birds - cats - dogs - exotic pets & animals - ferrets - horses - pet ownership - rabbits - reptiles & amphibians - rodents - vets & pet health - pets & animals (other) home > pets & animals > animal rescue & adoption benefits of adopting from a humane society or shelter tweet - top article - all 17 articles 6 of 17 by caryna st. john created on: january 07, 2009 last updated: october 29, 2009
all  in all, rescue dogs are a great option for many families.
how to tell the gender of a fish how to make a refugium for your saltwater aquarium how to build a wet/dry aquarium filter which dog breed makes the best pet?
the large majority of dogs that you will find at the pound are probably not  purebred.
myth #4: rescue dogs can't be trusted with children.
exclusive rights, fast turnaround brand engagement, business blogging -- our writers do it all information - about us - team helium - user tools - user agreement - privacy policy - dmca copyright © 2002-2012 helium, inc.
breeding and egg care - how to tell the difference between male and female lovebirds - how to clean your aquarium’s sand and gravel - dog breeds that don’t shed - treatment for fur mites in rabbits - how to make an outdoor run for rabbits - good dog breeds for hiking - how to choose and take care of a teddy bear hamster - home remedies for skin rashes in dogs - the problem of animal cruelty - tips for knowing when it’s time to euthanize - pets and bottom licking, scooting behavior: understanding the anus sack - is it morally ok to wear fur?
- how to cure a dog’s stomach ache -
- tips for removing matted hair from your cat - signs of phantom pregnancy in dogs - cat fights: what to do when your cats don’t get along - which makes a better pet: a dog or a cat?
- balanitis in dogs: causes, signs and treatment - blackleg in cows: symptoms and treatments - differences between the siberian husky and alaskan malamute - infectious coryza in poultry: signs and treatments - kfc: the torture of chickens - mastitis in cows: symptoms and treatments - scrapie disease in sheep and goats: cause and symptoms - how to care for your koi and goldfish ponds in the winter - treatment for jaundice in dogs - bird facts: harpy eagle - the differences between zebras and horses - supplies to purchase for a pet hedgehog - how to raise rhode island red chickens - knowing when to bring your dog inside - how to stop territorial aggression in pets - the temperament of arabian horses - how to care for a button quail - cat’s eyes: what a cat can really see - cystitis in dogs: symptoms and treatments - the best plants for a betta fish - understanding healthy and unhealthy bird droppings - best pets for the home - seromas in dogs: causes, symptoms, and treatments - how to build a saddle stand - listeriosis (circling disease) in sheep: symptoms & treatments - temperament of pomeranians - why cats pee in corners - how to care for a tail injury in cats - horse anatomy: the coronet or coronary band - cattle breed facts: angus - easy home remedies for your horse - how to safely contain your dog without a fence - signs of sickness in a rabbit - how to remove small cactus needles from a dog’s coat - chlamydia in sheep: causes and treatment - thoughts on ravens as pets - feline endocrine alopecia: signs and treatments - swollen sheath in horses: causes and treatments - canine stress syndrome (canine malignant hyperthermia): causes, signs and treatment - how to make homemade cat shampoo - breeding horses: stallion selection and mating - finding the best room for your goldfish: dark vs light - why your dog may hate your boyfriend or girlfriend - how to tell if a dog is choking - common health problems in munchkin cats - famous horse profile:
myth #3: rescue dogs are set in their ways.
all in all, rescue dogs are a great option for many families.
- on the home page - most popular titles - 2012 super bowl breaks twitter record
symptoms and treatment marek’s disease in poultry: signs and prevention the dangers of oak trees and acorns to dogs disadvantages of owning a cat how to tame a guinea pig understanding the moulting process of chickens is keeping aquarium fish cruel?
learn more about this author, caryna st. john.
there are a lot of myths about rescue dogs and that is why more people do not seek them out.
myth #2: there is something wrong with a rescue dog.
symptoms and treatments - cat food reviews: hill’s science diet - understanding sudden acquired retinal degeneration (sards) in dogs - how to clean up cloudy water in an aquarium - the best dogs for apartment living - anal gland impaction in dogs: symptoms and treatments - tips for dealing with a smelly dog - when to separate puppies from their mother and littermates - cat facts: tortoiseshell - friendlier cats: male or female?
it is true that if you adopt a dog, you are most likely not going to get a puppy.
the rare black fox horse anatomy:
by caryna st. john created on: january 07, 2009 last  updated: october 29, 2009 when many people decide to add a four-legged best friend to their family,  often the local pet shop is the first place they look.
- testimonies: pet adoptions that go wrong - the benefits of adoption - animal adoption: shelter or pet store?
how music can affect your pet’s mood thumps in horses: symptoms and treatments do cats understand us?
sidewinder snake how to lower nitrates in a saltwater aquarium how to care for japanese fighting fish symptoms of intestinal blockage in dogs the risks of spaying your female dog cures for constipation in dogs cat dandruff causes and treatments why betta fish make bubble nests how to prevent cloudy water in an aquarium all about the gestation period of dogs how to force feed a cat bearded dragon:
the jugular groove - plants that are poisonous to cats - when to wean a baby pig (piglet) from its mother - ketosis in cattle: symptoms and treatments - mange in horses: signs and treatments - best goat breed for a pet - how to train a black and tan coonhound puppy - do capuchin monkeys make good pets?
exploring why we need to protect animals - causes of mouth ulcers in dogs - gapeworms in chickens: causes and treatment - signs of mental illness in dogs - how to purify tap water for your aquarium - how to tell if a dog is a purebred - advantages and disadvantages of prairie dogs as pets - diagnosis and treatment for lipomas in dogs - fly strike in animals: signs and treatments - dog breed facts: lhasa apso - facts about blobfish - when to separate kittens from their mother and littermates - foot-and-mouth disease in cows: symptoms and treatments - why some people hate cats - physical characteristics of the red fox - why some birds have bright-colored feathers - fish that eat brown algae - signs a dog has a stomach ache - whales in danger of extinction due to whaling - how to train a rat terrier puppy - rodent facts: cape dune mole rat - how to bathe and groom silky terriers - kids’ guide to hamster care - how to care for baby chinchillas - how to set up a low-maintenance aquarium - how to introduce your new pet rabbit to your cat - hutch burn in rabbits:
sometimes dogs have dysfunctional owners.
tender vittles treatments for a torn anterior cruciate ligament (acl) in dogs diagnosing feline kidney infections how to treat urinary blockages in neutered male cats animal facts: orca killer whales raising a baby owl: what you need to know top five most expensive cat breeds keeping geese as pets how to care for starfish what causes fluid in a dogs ear lobes?
what cat noises really mean - guide to the different spaniel dog breeds - what do i do if my dog eats chocolate?
it is also true, however, that there are many  rescue dogs who are wonderful around children.
- how to breed mice - signs your senior cat is going senile - tips for curing swim bladder problems in fish - assessing hamsters, mice, and gerbils as pets for kids - possible reasons for cloudy fish tank water - diarrhea in rabbits: causes and treatments - how to care for violet goby - rickets in dogs: causes, symptoms, and treatments - why cats should not be given milk - how to raise bengal cats as pets - animal abuse at zoos - herniated disc in dogs: symptoms and treatment - understanding a cat’s memory - how to stop dogs from eating sticks - causes of high creatnine levels in cats - what to do when your dog stops eating - differences between vomiting and regurgitation in dogs - the truth about choke chains, pinch collars and electronic collars - saddle thrombosis in cats: causes and symptoms - what could be wrong if your cat is hoarse?
there  are many wonderful dogs without homes just looking for the right family.
cat breeds suitable for allergy sufferers animal facts: jaguar how to get rid of white spots on your fish foods that are poisonous to rabbits how to cut a poodle’s hair homemade edible treats for your pet rabbit low maintenance fish recommendations dog breed facts: walker hound causes of enlarged lymph glands in dogs
click here to send this author comments or questions.
best small family dogs
below, some of these myths are dispelled.
- tips for feeding an underweight dog - intussusception of the intestines in dogs: symptoms and treatments -
the only animal that cannot jump horse facts for kids schools should ban animal dissection how to make a birdfeeder with a plastic soda bottle gastroenteritis in dogs: symptoms and treatments cat food reviews: hill’s science diet understanding sudden acquired retinal degeneration (sards) in dogs how to clean up cloudy water in an aquarium the best dogs for apartment living anal gland impaction in dogs: symptoms and treatments tips for dealing with a smelly dog when to separate puppies from their mother and littermates cat facts: tortoiseshell friendlier cats: male or female?
helium debate cast your vote!
as  long as dogs are properly matched up with owners, all will be well.
in addition, the shelter  will often pay for your first vet visit, spay or neuter, and first shots.
when many people decide to add a four-legged best friend to their family, often the local pet shop is the first place they look.
it is true that if you adopt a dog, you are most likely not going to get a  puppy.
common allergies in the bichon frise and how to treat them how to relax a nervous dog how whaling impacts the environment how to stop your dog from destroying your home small animals that make the best pets how to determine if your dog is pregnant how to keep a male dog away from a female dog in heat how to treat eye infections in horses how to give your pet rat a bath reviews: petsmart petshotel how to care for a sick parakeet causes of excessive licking in cats pros and cons of keeping wild animals as pets mud fever in horses: causes, signs, prevention and treatment bird facts: roadrunner feline parvo in cats: causes, signs and treatment symptoms of low blood pressure in dogs animal facts:
tips for feeding an underweight dog intussusception of the intestines in dogs: symptoms and treatments
the shoulder - a brief history of veterinary medicine - why dogs are more loyal than cats - how to build a nesting box for rabbits - facts about the rspca - horse jumping exercises - eye infections in rabbits: causes and treatment - how to tell if a cat is a boy or girl - horse health: diarrhea causes and treatments - how to prevent birds from flying into windows - the difference between amphibians and reptiles - home remedy treatments for itchy skin in dogs - tips for choosing fish for a cold-water aquarium - causes and treatments of rodent ulcer in cats - lice in cats:
cold-weather tips for outdoor pet rabbits dog breed facts: blue heeler how to make money raising rabbits how to treat your dog’s paw pad injury plants that are toxic to rabbits is it dangerous to let a cat catch mice?
tips for removing matted hair from your cat signs of phantom pregnancy in dogs cat fights: what to do when your cats don’t get along which makes a better pet: a dog or a cat?
what tax reform would mean for the us study: infants at greatest risk from abuse prince harry qualifies as helicopter pilot 5 ways to get the most from linkedin recommendations tips for avoiding an irs audit the winter 2012 color palette etta james' musical legacy 5 bad habits that can kill your car social media: understanding the epidemic of cyber bullying study: business meetings can make you stupid the best writers of world war ii family sagas tips for planning a college spring break trip recipes: quick dinner recipes and ideas easy valentine's day centerpieces the personality of classic orange tabby cats how to treat your dog’s upset stomach naturally the best dog breeds for lazy people
conjunctivitis in rabbits: symptoms and treatment guide to painting or staining bird houses and feeders all about the gestation period of rabbits guide to different american pit bull terrier bloodlines how to treat rain rot and rain scald in horses saliva gland infections in dogs why do dogs chase their tails?
- 4 of 17 by cynthia wall second chances for shelter animals during my first year as president of our local humane society, i used to imagine i heard - 5 of 17 by kayci roert
the same is true of any dog.
still not sure if a rescue dog is right for you?
there is a reason that  the dog ended up at the pound.
the answer here is a qualified yes.
if you are lucky, you will receive a dog that is already housetrained, can walk on a leash, and knows some simple commands.
the rare black fox - horse anatomy:
sometimes dogs just aren't the right match for a particular family but  might be the right fit for you.
should companies that use animals in their advertising campaigns support animal welfare efforts?
at the very least, you know what you are getting with an older dog.
so it's time to bring home a new family member.
mockingbird bladder control problems in dogs helping your cat when it’s in heat
click here to  send this author comments or questions.
- cat fights: how to make your cats get along - the purpose of cats’ whiskers - reptile facts: sidewinder snake - animal facts:
consider that the  cost of adopting a rescue dog is often much less than buying from a reputable  breeder, and the money goes toward other needy dogs.
- breeding the bala shark - how epsom salt can be used to treat a horse hoof abscess - how to tell if a dog is hungry - animal facts: quagga - why some cats love catnip - how to settle a dog’s upset stomach - how to keep large mouth bass in a tank - life cycle of a salamander - signs that your dog is going blind - how to grow your own millet for pets and wild birds - what is a whelping box?
it is also true, however, that there are many rescue dogs who are wonderful around children.
mockingbird - bladder control problems in dogs - helping your cat when it’s in heat - the only animal that cannot jump - horse facts for kids - schools should ban animal dissection - how to make a birdfeeder with a plastic soda bottle - gastroenteritis in dogs:
koala bear - how to lower nitrates in a saltwater aquarium - how to care for japanese fighting fish - symptoms of intestinal blockage in dogs - the risks of spaying your female dog - cures for constipation in dogs - cat dandruff causes and treatments - why betta fish make bubble nests - how to prevent cloudy water in an aquarium - all about the gestation period of dogs - how to force feed a cat - bearded dragon:
obviously, there is a reason that dogs end up at theanimal shelter, but it does not always have to do with the dog.
below are the top articles rated and ranked by helium members on: benefits of adopting from a humane society or shelter 1 of 17 by linda joyce every year, thousands of families think about adding a pet to their happy  home.
breeding the bala shark how epsom salt can be used to treat a horse hoof abscess how to tell if a dog is hungry animal facts: quagga why some cats love catnip how to settle a dog’s upset stomach how to keep large mouth bass in a tank life cycle of a salamander signs that your dog is going blind how to grow your own millet for pets and wild birds what is a whelping box?
these are just some of the many reasons why rescue dogs deserve a chance at  adoption.
the large majority of dogs that you will find at the pound are probably not purebred.
it is true that many rescue dogs end up at the pound because they couldn't  be trusted around small children.
breeding and egg care how to tell the difference between male and female lovebirds how to clean your aquarium’s sand and gravel dog breeds that don’t shed treatment for fur mites in rabbits how to make an outdoor run for rabbits good dog breeds for hiking how to choose and take care of a teddy bear hamster home remedies for skin rashes in dogs
- what tax reform would mean for the us - study: infants at greatest risk from abuse - prince harry qualifies as helicopter pilot - 5 ways to get the most from linkedin recommendations - tips for avoiding an irs audit - the winter 2012 color palette - etta james' musical legacy - 5 bad habits that can kill your car - social media: understanding the epidemic of cyber bullying - study: business meetings can make you stupid - the best writers of world war ii family sagas - tips for planning a college spring break trip - recipes: quick dinner recipes and ideas - easy valentine's day centerpieces - the personality of classic orange tabby cats - how to treat your dog’s upset stomach naturally - the best dog breeds for lazy people - a look at the largest great white shark ever caught - how long is a dog in heat?
causes and corrections of cherry eye in dogs when to put your pet down how to tell the gender of your cockatiel or parakeet how many fish can go into a 10-gallon tank?
there are a lot of myths about rescue dogs and that is why more people do  not seek them out.
the benefits of adoption animal adoption: shelter or pet store?
obviously, there is a reason that dogs  end up at theanimal shelter, but it does not always have to do with the dog.
below are the top articles rated and ranked by helium members on: benefits of adopting from a humane society or shelter - 1 of 17 by linda joyce every year, thousands of families think about adding a pet to their happy home.
the cannon or cannon bone - adrenal gland diseases in dogs - guide to raising bantam chickens - what to keep in a first aid kit for pets - difference between playing and fighting in kittens - how to build a cat condo - common eye problems found in goats - kinkajous: how to care for a pet honey bear - the gestation period of pigs - bloat in cows: symptoms and treatments - how to treat constipation in cats - animal facts: javelina - hybrid dog breed facts: cavapoo - heatstroke in rabbits:
4 of 17 by cynthia wall second chances for shelter animals during my first year as president of our local humane society, i used to  imagine i heard 5 of 17 by kayci roert
there are, however, specific dog breed rescues around the country if you are looking for a particular breed.
yes 2012 super bowl breaks twitter record
if you are one of them and thinking of 2 of 17 by dorann winburn pets provide a great source of companionship for people young and old and  there are many different places to acquire the 3 of 17 by kim remesch i've made some forever friends-friends with cold, wet noses-at the humane  society and local animal shelters.
- best small family dogs
before you jump in the car and race to your local breeder, let's discuss view all articles on: benefits of adopting from a humane society or shelter hide - - tweet - - email this article - print article related titles: - what you need to know before adopting a pet from a shelter - your new pet: adopt from a shelter or go through a breeder?
causes and treatments - compatible fish for a convict cichlid - rabbit noises and what they mean - horse anatomy:
it is unfortunate that  more people do not consider looking at their localanimal shelter first.
the most dangerous dog breeds victoria stilwell or cesar millan: who would you call?
helium, inc. 200 brickstone square andover, ma 01810
in addition, the shelter will often pay for your first vet visit, spay or neuter, and first shots.
the torture of chickens mastitis in cows: symptoms and treatments scrapie disease in sheep and goats: cause and symptoms how to care for your koi and goldfish ponds in the winter treatment for jaundice in dogs bird facts: harpy eagle the differences between zebras and horses supplies to purchase for a pet hedgehog how to raise rhode island red chickens knowing when to bring your dog inside how to stop territorial aggression in pets the temperament of arabian horses how to care for a button quail cat’s eyes: what a cat can really see cystitis in dogs: symptoms and treatments the best plants for a betta fish understanding healthy and unhealthy bird droppings best pets for the home seromas in dogs: causes, symptoms, and treatments how to build a saddle stand listeriosis (circling disease) in sheep: symptoms & treatments temperament of pomeranians why cats pee in corners how to care for a tail injury in cats horse anatomy: the coronet or coronary band cattle breed facts:
the truth about choke chains, pinch collars and electronic collars saddle thrombosis in cats: causes and symptoms what could be wrong if your cat is hoarse?
sometimes owners pass on before their dogs.
there are many wonderful dogs without homes just looking for the right family.
a look at the largest great white shark ever caught how long is a dog in heat?
cat fights: how to make your cats get along the purpose of cats’ whiskers reptile facts:
before you jump in the car  and race to your local breeder, let's discuss view all articles on: benefits of adopting from a humane society  or shelter hide what you need to know before adopting a pet from a shelter your new pet: adopt from a shelter or go through a breeder?
- how to treat red tear stains in dogs - tips for keeping ducks as pets - tips for adopting a second cat - how to keep cats off counters - a guide to different types of small tropical fish - the smallest monkey in the world - horse anatomy:
these are just some of the many reasons why rescue dogs deserve a chance at adoption.
kinkajous: how to care for a pet honey bear the gestation period of pigs bloat in cows: symptoms and treatments how to treat constipation in cats animal facts: javelina hybrid dog breed facts: cavapoo heatstroke in rabbits:
if you are lucky, you will receive a dog that is already housetrained, can walk  on a leash, and knows some simple commands.
the difference between amphibians and reptiles home remedy treatments for itchy skin in dogs tips for choosing fish for a cold-water aquarium causes and treatments of rodent ulcer in cats lice in cats: symptoms and treatments boxer/bulldog mixes: better than bulldogs?
how to breed mice signs your senior cat is going senile tips for curing swim bladder problems in fish assessing hamsters, mice, and gerbils as pets for kids possible reasons for cloudy fish tank water diarrhea in rabbits: causes and treatments how to care for violet goby rickets in dogs: causes, symptoms, and treatments why cats should not be given milk how to raise bengal cats as pets animal abuse at zoos herniated disc in dogs: symptoms and treatment understanding a cat’s memory how to stop dogs from eating sticks causes of high creatnine levels in cats what to do when your dog stops eating differences between vomiting and regurgitation in dogs
however, there are as many positives about this as there are negatives.
there is a reason that the dog ended up at the pound.
how to treat red tear stains in dogs tips for keeping ducks as pets tips for adopting a second cat how to keep cats off counters a guide to different types of small tropical fish the smallest monkey in the world horse anatomy: the shoulder a brief history of veterinary medicine why dogs are more loyal than cats how to build a nesting box for rabbits facts about the rspca eye infections in rabbits: causes and treatment how to tell if a cat is a boy or girl horse health: diarrhea causes and treatments how to prevent birds from flying into windows
is it morally ok to wear fur?
- cat breeds suitable for allergy sufferers - animal facts: jaguar - how to get rid of white spots on your fish - foods that are poisonous to rabbits - how to cut a poodle’s hair - homemade edible treats for your pet rabbit - low maintenance fish recommendations - dog breed facts: walker hound - causes of enlarged lymph glands in dogs - the most dangerous dog breeds - victoria stilwell or cesar millan: who would you call?