view full size digital vision/getty images dog or cat?
like the choice between coke or pepsi, or chocolate or vanilla, how you respond to cats versus dogs could say a lot about you.
according to the american pet products association, 62 percent of u.s. households have a pet.
stephen zawistowski, a science adviser with the american society for the  prevention of cruelty to animals, said research tends to fall in line with the  stereotypes people have already established for themselves.
"i was into abyssinians," he said, "and when i saw martha's  abyssinians, i knew i needed them and when i saw martha, i said, 'oh.'
another big factor is living space and age.
digital vision/getty images  dog or cat?
whether you're a cat or dog person is often an accident of geography.
apartment dwellers in urban areas are more likely to have cats or small dogs,  while families living in the suburbs are more apt to have larger dogs like  retrievers or bull mastiffs.
she has been showing cats for nearly 40 years and even met her husband,  norman, at a cat show.
those who love felines, though, were found to be less  traditional, more creative and more neurotic.
ask anyone on the street whether they're a cat or a dog person, and chances are, they've got a quick answer.
so, in 1982 we were married."
back at the westminster dog show, men who like cats were getting special  distinction by the dog-owners.
"dogs there are very rarely pets because they're considered vermin." going deeper than geography or our upbringing, though, scientists believe the selection of species can say a lot about people.
"cat people are a little more aloof,  because that's just how cats are.
"i was into abyssinians," he said, "and when i saw martha's abyssinians, i knew i needed them and when i saw martha, i said, 'oh.'
" karen hessel, the proud "mama" to 3-year-old ripley, a golden retriever, said, "they say that cats are very intelligent but i haven't seen that yet in a cat, but i know my dog is brilliant."
parents with young children generally have energetic dogs the kids can  play with outside, while single people or older people are more inclined to  have the more low-key cat.
"dogs  there are very rarely pets because they're considered vermin." going deeper than geography or our upbringing, though, scientists believe  the selection of species can say a lot about people.
"dog people are a little more outgoing," a dog owner at the  westminster dog show told abc news.
a major study at the  university of texas shows that there reallyis a difference between  "dog people" and "cat people."
"cat people are a little more aloof, because that's just how cats are.
parents with young children generally have energetic dogs the kids can play with outside, while single people or older people are more inclined to have the more low-key cat.
watch video real housewives' pampered canine star watch video should  husband be jealous of wife's dog?watch video the nature of why people prefer cats or dogs is a topic that has been  getting increased research in recent years.
according to the american pet products association, 62 percent of u.s.  households have a pet.
back at the westminster dog show, men who like cats were getting special distinction by the dog-owners.
over at the black diamond cat show in kimberton, pa., cat owners were  telling a different story, saying intelligence is the key difference between  dog and cat owners.
those who define themselves as "dog people" are more  extroverted, more agreeable and more conscientious than self-described  "cat people."
cat people, they say, are simply smarter.
she has been showing cats for nearly 40 years and even met her husband, norman, at a cat show.
the nature of why people prefer cats or dogs is a topic that has been getting increased research in recent years.
those who love felines, though, were found to be less traditional, more creative and more neurotic.
on a practical level, research shows that we tend to gravitate toward the  animal with which we were raised.
"if you were born in saudi arabia, you're more likely to be a cat  person," said harold herzog, an anthrozoologist studying human-animal  relationships at western carolina university in cullowhee, n.c.
scientists at major academic institutions have devoted time and resources to understanding why people become one or the other.
"dog people are a little more outgoing," a dog owner at the westminster dog show told abc news.
"cats are more independent and so are their owners," martha auspitz said.
"we think of dog people as being the guy at the beach, with his labrador [retriever], and throwing the frisbee and talking to everybody; and the cat lady who sits in her apartment alone with her cats," he said.
like the choice between coke or pepsi,  or chocolate or vanilla, how you respond to cats versus dogs could say a lot  about you.
"if you were born in saudi arabia, you're more likely to be a cat person," said harold herzog, an anthrozoologist studying human-animal relationships at western carolina university in cullowhee, n.c.
pick a  side.(digital vision/getty images) ask anyone on the street whether they're a cat or a dog person, and  chances are, they've got a quick answer.
" karen hessel, the proud "mama" to 3-year-old ripley, a golden  retriever, said, "they say that cats are very intelligent but i haven't  seen that yet in a cat, but i know my dog is brilliant."
"cats are more independent and so are their owners," martha  auspitz said.
dog people vs. cat people: what pet preference says about you
guys who like cats: weird?
over at the black diamond cat show in kimberton, pa., cat owners were telling a different story, saying intelligence is the key difference between dog and cat owners.
stephen zawistowski, a science adviser with the american society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, said research tends to fall in line with the stereotypes people have already established for themselves.
dogs win in the popularity race, with 39 percent of u.s. households owning at least one dog, compared with 33 percent of u.s. households owning at least one cat.
scientists at major academic  institutions have devoted time and resources to understanding why people become  one or the other.
apartment dwellers in urban areas are more likely to have cats or small dogs, while families living in the suburbs are more apt to have larger dogs like retrievers or bull mastiffs.
on a practical level, research shows that we tend to gravitate toward the animal with which we were raised.
sections shows tools about
"we think of dog people as being the guy at the beach, with his  labrador [retriever], and throwing the frisbee and talking to everybody; and  the cat lady who sits in her apartment alone with her cats," he said.
those who define themselves as "dog people" are more extroverted, more agreeable and more conscientious than self-described "cat people."
dogs win in the popularity race, with 39 percent of u.s.  households owning at least one dog, compared with 33 percent of u.s. households  owning at least one cat.
by dan  harris ( @danbharris) and keturah gray march 9, 2012  dog or cat?
a major study at the university of texas shows that there reallyis a difference between "dog people" and "cat people."
so, in  1982 we were married."