thanks for commenting.
the combined cat and dog population of britain is more than 20.8 million, 50 per cent higher than previously thought photo: photolibrary
please make sure you are typing your password in exactly as you created it.
make sure you are typing your password in exactly as you created it.
adopting an older pet
email: password: please note that  passwords are case sensitive.
dr jane murray, cats protection lecturer in feline  epidemiology, who led the study, said: "we don't think it is associated  with income because that was one of the variables we looked at, and there was  little difference.
rather, more educated people tend to work longer hours and choose a pet to fit their lifestyles.
- store - hugs & kisses supplements - hugs & kisses memberships - webinars - books by warren - the sounds of baby audio download - allergy aid - dental care dogs - flea powder - herbal flea spray - air horn - bitter yuck!
we are not saying there has been a huge spike in the cat and dog populations - we are just getting better at counting them.
" researchers at the university's department of clinical veterinary science hope to repeat the study 2011, to monitor any changes in population numbers and ownership trends.
the same homes were less likely to have a dog than households where no-one went to university.
you decide a pet makeover 10 reasons your dog's hair cut costs more than yours our pets know
email: password: close please note that passwords are case sensitive.
forgot password post a comment 3500 characters left become a hugs & kisses member to comment more blogs does your cat own you?
| forgot your password?
researchers at the university of bristol say that the superior intelligence of cat owners is unlikely to be caused by their exposure to the famously cunning and selfish pets.
as part of the study 2,980 people were interviewed about their pet ownership, geography and educational background.
previous estimates had put the totals at 7.2 million and 7.3 million respectively dr jane murray said: "we are confident that our figures are the most accurate yet.
what we need more than we do!
please login to comment.
people with cats are more likely to have university degrees than those with dogs, according to a scientific survey of pet ownership.
rather, more  educated people tend to work longer hours and choose a pet to fit their  lifestyles.
the other estimates are produced by the pet  food industry and have not been published in peer reviewed journals.
terms & conditions | privacy policy | acknowledgments this site is created and managed bynox solutions llc.
"cats require less time per day than a dog, so  they are more popular with educated people who work late and have long  commutes." homes with degree-holders were 1.36 times more likely  to have a cat than other households.
make sure you are typing your password in exactly  as you created it.
the numbers do not include strays.
it's about time listen to the radio show
the study also revealed that the combined cat and dog  population of britain is more than 20.8 million - 50 per cent higher than  previously thought.
the pet show archives 02-25-2012 02-18-2012 audio highlights joyce calls about her chihuahua jim asks about his lab feeling sick usa & canada show saturdays 4-6 pm est call in: 800-321-8828 distributed by: wor 710am
the same homes were less likely to have a  dog than households where no-one went to university.
both cat and dog owners were more likely than the general population to live in households with gardens in rural areas.
create an account wrong e-mail address or password.
| trouble logging in?
coping with the loss of a pet humane heroes pets teach kids many valuable lessons - guest article national pet dental health month - guest article teaching kitty to come when called beware of your pet's midlife crisis!
both cat and dog owners were more likely  than the general population to live in households with gardens in rural areas.
in the news message boards ask warren petography the pet scoop thanks warren stay connected kid's corner seasonal tips audio & video exclusive videos fun web videos podcasting radio show library highlights station finder shop with confidence sign in shopping cart my order history customer service return policy shipping policy ordering information store dogs & puppies cats & kittens books hugs & kisses memberships webinars akc gold products apparel about about warren adopt a pet hugs & kisses animal fund schedule a consultation with warren about the site scrapbook contacts & support customer service support faqs contact information ask warren webcast question email breaking news send us your photos business inquiries
0 comments  add a comment
dr jane murray, cats protection lecturer in feline epidemiology, who led the study, said: "we don't think it is associated with income because that was one of the variables we looked at, and there was little difference.
the other estimates are produced by the pet food industry and have not been published in peer reviewed journals.
cat owners 'more educated than dog owners' cat  owners 'more educated than dog owners' cats have long  been thought to be cleverer than dogs - and now it seems the same is true of  their owners.
people with cats are more likely to have  university degrees than those with dogs, according to a scientific survey of  pet ownership.
- tear stain supplement - arthrisoothe gold - toys for dogs - stool deodorizer - pleasant breath -
hot weather alert warning - heatstroke can be hazardous to your pet's health!
combining the results with  census information produced new figures for britain's pet population - 10.3  million cats and 10.5 million dogs.
cats  presented with two pieces of string, only one of which was attached to a food  reward, could not tell which one to pull for their treat.
for help with your order call 1-800-430-4847 store | videos | articles | radio show | books | community | hugs & kisses | contact us copyright © 2002-2012 warreneckstein.com.
the popular myth of cat intelligence was dented last year with the publication of a study showing that they did worse than dogs at a simple reasoning task.
now subscribe to podcast
tags: cat owner , dog owner , education posted by staff on 02/06/2010 at 4:01 pm - permalink | add your comment | email | print | rss more in the news - kiah-tv newsfixer prompts removal of dog toy from petco shelves - 'the artist' star uggie sets craze for jack russell breed soaring - not ready for kids?
cats presented with two pieces of string, only one of which was attached to a food reward, could not tell which one to pull for their treat.
email: password: please note that passwords are case sensitive.
the study,  published in the veterinary record journal, also found that cat owners were  more likely to be older and female.
there are currently no comments to display.
we are not  saying there has been a huge spike in the cat and dog populations - we are just  getting better at counting them." researchers at the university's  department of clinical veterinary science hope to repeat the study 2011, to  monitor any changes in population numbers and ownership trends.
the combined cat and dog population of  britain is more than 20.8 million, 50 per cent higher than previously thought  photo: photolibrary
the  popular myth of cat intelligence was dented last year with the publication of a  study showing that they did worse than dogs at a simple reasoning task.
as part of the study 2,980 people were interviewed about their pet  ownership, geography and educational background.
for the older pet the creative cat pet depression and neurosis signs of senior pets the alpha myth in today's society dangerous pet toys imperfect humans expect perfection from their pets perceptions and misconceptions about our pets the scoop (on poop)
excerpts from a dog & cat's diary...
combining the results with census information produced new figures for britain's pet population - 10.3 million cats and 10.5 million dogs.
southern california show saturdays 11-1 pm pst call in: 866-870-5752 distributed by:krla 870am hugs & kisses join hugs & kisses monthly membership yearly membership deluxe membership gift memberships community humor tips ever after
celebrity pet psychic melissa bacelar and healer gabriela castillo when is a pet not an animal your pet as a pleasure, not a burden veterinary physical rehabilitation disaster planning for your pet spirituality in pets humor: why pets are better than kids introducing your pet to nature declawing ...the hot debate
the study also revealed that the combined cat and dog population of britain is more than 20.8 million - 50 per cent higher than previously thought.
previous estimates had put the totals at 7.2 million and 7.3 million  respectively dr jane murray said: "we are confident that our  figures are the most accurate yet.
"cats require less time per day than a dog, so they are more popular with educated people who work late and have long commutes." homes with degree-holders were 1.36 times more likely to have a cat than other households.
tags: cat owner ,  dog owner ,  education posted by staff on 02/06/2010 at 4:01 pm -  permalink | add your comment | email | print | rss more in the news kiah-tv newsfixer prompts removal of dog toy from petco shelves 'the artist' star uggie sets craze for jack russell breed soaring not ready for kids?
bringing a second pet into your home new year's resolutions keeping your pet's skin and coat healthy in the cold weather a gentle goodbye a dog's soul - author unknown the overly inquisitive pet what to expect from your pet when you're expecting why eye contact is so important fundamentals of proper dog training how to build the perfect cathouse pet massage is your pet talking to you and what are they saying why dogs are better than women swimming with your pets can be fun, but can also be very dangerous
a new pet----the energy boost
researchers at the university of bristol say that  the superior intelligence of cat owners is unlikely to be caused by their  exposure to the famously cunning and selfish pets.
no scratch - indoor ultra bitter no chew spray - housebreak trainer - tea tree anti-itch spray - herbal ear wash - tear stain remover - clean scent moisturizing shampoo - hypo-allergenic shampoo - daily coat conditioner - all natural relaxing shampoo - stain & odor remover spray - stain & odor remover - blessing of the animals t-shirt - slim-n-fit weight control chewable tablets - videos - exclusive videos - web videos - product videos - articles - radio show - previous shows - highlights - podcasting - station finder - books - community - humor - tips - ever after - in the news - message boards - ask warren - petography - the pet scoop - thanks warren - kid's corner - hugs & kisses - join hugs & kisses - monthly membership - yearly membership - deluxe membership - gift memberships - contacts & support - customer service - support - personal consultations with warren - faqs - contact information - ask warren - webcast question - send us your photos - home visit from warren - email breaking news - business inquiries cat owners 'more educated than dog owners' cat owners 'more educated than dog owners' cats have long been thought to be cleverer than dogs - and now it seems the same is true of their owners.
cats: devils or angels?
the importance of touch who gets the dog and cat?
unlike dogs, cats require no walking and can manage with little human company.
0 comments add a comment there are currently no comments to display.
the study, published in the veterinary record journal, also found that cat owners were more likely to be older and female.
unlike dogs, cats require no walking and can manage with little  human company.