before you can post: click the register link above to proceed.
the suggestion looks fine and this forum is being expected by our friend ba.
originally posted bybeautifulangel woohoo!
- offwalk view tag cloud bookmarks bookmarks - digg - del.icio.us - stumbleupon - google posting permissions - you may not post new threads - you may not post replies - you may not post attachments - you may not edit your posts - - bb code is on - smilies are on - [img] code is on - [video] code is on - html code is off forum rules - contact us - off topic chat forum | general discussion |
before you can post: click the register link  above to proceed.
hope g will think of it and come to a decision.
by registering you would be privileged to  access more features.
my mood is: please select a category to choose from: -cancel status - offline join date - feb 2012 location - heaven :p
update: you got what you want ba.
i noticed it and started contributing there.
posts - 215 - - gender - woohoo!
announcement & features dog forum created at offwalk welcome to the offwalk, an international off topic forum.
just a suggestion though reply with quote - description
thread: dog forum created at offwalk tweet - thread tools - show printable version - subscribe to this thread… « previous thread | next thread » - 03-17-2012, 02:15 pm #1 geeone - view profile - view forum posts - private message - visit homepage co - admin country: status: checking :)
tags for this thread - created, - dog, - forum,
relaxing and refreshing platform for online couunity.
chat forums - archive - privacy statement - terms of service - top all times are gmt.
- announcements - features - general chat - forum - announcements, contests and suggestion - announcement, contests, suggestions & feedback - announcement & features - dog forum created at offwalk results 1 to 6 of 6 - welcome to the offwalk, an international off topic forum.
if  this is your first visit, be sure to check out thefaq by clicking the  link above.
supported by - website design page generated in 0.923 seconds with 23 queries.
to start viewing messages, select the forum that you want to visit from the selection below.
my mood is: please select a category to choose from: -cancel status - offline join date - jun 2009 location - the offwalk posts - 9,023 - - gender - dog forum created at offwalk new puppy and dog forum created at offwalk.
g! offwalk@facebook reply with quote - description - content members who have read this thread : 4 you do not have permission to view the list of names.
the following user says thank you to beautifulangel for this useful post: foxwalker (03-18-2012) - content - 03-18-2012, 03:40 am #4 foxwalker - view profile - view forum posts - private message moderator country: status: in hunting!!!
but i'm getting a cat :d
to start viewing messages, select the forum that you want to  visit from the selection below.
by registering you would be privileged to access more features.
just a suggestion though reply with quote - description - content - 03-18-2012, 05:05 am #6 foxwalker - view profile - view forum posts - private message moderator country: status: in hunting!!!
offwalk@facebook reply with quote - description - content - 03-18-2012, 04:48 am #5 geeone - view profile - view forum posts - private message - visit homepage co - admin country: status: checking :)
if this is your first visit, be sure to check out thefaq by clicking the link above.
i should also thank you g, for giving out very quick of what ba want.
plus some people prefer cats over dogs.
just a suggestion though last edited by foxwalker; 03-18-2012 at 04:03 am.
you may have toregister kindly register at offwalk, if you  want to be part of this community.
my mood is: please select a category to choose from: -cancel status - offline join date - jun 2009 location - offwalk posts - 2,819 - - gender - she would be surprise to see the cat forum when she is back.
g! reply with quote - description - content - - 03-17-2012, 02:27 pm #2 foxwalker - view profile - view forum posts - private message moderator country: status: in hunting!!!
the time now is 10:21 am.
it's a nice idea and helpful for the people who loves puppies and dogs.
powered byvbulletin® copyright © 2012 vbulletin solutions, inc. all rights reserved.
can we also have cat and kitty one?
originally posted by geeone cat forum is also created, thanx for idea.
my mood is: please select a category to choose from: -cancel status - offline join date - jun 2009 location - offwalk posts - 2,819 - - gender -
you may have toregister kindly register at offwalk, if you want to be part of this community.
- the offwalk rules - disclaimer - privacy policy - about offwalk!
my mood is: please select a category to choose from: -cancel status - offline join date - jun 2009 location - the offwalk posts - 9,023 - - gender - cat forum is also created, thanx for idea.
g! originally posted bybeautifulangel woohoo!
- welcome to the offwalk - vip membership-paid or free and earn cash!
- register - help - remember me? - - - today's posts - gallery - album gallery - picture gallery - activity stream - faq - calendar - forum actions - quick links - offwalk rules - become vip - payment - about us - articles - media - arcade - advertise - offwalk quick links - be a gold member for free!!!
- why you should join the offwalk forum?
offwalk@facebook reply with quote - description - content - 03-17-2012, 10:45 pm #3 beautifulangel - view profile - view forum posts - private message bronze era country: status: feeling tired :(
place to make  and meet new friends.
offwalk - the off topic chat forum
of 6 thread: dog forum created at offwalk tweet
place to make and meet new friends.