cats require dietary sources of taurine, an amino acid-like nutrient, and arachidonic acid, an essential fatty acid, according to cvm research.
we choose their food.
additionally, cats cannot convert the beta-carotene in plants into vitamin a.  instead, they require “pre-formed” vitamin a, usually found in  liver and fish oils.
our oldest dog is 17 years old and has been vegan as long as i have (over a decade).
so long as you provide adequate levels of protein,  calcium and all-around nutrients, getting your dog to “go veggie”  is typically a smooth process.
links about veg pet food: vegepets.info animal awareness veggiepets.com vegetarian network victoria – this site provides  objective information on why caretakers opt to feed their animals a vegetarian  or vegan diet, potential problems, a vegetarian dogs and cats ‘check  list,’ vegetarian pet foods and supplements, and helpful links for more  information, including books and additional websites.
additionally, cats cannot convert the beta-carotene in plants into vitamin a. instead, they require “pre-formed” vitamin a, usually found in liver and fish oils.
well, there are thousands of years of domestication between your cat and a lion.
(she won’t eat enough  of it though for us to just add supplements and let it go at that.)
for cats, more attention is required, but a vegan diet is possible.
if these questions aren’t enough to stop me from being vegan, there’s no reason they should stop my cats and dogs from being vegan.
cats require dietary sources of taurine, an amino acid-like  nutrient, and arachidonic acid, an essential fatty acid, according to cvm  research.
cats need special supplements if you remove meat from their diets,
cats need special supplements if you remove meat from their diets, but it is possible for them to eat vegetarian diets.
for cats, more attention is required, but a vegan  diet is possible.
that is the responsibility you accepted when they became part of your family.
my experience: all of our dogs are vegan and have lived wonderful, healthy lives.
it is your duty to make  sure they lead happy and healthy lives.
some dogs, particularly larger breeds, may also require taurine to keep their hearts healthy; seek out veggie dog foods that contain taurine, or simply add a supplement with taurine to your dog’s diet.”
isn’t it more natural for them?
both are found in appreciable levels only in animal tissues.
the quick answers: as omnivores, dogs do not need meat.
cats are true carnivores and switching them to a vegan diet may prove more complex.
“with proper planning and guidance, using nutritionally-complete vegan dog and cat foods that meet the association of american feed control officials (aafco) dog and cat food nutrient profiless, which were determined in cooperation with the u.s. center for veterinary medicine (cvm), your dog and cat friends can lead happier, healthier lives.”
links about veg pet food: vegepets.info animal awareness veggiepets.com vegetarian network victoria – this site provides objective information on why caretakers opt to feed their animals a vegetarian or vegan diet, potential problems, a vegetarian dogs and cats ‘check list,’ vegetarian pet foods and supplements, and helpful links for more information, including books and additional websites.
she wants nothing to do with any of them and, with true cat stubbornness, will simply not eat until we give her back her meat-based food.
she does, however, like to snack on the canned vegan dog food.
my experience: all of our dogs are vegan and have  lived wonderful, healthy lives.
these are all the same questions that people ask me when i tell  them that i am vegan.
i think the responsible and healthy choice means a  vegan diet – assuming you don’t have a dog with cat-like  stubbornness.
numerous pet food manufacturers provide tasty, nutritionally  complete foods for dogs.
some dogs, particularly larger breeds, may also require  taurine to keep their hearts healthy; seek out veggie dog foods that contain  taurine, or simply add a supplement with taurine to your dog’s  diet.”
while dogs require a higher ratio of dietary protein and  calcium than humans, these nutrients are available via a well-balanced  vegetarian diet.
synthetic versions of these nutrients are available, and it is up to you, the caregiver, to ensure that your cat is receiving the necessary nutrition.
while dogs require a higher ratio of dietary protein and calcium than humans, these nutrients are available via a well-balanced vegetarian diet.
if these questions aren’t enough to stop me  from being vegan, there’s no reason they should stop my cats and dogs  from being vegan.
she does, however, like to snack on  the canned vegan dog food.
these are all the same questions that people ask me when i tell them that i am vegan.
suppliers of veg pet food: bluedogbakery.com evolution diet pet-food company natural balance nature’s
but it is possible for them to eat vegetarian diets.
well, unless you let them go to the store by themselves to pick out your own food, they are at the mercy of your decisions no matter what you do.
but, again – it comes down to the fact that cats can be vegan, so their similarity or dissimilarity to lions and tigers is somewhat irrelevant.
(she won’t eat enough of it though for us to just add supplements and let it go at that.)
the debates: aren’t you just forcing your  will on them by making them eat a veg diet?
further info/resources: from the veg for life website: “like humans, dogs are omnivores, able to digest and utilize a wide variety of foods.
isn’t it more natural for  them?
the quick answers: as omnivores, dogs do not need  meat.
you need to make sure that they are getting adequate nutrition, regardless of which diet you choose.
so we  are stuck giving her the meat-based food.
it is your duty to make sure they lead happy and healthy lives.
so long as you provide adequate levels of protein, calcium and all-around nutrients, getting your dog to “go veggie” is typically a smooth process.
you need to make sure that  they are getting adequate nutrition, regardless of which diet you choose.
for dogs (as well as humans)
but, again  – it comes down to the fact that cats can be vegan, so their similarity  or dissimilarity to lions and tigers is somewhat irrelevant.
well, there are thousands of years of domestication  between your cat and a lion.
further info/resources: from the veg for life website: “like humans, dogs are omnivores, able to digest and utilize a  wide variety of foods.
numerous pet food manufacturers provide tasty, nutritionally complete foods for dogs.
i think the responsible and healthy choice means a vegan diet – assuming you don’t have a dog with cat-like stubbornness.
once you get past the fact that cats and dogs can be vegan, all the other questions can be answered the same way you would answer them for yourself.
cats are just like lions and tigers – they are carnivores and  need meat.
recipe vegancats veganpet.com vegecat wow-bow
well, unless you let them  go to the store by themselves to pick out your own food, they are at the mercy  of your decisions no matter what you do.
synthetic versions of these nutrients are available,  and it is up to you, the caregiver, to ensure that your cat is receiving the  necessary nutrition.
cats are true carnivores and switching them to a vegan diet may prove  more complex.
once you get past the fact that cats and dogs can be  vegan, all the other questions can be answered the same way you would answer  them for yourself.
should you feed your companion animals meat?
we have tried several vegan cat food diets  – both pre-made and home-made versions.
we have tried several vegan cat food diets – both pre-made and home-made versions.
we  can choose meat or we can choose veg – either way it is totally up to us.
so we are stuck giving her the meat-based food.
wouldn’t they prefer meat?
the debates: aren’t you just forcing your will on them by making them eat a veg diet?
suppliers of veg pet food: bluedogbakery.com
cats are just like lions and tigers – they are carnivores and need meat.
she wants nothing to do  with any of them and, with true cat stubbornness, will simply not eat until we  give her back her meat-based food.
that is the responsibility you  accepted when they became part of your family.
“with proper planning and guidance, using nutritionally-complete  vegan dog and cat foods that meet the association of american feed control  officials (aafco) dog and cat food nutrient profiless, which were determined in  cooperation with the u.s. center for veterinary medicine (cvm), your dog and  cat friends can lead happier, healthier lives.”
you are your companion’s caretaker.
our oldest dog is 17 years old and has  been vegan as long as i have (over a decade).
our cat is another story.
they are not the same.
we can choose meat or we can choose veg – either way it is totally up to us.