i was skeptical at first, but as soon as i met him and saw his passion for dogs and training, i knew that he would be the perfect business partner for me.
baby justin was lying on the bed while his mother  went to take a shower when the attack happened.
he was skin and bones and was obviously hungry.
follow us on twitter!
initial introductions were made on neutral territory with both dogs on loose leashes, so that they had the ability to interact without the frustration of being held too tightly and once the initial meeting went well, both dogs were allowed to interact off leash in a safe area, giving them freedom to form a relationship.
in the video i explain this too.
i grabbed his harness, but did not want to take the time to put it on.
he wanted to concentrate on showing the world how amazing  dogs were through the magic of his camera lens.
while  his exact duties are mostly confidential, he was awarded a medal of  commendation at his retirement ceremony at bolling afb.
i wrote a fifteen page report on my experience with lennox and my thoughts about the david ryan assessment.
the other day laura and i took him onto a local morning tv  show to do theadopt-a- pet segment, and ben took to the cameras like the true  star that he is.
i’m sure the pork council and the nra have played some roles in making the world a better place from time to time, but on this issue, they’re dead wrong, and this time they’re exposing their willingness to put themselves, their greed and their egos ahead of the well being of defenseless domesticated animals.
my good friend and training partner for many years died unexpectedly a few days ago.
this is how dogs really learn so even if you don’t give a food reward every time, the possibility of the potential of one in the future makes a dog work much harder.
i won’t name her, but i remember everything about her, from what she looked like, to what she wore, to how she spoke.
march is my favorite month not just because things feel new and fresh but because it was the month when my daughter was born.
the delivery of the treat must come from the person that the dog knows and trusts - not the stranger.
i share this desire to reduce the number of dog attacks.
my husband was on dog watch for the day as i was out rescuing a chained pitbull, and he went to take a shower.
the dog might not  have been behaving aggressively at all – in fact he might have just been  stimulated by the infant’s cries which could have sounded like a squeaky  toy or a piece of prey to play with.
march was also the time when sadie came into our lives and now three years later it is again the month that marks yet another big change in our household: jasmine.
even at seventy  plus years old he looked so handsome in his leather jacket, making the women  around him swoon, reminding me of the actor sean connery.
what we're doing is not working.
occasionally, an incomplete diet can result in  this craving, but more often than not the dog simply likes eating grass for the  fun of it - just like sadie.
ricochet was slated to be a service dog, but due to her propensity to chase birds, she had to be released from that role.
for instance, if they would like their puppy to greet them politely by sitting instead of jumping on them to get them to interact or give attention, they must clearly remove their attention, when the puppy starts to jump.
at no point did he threaten sarah, try to bite her or become aggressively aroused when she pulled the leash away from him and he released the leash when he was asked to.
please consider making a tax-deductible donation to the foundation and helping us make the world a better place not just for dogs, but also for the people who rely on them for help.
i don’t know a lot about germany but the news i have are not so clear.
had i had any concerns for my safety or those around me given that i was to be fully and wholly responsible for a dog that i do not know and that i had been told has bitten, i would not have continued with the assessment if i believed that dog to be a danger either to myself or those who were standing in the car park.
now you have some good safety tips you can tell your friends, family and  teachers.
i guess they missed the fact that the current bill was inspired from the recent rescue of 300 dogs from a north carolina puppy mill.
she wont let me brush her teeth either.
taking this to the extreme is the dog that jumps up, puts his front paws on a person’s shoulders and stares them full in the face.
this can quickly flip over to more overt aggression and these dogs can be dangerous particularly if they are being handled by just one person.
the brain becomes deprived of oxygen, a situation which can lead to seizures and eventually death.
a competent evaluator must understand the psychological issues behind the multiple behaviors we lump together as aggression.
he had gotten up and blacked out.
as you can see, anise did her magic with this child.
vs: in addition to helping owners, do you feel this book would be particularly helpful to shelters or rescue groups?
the situation is now so serious that scientists are predicting that in the future many breeds will become extinct.
but she always looked so sad when we left her at home by herself that i worried about her being lonely.
don’t we like to see people’s faces  when we say hello?
similarly with puppies, if they are working for their entire meal and everything they like, they are also getting probably 200 rewards a day for good behavior and they are learning that unwanted behavior does not work.
if the dog shows signs of stress, going back to the previous level and building up the noise level again will take pressure off the dog.
i then showed  her a print of what a bulldog used to look like in the 1800’s, a proud,  fit, long-legged dog that looked like it could take on a whole empire, not just  one raging bull.
they called them 'pitbulls' such is the misguided impression of this type of dog.
she loves her big foster sister sadie and likes nothing better than to climb on top of her back to sleep or nestle by her side.
they must be brave enough to go in where no person or animal reasonably should, yet must be able to instantly disengage when ordered to, despite inertia and provocation.
education for parents and children is  essential.
i asked him to ask lucy to “sit.”
but as they get older their default setting is to be fearful of all the things that they were not introduced to early on.
certainly it highlights the sad truth as xenephon said so wisely in 400 bc.
she shows no judgment.
it’s gotten so bad that  we’ve had to have several interventions (which, as evidenced by the fact  that there have been a few, obviously means they haven’t been entirely  successful).
dogtv accounts for this and has recalibrated its video feed to suit dogs’ primary visual capabilities.
so glad you could find a few minutes to talk to me about your new book (which i love, by the way.)
each time i encountered them i suffered personal remarks about the way i looked, what i wore, how immature i was physically and how i spoke.
my daughter was so excited to  open her advent calendar every morning and every day she asked how many more  days until christmas day.
hopefully there's a little bit of entertainment that happens along the way as well.
we know that people and dogs who learn throughout life might be less at risk for suffering cognitive problems in their golden years – and it’s presumed the same is true for cats.
i miss you, dad, and hope that wherever you may be, you are  executing the perfect forehand or making your opponents crazy with the drop  shots that you were so famous for.
the handler asked the girl’s parents to take her away from the dog as its history was uncertain and the dog’s reactions couldn’t be predicted.
sy: similar to your approach on its me or the dog, science-based training is about rewarding the behaviors we want and removing the rewards for unwanted behaviors.
after he ate the food, we watched and waited.
pde ‘lifted the lid on the extent of health and welfare problems in pedigree dogs,’ and provided a general overview about what was being done to improve breeding practices and standards in the uk.
once  again, it's the two-legged problem behind the four legger that precipitates the  problems.
despite everything that has happened to him he still shows restraint in his behavior and a desire for human social contact.
so to all the macho men (and women too sometimes), i just want to say one  thing.
sophia: people frequently have dogs who are fearful and later aggressive out of fear to unfamiliar people and dogs.
she is the epitome of an  ordinary dog with an extra-ordinary spirit!
the third evaluation was conducted by a police dog handler.
children who are in and out of the hospital bond with toby during their repeated visits.
you know me, victoria, and you know that’s what i’m all about.
we’re not sure what kind of dog we’ll get, but we’ll know when we meet him or her at the shelter.
the military also includes heroic dogs that save  the lives of our soldiers every day.
when i introduced sadie into the home we also had a cat, angelica, and even though the two tolerated each other, it wasn’t exactly a match made in heaven.
remember that a dog is an animal and not a cuddly toy.
and as if these numbers  weren’t bad enough, according to 2010 statistics, there were  approximately 4.5 million reported dog bites in the us, 800,000 of which were  serious enough to require medical attention.
there is a public footpath across the road from where i live.
i’ve had good success with dap with some of my clients’ dogs.
boo guided me out and around the hotel to the front of the fire trucks.
regardless of the reason why, there have been more accidents on  his watch than on mine.
if the dog moves away while being pet he  has probably decided that he has had enough so allow him to have space and do  not follow.
most dogs do  not like being hugged.
these aren’t chickens, pigs, cows or even fish (and yes, i do believe all  animals should be treated better even if they are being bred for their meat)
and this is also crazy, came back to a meeting with my newspaper syndicator of 17 years, tribune media services.
shed media us, the production company behind abs's supernanny and bravo's real housewives of nyc, is now looking for families to be on the next season of animal planet'sit's me or the dog this year.
the voting for the first annual hero dog awards is closes this weekend.
and we made the most of it, sledding, building snow men, and watching movies.
when i first started shooting,  positive reinforcement was still the dog training philosophy with the most  momentum in terms of educating the public about training methods based on  modern behavioral science.
ashlynn dawn anderson
aggressive dogs are trying to be dominant.
as we approach her to stop  her from eating, the pace of her chomping speeds up in a desperate effort to  get every last scrumptious morsel of green in her gut before running off to the  next patch.
the local city government ought to be paying us for the free grazing service our dog provides every day on each walk through our local park.
then as soon as the puppy sits they can reward with a sequence of treats—the first for sitting and the rest for remaining seated— and later with praise and petting, once the puppy can sit for food.
finally even my best friends turned against me, because they were threatened that if they didn’t they would be banished from the group, so i had no one.
it’s the emails and letters and phone calls on the radio indicating my advice saved a life that really matters.
we’ve all heard it before, and most of us know someone who has actually done it.
she has a video about her journey on youtube titled "from service dog to surfice dog" that went viral & has over 3.2 million views.
basically, it would have made sure that any breeding facility that had 15 or more breeding bitches and 30 or more puppies was subject to state regulation, licensing, oversight and humane practice requirements by the state.
as a society, we must figure out a more successful way to get the message across.
finally, at a pet store the dog growled and lunged, and when the female owner  tried to force the dog down, she was bitten on the arm.
soon after, he found a confused elderly woman who wandered from her residence.
the other reaction a dog has to being manhandled  through dominance techniques is to lash out and bite the trainer or owner in  anger, frustration and/or fear in order to get that person away from  them.
while they often have a reputation for being harsh and rude, i've found that they're among the most warm and welcoming people i've ever been around.
i don’t know where my bully is now, nor do i care because she is dead to me.
my brain panicked thinking he had turned into cujo and was going to mangle me.
active supervision when both are in the same room together is crucial and separation when a parent is unable to supervise is a must.
it is also advisable that the second dog is either close in age or temperament to the existing dog, making sure their energy levels match.
the bill’s opponents also say there are already laws on the books in  north carolina that deal with the issue of animal abuse and puppy mills.
she's been featured in hundreds of media sources all over the world  showcasing and raising awareness for her causes.
gg: in questi ultimi anni le cose in italia stanno sicuramente cambiando.
the general concept underpinning bsl is that the most  effective way to determine whether or not a certain dog could potentially pose  a threat to humans is by classifying and generalizing entire breeds of dogs as  ‘dangerous’, regardless of the individual dog’s temperament,  behavioral history or owner’s actions.
she's an internationally renowned, award winning surf dog at the center of media attention, who has become an inspirational phenomenon, philanthropic role model, internet sensation, fundraising marvel, community advocate, goodwill ambassador, and muse to millions!
i’m glad i didn’t make my daughter wait  for thirty five years to have her own dog like i did, because watching her play  with her beloved lab sadie is a joy to behold, but i also won’t get a dog  just because she asked me for one.
inter-bitch aggression is very common, as are fights between competing males, and while dogs of the same sex can co-habit peacefully, it is often better to mix the sexes up.
i did not know where the stairs were.
we need to be focusing on owners  and their ultimate responsibility for the animal in their care.
that is just the tip of the  iceberg!
in fact i was voted one ofbark magazine’s 100 best and brightest because of the website.
i will be the youngest inductee ever.
she is now perfectly aware of our disapproval of this dietary trend, and looks  at us from the corner of her beautiful brown eyes while she feasts madly, as if  we hadn’t fed her in a week and a half.
his eyes were soft and he was friendly.
people loved  him because he was smart, funny, gentle, kind and caring.
so behavior can change quickly in puppies.
seriously taking action is  only half the battle as some dog owners need a big kick up the backside.
regardless, counties, cities and entire countries around the world continue  to turn to bsl policies in a desperate attempt to protect their public from the  rising number of serious (and sometimes fatal) dog bites.
having a police dog handler evaluate lennox for his suitability as a patrol or detection dog would be appropriate; it would be having a skilled technician and trainer choosing whether lennox would make the cut as a working dog.
vs: tell people about the advantage of training puppies as young as 8 weeks of age.
positive reinforcement is the best philosophy to use in these cases but there are many methods within this one philosophy that can be used, making positive reinforcement a much safer and more reliable method to use on even ‘red zone’ dogs.
dear victoria, i have a pit bull that’s a year and 3 months.
as a mother and a dog trainer i am dedicated to raising awareness and spreading the word about responsible pet ownership and dog bite prevention.
every  dog is different, and those differences are not due to the breed of the dog,  but rather to the individual dog’s breeding and the environment in which  it was raised.
and i ignored his unusual barking.
at the end of the day, jasmine likes to either snuggle up with us or sleep next to her new best furry friend, cuddled close into her for comfort and protection.
and he did it again, and again.
you can listen to the testimony of animal control who said that the dog was very aggressive when they went to pick him up.
hurlingham is where i  attended grand dances along with sons of lords and boys from eton – the  school for princes.
when i think of her addiction issues, the age-old witticism comes  to mind:  denial ain’t just a river in egypt.
if only she could have known the difference she made in so many lives.
she steals anything she can find, which has made all of us really good at picking up after ourselves, barks at people coming through the door like a rottweiler, (we’re working on that one) and zooms around the house as if she were a greyhound.
the dog might not be doing the behavior because it is afraid of his owner’s reaction, but he still feels the same way inside, and one day those feelings will come to the surface again, and even more intensely than before.
and she thought of the titles “good dog!”
this means that as with children, owners will have to set up play dates and make an effort to get their dog into new environments at least 2-4x a week.
court records indicate that two other animal control employees witnessed this.
è lunga e dovrebbe essere vissuta nel miglior modo per tutti.
what's great about this movie is that it reinforces the belief that exposing your young puppy to a wide range of novel cues -- new people, places, sounds and smells -- in a safe, happy, positive environment is the secret to a wonderfully well-adjusted dog.
"this public safety ambassador memorably demonstrates “be safe” skills for children such as how to 'stop-drop-n-roll' when told, "you're on fire!"; 'crawl out under the smoke' when told, "there's smoke, how do you get out?!"; 'plays dead' when asked, "what happens
he came every night and  several times during the day to eat warm food and sleep on the comfortable, yet  cold bed that the neighbor had put out on the floor of their outdoor  porch.
we have a custom-wrapped 45-foot “rock star” bus that has previously been used to transport “dog: the bounty hunter,” david copperfield, lady gaga and touring broadway shows.
fortunately she’s a trainer’s daughter and at the age of two and a  half was already training her toy dalmatians to ‘leave it’ and  ‘sit’ with pretend treats and a training pouch i had given her.
one important thing to keep in mind is that a dog who is “house trained” in one home doesn’t necessarily transfer that behavior to your home.
this case was decided the day lennox was taken from his family in may 2010.
eric worked hard on the  training, but was worried that caspar would lose his ‘drive’ if he  was castrated.
at this point i would also like to clarify the meaning of the word friendly.
my father’s tree stands on the side of a small lake, in front of some tennis courts, with a plaque at the bottom to honor his memory.
i also asked what you would like to discuss in future posts and received some great ideas for topics so these will definitely be covered in the weeks ahead.
i have two mini australian shepherds.
i could hear some thumping and tyson still barking.
i could help make people and the pets they love healthier and happier.
no, showing holds no benefits for that type of dog at all; it is  purely for the owner.
i spent approx 15 minutes with lennox prior to being taken from the crate, working with a clicker and some treats to see if, even in the environment that was causing him some anxiety, he could still learn and take direction from a stranger.
when this has been achieved the high reward, such as food, should be used intermittently.
i’m often asked ‘how many dogs is it ok to own?’
phoenix is a special pup that has taught and shared his love, trust and strength.
because the dog now feels pain when it encounters the person it fears, the  aggression escalates.
sd: i started off as a radio deejay, but also writing for newspapers,usa today and and people magazine – and i often was the guy interviewing celebrities.
named after aladdin’s brave princess, jasmine strutted around our home  like she had lived there all her life.
isn’t it uncomfortable to have so many folds on the face  that fold dermatitis and other infections can occur if not cleaned daily?
aggression in dogs needs to be handled sensitively and with  compassion.
insegna etologia, antropologia e teoria dell’apprendimento, il tutto correlato dal lavoro pratico con cani e cavalli.
i was just getting used to it being 2010 and before we know it we’re going to be in 2011.
approximately 500 genetic health defects have been documented in dogs and defects are very high in purebreds because the gene pool is so limited.
i was skeptical at first, but  as soon as i met him and saw his passion for dogs and training, i knew that he  would be the perfect business partner for me.
since the meeting was being filmed by jemima harrison forpedigree dogs exposed 2 , the kc had refused to attend because it did not trust passionate productions ‘to provide an unbiased account of proceedings.’
if a registered breeder is doing what they’re supposed to, i don’t see why more oversight would be a problem for the akc or its breeders.
when i came back up the stairs i realized my home was completely smoke filled and black.
either the dog is staying with the uncle, the grandparents are babysitting for the child, or someone outside their normal circumstance is placed as the primary guardian.
the book and the movie.
here is the amazing story of a little dog that performed an enormous deed; he saved the life of his owner.
but i learned and used for the first time the positive reinforcement method in san francisco ca in 1991, training a rescued greyhound.
as a mother i cannot imagine the pain that they  are going through at the moment.
during this holiday season i think about my wonderful family, how fortunate  i have been in my life and career and how lucky i am to have the opportunity to  help others through what i do.
he went to school and gained his certification as a trainer and that is when he came into my life.
surely this would be the answer and we  could put an end to his misery..
comments check out a sneak peek of tonight's episode!
keeping his  calm he cleaned the crate up and went to work in his office.
if all dogs who jump up on strangers in their house were guilty of being dangerous dogs, there would not be many dogs left in homes.
we would not ask the police trainer to evaluated fire department equipment, even though he might like the red suspenders.
a child should never be left unsupervised with any dog at any time and dog and child should only be together when a responsible adult can actively supervise.
my question is: why was the dog euthanized before he was evaluated by a qualified behavioral specialist?
i had heard through a friend of mine that a large, male, brindle-colored  pit/mastiff mix was wandering around their neighborhood in the freezing  cold.
my body trembled and my mouth went dry, but i did nothing and not a word passed between us, because i know she saw the look on my face and for the first time i saw worry in hers.
and they loved it, of course.
this is a common mistake that almost every person makes when first using positive reinforcement method.
the  beloved flat coated retriever.
too often adopters bring home a dog and expect it to jump out of the car and follow them into the house.
i have personally joined the fight to bring lennox back to his loving home, having spoken at length by phone with his owner.
dominance theory relies heavily on the idea  that if a dog is being aggressive, controlling or just behaving badly then it  must be trying to dominate the owner.
maybe i am weak to do so and should learn to forgive what she did to me, but i’m not that good a person.
while some of them were destroyed within a matter of minutes, others  required a lot of mental energy, especially when there was food involved that  needed to be extracted.
if a dog  hasn’t been taught how to function in a domestic environment he will  behave in the only way he knows how.
and to all of those calling out for the pitbull breeds to be banned, breed  specific legislation (bsl), does not work!
jumping becomes a controlling/coping mechanism that allows the dog to deal with the new intrusion.
if you asked those dogs what they would prefer to be doing, running outside chasing rabbits would be my guess, rather than spending most of the day in a crate, prancing around a room and having to stand still for long periods being felt up by a person they don’t know.
the first day she  came to us, she jumped onto our bed, rolled on her back, stuck her paws up in  the air and went to sleep.
10  months ago, lennox was confiscated by the authorities in belfast simply because  his bodily dimensions fall into a breed category the government calls a  ‘pit bull type’.
i first met her several years ago when she stopped by our house in atlanta for some dinner while she was in town for one of her popular dog training seminars, and we instantly hit it off.
we actually spoke about his trips to africa, and elephant poaching.
part of tallack's testimony apparently highlighted the fact that a dog should not respond defensively even when being mishandled, including being hit, pushed around, poked in the eye and shouted at.
then after meeting in this large room, we were always paired with someone.
our newest (little) addition posted by victoria stilwell - 03/02/11
the bottom line is that some people are  worried that neutering will somehow change their dogs and make them less  ‘manly.’
always be aware parents that even if you don’t  think they are, your children are watching and listening to everything you say  and do.
so what can you do if your dog jumps on people when they come through the door?
credo che molto dipenda da vecchie conoscenze legate in qualche modo ad una tradizione e concezione antica del cane e ad una poca volontà di aggiornarsi e cambiare il proprio modo di lavoro.
so basically they’re willing to let their fear of those in  support of the bill dictate their stance on whether or not they’re ok  letting dogs languish in abject misery in puppy mills.
then i tell them that positive reinforcement is used for two goals: teaching the behavior and motivating the behavior!
the best relationships are born out of travesty, enduring hard times together and battling through.
and i’ve known her for some time.
my report continued: ‘if a dog, that would rather practice avoidance and take himself away from threat, is unable to do so and the threat comes closer and does not allow the dog any chance to escape, the dog has no other choice but to respond defensively.
i understand that it would be cruel to keep the dog alive for too long because of the stress it would be under being away from its family, and that getting a clear picture of behavior would be hard in a shelter environment, but if a professional had been able to study this dog, they would have come up with potentially valuable information that could be shared and used to prevent future attacks from happening.
i love the buzz, the energy and the passion.
so it’s easier to remove our attention or remove the reward for jumping before they have a chance.
then the heaving  started.
i was often asked if i thought it was alright to have just one dog and would always answer that as long as the only dog was given plenty of human attention and stimulation and not left on their own for long hours during the day, it was ok.
her mom never missed an “i love lucy” taping.
so yes, there are hundreds of these tips, little-known inside information that even some veterinarians don’t know about, and each tidbit will make life easier for a dog-lover.
positive  reinforcement is the best philosophy to use in these cases but there are many  methods within this one philosophy that can be used, making positive  reinforcement a much safer and more reliable method to use on even ‘red  zone’ dogs.
sy: people think you should wait until the puppy is older to start training and as a result, they spend the first weeks inadvertently rewarding unwanted behaviors or instead of controlling the environment and immediately setting up the situation for success.
even though i told my closest friends how bad it was getting, none of us, including myself, would dare tell a teacher or my parents, it just wasn’t done in those days.
police handlers do not address behavior problems of other animals-they are focused on the training, maintenance and development of their special charges.
having never heard of  thanksgiving before i came to the states i wondered why it was such a big deal,  but over the years i’ve come to really appreciate the message that it  sends – giving thanks for the good things in your life, connecting with  family and eating lots!
as the year went by my bully became more confident and the comments became taunts.
here’s another: a common poisoning risk to your dog isn’t something most people are terrified of their dog getting into, such as chocolate, which is actually relatively low-risk – especially milk or white chocolate.
i’m sure i know what my answer would be.
photo credit patrick schneider - charlotte observer i had been aware of and even worked with a few therapy dogs before 9/11, but the days i spent witnessing the immense power of these dogs as they poured themselves out for the bereaved was truly amazing, and served as the inspiration for what eventually became my charitable foundation.
saturdays at 8pm est >
stay tuned for more info about my work with rin tin tin!
in his ruling, the judge in this case showed yet another flaw in the execution of bsl, in that he clearly is not aware of the basics of dog behavior and basically decided to believe that tallack’s confrontational approach rather than fisher’s experienced and scientificially-based methodology was more influential in his decision-making.
sd: i believe if you combine my schedule and yours – we don’t equal betty white’s.
what types of services do you offer and what message are you trying to convey to the local dog-owning public?
contrary to what some trainers might lead you to believe – dogs are not out to achieve world domination!!!
we only had about  five inches of snow, but what made the roads so dangerous was the sheet of ice  that developed on top of the snow from the freezing rain that fell  afterwards.
queen kitty ruled the roost and everyone knew it, so when she died sadie went about life as if nothing had happened and all was perfectly normal.
and regardless of where people get their cuddly new friend, the sad fact is that january and february are often the busiest time of year for shelters taking back recently-adopted pets whose honeymoon period with their new owners has ended just as the holiday decorations are packed away for another year.
i grabbed the phone, but nobody answered at the front desk.
when people like me advise that an infant or young child should never be left alone with a dog even for one second, we mean it!
in this episode, victoria tangles with eric, the young owner of an  unneutered presa canario, about the root causes of their problems and what to  do about them.
and i can say this-police canine handlers and trainers are special, valued and talented persons-but they are not behaviorists.
fromit's me  or the dog as they began the search for the ny-area dogs and families most  in need of victoria's help, as well as three of victoria's licensed dog  trainers from the victoria stilwell positively dog training (vspdt)  program.
it was humbling to have been asked to contribute, and included among this extraordinary group.
positive training uses constructive discipline toguide the dog into making better choices rather than scaring or inflicting pain.
he hit his face on a piece of furniture and cut his face.
that any breed of dog can bite, and any breed of dog can be a good family pet.
well, that doesn’t surprise me because what would you do if a group of strangers came into your home to take you away?
the more i investigate the dog bite problem, the more i am discovering the reasons why.
you want to ‘matter’ to her by being the source of good things in her life, so that whenever you need her attention, she will give it to you.
what i do have a problem with are people who go out of their way to actively oppose efforts to ensure the well-being of domesticated dogs.
remember to look at the dog briefly and then look away, look and  look away.
there are more  things for the average dog owner to enjoy such as agility, flyball, training  classes, heel to music demonstrations and trade stands by the hundreds.
but when its failings as a concept and its cruelty in practice are publicly exposed as they have been in the case of lennox, it truly sickens me.
but new clinically proven studies prove the opposite: frequently bathing is the best thing you can do to prevent and address allergies and other skin problems in your dog.
it doesn’t matter if you’re telling him “no,” he’s going to pay attention more to what your body language says, “jump up to get the treat i’m extending out to you.”
eventually, more dogs are added and the dog is set up for success by teaching it to literally feel differently about the presence of that which once caused such a fearful response.
welcome sadie to our home and our family – we are so blessed that  you are now part of our lives.
so while i may feel that a good portion of our daily walk time is  unnecessarily taken up with boring grass-eating, sadie is happy and healthy,  and that’s the most important thing.
i have been informed that a tiny part of david ryan’s assessment where lennox reacted to feeling threatened has now been taken out of context and released by itself as ’evidence’ that lennox is a dangerous dog.
that’s why for treat delivery i focus on standing up straight and bending your knees while delivery the treat with an outstretched arm.
hawk was only the second k-9 to serve as a clinton county sheriff’s office reserve k-9.
what they meant was mature enough to handle the force-based corrections without crumbling.
for example, by digging into the data from some of the most high profile cases involving canine homicides (the term used when a dog kills a human), we've found one fascinating common thread in almost all scenarios: one component of the scenario is unnatural.
tribute to garry posted by victoria stilwell - 12/02/10 at 11:12:18  am -32
even when you have permission, do not invade the dog’s body  space.
the  neighbors had been keeping a constant vigil all night but we all knew that  surviving another night was near impossible.
one case that will always stand out in my mind was a large member of the bull breed family.
the breeder told me that facial folds were important because they helped drain the blood away from a bulldog’s face when it was bull baiting.
like most people, i knew that rin tin tin rose to fame thanks to his prolific work in hollywood during the first half of the 20th century, but i wasn't fully aware of the amazing story about how he came to the us as a rescued, shellshocked pup from france during world war i. i also didn't know that the current and previous rin tin tins (there have been 12 so far) have a history as service dogs tending to children in need.
you could spend all day at crufts and not see one dog being shown.
in fact intermittent reinforcement like this actually makes a dog respond faster and more reliably because it is based on the same theory that makes a slot machine in a casino so addictive.
one thing that is fairly certain in sadie’s case is that like most dogs, the memory span relating to her cognitive reasoning is not nearly long enough for her to understand the correlation between eating grass and having to endure another manual poo extraction exercise.
it’s me or the dog did not win the award, but that did not  not matter to me because every nominee and winner are fighting for the same end  and as the evening drew to a close i was just thankful for being part of a  group of like-minded, strong individuals that are working hard to put an end to  animal cruelty.
ironically, one of the most commonly found attributes among aggressive dogs is not their breed, but rather a lack of confidence and insecurity.
after the first year living with sierra and her separation issues, i realized that a comprehensive book on the subject was warranted.
a team of district, community, and school personnel met to determine the best way to help the children reclaim their school and return to some sense of a safe and secure environment.
the nra and the pork council have gone so far as to actually say that they  have more of a problem with those who sponsor the bill than the bill  itself.
if your dog is jumping from pure excitement then it is wise to manage your  environment by not allowing the dog to greet people when they first come  through the door.
i had a vague interest in boys, but at that stage they still weren’t a big deal
naturalmente avere la possibilità di divulgare nel miglior modo una corretta cultura cinofila ed essere membro di una associazione così importante mi hanno spinto a provare questa esperienza.
never stare at a dog and never put your face close to a dog’s
however, just a few minutes into the piano class, ricky, our devon rex cat pushed the door open.
i’m now home for a while having just finished filming the third american series of it’s me or the dog in new york city and am happy to be home with my husband and daughter again while connecting with friends that i haven’t seen for a long time.
it’s true that for decades we veterinarians have learned – and shared the information with our clients – that frequent bathing dried out a dog’s skin and coat and was not recommended.
my father knew everyone who worked at the grounds so we would often get in for free finding any seat available to watch the stars play.
certain events pull us all together and lead us in new and more fruitful directions, sometimes even out of the smoke and rubble of tragedies like those endured at the world trade center, the pentagon and shanksville, pennsylvania.
how’d you come up with it?
probably the coolest thing for owners is that they get to see the puppy make the choice to behave in a desired way.
ben represents the military working dog in spirit, dedication  and loyalty.
the book begins by guiding the reader through a few simple exercises to determine whether their dog has true separation anxiety, is simply acting out of boredom, or has “isolation distress,” meaning they are fine as long as there is another warm body present.
for the past 40 or so years, amazing trainers and behaviorists like ian dunbar, patricia mcconnell, karen pryor, nick dodman (all of whom deliver their fantastic knowledge as expert bloggers on this site!) and many others have been moving the needle of public awareness away from the traditional, yank-em-crank-em, dominate-your-dog-into-submission style of dog training and towards the use of positive reinforcement.
my daughter and i  walk along the path to get to the playground in the local park.
he made no move to get away but looked at her instead as if to say, “i’m done – take me home.”
on tonight's episode, victoria helps a couple whose out-of-control dog has  begun to have serioius consequences on their relationship.
she accused me of wanting to ban them – her immediate reaction to questions i asked her that she knew she couldn’t defend.
we had a lovely evening and he got to meet the wonderful bernadette peters, who has been a supporter of sfth and other animal causes for many years.
while domination does happen in the  canine world, it shows another real misunderstanding of dog behavior to label
sadie walked up to my daughter, sat down in front of her and raised her paw as if to shake hands and say hello.
he was skin and  bones and was obviously hungry.
how do i get her to be more comfortable around men?
thank you, jamie p., madison, ms il cane norma’s giorgio guglielminotti garmot is one of the first international members of victoria’s exclusive global network of world-class positive reinforcement trainers –victoria stilwell positively dog training (vspdt).
regardless of what some uneducated people may wish to think, it is possible to glean a lot of information about a dog through games and food as many behaviour counsellors and trainers will confirm.
it is only a matter of time before that weapon will go off and the consequences will be dire.
in some cases the dog is so  aroused it learns to redirect its aggression towards humans.
we evolve and learn.
they might also be worried that less breeders will be paying to register their puppies via the akc which would mean less money for the akc.
ci sono molte scuole di formazione per istruttori cinofili che rifiutano categoricamente metodi coercitivi e l’utilizzo della dominanza, questo fa si che tutti i nuovi professionisti divulghino una corretta cultura cinofila basata sul rispetto e sulla costruzione di una buona relazione col cane.
why  do those championing breed conformation continue to celebrate this  breed’s discomfort and deformity?
fact: there are many great training methods  and many different effective and humane ways to train dogs, but all of those  methods fall under one general behavioral philosophy – positive  reinforcement.
if a strange dog comes up to  you and you are scared, put your hands together, stand still, look away and  completely ignore him until he loses interest in you and goes away.
we went down the flights of stairs until boo stopped at another door.
i slipped his harness over his head and sat on the ground with him."
parents and guardians need to be responsible for their dog at all times, without exception, and especially around children.
buster  and i were sleeping upstairs and we were having a terrible ice storm that  night.
a similar approach should be used with animals.
in july of 2010 we were fostering a mother dog and her ten puppies.
i receive letters asking for advice on anything from housetraining to destructive chewing, from aggression to jumping up on visitors.
here are a few guidelines that you can follow when you are around dogs to keep yourself safe.
dogs guard and control for fear that they will lose access to their comfort and what makes them feel good and not because they want to dominate humans and the household, yet for so long these kinds of behaviors have been grossly misunderstood.
he's my husband’s hero!!
he might control access to food, space or furniture by aggressing at a human only because he is insecure and hasn’t been given the confidence to know that there is no need to guard these resources.
i began to retreat into myself, became quieter and more reserved.
as the veterinarians
i’ve been planning the development of this website ever since it became clear to me that a unified voice was needed to help let the public know that there’s a better way to train their dogs… positively!
according to several studies, heart attack patients that have pets survive longer than those without and male pet owners in particular have lower triglyceride and cholesterol levels, two key components of heart disease.
chihuahua mix jasmine – exude upon my inevitable return.
the  positive trainer will then find non threatening ways to train the dog to feel  more comfortable around the stimuli, with the result that this confidence means  there is no need for the dog to behave aggressively.
i’ve had to dispel the generalizations of that myth countless times with fellow dogwalkers in the park.
she has spent seventeen years teaching, lecturing, filming, writing and working with a wide variety of dog breeds in the uk, south africa and other european countries.
i offer deep discounts to shelters and rescue groups.
do it here: treasure has overcome adversity in her own life ...
whether you think  it's morally correct or not (and in my opinion it's completely bogus -  targeting the wrong end of the leash), the simple fact is that regardless of  how you feel about certain types of dogs, breed specific legislation (bsl) does  not work.
my mother still lives in wimbledon in the  same house where i was raised, very close to the wimbledon tennis championship  grounds.
for more information go to www.dogtv.com.
other end of the leash.
fact: this is something that i hear often  but comes from those who do not understand how powerful positive training  is.
for those of you who do not live in atlanta – this was how crazy it got.
he has been deprived of his normal social contacts-his family, has had limited exercise and interaction outside his kennel, and has even been medicated with amitriptyline.
watch an interview from global pet expo.
if a dog reacts aggressively while being treated in this manner it is a dangerous dog.
this is an issue that is very close to my heart, and i want to do whatever i can to help.
then the next couple of times he responds,  a lower-value reward such as praise will be used, but the dog continues to  respond.
4 year old ashlynn was the victim of a fatal dog attack and the inspiration for dads against dangerous dogs (dadd).
we had to catch him and do  it fast because time was running out.
i also developed an appreciation for his place in  their family unit, as he serves as a therapy dog for the family's 12 year old  daughter.
click here to find out more about this special event.
armed with a bowl of warmed up cat food (i do not recommend feeding cat food to a dog, but it is one of the smells and tastes that dogs cannot resist and is therefore the best kind of food to use if you want to catch a stray), i went out onto the porch and waited.
unfortunately there are still a lot of owners and trainers out there who feel that their machismo or manliness might be called into question if they do anything that’s misperceived as letting a dog be the ‘pack leader’ over them.
assessing dog aggression, and evaluating whether a dog is "dangerous", even when presented with clear criteria (which do not exist in this case) is a job best left to those familiar with more than just whether a dog is physically able to bite.
past recipients of this award have included the wonderfuldr.
he teaches ethology, anthropology, and epistemology (theory of knowledge), besides his practical work with dogs and horses.
punish an insecure dog and you make that dog even more insecure even though it looks like he is behaving better.
which breed of dog was named ‘most aggressive’ in recent scientific studies?
sadie belonged to an  elderly lady who was no longer able to keep her due to illness and members of  the family decided that it would be best to re-home her.
i suspect that it might make you angry or you would want to prevent  the dog getting your food.
a main reason why i think a lot of dominance trainers take the approach that they do is because if they do take the time to find out why a situation is occurring they often fundamentally misdiagnose what is causing the problem in the first place.
i spent time with one of them on my own, hand feeding him and was finally able to touch his face.
it will change all your lives for the better.
when this has been achieved the high value reward can then be used intermittently.
as the veterinarians and i stood watching ready with the tranquilizer darts, the dog came up to laura and georgie and started to interact with them.
fact: any reward that is used to motivate the dog to learn has to be of high value until the dog is responding reliably.
parents often say this was the first time their child smiled since entering the hospital.
because of her additional experience in canine physiology she notices structural abnormalities in dogs that others miss and more compelling evidence comes out from her evaluation of lennox that this is a dog that does not deserve to be in the position that he has found himself in.
over thousands of years, these beautiful creatures have gradually been  domesticated by humans, so it is therefore incumbent upon us as the higher  species to give them the tools they need to live successfully in our strange,  human environment.
all the ‘might haves’ and ‘could haves’ are now going to be just that because now the dog has been destroyed, we will never know.
how can we as a dog loving nation allow this to  continue?
i love watching puppies and noticing how they develop and how minor events shape their behavior and personality.
please be careful with the chemical products that you use in your home or your yard– there’s no worse feeling than watching your beloved dog or cat closely for signs that they may be entering the struggle of their lives or worse, that they are about to lose their life altogether.
he is the author to 17 books in english, german, spanish, danish, swedish, norwegian, italian, and czech, and innumerous articles on behavior.
unless they really do just hate puppies.
years ago, she served on the board of directors of the american humane association, where for the past several years i’ve served.
for more information or to nominate your hero dog, visit the hero dog  awards official site!
i was working as a dog trainer in and around manhattan, cutting my teeth in one of the world’s most unique environments for dogs with some of the most colorful clients you could imagine.
i couldn’t quite make out what he said when her heard my six year old asking for an itouch.
it was a good thing i did; when we got downstairs my husband was unconscious on the floor.
he spied us looking at him through the window and barked at us as he backed away.
for example, i have heard people say that positive reinforcement trainers  only deal with obedience training, but when it comes to severe behavioral  issues such as aggression, dominance training methods are the only ones that  really work because they are more in tune with a dog’s basic  psychology.
we last met up at american humane association’s hero dog awards in l.a. – what have you been up to since then?
myth: dominance training is much safer  because it has quicker results and for an aggressive dog anything that works  quickly means that the dog is safer for humans to be around.
‘where knowledge ends, violence begins.’
regardless, counties, cities and entire countries around the world continue to turn to bsl policies in a desperate attempt to protect their public from the rising number of serious (and sometimes fatal) dog bites.
does the dog have the inter-species social skills needed to peacefully coexist in a multi-species social environment?
a dog can be frustrated through rough play or by teasing  and a child can inadvertently inflict pain with the pull of a tail or a poke in  the eye.
last year, i had the opportunity to meet with the lovely anderson family.
dr. jennie jamtgaard, an applied animal behavior consultant and behavior instructor at colorado state university college of veterinary medicine gives an example: "i saw an australian cattledog mix with severe aggression (lunging, growling, barking) directed at other dogs whenever they came into view, even hundreds of feet away.
providing the dog access to this safe place is essential at all times, particularly during an owner’s absence.
vs: where can people buy the ebooks?
download your free copy of pet meets baby here!
by gosh – he was playing a tune.
10 months ago, lennox was confiscated by the authorities in belfast simply because his bodily dimensions fall into a breed category the government calls a ‘pit bull type’.
i make no secret of the fact that i come from a rescue-oriented background and have never been a part of the show-dog world, but that’s not to say i’m completely against it, either.
i have spent a lot of time living and working in los angeles and even
i understand that it would be cruel to keep the dog alive for too  long because of the stress it would be under being away from its family, and  that getting a clear picture of behavior would be hard in a shelter  environment, but if a professional had been able to study this dog, they would  have come up with potentially valuable information that could be shared and  used to prevent future attacks from happening.
after discussing the  situation, i came away thoroughly impressed with what responsible dog owners
i also developed an appreciation for his place in their family unit, as he serves as a therapy dog for the family's 12 year old daughter.
to the few that use threats against me and others, there are millions of people around the world singing with one voice.
i knew i would never be able to keep all of this sweetness and love to myself and therefore we joined a wonderful organization called good dog foundation.
it will be interesting to see if some of the new products i saw being launched at the expo will make it into stores, because if they do, my girls will be very happy.
there is no psychologist in the world like a dog kissing  your face.
oh well, i guess  getting older is better than the alternative.
molti istruttori cinofili in italia conoscono victoria stilwell e il suo programma
dogtv is currently only available on timewarner and cox cable in the san diego area, but a full, nationwide launch is expected soon, followed by other countries including the uk and beyond.
it just remains to say, for all of those who pick up their dog’s poo – thanks and blessings.
again this was mentioned in my written report.
thankfully the area where the dog was located was not too far away, so i got in my car and drove carefully to the road where the dog had last been seen.
let’s give  the animals we’ve domesticated the best possible chance to succeed in our  world – it’s the right thing to do not just for the dogs, but for  our safety as well.
just because a dog isn’t a puppy doesn’t mean it doesn’t need to learn what you expect of it.
in subsequent chapters, owners are assisted in brainstorming management solutions and in creating an appropriate “alone zone” for their dog, and are given step-by-step assistance to formulate a customized treatment plan.
during my last visit i was invited by my friend and uk television vet, marc abraham, to attend a meeting of the associate parliamentary group for animal welfare (apgaw) at the houses of parliament, the seat of british government.
it's just in a non-conventional way!
we worked very hard to create a book that is priced far, far below the usual retail cost for a book its size, so that shelters and rescue groups could afford to give it out with every dog they adopt.
i have never seen a dog face such adversity, discomfort and complications with the grace, gentleness, trust and strength he did.
now more than ever,  awareness needs to be raised about how to prevent dog bites from  occurring.
maybe lucy heard me say the word.
tell us a bit about him, why you decided to invite him to your first seminar, and what ethology is all about.
it’s not that she thinks i don’t love her, or that she’s in any physical pain.
the nra and the pork council have gone so far as to actually say that they have more of a problem with those who sponsor the bill than the bill itself.
the family dachshund.
myth: there are two different behavioral philosophies that you can use to train dogs - positive reinforcement or dominance training and both are equally effective.
we’ve met (and adopted!)
but the main reason for my trip to little rock was not to meet this rin tin tin, but rather the future heir to the famous name.
allow the dog to come up to you and sniff your closed fist (palm  down, knuckles facing the dog).
he decided to pursue a career with the other love of his life, dogs.
sadie enjoys the attention and licks her as she goes to  sleep.
when people like me advise that an  infant or young child should never be left alone with a dog even for one  second, we mean it!
as we were talking, i saw out of the corner of my eye a tall,  gangly dog emerge from the woods and walk to the porch.
that’s an honest challenge to those opposed to puppy mill  reform:  you fix the puppy mill problem however you want, so long as the  following issues are resolved including: dogs being kept in small cages all their life dogs having no social interaction with other dogs or humans dogs that develop genetically-based diseases due to incestuous breeding  practices dogs that have their vocal cords ripped out to stop their incessant barking dogs living in and among their own feces and urine in cages stacked on top  of each other dogs that don’t know how to walk on solid ground after having spent  their entire lives in wire cages.
he had donated a dog photography session for the  silent auction and his beautiful photos were on display.
he went to school and gained his certification as a trainer and that is when he  came into my life.
again, dominance trainers will argue  that these are effective methods of punishment because they stop dogs from  repeating negative behavior, and they are right to a point.
things were beginning to look very bleak.
he obviously sets very high standards for these animals but i'm sure if he was pushed around and feared for his life, he would react accordingly in order to defend himself.
we offer base education and advanced training as obedience, rally-o, agility dog, nose works and discdog.
my beautiful, brown sadie.
for instance if you lean over the puppy to give him a treat, he’ll have a tendency to jump because it looks like you are soliciting attention.
i suppose i should have been flattered, but i was blissfully unaware of this, until the bully started to make fun of me and say nasty comments as i walked past her in the school hallways.
at 10:00 pm i collapsed into sleep with boo curled up on the floor at my side.
as i stand in front of his tree with my head full of  memories i can see him playing tennis on the court behind me, intense and  competitive, in his element and loving this sport that was so much part of his  life.
thank you, lauren hamden, ct ever wonder what dogs are saying to each other while they chill out in the laundry room?
one of the points i  made on the show, however, was something that i don’t think was on other  people’s radars:  why was the most crucial piece of evidence in the  case destroyed so quickly?
i am not, and i dismiss those who suggest that wanting the best for our canine companions’ mental and physical health is necessarily at odds with the breeding of purebred dogs.
i really can’t see how anyone could argue against that.
yes, those are the two ebooks.
having not had a chance to evaluate lennox for myself since  he’s been incarcerated, i can only hope that his tortuous past few months  have not made him another victim of this vicious cycle.
sadie in turn  has been enjoying more attention from all of us so that she doesn’t  resent the new addition.
or maybe in within his gibberish, lucy somehow made out the word.
the casting team is holding open auditions throughout the tri-state area in the following locations:saturday, august 6, 2011 hounds on the hudson to apply immediately visit www.itsmeorthedog.com or email dog@shedmediaus.com.
i have participated in the testing and evaluation of police dogs before their training.
but i nearly took one of her friends’ heads off with an awe-inspiring cross court backhand and was never asked to play again.
so where do the poor pups  go?
you can interview the family
ricky and i worked together to reach millions to dispel myths about cats.
sy: with the learn to earn program where you focus on teaching the puppy to say please by sitting for everything she wants and you are aware of your every interaction with your puppy, yes, you can form good habits in just a week.
dogtv is not designed to be ‘must see tv’ for our dogs, and it’s perfectly ok for dogs not to want to become couch ‘pet’atoes once it’s switched on.
i was totally absorbed in what i was doing and when i turned to walk out i realised that one of the romanian men had been watching me.
let me be clear: i’m not claiming that the dog was somehow a victim, nor am i defending him or his actions.
for some reason, though, a lot of people still don't like hearing trainers say that it's not ok to train your dog using any method that "works".
despite the best efforts of humane societies and shelters around the world, the holiday season is still among the busiest times of the year in terms of people adding new pets to their household.
we’ve tried medications that have not worked, but what we really want is to know if this is something that training would help.
statistics have shown that throughout the world, wherever bsl has been  initiated, the number of dog bites has actually increased since the legislation  has passed.
unfortunately there are  still a lot of owners and trainers out there who feel that their machismo or  manliness might be called into question if they do anything that’s  misperceived as letting a dog be the ‘pack leader’ over them.
when you work closely with an animal, your bond might be intensified.
dr. herron states that,  "our study demonstrated that manyconfrontational training methods , whether staring down dogs, striking them, or intimidating them with  physical manipulation such as alpha rolls [holding dogs on their back], do little to correct improper behavior and can elicit aggressive responses ." dr. jennie jamtgaard, an applied animal behavior consultant and behavior  instructor at colorado state university college of veterinary medicine gives an  example: "i saw an australian cattledog mix with severe aggression  (lunging, growling, barking) directed at other dogs whenever they came into  view, even hundreds of feet away.
but a year after our dogs had crossed over, i found myself searching the shelters for a new family member.
i’m always frustrated when i hear people say they want to get a  certain type of dog ‘for protection’, not realizing that actual  protection dogs are incredibly rare, while their family pet-turned-guardian is  actually nothing more than a ticking timebomb waiting to go off once their  child brings a friend over for a playdate.
the gas is then absorbed into the blood stream and is carried to the lungs, liver, and kidneys.
there was this one man – apparently suffered brain damage in some sort of accident.
i believe that there are many fantastic methods and approaches that can be used to effectively change dogs' behavior, but i also firmly believe that all of those methods have one thing in common - a general basis in the principles of positive reinforcement and force-free training.
in the 18 months since lennox was taken from his family and put in a stressful environment and situation away from those he trusted and loved most, he has been a pawn in a political game that serves to take a flawed piece of legislation, such as bsl, to an all time disgraceful level.
i was sitting on the couch watching tv and she cried at the gate we have up.
i am also a dog owner and dog trainer who has committed my life to helping people find the most effective, humane and responsible way to live in harmony with their dogs while also affording them the respect they deserve.
at a young age (7 months), phoenix was involved in a terrible accident that severely injured his right hind leg.
as the contributions of military working dogs are being recognized for their accomplishments around the globe, american humane association proudly announced today that rin tin tin, possibly the most recognized dog in the world, has become its first national spokesdog.
and a lifetime of learning new things might allow cats – who by nature are typically entrenched in routines - to become a bit more pliable and open to inevitable changes.
well–being comes second to breed conformation.
thankfully one of the neighbors had provided a bed for  him on their back porch and was feeding him two large meals a day, but even  with all this kindness, he resisted all attempts to be captured.
the bottom line here is that a reward  that motivates a dog to learn is a great training tool because learning not  only makes a dog more confident and able to live successfully in a domestic  environment, it also encourages mutual understanding that increases the  human/animal bond.
i had been given the job because at that point in my life i was interested in either becoming a police officer or going into personal protection, but that was before theatre and dogs really came into my life and changed my path forever.
dogs eat grass for many reasons, only one of which is occasionally that  their stomach is upset and needs emptying.
how can i stop this behavior?
but don’t think for a moment that these or any other  positive trainers are weak.
it’s much easier to trust someone who always does what they say they will do and who communicates in a language you can understand.
the judge examines the dog and then "gives awards on  how closely the dog compares to the judge’s mental image of the perfect  dog described in the breed’s official standard."  i think the  dog world needs to take a closer look at the concept of breed  conformation.
garry’s photographs, were to him, studies in art, but a  decision to take on a job commissioned by a well known organization, proved to  be his downfall.
pit bulls can make great family pets in the hands of a responsible owner simply put, any breed of dog can bite, and any breed of dog can make a perfect family pet.
mwd ben c020 (retired) served his country as a patrol narcotics dog in the united states air force.
go out into the back yard with laura’s female dog georgie and play – surely this is what was missing.
line breeding is still classed as inbreeding and it weakens the gene pool considerably.
lennox was so gentle with the taking of the food both in the crate and also later in the car park.
thanks to the quick action of dr. duffy jones, we still have our beloved dog, and for that we are eternally grateful.
i was not a particularly ‘cool’ teenager.
vs: have you found that dogs from shelters or rescue groups have a special set of problems that need to be addressed?
his amazing photos appeared in fashion magazines, advertisements and album covers all over the world.
where there was fear and sadness, the teachers could once again hear laughter, children running with happy dogs, and kelly elementary school moving towards a new normal.
here is a dog that exhibits talent in a couple of areas, all of which show her love of humans and her passion for keeping us safe.
e-coli – can cause urinary tract infections in  humans, meningitis, peritonitis, mastitis, septicemia, pneumonia, severe  vomiting and diarrhea and in few cases even death.
he is a popular guest in tv and radio programs in his home countries and in the us.
i pick these terms knowing that they are highly controversial and spark vigorous debate but i think it is important to correctly define them.
but wait until you're sure to enter - you can only enter once and the clues will get more specific as the contest progresses.
i recently caught up with daniela to ask her about the movement towards positive reinforcement training in italy, and her training business near milan.
in fact intermittent reinforcement like this actually makes a  dog respond faster and more reliably because it is based on the same theory  that makes a slot machine in a casino so addictive.
he handled his amputation with courage and perseverance.
his family mostly didn’t understand.
dr. john ciribassi, past-president of the american veterinary society of animal behavior (avsab), explains why punishment can cause aggression: "a typical scenario is a client with a 3 year old dog who has presented because of aggression directed at strangers that the dog meets either on walks or when guests come to the home.
as most of you know, i'm a passionate advocate for rescuing animals from shelters, and am firmly against puppy mills, backyard breeders and anyone who breeds dogs with no regard for health, temperament and the animals' well-being.
vs: this book really focuses on breaking the exercises down into steps and on the postures and movement of the owner.
it was obvious that she was uncomfortable in the shelter environment so after much conversation we decided to foster her and bring her home.
he said something – but it didn’t sound like the word sit or any word.
aggression is a dog’s way of protecting himself and his resources, and is deeply rooted in fear for survival, fear of loss of comfort, a desire to repel a perceived threat and is a great way to control space and environment.
feeding the dogs separately for the first couple of weeks ensured that there were no fights over food bowls, and high value chews or toys were given to the dogs in separate rooms so that there was no fighting over valuable resources.
his commendation reflects a very large  drug find and several "live bites" on "bad guys" who didn't  want to behave.
i can’t take any chances with a four year  old running around and need to have a dog that is particularly good with  children.
parvovirus – a viral disease causing vomiting,  diarrhea, immunosuppression and in many cases can be fatal.
the situation  looked hopeless; we had run out of options.
two hours later he was as wide awake as he had been before the sedative.
the no. 1 thing people don’t like about their dogs is shedding, and the no. 1 reason people take dogs to the veterinarian is for skin problems.
the bill’s opponents also say there are already laws on the books in north carolina that deal with the issue of animal abuse and puppy mills.
a dog usually knows that a storm is coming long before an owner and becomes increasingly panicked as the storm approaches.
the japan coast guard found the dog, and  rescued him.
hugging in dog language can mean that a dog wants  to fight and is not an expression of affection like it is in human  language.
nothing could be further from the truth so i thought it was  time to lay out the facts about positive training and explain why dominance  theorists and practitioners have it so wrong.
after reading through the content sarah bright at tribune media services said, “your books are all about the positive, encouraging pets.”
also, the more you know an individual animal, the more you pay attention to what’s “normal.”
© copyright 2012 victoria stilwell enterprises llc.
it is about rules, it is about discrimination, and finally about egos.
if the child had been bitten the dog and the handler  would have been blamed when the real blame should have been with the  parents.
we’ve all fallen in love with little jasmine and the best thing of  all is that finally, instead of parting with a foster again, we are the ones  that are lucky enough to give this beautiful dog her forever home.
he just spoke gibberish.
a dog should never be bribed into doing something for food but should obey their owners because they want to make their owners happy.
hopefully there's a little bit of entertainment that  happens along the way as well.
vs: if there is one message from the books, what might that be?
that's why i've decided to support the american humane association's safe handling initiative - pet meets baby.
so, you can imagine that dogs that were bred as working dogs would not have a high drive to hunt or do protection work if they learned as a puppy that the world was a place where humans give lots of scary or painful corrections.
while the test is making a difference for those breeds, we need to do more to help all cats.
i agree that the dog should have been put to sleep even if he had undergone the above-mentioned tests, but in order to avoid these kind of tragedies in the future, we have to find out more about what triggers such an apparently violent event so that we can build up a clearer picture of why a dog sometimes kills in this manner.
as a passionate advocate for responsible dog ownership, i am more than aware of the need to find an answer to the issue of increasingly dangerous and common dog bites, especially on children.
if nothing else this case has highlighted some important issues about the fears and prejudice concerning dogs, their breed types and their behaviour.
dogs eat grass for many reasons, only one of which is occasionally that their stomach is upset and needs emptying.
treasure visits people who can relate to her.
in the majority of cases, dogs like lennox that are confiscated  due to bsl are inhumanely warehoused and dealt with using this confrontational  approach, which often creates the very problems the law was attempting to  avoid.
that might be fine for some people, and unfortunately there are those that actually don’t mind using hard punishment.
far more often, the dog simply  likes the taste of grass.
if you would like someone to visit your school to talk about  dog safety, you can tell a teacher, parent or guardian to contact www.doggonesafe.com to see if there is a ‘be a tree’ presenter in  your area.
he was also gentle when he jumped up at me to see if he was allowed the food that i was withholding in my hand.
however we have a choice of leadership style.
my goal is to let dogs be: be free to be dogs, good dogs with no problem, safe dogs, friendly dogs, happy dogs, so…greendogs are dogs that can go everywhere with no problem at all!
there is a section of society that mocks those of us who fight for the rights of animals, labeling us vegetarian freaks that go around throwing paint on people who wear fur, but the truth is that most of us are very normal.
i will miss you and love you forever.
it  is a recipe for disaster because it’s literally playing with fire and one  day you or a member of the public will get burned.
ben now resides at a boarding facility where he has made many human and  doggy friends.
vs: how does your training differ from the correction-based training?
when she is in ”shadow zone” she’s like a zombie.
i’m writing this because i have just returned from england again, visiting many places of my youth.
follow those simple rules and babies like  justin will be kept out of harm’s way.
i have worked with some truly challenging dogs and some will become increasingly aroused by lead ragging or games with toys and start seriously mouthing or biting the handler’s arms or clothing.
i know victoria stilwell, now that’s a nice compliment too!
even if you don't have a dog or a child, please read my new article about children and dog safetyto help make a difference.
so it was just natural to document these things so that everyone else could see.
i went in with them, not because i have any desire to be a hero, but because i can read an animal well and within minutes they were quiet, standing at the end of their stables albeit it pressed up against the walls.
ironically, one of the  most commonly found attributes among aggressive dogs is not their breed, but  rather a lack of confidence and insecurity.
fact: actually, this is where positive reinforcement methods are most effective.
there is a lot of money to be made in the pet industry and everyone is competing to get their product into the mainstream market.
victoria has worked with countless pit bulls and considers them fantastic  pets in the right hands.
for bite prevention week, doggone safe has challenged its members and presenters to educate 50,000 kids during dog bite prevention week.
the promise, however, that you could win the  jackpot the next time you play makes you want to play even more until the slot  machine pays out.
cats are such great actors; they’re incredibly adept at masking illness.
it's important to note that even parents of children without pets should read pet meets baby, since all kids end up interacting with animals at some point, whether at grandma's house, on playdates or walking in the park.
with only eight snow plows for a city of five million people, the city shut down.
dc: looking at europe from the italian point of view, it seems that england is the guideline for dog training in real life and dogs are really welcome everywhere also in the tourist reception.
the names of these books are no accident.
buster is an emerging hero with a large tale to  tell - well, his owner tells it for him.
after the fire department arrived and we were allowed into the home to see the damage done, i realized how lucky we were.
in the us alone, there are over 4.5 million reported dog bites each year, 800,000 of which require a trip to the doctor.
fact: this is something that i hear often but comes from those who do not understand how powerful positive training is.
and the worst part of this?
discipline is an important part of the learning process, but  the form of discipline used in positive training differs greatly from the type  of discipline used in dominance training.
the nra want  to protect the rights of hobby breeders, especially those that breed sporting  hounds, while the pork council believe that the main goal of this bill’s  backers is not so much about puppies but is actually a more sinister plot to  eventually force the entire country to stop ever eating meat again!
excitement produces physical energy and  this energy has to go somewhere.
it seems to me that thinking about the dog’s
i wanted to provide them with step-by-step, photo-illustrated solutions to their most common puppy and adult dog problems.
dogs are judged on appearance and form, the winner being the closest to  conformation.
i talked about this in court which was open to the public and at the end of my assessment which is also on film i explained this to a representative from the bcc dog warden team and asked if there was anything else that she would like me to do with lennox.
i will explain lennox’s behavior at that point in a moment, but what i want to stress is what is not shown, which is the rest of david ryan’s hour long evaluation where lennox allows a complete male stranger, david ryan, to handle him, tease him, walk him, sit by him, lead him and touch him without any negative reaction whatsoever.
watch this: rin tin tin to lead spokesdog responsibilities for american humane association’s hero dog awards.
lennox reacted defensively when david ryan approached him and lennox was stuck between two chairs and the wall with nowhere to go to.
a blessed thanksgiving to you all.
they must not be aggressive, as anger would interfere with the ability to disengage at need.
one thing that can sometimes make behavioral modification in fireworks cases a bit easier than with thunderstorms is that thunderstorms are not easy to predict or control.
you can vote for treasure here, or any of the other amazing hero dogs.
and knowing i helped a cat and a family.
i’m currently filming the 8th season of it’s me or the dog in new york city, and i feel honored to be back in my adopted city as this important anniversary draws near.
read more> check out a sneak peek of tonight's episode!
hopefully i'll get to meet a few of my future  clients this weekend at the nyc pet show, too!" victoria was on hand to kick off the casting search for the  upcoming season at thenyc pet show on saturday, may 21st.
as in several other countries, states and territories, northern ireland has unfortunately continued to adhere to outdated and misguided thinking that assumes that a dog’s behavior can be determined based on the way it looks.
life with our dogs is long and it’s should be a good life for both.
i feel like we just finished christmas last year and now it’s already come and gone again.
they didn't attack anyone.
we issue ‘commands’ rather than focusing on teaching the dog ‘cues’ by attaching these cues to actions or behaviors that we want.
his amazing photos appeared in fashion magazines, advertisements  and album covers all over the world.
basic training and problem-solving, but again, the emphasis is on those “secrets, surprises and solutions.”
and this book is ginormous – it’s 1,400 pages.
of course, she helped to create it there’s so much lucy trivia.
in fact, john bradshaw, author of dog sense, says “worth buying for the socialization advice and checklist alone.”
sarah has asked that i post the following statement from her, and we encourage you to share it and re-post as widely as possible: it has been brought to my attention that a small clip of my assessment of lennox has been put on the internet.
i think everyone has had some type of incident when they were young and someone told them “you’re no good at that—you’re a bad drawer, or singer, or bad at math” and those negative words at that young age have stuck with the kids for a long time.
countless times each hour, a fire truck or bus filled with search and rescue teams hurtled back and forth from ground zero down a road lined on both sides with well wishers and those of us who felt compelled to do something – anything.
some may say that the dogs aren’t fearful of a dominance trainer, but when you really look at it, you can see the difference.
unfortunately he will not be here to realize his dream, but i am going to continue working on the project in his memory and make sure that one day his dream will be fulfilled.
unfortunately for eric, as caspar grew, he began exhibiting behavior that was troublesome, including marking in the house, destructive chewing, lunging and barking at other dogs on walks and showing fear aggression to people when they came into his home.
vs: tell us about your facility outside milan, greendogs.
which  breed of dog was named ‘most aggressive’ in recent scientific  studies?  the family dachshund.
i grabbed boo’s leash and with shaking hands attached it to his collar.
let’s concentrate on the deed and not the breed and  give full focus to keeping children safe around all dogs.
can you explain how your book shows a step by step recipe for bonding?
this is your chance to tell the world about all the craziness that ensued when you brought home your first puppy.
victoria going back again… posted by victoria stilwell - 11/23/10 at  05:11:27 pm -14 comments i love going back to england to see my family and visit all the places that  meant so much to me growing up.
jim crosby http://canineaggression.blogspot.com in a few days lennox is scheduled to be destroyed.
my bully loved to be the centre of attention.
ahhh the fasion of the 1980's.
comment we all know that dogs do amazing things, but check out this very active  dog, making a difference for so many in the surf!
either the dog is staying with the uncle, the  grandparents are babysitting for the child, or someone outside their normal  circumstance is placed as the primary guardian.
gradually exposing the dog to flashes of light that grow in intensity can be another part of therapy, but one that can be harder to implement.
comments i’m not a politician, and i have never claimed to be interested in or  able to comprehend what i’m sure are the delicate intricacies of how to  create and enforce effective legislation.
he might control access to food,  space or furniture by aggressing at a human only because he is insecure and  hasn’t been given the confidence to know that there is no need to guard  these resources.
there are also many breeders that will defend their breeding practices by  saying that ‘line breeding’, i.e. breeding grandparent to  grandchild, cousin to cousin, uncle to niece etc. is ok as long as you are not  ‘inbreeding’ (parent to child, siblings etc.)
it is exactly  the same for a dog because time is needed to really change the way a dog feels  emotionally.
we all casually wondered aloud what it might have been until our host slowly and nervously joined in the conversation.
people love  successes, especially when they are achieved quickly and they look very  impressive, but those of us who really know what is going on shake our heads in  dismay because not only has the dog been mishandled, the person has been misled  into thinking that their dog has been ‘fixed’ or  ‘cured’.
to enter for a chance to win a free dvd of the movie, just comment to this post telling us about your experience and 'like' this page by clicking the facebook button below.
more we help our customers to solve behavior problem of their dogs.
posted by victoria stilwell - 02/11/11 at  10:02:37 am -40
article about the casting process for the new season.
a couple of weeks ago, i posted the first part of my 'fact versus fiction' blog.
now if the parents didn’t realize that they had just put their child in harm’s way by allowing her to greet a dog like that, there was no hope for the child.
i came home from the expo laden with toys for the girls.
read more> posted by victoria stilwell -  05/07/11 at 04:05:42 pm -3
however  there are some dogs that will bite for reasons such as fear, anger, frustration  or protection.
lucy, the actress, in person, was a very serious and task minded person.
vs: is that what you’re most proud of?
having moved to manhattan the year before the attacks, i had been going through a not entirely smooth transition from the leafy suburbs of london.
(it took me a while to get used to eating roast turkey in november since traditionally in england we only eat it on christmas day, but i’m not complaining now.)
" the humane society of the united states reports that 50% of children will  be bitten by a dog before their 12th birthday.
we’d visit the pet store, a neighborhood video store - in those days, they still existed, the bank or the dry cleaner.
the shelter ignored my advice and rehomed the dog who savaged the new owner so badly the owner ended up in the icu.
as the contributions of military working dogs are being recognized for  their accomplishments around the globe, american humane association proudly  announced today that rin tin tin, possibly the most recognized dog in the  world, has become its first national spokesdog.
events like the genesis awards focus on change and it is that change that must be celebrated and encouraged.
but the family who is responsible for the rin tin tin line are great examples of how to do it right, and they've produced very happy, healthy, well-adjusted dogs that all end up in loving forever homes.
when i think of her addiction issues, the age-old witticism comes to mind: denial ain’t just a river in egypt.
can you explain to our blog readers why is socialization so important?
they are commonly asked and answered behavior questions/answers, and some which are totally fun – real questions that you won’t believe.
this is, after all, an “owner’s manual,” and i made it as comprehensive as anything else i’ve ever published.
what’s the biggest problem you see with how people socialize puppies currently?
a second issue is that people don’t realize the amount of things they need to socialize the pet to—sounds, surfaces, people, other species, new environments.
punitive training just puts a band aid on the problem but the dog still feels the same inside if not more insecure for the punishment he has received for ‘behaving badly’.
i never wore it again and my mother couldn’t understand why i was being so ungrateful.
this  is known as an extinction burst.
"whether it’s been supporting the dnr, fbi, idhs, police or fire departments on a rescue/recovery or an arc fundraiser, church circle, scouting group, school class or philanthropist society with public safety education, emma’s been a true ‘hero’ - tirelessly, fearlessly & memorably serving mankind with friendly licks, a wagging tail and her whole heart.
add to this the fact that although he is a very confident,  enlightened man with modern sensibilities, he was not particularly overjoyed at  having to use a fuscia leash to walk a tiny dog that was wearing a pink striped  sweater to keep warm.
behind every growl, snap, lunge etc is a dog signalling its intent.
that means the dog doesn’t get  rewarded with the food every time he responds to a cue, but the next time he  responds he might just get it.
i am also well aware of the behavioral and medical complications that could arise from neutering too, but feel the pros far outweigh the cons.
official 'save lennox' website three weeks after the tsunami in japan, a small dog was found floating on a house that was swept into the ocean.
we will talk about conscious adoption of dogs, slaughter in the “perreras" (spain’s kennels), how to recognize heatstroke and how to handle it, the best dog-equipment to use when training and for everyday life, we will have a group training of exercises using positive reinforcement methods and lastly we will have a dog parade!
this blog and my work on the upcoming  dog bite prevention week  is dedicated to ashlynn anderson.
as i arrived i caught sight of him limping into the undergrowth, but as soon as i switched off my engine he was gone.
in the unlikely event a dog bites and you are on the floor, be a stone  again, tightly curled with your hands protecting the back of your  neck and stay as still as you can until help arrives.
we ask so much of them-and they give it all willingly, sometimes to the death.
lennox gave me a lot of information about his temperament whilst in the crate.
the information is not just vague.
sometimes the most obvious answer that has been staring you in the face all day takes along time to make itself known!
he lectures often in the us.
e’ un ospite popolare in programmi televisivi e radiofonici.
they’d be kept so busy they wouldn’t have time to enjoy all the money they made from the holiday rush.
to those, this debate is likely a lost cause and destined to go nowhere since  we’d ultimately be debating two completely different things, but i and  the rest of the positively community will continue our efforts to bring  awareness of positive reinforcement back to the forefront of the popular  consciousness.
in a way the snow was a blessing because there was nothing to do except stay inside with family and enjoy the time together.
children love to kiss and hug dogs, even though these  expressions of affection do not translate well in the dog world.
while some of them were destroyed within a matter of minutes, others required a lot of mental energy, especially when there was food involved that needed to be extracted.
this amazing dog was a blessing in disguise and he will remain a part of our family for the rest of his life.
won’t  stop chomping away whenever we’re outside.
the resulting controversial photographs made headlines and years later, even after winning a court case regarding these photos, garry was ostracized by the industry and never worked as a photographer again.
if  you’ve got nothing to hide, then you’ve got no problem showing what  you’ve got.
myth: dominance training is much safer because it has quicker results and for an aggressive dog anything that works quickly means that the dog is safer for humans to be around.
garry lived in greenwich village and i used to love going down to see  him.
what animal isn’t unpredictable?
the little kids would never see the hand signal.
first i will write to the local authorities.
and  here’s silly old me thinking that kennel clubs in general were  organizations that were designed to put dogs’ well-being first.
my daughter was so excited to open her advent calendar every morning and every day she asked how many more days until christmas day.
there are many ways to help dogs that have been encouraged, through mishandling and misunderstanding, to behave in such a manner.
and it’s one of hundreds, i can tell you.
you can find a lot of great information about adding more pets to your household responsibly via my friends at pets add life (www.petsaddlife.org).
for instance, one puppy in the litter highlighted in chapter 1 of the book was adopted and would struggle when the owner held him wheras previously he’d been very tolerant with us.
the following true story shows exactly what i mean: a handler was holding the leash of what seemed to be a very friendly rescue dog that had just come into the shelter.
i have fostered countless here in the usa but have  never been able to bond with them because i knew they were going to go to new  homes.
does it try and escape each time you open the  front door or the garden gate?
the same concept is at play (though usually with less ominous results) when a trendy soccer mom wants to get the latest designer crossbreed because it is the ‘in’ thing to do.
each time  the dog jumps up at you – turn your back.
this means inducing vomiting, and following up with activated charcoal.
i use food throughout an assessment to monitor what is happening with the dog on an emotional and physical level not to make him my best friend.
because he was proving so difficult to catch even in his condition, our vet (the wonderful dr. duffy jones from peachtree hills animal hospital) recommended putting a sedative in his food to slow him down.
put him in a place where he can be  calm and confident.
he lived a wonderfully hedonistic  life, never managing to settle down and always on the go – he loved his  profession.
a main reason why i think a lot of dominance trainers take the approach  that they do is because if they do take the time to find out why a situation is  occurring they often fundamentally misdiagnose what is causing the problem in  the first place.
it is everywhere and i’m sick of it.
even though i might come across as hard on my television show, every client knows that i am going to work for them and their dog 100%.
i eventually found a wonderful female husky-keeshond mix.
if you're like me and are concerned about this issue, then the latest statistics will alarm you, because dog bites in the united states and great britain are growing.
it’s me or the dog did not win the award, but that did not not matter to me because every nominee and winner are fighting for the same end and as the evening drew to a close i was just thankful for being part of a group of like-minded, strong individuals that are working hard to put an end to animal cruelty.
i receive letters asking for advice on anything from  housetraining to destructive chewing, from aggression to jumping up on  visitors.
there is currently no effective treatment.
beginning in 1970’s, most tv sitcoms began to depend on laugh tracks or at least “sweetening” them with taped laughs.
what made you decide to write this book?
as a society, we've agreed to move forward in an effort to develop a better understanding of ourselves and our planet - why the resistance to apply that sense of development to our understanding of animals in general and dog behavior in particular?
that said, it is indeed possible to turn them into deadly weapons  if they’re in the wrong hands, just as it is with any breed of dog.
the prosecution’s ‘expert’, peter tallack, a police dog handler, was apparently dismissive of the majority of fisher’s report, saying that she did not ‘challenge’ the dog enough and was more focused on building a rapport with the dog.
these handlers conduct obedience work with their dogs as part of the control mechanism, but do not diagnose or treat problems that range from house training to nuisance barking.
won’t stop chomping away whenever we’re outside.
but the reason i wroteyour dog: the owner’s manualis because of what i knew as a practicing veterinarian who has stayed on the cutting edge of veterinary care.
vs: “good dog!” is dedicated to lucy – tell us about her.
there are some breeders who are working hard to breed out defective genes, but many will breed so much to conformity in the hope there will be champion stock, that healthy dogs are rejected in favour of ones that meet breed conformation standards regardless of health.
﻿ watch an interview from global pet expo.
she is a joyful soul who loves to play fetch, wrestle with toys and snuggle up when it is time for a nap.
dominance theory relies heavily on the idea that if a dog is being aggressive, controlling or just behaving badly then it must be trying to dominate the owner.
that’s why i literally fail to understand how any decent, moral self-respecting human being can oppose efforts to curb the horrific and cruel practice of puppy mills.
i have recently been in romania working with traumatised horses and two stallions had not been mucked out for months as the staff (men) were too scared to go in with them.
she is very intelligent, but i don’t know how to train her.
every person can form and will form an opinion on a snapshot of behaviour they see, taken out of context and misunderstood by ignorance.
wrongly or rightly many documents and details about this case have been passed onto different parties.
the vast majority of fatal dog attacks share one glaring yet often-overlooked characteristic: usually at least one component of the scene is not in its usual environment.
this is dangerous and fundamentally wrong, i can’t put it clearer than that.
chances are if you’re smart and want to survive, you are going to shut down and not do anything until you are out of that situation and in your comfort zone again.
red you stop, green you go!
they’d be kept so busy they wouldn’t  have time to enjoy all the money they made from the holiday rush.
when a person is  attached to that good feeling there is more likelihood of the dog listening and  responding to whatever that person asks of him.
coat changes may well be present where deep bruising has also occurred.
i have a purebred chocolate lab (although she was a rescue) as well as a mutt (chihuahua/terrier mix).
what is  happening in these countries to cause such an increase?
she’s theyou of the cat world.
comprised of trainers, behaviorists, legal professionals, legislators, animal control specialists, pediatric surgeons and reconstructive surgeons around the country, we will be bringing together the best and brightest minds to figure out how and why dog bites happen, what precedes them, how they are investigated, who should be held responsible, and most importantly, how to stop them from occurring.
but the most effective way to reduce the number of dangerous dogs is to stop irresponsible owners from raising their dogs to be aggressive, intimidating potential weapons.
lots and lots of veterinary behaviorists, some certified applied animal behaviorists, iaabc certified dog and cat behavior consultants answer questions and so do some of the top dog trainers, all are apdt.
i knew that she could form great habits and be well on her way to being a perfect pup in just that one week if i ran her through my learn to earn program and started her socialization, so i decided to document her training in pictures (and video) so that my clients as well as other dog owners could benefit from my task.
for a  year she was an only dog until last month when we decided to foster again and  on a visit to the local shelter spied a small black and brown chihuahua mix  curled up asleep wearing a pink sweater with the words, ‘miss  january’ on it.
dc: i decided to become a victoria stilwell positively dog trainer because i share the philosophy of positive reinforcement method and i want to share with you, victoria, and your worldwide team, the goal of offering the best (ethically and technically) for family dogs, rescued dogs, shelter dogs… and their lives.
tennis was a big deal in my family and my father turned us all into reasonable players from an early age.
lastly, if your dog were to choose how it would like to learn, would it choose reward based positive training or more punitive, dominance methods?
comments rin tin tin to lead spokesdog responsibilities for american humane  association’s hero dog awards.
i diversi esercizi e che naturalmente
that therapy does not work in one go (and certainly didn’t in the past when therapies were punitive) and it takes time to work through an anxiety and change the way a human feels about something.
it also means that during other times during the day when the dog solicits attention but may not be as excited, they also must remove their attention until the dog sits.
as for the other celebrities, really the list is far too long.
this is more than just a cute story with a great image attached to it - i think this goes to the heart of the debate over bsl, 'dangerous dogs' and irreputable breeders.
as you know, you have been a huge influence on me as a dog trainer and i’m honored to be able to talk dog with you!
he looks like what ireland terms a ‘restricted breed’.
it was a tiny cylindrical black pellet, seemingly made out of tar or some very chewy substance.
please help spread awareness of this horrific situation by signing the petition to have him released via the link below, distribute this information as widely as possible and using social media to help bring this beautiful, innocent dog home.
armed with a bowl of warmed up  cat food (i do not recommend feeding cat food to a dog, but it is one of the  smells and tastes that dogs cannot resist and is therefore the best kind of  food to use if you want to catch a stray), i went out onto the porch and  waited.
what else are you sharing?
even though attacks of this nature are rare compared to the number of dogs in the united states, one fatality is too many.
‘sasha’ was a cautious but friendly little  girl who had been dumped at the shelter in a cardboard box.
what still concerns me about this case however, is how incredibly unjust it has been from the start.
perhaps this is what makes her so good at her job.
i can’t take any chances with a four year old running around and need to have a dog that is particularly good with children.
finally dr. jones suggested that he use a tranquilizer  gun.
while domination does happen in the canine world, it shows another real misunderstanding of dog behavior to label everything a dog does as an attempt to be top dog or boss over a human.
this was about the time i met and worked with caspar on the show.
sadie (our chocolate lab) and angelica had tolerated each other’s  company, but sadie kept her distance as she had been on the receiving end of  many a well-timed and grumpy swipe from angelica.
for instance, puppies are really energetic and love to nip and jump.
as a mother and a dog trainer i am dedicated to raising awareness and  spreading the word about responsible pet ownership and dog bite prevention.
concerned, we went and looked at the poison container to investigate its ingredients and decided to call the poison control hotline just to be safe.
then the next couple of times he responds, a lower-value reward such as praise will be used, but the dog continues to respond.
when one is under the fierce grip of such an insidious vice, it can often be hard to see the forest for the trees.
a heartwarming tale in the winter cold posted by victoria stilwell -  02/01/11 at 02:02:19 am -49
my dog (norma) changed my life and gave to me a job and a future many years ago so she deserved to give the name for my business.
wherever ebooks are sold.
my greyhound knew how to come back when called…but simply didn’t want to do it for nothing (no motivation).
while i can’t imagine why i would  ever go to a breeder to get a new dog when there are so many wonderful pets  waiting to be adopted in shelters (most of whom had originally come from puppy  mills or breeders, by the way), i understand those that do, and don’t  look down upon them at all.
that means they need to be able to read their puppy’s body language so they can recognize fear and anxiety.
“we’re proud to join with american humane association in recognition of the powerful relationship between dogs and people as celebrated by the hero dog awards.”
i love being challenged, and when i started filming the show six years ago i certainly never thought that after 120 episodes i would still be able to come up with new ways of doing things.
well, that doesn’t surprise me because what would you do if a  group of strangers came into your home to take you away?
gg: e’ stata una specie di sfida con me stesso.
she was born both blind and deaf.
after ten years of training garry decided that he wanted to pursue photography again, but this time, photographing dogs, and the results were outstanding.
i can ony guess that those who refuse to  accept that we now know better than to use force to dominate do so because  they're either uninformed or because they actually derive pleasure from 'being  the boss' of another being.
eric worked hard on the training, but was worried that caspar would lose his ‘drive’ if he was castrated.
both david ryan and sarah fisher have stated that lennox is not a dangerous dog and i will stand by their cumulative years of expertise in the field of canine behavior, rather than listen to those who, through no fault of their own, cannot read or misunderstand canine ‘language.’
when i see this around the neck in a dog i know that it is likely to give the dog cause for concern when someone unknown to that dog attempts to handle the collar or put on or take off a lead.
when puppies are between 3 weeks and 3 months of age, they are primed to be curious, and to bond to animals in their environment.
whether it's supposed tough guys with bully breeds, soccer moms with designer cross-breeds or the rich and famous with 'handbag' dogs, i agree wholeheartedly with a.j. that we need to move into the 21st century and let those stereotypes die once and for all.
they do not treat, or particularly evaluate, aggression issues.
similarly puppies can also learn unwanted behaviors as quickly.
during the wimbledon tournament it was always a thrill to go to the centre court.
‘til dogs do us part – new imotd episode posted by  victoria stilwell - 04/30/11 at 03:04:56 pm -2
in the days and weeks following the attacks on the world trade center, the west side highway along the hudson river near where we lived became a sort of pipeline for those working through the carnage downtown.
after  multiple hospital stays and surgeries, he came home from the hospital.
my daughter named the dog ben and as we sat with him at the veterinarian he  put his head into my lap and went to sleep.
that’s why i created thevictoria stilwell foundation, whose mission is to provide behavior advice and financial assistance to canine assistance organizations around the world.
sd: many wrote me about her cat honey missing the litter box.
we had all the windows in our car open as we drove her home, hoping beyond hope that it would be a pleasant, uneventful few days with no more trips to the vet.
i  shall win the battle in a much gentler but clever way throughout training.
i am proud that shortly after ricky’s death in 2002, i began the ricky fund – so more might me learned about hcm in cats, even hopefully to find a treatment.
i then showed her a print of what a bulldog used to look like in the 1800’s, a proud, fit, long-legged dog that looked like it could take on a whole empire, not just one raging bull.
his breathing was labored and he had hardly eaten any of the food that had been left out for him that morning, but he was alive.
i was calm with them and we took out all the filthy bedding and fetched new water buckets for them too.
read my safety guide for children and dogs.
what happened to  a barbie, a fun jigsaw puzzle or a good book?
the  punishment is most likely to work there and then, but the experience of the  punishment can make dogs feel more insecure and wary of their owners and it is  common for dogs that are punished in this manner to keep reoffending because  they haven’t been shown that there is another way to behave.
gg: the decision to become a vspdt member was a sort of challenge with myself.
how did you come up with that name, what types of services do you offer and what message are you trying to convey to the local dog-owning public?
but when i got her to drop this little goodie, something didn’t feel right.
vs: how would you ever get to meet lucille ball?
whether fear of fireworks is elicited by a singular traumatic experience or prolonged exposure, the result is often highly distressing for dogs and owners.
i’m sure that you would feel threatened and react in a negative way too.
amazingly, even the american kennel club has voiced strong opposition to puppy mill bills in the past, presumably fearing that the more stringent laws on puppy farmers will trickle down to their registered breeders as well, causing them to be subject to stricter licensing and humane treatment laws.
i felt a power surge through me that made me dizzy and my vision went blurry.
at  first the stray wanted nothing to do with the friendly black lab that came  bounding over to him, but then the most beautiful thing happened.
practice without realizing how lucky i was to be in such a privileged  position.
“ich bin ein berliner” moment, i believe that peaceful, loving, selfless citizens all over the world became new yorkers that day.
he lived a wonderfully hedonistic life, never managing to settle down and always on the go – he loved his profession.
i also knew that introducing a dog into the household had been a little stressful for my cat to begin with, and even though she relaxed pretty quickly in sadie’s presence, i didn’t want to put her through any more stress by adding another dog into the mix.
even if you know the dog, always ask permission from an adult you know to  see if it is ok to ask the handler if you can pet their dog.
the dog might not be doing the behavior because it  is afraid of his owner’s reaction, but he still feels the same way  inside, and one day those feelings will come to the surface again, and even  more intensely than before.
he made no move to get away but looked at her instead  as if to say, “i’m done – take me home.”
had i known this from the start, things would have been different, but i make very sure that my daughter, her friends and my nieces know, so that they will never have to go through an experience like mine.
breeding dogs from the same champion will pass on the  good and the bad genes, and breeding dogs that are too closely related, which  is common practice, means there is more of a chance that defective genes will  come together.
as the 4th of july approaches in the us, i’ve been getting tons of emails from people asking how to deal with dogs (and cats) that are terrified of fireworks.
this was the second time i had attended and this yearit’s me or the dog was nominated for best reality series.
i knew if i could get my “secrets, surprises and solutions” i shared with people in a well-written book, i could make a difference in a lot of lives.
if it wasn't for buster i never would have gone down to check on  my husband, i didn't hear him fall but buster did.
i recall an argument i recently had with a breeder of english bulldogs who  took great affront at my concerns about the breed.
so what is to be done?
it  just remains to say, for all of those who pick up their dog’s poo –  thanks and blessings.
but even if that’s not possible in the short term, or even  if one chooses to ignore the facts that science has presented to us about  animal breeds and behavior, there’s one more simple but powerful argument  against bsl: it doesn’t work.
there are, however, many wonderful trainers that use positive reward methods.
dogs are judged on appearance and form, the winner being the closest to conformation.
see the video and pictures of this little tsunami survivor… — via global animal.org more info about this story at global animal.
this positively site is the online home for  positive reinforcement and i am so proud to have the best in the business  blogging here.
whew - that was close.
when one is under the fierce  grip of such an insidious vice, it can often be hard to see the forest for the  trees.
we at positively have been working hard to  shoot new episodes ofit's me or the dog (new season premieres  saturday, jan 8th!), develop exciting ideas and build our foundation so that we  can help all the worthy causes that support pets and their people.
“we’re proud to join with american humane  association in recognition of the powerful relationship between dogs and people  as celebrated by the hero dog awards.”
though i am grateful for the experience, the la lifestyle is not what i  ultimately strive for.
sadie and jasmine  are the best critics when it comes to dog toys and i rely on their expert  feedback.
she still provides a  service to people with disabilities...
he warned me that because the dog was in such poor condition darting might seriously harm him, but what choice did we have?
she also licks her bottom nonstop.
but whatever continues in the human battle over this issue, my frustration lies with the fact that regardless what has been said, the true experts’ opinions in lennox’s case have been thrown over for behavioral opinions that were given by the prosecution’s expert peter tallack, even though he stated himself that he was not brought on to do a ‘behavioural test or assessment’ of lennox, but to assess only whether lennox was of pit bull type or not.
is the child who bullies other children a secure or insecure child?
even though food treats are a really effective training tool, some dogs are motivated by other rewards such as toys, play, praise, or simply being touched.
for some dogs this can be achieved  relatively quickly but for others it can take a while, which is why it is  important to see every dog and every situation as unique.
in court however, and therefore under oath, ms lightfoot the dog warden stated that in fact lennox had not bitten anyone so i have to assume on the evidence placed before the court that the statement made to me at the start of my assessment was untrue.
read why emma's so special in the words of her grateful partner: "my canine (k9) partner, saint joseph township fire department (sjtfd) base-70 k9 "emma", is a true american ‘hero dog’.
my clients also make this mistake within the 5th lesson.
we are  like-minded people that deal with dog behavior every day, and most importantly,  we see the positive results that our training methods have both for the dogs we  use them on and for the people that love them.
guide dogs are trained to do extraordinary things and in this story, boo proves just how amazing they are!
the  current stuff’s not working, einstein.
one night, my husband was sleeping downstairs in  our living room; he was unable to use the stairs after his operation.
photo credit andrea booher, fema
i looked for a puppy and found the best friend ever.
vs: you also discuss complementary tools and therapies that may help.
for 17 years, i’ve had the same terrific editor at tms (stacy deibler) and for nearly that long, each and every column i write i have a veterinarian review to be certain of medical accuracy.
i’ve been planning the development of this website ever  since it became clear to me that a unified voice was needed to help let the  public know that there’s a better way to train their dogs…  positively!
she's been featured in hundreds of media sources all over the world showcasing and raising awareness for her causes.
fact vs fiction, part i
the short answer is that it depends on your specific situation, but i am a firm believer that adding additional pets to an only-pet household can often create far more net benefits than problems, provided you do it responsibly and take care to keep all of the animals’ best interests at heart.
all bags and any electronics are removed from your person before being seated in the gallery.
an investigation is now underway to determine why the dog attacked and if there had been any warning signs.
as he stated, his examination was ‘90% physical conformation and only 10% behavioural’ and therefore his findings were, ‘based on how lennox looks and not how he behaves,’ yet his statements on lennox’s behavior under thephysical examination he was supposed to be conducting, were upheld and championed as key components of the judge’s decision to euthanize lennox.
we advise being extremely cautious at first when you bring home a new dog: be sure the leash is on and in your hand before the dog leaves the car, and don’t assume that, if you have one, your backyard fence is “dog-proof” without doing a careful check before you let the dog loose in it.
it is also hard for a child to read and understand a dog’s  body language, therefore missing vital signals that can put them in  harm’s way.
vs: what made you decide to become a victoria stilwell positively dog trainer, and how do you feel it sets you apart from other dog trainers in your area?
perché pensiamo che l’italia adesso è pronta per ascoltare esperti internazionali ed è pronta ad imparare da loro.
hero dog buster – norwood, nj posted by victoria stilwell -  05/03/11 at 06:05:31 pm -15 comments
comments last week i did an interview with cnn's headline news regarding a four day  old infant that had just been killed by the family’s pit bull in  jacksonville, florida.
our hero buster came into our lives when my husband started a job that  required him to travel.
i have trained many dogs using many different types of rewards: a game of tug, a kind word, or a ‘life reward’ such as asking the dog to sit before opening the door and then rewarding her for complying by going for a walk.
he hesitated, but decided to give it a try.
just as we all also became londoners on 7/7 after the train attacks, indonesians and japanese after the tsunamis, and haitians after the earthquake.
just over a year ago, they lost their beautiful daughter, ashlynn, in a fatal dog attack.
dog owners from all over the world unite for four days of pure heaven.
it’s also how wild animals stay alive.
sadie and jasmine are the best critics when it comes to dog toys and i rely on their expert feedback.
she barks when someone comes to the door.
ciò che proviamo a fare è specialmente far capire ai proprietari che esistono nuovi metodi per educare i cani e per insegnare loro
aggression is therefore deeply rooted in  insecurity.
aggressive dogs are under stress and this stress needs to be  managed so that the dog can feel better while the trainer finds the cause of  the aggressive response and then works with the dog and the owner to modify  it.
her focus was not on what treasure couldn't do, but on what they had in common and how that made them each special.
sadie has accepted jasmine into the household and i have noticed that there is a ‘pep’ in sadie’s step as if some of the younger dog’s energy is flowing into her.
first, my heart goes out to  justin’s family.
the dogs that warn instead of going to bite are less dangerous because they are signaling their intent first.
i would get so upset that he never fulfilled my wish, but i didn’t realize then that he was a lot wiser than i was, because he knew even though it was me who wanted the dog, my parents didn’t have the time to look after one.
well, my dad declared one summer that he wanted a new puppy because my parents had recently lost their 13-year old scottie to cancer.
you see, treasure is a therapy dog.
these are calming signals which tell the dog that you are no  threat.
garry and i had begun to work on a project that he was very excited about.
2011 is going to be a big year for us with many projects that everyone can enjoy.
there have been several previous, relatively ill-fated attempts at creating video content for dogs, while companies likethrough a dog’s ear have successfully incorporated the concept of bio and psychoacoustics into audio-only products (i recently partnered withthrough a dog’s ear to create the groundbreaking newcanine noise phobia series).
if a dog exhibits aggression in training it is eliminated as unsuitable.
now, after so long, this beautiful animal lying next to me is truly  mine.
bone of contention: an all-new it’s me or the dog episode posted by victoria stilwell - 04/15/11 at 12:04:03 pm -9 comments "bone of contention", an all-new episode of it's me or the dog airs this saturday, april 16th at 8pm et.
a therapy dog must be calm, confident, patient and enjoy meeting and being touched by strangers.
we successfully navigated the whole photo with santa thing, which historically has always been a bit of a traumatic experience for my little one, but this year she happily handed him her christmas list (and translated it for him).
i have fostered countless here in the usa but have never been able to bond with them because i knew they were going to go to new homes.
i decided since i was awake i would check on my husband.
luckily the big man did not bring my daughter an itouch this year – if he did we were going to have words.
i met the family when i was in oregon, and i was struck by their determination to do everything they can to help other families avoid a similar tragedy.
she works with shelter dogs, assistance dogs, working dogs, competition dogs and family dogs and specializes in working with animals who suffer from health and/or behavior problems and those in need of training.
any advice would be much appreciated!
there are hundreds of ideas that people can use to do this - everything from cutting shedding by 90% to keeping dogs calm during thunderstorms.
but being a conscientious dog owner, i wanted to be sure.
last week i did an interview with cnn's headline news regarding a four day old infant that had just been killed by the family’s pit bull in jacksonville, florida.
i did not relish the thought of turning up in the morning to find that he had frozen to death, but i did not know how he could possibly make it through another night of below freezing temperatures.
e’ solo il primo, ne seguiranno altri e tutti molto importanti.
schools of marketing and leadership recommend against the dictatorial, coercive style of leadership and encourage methods of leading that motivate humans through positive methods.
if you asked those dogs what they would  prefer to be doing, running outside chasing rabbits would be my guess, rather  than spending most of the day in a crate, prancing around a room and having to  stand still for long periods being felt up by a person they don’t  know.
the dog was put down less then twenty four hours after the attack had happened, so i don’t believe that he was seen by anyone who was able to evaluate him properly and even if someone had seen him, twenty four hours is not enough time to do a thorough temperament test and an evaluation that would help determine why the attack happened.
this heart disease is probably the most common cause of death of indoor cats from post kitten until about 9 or 10 years when diseases of older cats become more prominent.
watch an excerpt: check local listings here.
many pups and adult dogs will lick faces of  humans and other dogs after being reprimanded.
some dogs will respond well to all of the above therapies, but will become panicked when the real fireworks start.
he was a wonderfully supportive person who made everyone he was with feel special.
at 2:00 am i am ripped from my deep slumber with boo on top of me.
anyone that has met phoenix along the way has also experienced the kindness and love that he exudes.
hate is a strong word, especially when it is directed towards a person.
the parents replied that the handler was not to worry because the child had a dog of her own and was therefore great with dogs.
why not just one? nw: because every dog is starting at a different point along the anxiety continuum.
for the past 40 or so years, amazing trainers  and behaviorists like ian dunbar, patricia mcconnell, karen pryor, nick dodman  (all of whom deliver their fantastic knowledge as expert bloggers on this  site!) and many others have been moving the needle of public awareness away  from the traditional, yank-em-crank-em, dominate-your-dog-into-submission style  of dog training and towards the use of positive reinforcement.
every off-leash walk in our neighborhood has become an opportunity to  support her otherwise very healthy diet with a variety of the delicious grasses  the southeastern united states has to offer.
infine presso il nostro centro ci occupiamo di formazione con corsi per chi vuole intraprendere questa professione e durante l’anno organizziamo seminari e stages su attività specifiche con i cani.
too many infants and young children are being mauled or killed by the family  pet
for example a dominance trainer will often ‘flood’ a dog who is anxious and aggressive around other dogs, by forcing the dog into a situation where it is surrounded by lots of dogs it doesn’t know, forcing the dog to refrain from responding when inundated with that stimulus the dog fears most until the dog ‘submits’ to the fact that there’s nothing he can do.
sarah fisher today people all over the world will be lighting candles in honor of lennox, who, if the courts have their way, will be put to death in less than a week by belfast city council.
as much as i love living in the states i also miss my mother country, so going back is always a treat, even if it is for work.
using that heavy-handed logic, it would  be ok do just about anything to a dog if it meant they  stopped misbehaving right then and there - there are more effective,  safe and humane ways of doing things.
if we can stop just one beautiful little child from losing his or her life, it will be worth it.
comments is your dog a hound houdini?
he was thin and nervous and even though neighbors had been trying for a week to catch him, he would skulk away when approached and not let anyone get close to him.
i may not be a genius, but i like to think i have decent head on  my shoulders, and still i just don’t understand this.
this is a survival mechanism.
licking is an appeasement  gesture – sorry mum.
you might be surprised at what i have found.
coat changes often occur in dogs, cats and horses that have suffered injury or those that are unwell.
confident children don’t feel the need to bully, and the same dynamic can be said of dogs.
the baby was taken to hospital where he died of his injuries and the pit bull was seized by animal control and euthanized the next day.
if this doesn’t happen i will have to put up my own signs – they just might not be so diplomatic.
a lot of this may seem like common sense, especially when you see the  parallel progress we’ve made as a society in the way we raise our  children.
a lot of this may seem like common sense, especially when you see the parallel progress we’ve made as a society in the way we raise our children.
businesses from all over the world come to the expo, some demonstrating innovative new products that are clever in their originality and others that have me scratching my head in bewilderment trying to understand how they could possibly be serious.
he was still eating but did not look well and was limping from a foot injury.
yes, it’s against the law to not  pick up after your dog
i could see his nose twitch as he caught the smell of the food and slowly he edged towards me, never taking his eyes off me as he approached.
the lethal dose for most animals is 20- 50 mg/kg.
seminars, events, technical equipments, workshops are the first goals for the dtc.
the hall itself, which is the oldest part of the parliament estate, was built in 1097 and is spectacular by its sheer size, with an enormous wooden vaulted ceiling that soars high above you.
the most important thing an owner can do for their fireworks-phobic dog is to provide them with a bolt hole – a place where the dog can escape to when the festivities begin.
we need more notices, bins and bag dispensaries to make picking up poo more palatable.
if the dog does not want to come and  greet you, respect that decision and leave him alone.
you opponents of puppy mill legislation come up with your own  solution to the above problems that don’t conflict with your love of pork  chops and shotguns, and you’ll be absolved.
but what  would you do if you as a human were scared of other humans and had a habit of  lashing out at people walking past in an effort to get them away from you, but  were then forced into an environment where you were surrounded by thirty or  more people?
he instantly lifted his front left paw, and gently tapped the keyboard.
he was still eating but did not look well and was limping from a  foot injury.
after the owner realized her mistake, switched to picking him up and giving him treats and then letting him down when he was relaxed.
be warned – next time i might be watching.
of course dogs are not children, but many of the same general  behavioral philosophies apply – using reward to reinforce positive  behavior and discipline to guide rather than to instill fear.
their new families would be brimming with excitement as we handed  our beloved fosters to them and we would be heartbroken at our loss, but happy  that we had successfully pulled these animals out of the municipal shelters and  placed them into loving homes.
many fireworks-phobic dogs adopt self-management strategies in order to cope.
yes, they are a strong breed, but i have no doubt that fisher has worked with countless larger dogs, including other bully breeds types, capable of inflicting as much or more harm than the strongest pit bull could.
quiet and refined, it was the place that we would  spend the weekend and while my parents played tennis, my sister and i would  take off and explore the vast grounds right next to the river thames.
we decided to take a sort of best of my newspaper q & a columns from the past three or four years, one book features questions about dogs, and a second book is all about cats.
and in fact, as a direct result of the money we raised – at this point over $100,000 - for two breeds – the maine coon and ragdoll – there is now a genetic test to determine if the gene defect for hcm is carried by individual cats.
yes, and what a trip it is!
as i have watched lennox’s case, and his impending death sentence, several things have sparked my attention.
during the years that my husband and i lived in new york city we were  foster parents to over forty dogs and cats that came to stay with us while they  were waiting to find their forever homes.
if the dog enjoys the attention,  the hustle and bustle, the grooming and the travel, then i have no problem with  it.
the bill was designed to "eliminate abusive practices and provide for  the humane care and treatment of dogs and puppies by establishing standards for  their care at commercial breeding operations."
i answer, “this cat has a new illness:
strangers, even from a distance, feel the need to meet and pet him.
we’re not sure what kind of dog we’ll get, but we’ll know  when we meet him or her at the shelter.
no, they say these puppies come from breeders who care about where their puppies end up and who breed from good stock!
i delighted in seeing their excitement as i produced  yet another amazing creation for them to play with and after an evening of this  the girls were exhausted.
i remember cycling across the common towards home and having the bully and her friends shout at me and make fun of my jacket as i cycled home in tears.
you can tell owners and then show them what to do and how to do it but they do best when they also have photo-illustrated instructions where each step is documented visually in pictures so they can see what the steps look like any time they want.
i never knew what a blessing tyson was going to be by bringing him into our family.
finally dr. jones suggested that he use a tranquilizer gun.
vs: why did you and your co-author, karen london, decide to writelove has no age limit?
others will pace back and forth during the episode, unable to focus on owners who are desperately attempting to calm them down.
i do not believe that the council have failed in their duty to care for lennox when it comes to the stress that he has been under
the judge examines the dog and then "gives awards on how closely the dog compares to the judge’s mental image of the perfect dog described in the breed’s official standard."
i’m very excited about some pretty groundbreaking work that i’ve been doing lately on a project to help dogs with phobias like these, and i hope to be able to announce something about that soon.
police dog handlers and trainers must be highly skilled to get this level or performance.
it continues to confound me that there are still proponents of bsl given both the behavioral science which is now available and the abysmal track record of municipalities that have attempted to curb dog attacks by instituting bsl.
no, i  don’t think sadie thinks she has a problem at all – in fact, she  seems to be perfectly oblivious to our concern for her well-being.
thank you for your contribution to this book, and for dogs, in general.
at university i learned to empower myself, became a guardian angel on the london tube trains to help people in distress, worked in shelters to help scared and abandoned animals and became a personal security guard to defend others.
sophia: i wrote this book because i needed a resource that would provide my dog-owning clients.
it is not just men and women serving this country and protecting the freedoms that we stand for.
and i adore her….i’m thinkin’ i’m not alone there.
the dog  started to relax.
it’s not you that is getting  castrated.
lennox committed no crime nor did any member of the public complain about him.
that was the answer.
my husband thanks buster every day for saving his life.
just back from crufts posted by victoria stilwell - 05/19/08 at  10:05:53 am -4
people can relate to her in some way.
there is a section of society that mocks those of us who fight for the  rights of animals, labeling us vegetarian freaks that go around throwing paint  on people who wear fur, but the truth is that most of us are very normal.
really, i’m not sure this happened or how do deserve this – and i have so much else to achieve.
when i was a child and sat on  santa’s lap (apart from being scared out of my wits too)
this content is also interspersed with periods of ‘exposure’ where dogs might hear, for example, the distant sound of a vacuum cleaner played at very low levels, providing gradual exposure which effectively desensitizes dogs to everyday domestic environmental sounds, preventing noise sensitivities and phobias from ever occurring.
yes, the bigger and stronger the dog, the more damage it is  capable of inflicting, although i have seen horrific footage of bite wounds  from small dogs such as jack russell terriers and chihuahuas as well.
if your dog is unconfident around guests and jumps to be controlling, do  not allow your dog to greet your guests.
then there are the food producers and manufacturers from the big name brands to the small organic businesses that have every kind of food or treat a pet could want.
she taught me to stand up for myself in a non-violent way and to fight for what i believe in.
all the pups come with impressive-looking papers touting all sorts of great heritage.
the person is hurt, the dog is then punished again, and this destructive cycle is repeated.
i want to dispel a few myths about positive reinforcement training methods.
surely this would be the answer and we could put an end to his misery..
she gave us such love that when she died  we felt that our hearts would break.
the sheer scale of suffering is hard to stomach but media is the  best way to expose these issues that would otherwise go unchecked.
e ha pubblicato diversi articoli sul comportamento animale.
although so much has changed, these  places remain important to me.
not a good place to be!
garry you made my life richer and i feel so fortunate to have known you.
it’s named after your own dog, right?
now i don’t know  about you, but i think it’s highly irresponsible for a breeder to sell a  jobless eighteen year old boy such a powerful dog for thousands of dollars and  encourage him to train it for protection.
because we think that italy is ready to hear international experts and it’s ready to learn from them.
once ingested, it is converted to phosphine gas by the moisture and acidity of the stomach.
if you haven’t yet seen pedigree dogs exposed, you should take time to watch it.
now, after so long, this beautiful animal lying next to me is truly mine.
"having cut my teeth as a trainer in large part while living in manhattan and northern new jersey, it was great to return to the area last season withit's me or the dog.
whenever toby enters the room, the faces of the children and their families light up.
here’s the secret: you can take a bite out of both of these problems by bathing your pet every week.
we always had a great time and there were never any issues, except for a few broken hearts here and there.
the beloved flat coated retriever.
this is an impressive trait in any dog and shows a dog using submissive behaviour rather than offensive behaviour to cope in what is a relatively stressful situation.’
victoria is excited to announce that she will be filming a new season ofit's me or the dog later this summer in and around new york city.
i  will miss you and love you forever.
friendships come and go, best friends change like the wind and the emotional roller coaster that this causes can be hard to watch, especially when it happens to your child or other kids that you are close to.
i learned to think with my head and not my fist, respect everyone and protect those that couldn’t protect themselves.
alex understands how she should behave around sadie but needs a gentle  reminder from time to time.
some of the pups will get lucky and be adopted by a loving  family, but most will end up being euthanized along with the four million or so  other dogs and cats put down in this country every year.
victoria was the recipient of the 2011 excellence in journalism award.
of course the dog was immediately destroyed.
now this was definitely going to  work.
although in three interviews in the past three weeks, i’ve been called “legendary.”
the sun is shining through the window onto her  beautiful chocolate coat and i am transfixed.
my husband thanks buster  every day for saving his life.
i am also well aware of the behavioral  and medical complications that could arise from neutering too, but feel the  pros far outweigh the cons.
i think these videos from pets add life really hit the nail on the head.
a dog is faster than the fastest olympic athlete when it comes to response time.
treasure visits people who are hoping for a friend.
he remained on top of me until i became fully awake and fully understanding the fire alarms were blasting.
i’m not condoning the vicious sport of bull baiting, long since banned (thank goodness), but our english bulldogs these days couldn’t take on a fly let alone a bull.
if we could somehow prosecute those who willingly encourage their dogs to  be aggressive, i firmly believe the number of tragic accidents would decrease  significantly.
discipline is an important part of the learning process, but the form of discipline used in positive training differs greatly from the type of discipline used in dominance training.
i work in the lecco, brianza and milano area exactly as you do in your tv program: i work in the house of the families, understand the problem from the human point of view and then from the dogs’ point of view.
taking this to  the extreme is the dog that jumps up, puts his front paws on a person’s  shoulders and stares them full in the face.
some organizations hand the books out to adopters of dogs with known separation issues, while others sell them, for example, in on-site humane society gift shops.
she really does walk the walk when it comes to animal welfare.
i was in awe of many, jimmy stewart, who would be?
“the long and accomplished history of the rin tin tin line dogs serving as war heroes, animal actors in films and television and even as a search and recovery dog at the pentagon after the attacks of 9/11, continues today as the current rin tin tin is a member of the elite search dog recovery unit in arkansas,” according to daphne hereford, president of rin tin tin, incorporated.
on the other side of the coin – some dogs will jump because they feel  uneasy when someone comes into the house.
when puppies are really young, it’s easier for the humans to be faster and thus have better timing than if they wait several weeks.
for example, instead of simply playing calming music and showing pictures of lulling oceans, dogtv’s content also slowly introduces and alternates between more stimulating scenes from the dog’s point of view.
but that skill is limited to the task at hand.
of course i was already sure that we could approach dogs with different methods from those used so far.
always be aware parents that even if you don’t think they are, your children are watching and listening to everything you say and do.
i am just one of millions of people battling to protect those that are  vulnerable because we have a respect for nature and the animals that we share  this planet with.
they expressed interest in publishing ebooks.
and i interviewed both of the darren stevens from “bewitched.”
in the palm of his hand lay a  nicely rounded ball of poop, her own poop that she had obviously eaten while  she was in the crate waiting for him to return from the shower.
in my eyes he will always be our hero and our best friend."
she retrieves toys like a  retriever, scents like a bloodhound, poops more than i’ve ever seen a dog  poop in my life, eats it occasionally – (we’re working on that one  too) and likes to lick sadie’s bottom (sadie doesn’t seem to  mind.)
and i'm really happy to be going back again later this year.
she retrieves toys like a retriever, scents like a bloodhound, poops more than i’ve ever seen a dog poop in my life, eats it occasionally – (we’re working on that one too) and likes to lick sadie’s bottom (sadie doesn’t seem to mind.)
phd in evolutionary biology and ethology, and ba in philosophy, dhc, df, mapbc, born in portugal in 1951, has lived most of his life in denmark.
her grandfather don wing and  father ryan have set up an organization called dadd (dads against dangerous dogs ) in her memory, to raise awareness and educate children and adults so that  this kind of tragedy does not happen again.
they physically can’t jump on us as quickly or nip or grab as quickly as an older puppy.
dogs are pack animals and don’t do well in social isolation so i often wondered when i got my labrador sadie if she was happy being an only dog.
i opened it to fresh air.
they have set up a non-profit organization calleddads against dangerous dogs, and though they lost their little treasure to dogs, one of the most remarkable things about them is that they have not jumped to the most obvious target.
what doesn’t surprise me is that dog owners all over the world have the same problems.
however, mostly these cats either throw several clots before finally dying or being euthanized, or like ricky – one day – just drop.
after he  ate the food, we watched and waited.
there’s of stuff like that in the book, and as a practicing veterinarian i can tell you that i see sick pets all the time who are at death’s door because of things their owners didn’t know.
it’s because she’d hear her mother’s laugh.
even if he was brought onto do a behavioral assessment, you cannot do a proper assessment or get a true picture of behavior of any dog in or around the vicinity of the kennel where that dog is being confined and where it is experiencing fear, stress and confusion.
he will always be a hero in my eyes.
october 8, 2010 500 students and 30 staff members at the kelly elementary school in  carlsbad, ca were interrupted by gunfire on the playground.
the most difficult thing for owners is to realize that dogs care what you do now what you say.
using that heavy-handed logic, it would be ok do just about anything to a dog if it meant they stopped misbehaving right then and there - there are more effective, safe and humane ways of doing things.
i have providing counselling to many families about the process of getting  a new dog, particularly important when there are small children involved.
i was working as a volunteer adoption counselor at new york’s aspca during this time, and after investigating what options were available to those of looking to help during those dark days, i ended up at pier 94 on the hudson river.
so how should children protect themselves?
it’s just that she honestly can’t believe that i would ever even consider leaving her alone in the house, even though this dramatic ritual has played out multiple times every single day for the four years she’s been a member of our family.
it is also important that i talk  to alex about what she is and what she is not allowed to do around the dog.
quanto sono presenti in italia metodi di addestramento basati sulla dominanza e su tecniche di coercizione?
i’ve met benji and lassie (though not the originals).
vs: giorgio, grazie per aver parlato con noi oggi.
hopefully we’ll be able to save lennox.
that is until my husband takes over.
the key to avoiding these  tragedies is not to make owning certain breeds illegal, but rather to ensure  that everyone in charge of dogs and/or children is educated about safe  practices and never leaves any dog alone with any child.
again we had no idea how privileged we were to play in such an environment, but it was an important part of our protected world.
i agree that the dog  should have been put to sleep even if he had undergone the above-mentioned  tests, but in order to avoid these kind of tragedies in the future, we have to  find out more about what triggers such an apparently violent event so that we  can build up a clearer picture of why a dog sometimes kills in this  manner.
amazingly, people and other pets have been known to die because they breathed in the cyanide gas from an animal that had ingested zinc phosphide.
events like the  genesis awards focus on change and it is that change that must be celebrated  and encouraged.
now i don’t have any problem with respectable breeders who breed for the love of their particular breed and are concerned about raising puppies in the best possible way, maintaining a full regard for all their dogs’ mental and physical well-being.
the houses of parliament is like a rabbit warren, containing hundreds of smaller meeting rooms as well as numerous rooms where daily receptions are held.
he assisted agencies in four states and canada on searches involving disasters, drowning, suicide, murder, missing children and adults, wandering elderly, historical grave location, and evidence recovery.
how’s that  for a happy ending?
she is very territorial when it comes to men.
but for a few of the dogs that are  being shown, i’m not so sure that is the case.
they tend to think their dog must have been abused, when a much more likely scenario is that the puppy was not fully socialized starting at a young age.
they don’t understand english or other language, but they do naturally understand and read your body language.
and we made the most of it, sledding, building snow men, and watching  movies.
this path is used by runners, mothers pushing prams,  children on their bicycles and people walking their dogs.
i look forward to getting over to italy very soon and joining forces with you in person to help spread the word that there’s a better way to train… positively – and that the concept of treating animals with the love, respect and trust that they deserve is a common language that we all share, regardless of nationality.
then i make a schedule of number and type of sessions to do, write the goals end start with new rules and training exercises.
the same general concept can be applied to dogs.
a habitually aggressive dog will generally seek out conflict in my experience but even these dogs can often be rehabilitated.
entry and exit points can be a source of conflict for any dog.
vs: what have you found are the primary differences between bringing home a young puppy versus adopting a dog who is a bit older?
this is an easy-to-read, comprehensive free booklet that can help dog owners and parents of children without pets by making them aware of how to safely and effectively introduce pets to new babies and vice versa.
as i said in my report this is not uncommon behaviour in any dog that is in a confined situation in a crate, kennel or in a car.
e’ particolarmente conosciuto per il suo pensiero sul comportamento sociale e per il suo metodo di apprendimento sviluppato negli anni conosciuto come smaf (signal, meaning and form).
the american veterinary medical association (avma) also has excellent  information on preventing dog bites.
apart from the obvious concern that no matter how much the puppy looked like his old dog, it would not act like his old dog, i was concerned about how the puppy would eventually turn out.
my friend told me that her seven-year old just asked santa for an ipad.
she is the epitome of an ordinary dog with an extra-ordinary spirit!
sd: could be – or that i’m responsible for sending more pets to the veterinary clinic than anyone america.
my daughter loves jasmine and already the two enjoy a relationship that is lovely for a parent to see.
i have no idea how that happened.
a dog does as an attempt to be top dog or boss over a human.
he spied us looking at him through the  window and barked at us as he backed away.
i saw everyone from bjorn borg to john mcenroe practice without realizing how lucky i was to be in such a privileged position.
this ensures that throughout the several hours a lonely dog is home with dogtv on in the background, there are periods of subtly increased motion and tempo, resulting in a dog that is periodically and almost imperceptibly stimulated, helping to minimize the boredom which can often result in destructive behavior.
causing them to be subject to stricter licensing and humane treatment laws.
so to all the macho men (and women too sometimes), i just want to say one thing.
ironically, he appeared at a time when i too was dealing with some rough, heart-ache issues.
i was just getting used to it being 2010 and before we know it  we’re going to be in 2011.
i ended up playing for my  university and was quickly named ‘the slammer’- i hit very hard but  the ball wasn’t always that well controlled.
unite for four days of pure heaven.
that just goes to show how flexible and workable positive reinforcement techniques can be.
if  a registered breeder is doing what they’re supposed to, i don’t see  why more oversight would be a problem for the akc or its breeders.
i would absolutely move on to touch an animal all over its body in any assessment that i do.
" for more information or to nominate your hero dog, visit the hero dog awards official site!
sometimes the dog jumps harder and higher to get your attention.
a lot of your dog’s misery can be avoided (or at least reduced) if you think ahead and begin the desensitization process with her well ahead of the big day.
modern  behavioral science has shown that dogs have a lot more in common with us humans  than people and trainers may have thought 50 years ago – they feel  emotions similar to ours (fear, anger, joy, excitement, social insecurity, even  love) – so it’s important to understand that many of the same basic  philosophies we use now with children can be applied successfully to training  your dog.
if a dog is truly dangerous then i want that dog off the streets as much as the next person, but lennox has been so unfairly treated in this case because of the situation that he was taken, the stress he has had to endure since his confinement and now the cruelty of those who seek to destroy him and his family with malicious particularly over social media, that someone needs to highlight the fact that from the start, lennox was never given a fair chance.
but i needn’t have worried.
while i personally am not into showing dogs, i have no problem with those that love it, provided that they maintain a healthy balance between their own desire to show and their dogs’ happiness and health.
4 year old ashlynn was the victim of a fatal dog attack and the inspiration  for dads against dangerous dogs (dadd).
so what can you do if your dog jumps on people when they come through the  door?
if that fails i might have to keep watch with  my video camera ready to pounce on any offender.
i had heard through a friend of mine that a large, male, brindle-colored pit/mastiff mix was wandering around their neighborhood in the freezing cold.
i was attending the expo to receive the ‘excellence in journalism and  outstanding contribution to the pet industry’ award.
he came right up to the bowl and started eating suspiciously but as soon as i made even the slightest move, he darted away again.
there is something very special about this time of year, particularly when  you can see it through the eyes of a child.
it is exactly the same for a dog because time is needed to really change the way a dog feels emotionally.
the person is hurt, the dog is then punished again, and this  destructive cycle is repeated.
eventi, stages, seminari, materiale tecnico e altre iniziative sono i primi obiettivi che la dtc si propone.
she also learned how to be polite around cats and kids.
but i am equally as thrilled to have my old friend pam johnson-bennett write the foreword to “good cat!”
and what other celebrities have you met?
we must learn from this and make lennox and his family’s struggle a rallying cry for change.
i learned many things while watching phoenix face and meet his challenges including a special kind of love that is pure and true.
the object of noise desensitization is to gradually expose the dog to louder and louder sounds over a period of time, progress being determined by the dog’s reactions.
so many sections of our society feel compelled to bow to certain stereotypes and let those factors dictate the type of dog they choose to own.
the snow and ice had closed down animal control so there was no one to help rescue him.
not only does the issue of destroying this animal solely based on his looks appall me, but i am particularly concerned by the "evaluations" of lennox that the council and court are depending on to make a determination of his level of threat to society.
the dog has to jump up in order to lick the owner’s face.
he came every night and several times during the day to eat warm food and sleep on the comfortable, yet cold bed that the neighbor had put out on the floor of their outdoor porch.
many of our beautiful  breeds are being bred to destruction such as the great dane, the german  shepherd and the cavalier king charles, but no breed is more maligned or  disfigured than the english ‘british’ bulldog.
i have worked with dogs with aggression issues and whilst some may well take the food, the person delivering the food may not be able to move once the food has gone as the movement of the person, even the smallest movement of their arm, may trigger the dog to lunge and bite.
she had something nicer to do, somewhere else in the park, that better called for her attention!!
he still displays clear bite inhibition.
stay tuned for future news and i wish everyone a wonderful holiday  season and a happy and healthy new year.
not chained up in a yard as has also been claimed by people who do not know the family or the dog.
of course a lot of these types of situations involved people who volunteered at rescue shelters and saw the immense need for more forever homes, but even then it was not always in the best interest of the animals they adopted.
made me laugh, cry, commiserate and celebrate.
his veterinarians and vet techs can attest to his endurance.
when the snow and ice fell and the temperatures plummeted to dangerous levels, the dog would stand shivering in the cold, too scared to go in a house or let anyone approach him.
i kept my head down, endured the taunts and stopped going up to the common.
i am also a dog owner and dog trainer who has committed my  life to helping people find the most effective, humane and responsible way to  live in harmony with their dogs while also affording them the respect they  deserve.
again we had no idea how privileged we were to play in such an environment, but  it was an important part of our protected world.
sadie belonged to an elderly lady who was no longer able to keep her due to illness and members of the family decided that it would be best to re-home her.
that is just the tip of the iceberg!
i sadly had to say that i thought the dog should be put to sleep.
she is such a lovely woman and a true powerhouse in our collective quest to promote positive training at the expense of dominance and fear-based methods.
in our seminar in rome he will speak about smaf (signal, meaning and form) his traning method and the second day he will present his last work about the dog behavior problems.
they might also be worried that less breeders will be paying to register  their puppies via the akc which would mean less money for the akc.
someone told me that this awareness is a sign that i am getting old.
for some reason, though, a lot of people still don't  like hearing trainers say that it's not ok to train your dog using any  method that "works".
dominance  methods are destructive and when it comes to training dogs, positive  reinforcement is the only truly effective and humane philosophy for all  the reasons listed above.
sadie the chocolate labrador came into our lives at the beginning of february.
sy: back when most people were training using force-based methods, yes starting puppies young could ruin them.
contrary to popular belief, dogs don’t just see in black and white - yellows and blues can be easily distinguished unlike the colors green and red, which appear gray (part of the reason a dog can’t always find that red rubber toy when it’s laying on green grass).
we all know that dogs do amazing things, but check out this very active dog, making a difference for so many in the surf!
to have the police handler evaluating lennox as a behaviorist is a disservice to the dog-and the handler.
posted by victoria stilwell - 06/12/08 at  10:06:51 am -no
emma’s endeared herself to her community to the point where children all over call her by name at public demonstrations, approaching her in the ‘safe’ manner she taught them.
it is imperative that dogs with this behaviour are taught a more appropriate way of interacting with people and responding to the leash and also greater self control.
now we just have to find the right family for him and we  know that they are out there.
moreover we have class formation for new dog trainer and during the year we plan seminars and courses about specific dog activities.
my husband, on the other hand, is having a harder time connecting with jasmine.
contrary  to what some trainers might lead you to believe – dogs are not out to  achieve world domination!!!
i was bullied a little when i was growing up and even though i still remember incidences from when i was 7 years old, i was able to come through the experience relatively easily.
actually more than her namesake.
sadie in turn has been enjoying more attention from all of us so that she doesn’t resent the new addition.
please don’t let this stop you writing for advice  because i feel very honoured to be in a position where i can help to improve  dogs’ lives with their owners and vice versa.
there have been numerous legitimate offers from sanctuaries in southern ireland and the united states willing to take lennox, with the knowledge and funding to do it.
at first the stray wanted nothing to do with the friendly black lab that came bounding over to him, but then the most beautiful thing happened.
as i watch my daughter and my nieces grow up, i am continually reminded of all the situations kids have to deal with when it comes to establishing and keeping social relationships with their peers.
i  didn’t know we still practiced that in this country!
i have just returned from crufts – the dog show of all dog shows.
training is about rewarding exactly as the correct behaviors occur and removing rewards for unwanted behavior such as jumping to grab a toy, before they can perform them.
it is therefore important to tackle this phobia in other ways by using effective management strategies and by masking any audio and visual stimuli that elicit a fear response during an episode.
it may take a little longer, but it’s safer and, more importantly, humane and effective for the dog.
your money, taxpayers’ money, is being spent by councils to seek out and confiscate these breed types, taking innocent family members away from their families, rather than tackling the real issue of dangerous dogs.
you can see archived video of the most recent litter here.
the second a man comes near her she begins barking non-stop.
i’ve met a few of those dogs and that is a direct challenge that i am not willing to win at that moment.
the major institutions were in attendance including the dogs trust and the rspca, but the kennel club was noticeably absent.
again, dominance trainers will argue that these are effective methods of punishment because they stop dogs from repeating negative behavior, and they are right to a point.
the awards themselves (slightly shorter than the oscars) are a celebration of how the media has helped to report, expose and support animal issues that affect us all.
the owner is referred to a trainer or watches a show that demonstrates the use of choke chain or pinch collar and verbal or physical corrections.
your dog: the owner’s manual is dr. becker’s latest book, and he says it’s his best yet, filled with all the “secrets, surprises and solutions” you need to make living with your dog easier and better for you both.
vs: thank you, marty!
in their eyes a dog without testicles is no longer the status symbol of macho power that they want.
that night the temperature fell rapidly and none of us slept as we thought of the poor dog out in the cold, desperately trying to survive.
this important revelation can help us determine how to most effectively educate dog owners and parents of children about what to look out for in an otherwise seemingly normal situation.
by widely distributing this information in maternity wards, pediatricians' offices and beyond, we hope that this will make a difference.
it amazes me that adults seem to be more ignorant than  children about how children should greet a dog.
hero dog ricochet – escondido, ca posted by victoria stilwell -  04/17/11 at 09:04:16 am -1
nw: leaving calming music playing when you are gone is one of the easiest ways to help your dog to relax.
this positively site is the online home for positive reinforcement and i am so proud to have the best in the business blogging here.
like early november in the uk (guy fawkes night) and new year’s eve everywhere, independence day can be a fantastic time for us humans, but while we gather with friends and family to celebrate and kick back, these times of year can be miserable for our pets.
he also has a letter of appreciation signed by the president.
dogs guard and control for fear that they will lose  access to their comfort and what makes them feel good and not because they want  to dominate humans and the household, yet for so long these kinds of behaviors  have been grossly misunderstood.
my husband, on the other hand, is having a harder time connecting with  jasmine.
he was particularly focused on photographing rescue and senior dogs and his photos were nothing short of mesmerizing.
licking the face and around the mouth is a learned behaviour in our dogs and particularly prevalent in wolves, our dogs’ ancestors.
as this is a very sensitive issue for many people, i have gotten a few emails and questions from proponents of purebred dogs who are convinced that because i support campaigns like therspca’s born to suffer, i must therefore also be against dog shows and the purebred culture.
sarah fisher is one of the nation’s leading experts in the field of canine behavior as well as being a ttouch practitioner.
the more i  investigate the dog bite problem, the more i am discovering the  reasons why.
similarly for puppies, training based on punishing unwanted behaviors rather than setting them up for success can ruin them or at minimum produce a very different dog that what you would get otherwise.
vs: is that the greatest compliment?
if this doesn’t happen i will have to put up my own signs – they  just might not be so diplomatic.
jumping while greeting is a great way for a dog to get your  attention.
he has worked with master trainers from napwda, us border patrol, royal canadian mounted police and miami-dade police department.
some of the footage shown of the horror that many animals suffer at the hands of man was shocking and hard to watch, but i believe animal cruelty, which is still prevalent in so many industries including factory farming and puppy mills, needs to be highlighted in this way.
i dreaded going to school, cycling on my beloved common and walking the school halls.
this disastrous turn is, of course, mitigated somewhat by the utter and profound joy that she and her housemate –
watch video of ben here.
the positive trainer will then find non threatening ways to train the dog to feel more comfortable around the stimuli, with the result that this confidence means there is no need for the dog to behave aggressively.
believe me, he could have inflicted a lot of harm on david if he was truly the dangerous dog that some people believe he is and instead lennox chose not to bite, maul, attack or inflict damage in any way, shape or form.
or they are just too much work.
sometimes this debate can get frustrating, because so much of the positive  reinforcement argument is based on common sense.
perché abbiamo invitato proprio lui?
but i had noticed some worrying signs.
i’m sure  that you would feel threatened and react in a negative way too.
they believe that it’s too much difficult to reach, but i think that if we work in the right way we can reach great results.
like the family and lennox’s many supporters, i have been heartened and overwhelmed by the huge response since the verdict came down last friday.
listen to our podcasts!
it’s not just about training puppies to sit or come.
the dog doesn’t react when it is surrounded by all the other dogs and the technique is therefore labeled a great success – the dog is cured!
– what kind of info can our readers expect to find in them?
vs: what sorts of things did you learn by living full-time with a dog who has separation issues, as opposed to what you already knew as a professional behavior specialist?
his most recent australian cattle dog, rudy—who was otherwise a great dog—was fear aggressive if unfamiliar dogs got in his face.
on coming out of the shower he noticed a rather pungent smell and his worst fears were realized.
as we reflect on the loss we suffered ten years ago and how it changed the world we live in, i think it’s also important to look forward and try to identify whatever positives we can glean from the wreckage.
instead of feeling fear, the brain begins to be overcome with not just the pleasurable feelings that food gives but also allows the dog to focus more on the good sensation and less on the negative emotion.
he put jasmine in her crate for  safety as he didn’t want her to walk around the house unsupervised.
i make no secret of the fact that i come from a rescue-oriented background  and have never been a part of the show-dog world, but that’s not to say  i’m completely against it, either.
you can listen to the testimony of animal  control who said that the dog was very aggressive when they went to pick him  up.
irresponsible dog ownership,  particularly by those who own large breed dogs for intimidation or protection,  is also a major factor.
you should know, the first time i saw you on tv i thought, ‘wow!’
whether you think it's morally correct or not (and in my opinion it's completely bogus - targeting the wrong end of the leash), the simple fact is that regardless of how you feel about certain types of dogs, breed specific legislation (bsl) does not work.
if it's the former, then fair enough - that's  why i've developed this site:  to inform.
neutering would solve that issue and it might help reduce  caspar’s marking behavior as well.
we’ve both had many clients over the years who adopted dogs from shelters and rescues who needed some guidance about how to transition their adopted dog from “new dog” to “best dog ever.”
i could see that he was on the edge of something very bad and  i could also see that it was going to be very hard convincing eric that using  caspar as a stud dog would just be contributing to the pet overpopulation
but he did, and he too began to well up with tears.
i’m now in the same position as parents all over the world, and our answer is: not for christmas.
she is five years old with the most  appealing eyes you have ever seen and the kindest nature.
as i write this sadie is lying beside me wondering when this new woman is  going to take her for a walk.
daily clues from victoria's mystery friend: how to enter the free contest: *
don’t ask my why – but i thought i’d train lucy to play a little kids piano.
he was brought to the united states after the war and the training program led by his son, rin tin tin iii, served as the model to help create the us military working dog training program at camp hahn in california during 1939.
celebrating and perpetuating a strict set of rules  constituting breed conformation means that many breeds of dogs live with  disabling physical characteristics and hereditary diseases that can cause acute  suffering and in some cases premature death.
do not push a dog off the sofa or chair if you want to sit there.
and many many other terrifying things like this.
some of the footage shown of the horror that  many animals suffer at the hands of man was shocking and hard to watch, but i  believe animal cruelty, which is still prevalent in so many industries  including factory farming and puppy mills, needs to be highlighted in this  way.
now, if you have ever watched a parliamentary debate you will know that british politicians get pretty feisty with each other.
of course, i'm pretty partial to the dogs, but they're all super-cute.
i agree with those who say that you cannot predict future behavior in any animal just as you cannot predict it in any human.
as i was standing in the room  with the dog and the handler, a family came in with their six year old  daughter.
one  thing that is fairly certain in sadie’s case is that like most dogs, the  memory span relating to her cognitive reasoning is not nearly long enough for  her to understand the correlation between eating grass and having to endure  another manual poo extraction exercise.
i was in no way a threat to anyone and certainly not a person to be jealous of, but because i was relatively unaware, i became an easy target.
and i agree with all of that.
it’s a full-day dog festival with many scheduled events of culture and education throughout the day.
conditions were so bad that every school  closed for a week, which made for many happy children.
dogs make wonderful companions and need to be treated with care and respect.
there is less of an  emphasis on understanding why a behavior is occurring and more of a desire to  get a ‘quick fix’ and suppress bad behavior with punitive  means.
boo took off down the hall, pass the elevators we knew, and stopped at the door to the stairs.
vs: can you explain for our dog-loving audience what exactly makes this book different?
when your dog can greet in a calmer manner, teach him to walk up to a  person and sit in front of them rather than jump all over them.
jasmine began to make loud retching noises and as my husband desperately looked around for something to catch what he knew was coming out of her mouth, she vomited.
he did not exhibit any of the behaviours that i have mentioned above.
if used correctly, i believe dogtv will be a valuable tool to help ease our dogs’ loneliness and provide comfort on separation.
so as lennox passes his seventh birthday in isolation in his belfast jail cell, i urge you to contact your local government and speak out against bsl while calling instead for greater responsibility by owners.
october 8, 2010 500 students and 30 staff members at the kelly elementary school in carlsbad, ca were interrupted by gunfire on the playground.
the humane society of the united states reports that 50% of children will be bitten by a dog before their 12th birthday.
now i don’t know about you, but i think it’s highly irresponsible for a breeder to sell a jobless eighteen year old boy such a powerful dog for thousands of dollars and encourage him to train it for protection.
when a dog is suffering from anxiety or fear that provokes a negative behavior such as aggression, then it is sheer foolishness to profess that by punishing a dog, the dog is fixed.
i always start by asking the same  question, ‘why do you think the dog is jumping up?’
when the door to the van was first opened lennox barked.
emma’s a loyal public servant to surrounding tri-state communities by deploying as a search and rescue/recovery (sar) dog through the sjtfd, idhs district 3tf, allen county sheriff & fort wayne, indiana police department.
many of our beautiful breeds are being bred to destruction such as the great dane, the german shepherd and the cavalier king charles, but no breed is more maligned or disfigured than the english ‘british’ bulldog.
the awards themselves (slightly shorter than the oscars) are a celebration  of how the media has helped to report, expose and support animal issues that  affect us all.
can you tell a difference in how progressive certain european countries are in their attitudes towards dogs compared to one another?
after giving  a presentation about her dog training experiences and answer fans'  questions, victoria stuck around to sign books and merchandise at the  show.
dopo molti anni di lavoro volevo capire se la mia preparazione poteva essere messa in confronto con istruttori internazionali di alto livello.
it is also pretty fair to say that he is not  as consistent as i am when it comes to walking the dogs (sorry,  honey).
since last week's episode of it’s me or the dog aired in the us featuring eric and his presa canario caspar, i have been inundated with people asking if eric listened to my advice and finally had caspar neutered.
life changes when a baby comes into the home and adjustments need to be made so that everyone in the household – including the new baby and the family pet – are safe and protected from each other.
if anything, more oversight would help the legitimate breeders, as they would have official status and stamps of approval as humane breeders.
there is a public footpath across the  road from where i live.
it’s a very special book to me!
, the council now find the need to class him  as a pit bull type dog and euthanize him.
i would ask him  for things like a doll or a cuddly toy or some pens.
confident children don’t feel the need to bully,  and the same dynamic can be said of dogs.
is the dog territorial?
i’m not a politician, and i have never claimed to be interested in or able to comprehend what i’m sure are the delicate intricacies of how to create and enforce effective legislation.
the problem is that the television channels our pets end up watching or listening to often do more harm than good, because constant talk becomes an overpowering irritant, or the programming contains loud music or sounds interspersed with louder commercials, meaning the dog never receives an auditory break.
the key is to make it fun and use all of the dog’s motivators—food, petting, praise, getting the leash on, going outside—to your advantage and to make sure you don’t accidentally reward them for the unwanted behaviors.
she doesn’t necessarily admit to having a problem, but then i guess that’s to be expected.
dominance methods are destructive and when it comes to training dogs, positive reinforcement is the only truly effective and humane philosophy for all the reasons listed above.
what more evidence do we need as a society to realize that bsl is ultimately ineffective, if not also unfair?
now, of course, i can’t remember what life was like with just one dog.
for instance, i document the progress of a litter of young puppies and show that one puppy is very reactive to handling at 4 weeks of age but with several minutes of handling a day, after a week, the puppy can even have clippers near him and remains calm.
the judge basically had a choice to make: do i believe the police dog handler, or a learned and internationally respected dog behaviorist with extensive experience regarding dog aggression.
victoria: there are a lot of puppy books already out there.
the girl approached the dog and, without asking the handler,  took the dog’s face in her hands and kissed it on the nose.
my father knew everyone who worked at the grounds so we  would often get in for free finding any seat available to watch the stars  play.
but i would urge you to  take advantage of valuable information that is readily available in books,  videos and from good trainers, making sure that you stay away from any that are  punitive or unkind to the dog.
the judge based his decision that lennox was a threat to society on stereotypes, misleading ‘expert’ reports, and his own apparent distrust of strong dogs.
together we created dog  trainers of new york, a successful dog training company that in the last ten  years has helped thousands of dogs and their people around the tri-state  area.
daniela: i was a teenager when i had my first own dog and i immediately felt the need to buy my first training book in 1983 “complete guide for german sheppard training“ .
on the 19th may 2010, lennox, a five year old american bull dog labrador cross was wrongfully seized by belfast city council dog wardens from his loving family home where he lives with his owners and his kennel mates.
after only a few days, i decided not to use food anymore because the dog had learned how to come back to me… and i lost the dog for one hour.
i know that’s going to shock a lot of people.
he still responds appropriately to social cues.
and i thank you all for watching because  your support helps to spread the word and improve the lives of  dogs and their people around the world.
after many surgeries and painful procedures, phoenix suffered one final complication which caused his leg to re-fracture.
every day from july 12 through july 19 victoria will be posting new clues as to the identity of her new mystery friend on this page as well as her facebook and twitter feeds.
unfortunately, there is still a culture based on old conception and on traditional knowledge that produce bad works with dog and no respect of the dog.
when lennox was a puppy his owners had him neutered, licensed, insured, dna registered, pet safe registered and micro chipped and although the belfast city council have issued a dog licence for lennox for the last five years and continue to do so today, the council now find the need to class him as a pit bull type dog and euthanize him.
geneticists disagree.
but i also believe i have a duty of care to reduce stress where possible when handling any animal in a situation that is causing them distress.
here are just a few of them: fortunately modern-day vaccinations can protect your dog from some of these diseases but for others there is no protection.
read more about this special event here.
before the meeting, i had a chance to witness a debate about the future of the british economy and what steps were being taken to revive a struggling situation.
some dogs become distressed when separated from their owner physically or visually—these are often the “velcro dogs” who don’t want to let the owner out of their sight, even for a minute!
if it's the latter,  however, i have no patience for these people and view their rationale and  motivations for such behavior as a sign of tremendous insecurity and  weakness.
my show- ‘it’s me or the dog,’ has been broadcast in over twenty countries and fortunately the message of responsible ownership is also spreading to far off places such as brazil, dubai and hong kong.
she is overweight, snores at night and has some pungent gas problems but we  love her and she’s here to stay.
the sheer scale of suffering is hard to stomach but media is the best way to expose these issues that would otherwise go unchecked.
ricky who i miss the most.
she’s a 9 month old puppy, very inquisitive, so she’s still in the process of discovering this strange world using her mouth as the primary tool.
the adorable sequel to the original hit movie follows the adventures of marley as a puppy, and features some wonderful scenes of agility training.
of course the poison control hotline wasn’t open on the holiday weekend, so i gave our lovely vet, dr. jones, a call to get his advice.
when he hears the door bell he gets very hyper, and when a guest comes over he jumps them at the door.
dc: in italy is prohibited to use electric/shock collars but i still see and hear about aversive training and dominance-based techniques.
nothing extraordinary happens to the psyche of a dog when it conforms to certain measurements.
garry’s photographs, were to him, studies in art, but a decision to take on a job commissioned by a well known organization, proved to be his downfall.
appearing on espn's  first take, a.j. was interviewed with his chihuahua todd to discuss his pride  in owning and loving small dogs, despite the fact that he's one of the most  fierce football players in the game today (and part of the reason why my  husband's atlanta falcons had an early playoff exit).
this keeps both  children and dogs safe.
keep your dog behind a baby gate and don’t allow him to  greet until he is calm.
with temperatures plummeting to below zero, the roads were  like ice rinks and people that ventured out in their cars were risking their  lives to do so.
help victoria support the wspa's collars not cruelty campaign!
myth: positive trainers do not use discipline.
even if you don't have a dog or a child, please read my new article about  children and dog safetyto help make a difference.
i can’t  see how that could ever be the case, and i don’t think that makes any  sense, but it’s the only explanation i can come up with for why they  would obstruct laws opposing puppy mills.
i recommend thethrough a dog’s ear cds, which are psycho-acoustically designed specifically for this purpose—but the chapter also discusses how you can use classical music you have on hand.
i now believe that was probably due to a combination of separation anxiety and being a consummate escape artist.
not only do we need this approach, we need it now!
lennox does rag on the lead but it is very self controlled.
that they’re only eating grass in an effort to make themselves throw up?
for example, do you think it is  right that 80% of bulldogs cannot be whelped naturally because the  puppies’ head are too big?
i was teaching the dog to “come when called” and i used food as the positive reinforcer.
think of the typical schoolyard  bully – is he generally a self-confident kid or one who actually suffers  from significant insecurity issues?
i won’t mention any names but there are  some people out there with some pretty wacky ideas.
fortunately in this instance the dog was very friendly and no one got bitten, but you get my point.
the neighbors had been keeping a constant vigil all night but we all knew that surviving another night was near impossible.
as i arrived i caught sight of him limping into the undergrowth,  but as soon as i switched off my engine he was gone.
first, we must make a concerted effort to crack down on and eliminate ‘backyard’ breeders and puppy farmers who churn out puppies with no regard for the well-being of the dogs and are only interested in making money.
soon after buster came into our lives my husband became very sick.
sometimes this debate can get frustrating, because so much of the positive reinforcement argument is based on common sense.
using aggression, intimidation and forced submission on a  fearful, unconfident dog is like treating fire with fire, as the dog’s
ricochet was slated to be a service dog, but due to her propensity to chase  birds, she had to be released from that role.
for more information or to nominate your hero dog, visit the hero dog awards official site!
people all  over the world are touched on many different levels, bringing them to tears.
vs: are these books designed for experienced pet owners, are they ideal for new pet parents, or everyone in between? sd: everyone, from granny to little kids.
the  amazing thing was, i had never taught her to do these things – she was  copying what she had seen me do on the television, with dare i say it exactly  the same tone of voice!
because i know in at least some of those visits, the veterinarian saved a life.
he did, so the case was closed, even though lennox never had a chance to speak.
there are a number of ways you can control your dog’s jumping.
if your  dog has a behaviour problem that you don’t know how to deal with and you  need help – invest in one of these trainers.
i would not hand feed a dog that i deem to be aggressive.
coming next in fact vs fiction, part ii -  quick fixes ,  using  positive reinforcement on aggressive dogs, and the one true way to  train.
have you voted for your hero dog yet?
the quality and integrity of this line of dogs is a testament to what reputable breeding should be.
i am proud that truly i have a large contingent of world renown experts who are quoted here.
not knowing if she’d actually swallowed any of the pellets, we immediately raced jasmine to dr. jones’ office, where he met us from his memorial day celebrations, opened up the surgery and did the necessary procedures needed to give jasmine the best chance of survival, including giving her charcoal to bind any pellets that had been ingested.
ball once told me that watching other sitcoms was kind of bittersweet for her.
all i can think is that these groups feel that a simple bill to crack down  on puppy mills is somehow an assault on their way of life.
if you're like me and are concerned about this issue, then the  latest statistics will alarm you, because dog bites in the united states and  great britain are growing.
he loved working together; loved my  husband and my daughter and was so proud of me when my idea for a dog training  television show came to fruition.
i am looking at the eyes if it is safe to do so, i am watching the respiration, i am studying the movement, the set of the ears and the tail and so on and my opinions about an animal are based on many years of working in this way.
apgaw is an all-party group made up of mps, peers and associate animal welfare organisations or groups.
but i will say, oprah really cares about animals – and you and i should be on her show together, i think.
the neighbors had told me that even though the stray wouldn’t come up to people, he would come up to their dogs, even when their dogs were being walked in the neighborhood.
,  should be used intermittently.
the girl approached the dog and, without asking the handler, took the dog’s face in her hands and kissed it on the nose.
i often  wonder how they sleep at night knowing they are perpetuating the abuse and  neglect of millions of puppy mill dogs in this country.
seeking to find some new and different routines for lucy to do in animal assisted therapy, my wife, robin, asked me to train her to do something out of the ordinary.
leggi in italiano victoria: how long have you been training dogs, and have you always used positive reinforcement methods?
after ten years of training garry decided that he wanted to pursue  photography again, but this time, photographing dogs, and the results were  outstanding.
i used to be concerned when dogs (my own or otherwise) ate grass.
in fact during this time lennox was giving all kinds of pacification signals, choosing to turn away from david when he felt uncomfortable, rather than bite, maul or attack him.
that combination is what makes the training so fast.
agility is a great way for dogs (especially puppies) to socialize, build confidence and develop while having fun with their people!
sy: besides just not getting their puppy out enough, the biggest problem is that people when they do get them out, they don’t realize the puppy must have positive experiences, not neutral or negative experiences.
jasmine had an approximately one-ounce pellet based on the stuff in her mouth.
i knew what i was walking into when i agreed to go and assess lennox for the family.
i love to meet people, and i’m happy to help by answering questions.
– a fantastic resource for those who have dogs struggling with separation anxiety.
the product looks like a plug-in air freshener, and you place it in your dog’s main resting area.
i will apparently be honored in february at the dog writer’s association of america awards banquet, inducted into the dwaa hall of fame.
for instance, the reason cigarettes are much more addicting than heroin, which is much more potent is that smokers get many many little rewards on a daily basis.
he knew exactly what he wanted—an australian cattle dog that looked just like his past cattle dog rudy, and he wanted it asap.
i didn’t wear great clothes, i didn’t wear make-up
does it try and escape each time you open the front door or the garden gate?
he didn’t offer any hand movements.
sadie the chocolate labrador came into  our lives at the beginning of february.
conditions were so bad that every school closed for a week, which made for many happy children.
i am a strong woman now, but i never forget what i went through to get there and that makes me continue to fight against those that bully people or animals.
giorgio: sono ormai quasi dieci anni che lavoro con i cani e ho sempre usato metodi positivi con loro; questo perché la mia formazione fu con una persona che molto probabilmente per prima in italia aveva iniziato a proporsi al cane in modo positivo: carlo marzoli.
i write this with a heavy heart.
that’s an honest challenge to those opposed to puppy mill reform: you fix the puppy mill problem however you want, so long as the following issues are resolved including: you opponents of puppy mill legislation come up with your own solution to the above problems that don’t conflict with your love of pork chops and shotguns, and you’ll be absolved.
jim crosby, a leading investigator of dog bites and human fatalities from  dog bites in the u. s.  states: "what i see these numbers indicating, based on my on-scene  investigations, is that irresponsible owners tend not to spay and neuter, tend  to chain their animals out for extended times with little or no socialization,  and maintain their animals with less wisdom and care than most of us.
sometimes the most obvious answer that has been staring you in the face all  day takes along time to make itself known!
that’s a message that needs to get out.
they were simply terrified and they were not provoked.
clarissa baldwin, chief executive officer of the dog’s trust shelters in britain coined the famous phrase, ‘a dog is for life, not just for christmas,’ and since she did she has saved many lives.
dr. sheldon rubin’s eyes must be tired – but who better to write the introduction for both books?
this is dangerous  and fundamentally wrong, i can’t put it clearer than that.
angelica was with us for  eight years.
stay tuned for future news and i wish everyone a wonderful holiday season and a happy and healthy new year.
for example, do you think it is right that 80% of bulldogs cannot be whelped naturally because the puppies’ head are too big?
è meglio iniziare il prima possibile….. con il cucciolo, senza aspettare di avere problemi.
more and more people are calling for his release and we can only hope that somehow this might happen.
the bottom line here is that a reward that motivates a dog to learn is a great training tool because learning not only makes a dog more confident and able to live successfully in a domestic environment, it also encourages mutual understanding that increases the human/animal bond.
other people could then go in with this magnificent horse too and hand feed him the fresh sweet grass that we had picked from the surrounding fields so it isn’t simply that i am quiet in my handling of animals nor possess some extraordinary skill that can make even the most savage lion behave like a lamb when in my company.
any reward that is used to motivate your dog to learn should be of high value until she is responding reliably.
children  are most likely to be bitten in the face as they are closer to a dog’s  eye level making it easier for a dog to feel threatened by eye to eye  contact.
we don’t have to be as quick to get the food reward or other reward to them.
" "we had some truly crazy situations in the last season we shot in new  york, and i can't wait to see what's in store for me this summer,"  says victoria.
all i ask is that we all take a second look at what some of the current breed standards set by the ‘governing bodies’ are doing to our dogs and take action to reverse any of the negative effects.
it turned out that – except for the red hair – our lucy lived up to her namesake.
clearly i had a musical prodigy.
if we could somehow prosecute those who willingly encourage their dogs to be aggressive, i firmly believe the number of tragic accidents would decrease significantly.
ever feel so excited that you just want to leap around?
working with dogs that have a fear or phobia can be complex because even though some common fears can be successfully worked with, others are deeply ingrained and are therefore highly resistant to change.
i was a little concerned what alex’s reaction would be to a very large brown dog but i needn’t have worried.
the reclining chair joshua was napping on with his crocheted baby blanket was filled with burn marks and ashes.
punish an insecure dog and you make that dog even more  insecure even though it looks like he is behaving better.
if a dog is aggressive then often that aggression is attributed to a dog trying to be an ‘alpha dog’ or boss of all the other dogs.
jumping and licking can also be sign of submission.
don’t look, talk or touch  the dog at any time it is trying to jump.
in order to  control the behavior and on the advice of some ‘people,’ eric knew,  he put a shock collar on caspar in order to control his behavior.
when a dominance trainer works with an aggressive dog and uses punitive techniques to get a dog to submit or ‘calm down,’ not only is that dog using an instinctive survival tool of ‘shut down’ to make the person stop whatever they are doing, a dominance trainer will then label the dog’s non-reaction and ‘calmness’ as a success.
but she did teach me an important lesson.
fema, the red cross, and other organizations set up areas within the massive pier to organize the search for missing persons, and the aspca began the task of rehoming animals whose owners had died in the tragedy, as well as coordinating the large number of therapy dogs that came to provide comfort for the victims’ families.
most dogs are very friendly and will not bite.
you can interview the family all you like, their friends and neighbors.
even well-trained, older dogs need to be watched carefully for the first few days so that they understand where to find the restroom.
this keeps both children and dogs safe.
children are most likely to be bitten in the face as they are closer to a dog’s eye level making it easier for a dog to feel threatened by eye to eye contact.
for those of you in other parts of the world who  haven’t seen the episode yet, here is a bit of background on the  story.
she was not highly social with other dogs but once she got to know them she seemed happy enough in their company.
she was in the year above me at school and i had nothing to do with her until one of her friends, who happened to be a boy, told her that he liked me.
higher pitched voices can sometimes startle a dog and make it  fearful.
if your dog is aggressive in any way to strangers it is your primary  responsibility to keep your guests safe.
i’m now  home for a while having just finished filming the third american series of it’s me or the dog in new york city and am happy to be home with my  husband and daughter again while connecting with friends that i haven’t  seen for a long time.
posted by victoria stilwell - 11/24/10 at  10:11:33 pm -35 comments thanksgiving is one of my favorite holidays.
sy: besides letting them learn the rules before they have a chance to learn to break them, when they are young they are less coordinated and this gives us a huge advantage.
a war in the neighborhood posted by victoria stilwell - 03/12/08 at  10:03:12 am -2 comments a war is about to start in my neighborhood, the same war that is being  fought in neighborhoods around the world.
this is also despite the conduct of these evaluations in a restricted shelter environment.
be consistent because eventually he  will give up!
fortunately he had cupped his hand under her mouth and caught most of it in his palm.
a dog’s emotional brain is  wired in exactly the same way as that of a human.
hence it may take forever for the puppy to learn to greet politely.
for me, in addition to my newfound sense of ownership and pride in my adopted city, those tragic events also provided me a backdrop from which i would build an even greater appreciation of the power and grace of man’s best friend.
the intent is to warn someone or something out of its space.
the japan coast guard found the dog, and rescued him.
two second grade girls were wounded.
don’t we like to see people’s faces when we say hello?
too many were then and may still be joining the aversive or let’s be dominant bandwagon.
with some of my dog clients on wimbledon common.
in perfect puppy in a week, you’ll see that during that first week lucy, the australian cattle dog puppy who was the subject of much of the book, had many positive experiences with visitors as well as appropriate doggie playmates.
well, i don’t know – everything from defeating public officials seeking breed bans to being a part of the story of creating dog friendly areas or dog parks in chicago – and there’s so much more….but i guess right now the answer is mary and honey.
enter the hope animal-assisted  crisis response teams to which anise is a proud member.
victoria's article about the new season.
we rewarded sadie when she behaved well around jasmine and walked both dogs together to help the bonding process.
i can tell you – and i am telling you first – i haven’t even mentioned this on my radio shows or anywhere, except to my wife and my mom.
she's the only known dog in the world that surfs with special needs kids & people with disabilities for therapeutic purposes.
people love successes, especially when they are achieved quickly and they look very impressive, but those of us who really know what is going on shake our heads in dismay because not only has the dog been mishandled, the person has been misled into thinking that their dog has been ‘fixed’ or ‘cured’.
suffice to say, anyone with even a rudimentary understanding of dog behavior would agree that though poor lennox was a fearful dog, he showed amazing impulse control and trust in the strangers that were handling him.
dog owners often tell me that they can't get their dog to behave appropriately because the dog just won't listen to them.
in order to hide the truth and serve a purpose, people will use intimidation tactics to scare others away, in an attempt to stop the truth from coming out.
jasmine is now a permanent member of our family and we are the luckiest people in the world.
to our astonishment he was still there the next morning.
inevitably, they look on sadly while my sadie chomps away at her greenery, offering their steadfastly ominous advice about the fact that she must be unwell and casting furtive glances at me that seem to say “you obviously must not be feeding your dog a nutritious diet.”
he seems to know intuitively where a child hurts and finds an appropriate place to cuddle.
if you’ve read the “compass of pleasure” by david levin, you know that a high rate of reinforcement can have an almost addicting affect.
nw: because the problem of separation anxiety can seem so overwhelming, and because so much of the available information is very general, i wanted to give owners a way to formulate a plan for their own individual dog.
problem is, the bruised egos will heal-but when lennox is dead, he is dead.
this is the clip that has been released.
partners who have to shout out the steps or who yank their follower around don't make the cut.
lennox showed excellent impulse control at all times and at no point did he grab me or my own clothing which many dogs do when getting excited by a game.
though he would argue that he's just unluckier than i am, i have a suspicion that he is not quite as diligent with the process as i am.
it all started because of one girl.
my mother had a tree  planted for him in one of his favorite places, the hurlingham club, of which he  was a member for 50 years.
jasmine has made all our lives so much richer, including sadie’s.
that’s been super successful --- a golden retriever rescue group (grin) in ohio bought 500, and we’ve heard from lots of people who are buying multiple copies and donating them to their shelter.
as a doting mother of a beautiful 7 year  old girl, my heart literally breaks every time i hear about another child who  has been mauled by the family dog, which is why i have set up a dog bite  prevention task force to help educate the public about responsible dog handling  and safety.
not back to the store or the supposedly responsible breeders who seem to have forgotten how much they once cared.
we try to inform our public that there new methods to educate and train the dogs and that is better to begin immediately, with puppies, without waiting to have problems.
most dog owners prefer to train their dogs using rewards  and constructive discipline, rather than using more punitive training methods,  because they want their dog to want to behave rather than having their dog  behave only because he is scared of what will happen to him if he doesn’t.
i myself have been threatened in different ways by supporting lennox and his family, but that is what fear does.
we had countless  dogs – from pitbulls to beagles – and numerous cats from kittens to  adults, and each time we had to say goodbye to them it was a bittersweet  moment.
this is an easy but effective way to deal with the problem.
if a  human has an anxiety problem chances are they will seek out therapy to help  them.
during the years that my husband and i lived in new york city we were foster parents to over forty dogs and cats that came to stay with us while they were waiting to find their forever homes.
if i had become lady victoria in my vast manor house, no doubt i would have surrounded myself with dogs and horses, but then i would probably never have become a trainer and had the opportunities i now have to help dogs and their humans world wide.
part ii of this interview will be posted shortly...
fact: let me say this once.
and i waited a long time to  have our own dog and made the decision to give sadie a home only when we were  ready and our lifestyles allowed for it.
the doctors said that if i hadn't found him when i did he very likely would have stroked out and possibly died.
by the end of it my voice was hoarse and my face hurt from smiling so much, but it was great to meet so many people and talk about why events like the genesis awards are so important.
now we just have to find the right family for him and we know that they are out there.
it infuriates me to see the number of ‘macho’ men who want to get a big, strong, intimidating-looking dog in order to stroke their own egos and replace whatever ‘manliness’ may be missing from their own anatomy.
he also wanted to use caspar as a stud dog – a good way,  he had been told, of bringing in some extra cash.
using positive reinforcement to treat ‘red zone’ dogs is not only a safer option, but a much more effective one.
victoria: welcome, dr. becker, and congratulations on your new book,your dog: the owner’s manual .
he likes jasmine, but there is still room for growth and it is a lot for him to transfer a little of the profound love he has for our lab sadie onto a peeing, poop eating, vomiting chihuahua.
save lennox posted by victoria stilwell - 03/31/11 at 09:03:42 am -  146 comments on the 19th may 2010, lennox, a five year old american bull dog labrador  cross was wrongfully seized by belfast city council dog wardens from his loving  family home where he lives with his owners and his kennel mates.
myth: there are two different behavioral  philosophies that you can use to train dogs - positive reinforcement or  dominance training and both are equally effective.
i believe that dogs should learn just as much from constructive discipline as they do from reward.
marty becker, rachel ray and ellen  degeneres, so i was really honored to attend the ceremony and receive the  award.
the last walk he took them on was an abject failure, as it was freezing cold and no one wanted to be outside anyway (including the dogs).
do not touch a dog while she is eating.
these and other veterinary secrets are the heart and soul of a new book by my friend dr. marty becker, “america’s veterinarian” and a regular on “good morning america” and “the dr. oz show.”
to me the issues of helping animals is much more important than any fame that comes with my show, but now and again it is nice to visit and realize that i have come a long way from my dog walking days in wimbledon.
as a retired police lieutenant i have known a number of canine handlers-and the trainers that prepare the dogs before police get them.
mixed messages are confusing and unfair.
there is such a wealth of great training information available, yet it seems few people tap into it.
i sat down with dr. becker recently to ask him about his book, and why he thinks it’s so important that people have access to information like this.
in his ruling, judge rodgers repeatedly refers to an episode where lennox jumped up on and knocked back the dog warden who came to confiscate him.
this ‘quick fix’ idea demeans a dog’s experience  and is psychologically unachievable.
i do not condone violence or threatening behavior of any sort to any persons involved in this case.
if this warning is not heeded, they will lunge or try another way of getting that someone to move away from them, stillwithout intent to harm.
several early, anecdotal reviews from its recent launch in san diego have mentioned that after turning dogtv on for a few minutes, the reviewer’s dogs didn’t seem interested in the channel and wandered off, apparently unimpressed.
in order to treat this aggression the dog will often be  ‘put in its place’ with punitive methods such as ‘alpha  rolls,’ where a dog is forcibly put onto its back or side and held there  by the owner until it submits, so that it recognizes that it is not the  alpha.
it also shows mum that pups are submissive towards her.
however, it is a bit different bringing home a dog who is not a puppy anymore, and it helps to have one’s expectations aligned with reality.
it’s not about forcing him to sit, it’s about rewarding him over and over throughout the day.
any breed of dog can bite, and any breed of dog can be a great family pet.
jasmine sitting on sadie established dogs can become jealous when too much attention is given to the new addition so i made sure that both dogs got equal attention as well as having quality one-on-one time with us.
food is incompatible with fear and is therefore a valuable tool  in modifying a dog’s fear, anxiety and stress.
the key to avoiding these tragedies is not to make owning certain breeds illegal, but rather to ensure that everyone in charge of dogs and/or children is educated about safe practices and never leaves any dog alone with any child.
this is just one example of how dominance trainers get it so wrong and then impart this flawed knowledge onto dog owners who believe what they are told because it comes from a person that is supposed to know what he or she is doing.
through good dog foundation, phoenix and i have been able to go into our local va hospital to share happiness, love and thank these wonderful men and women who have served our country.
can i play safe with this?"
any last messages you want to send?
if you feel like you need  protection, invest in an alarm system instead of a dog.
and as if these numbers weren’t bad enough, according to 2010 statistics, there were approximately 4.5 million reported dog bites in the us, 800,000 of which were serious enough to require medical attention.
however it continually amazes me that many owners still have  very little knowledge about how to deal with their dog’s behaviour.
i just want to be sure that others learn from our ordeal and refrain from using products like these in places where their pets may be able to access them.
oh wait…  pork and guns are suddenly a part of the  discussion about puppy mills, because amazingly those who lobby on behalf of  pork and guns have thrust themselves into the debate and (for some completely  inexplicable reason) decided that a bill designed to curb abuses against dogs  in puppy mills is a threat to those they represent (pork farmers and fans of  guns).
other dogs don’t become upset until the owner is actually gone.
my daughter was overjoyed to be off school
official 'save lennox' website japanese tsunami dog found after 3 weeks at sea posted by victoria  stilwell - 04/04/11 at 09:04:22 am -4
welcome to positively!
cursing quietly he looked down at the mess to see what had made her sick.
i’m always frustrated when i hear people say they want to get a certain type of dog ‘for protection’, not realizing that actual protection dogs are incredibly rare, while their family pet-turned-guardian is actually nothing more than a ticking timebomb waiting to go off once their child brings a friend over for a playdate.
as i was standing in the room with the dog and the handler, a family came in with their six year old daughter.
the owner is referred to a trainer or watches a show that demonstrates  the use of choke chain or pinch collar and verbal or physical corrections.
but for those who are intent on bringing a new furry friend into the fold, i thought now would be a good time to discuss this age old question: when is the right time to add a new pet to the family?
when a  dominance trainer works with an aggressive dog and uses punitive techniques to  get a dog to submit or ‘calm down,’ not only is that dog using an  instinctive survival tool of ‘shut down’ to make the person stop  whatever they are doing, a dominance trainer will then label the dog’s
fold your arms in front and be  boring.
having not had a chance to evaluate lennox for myself since he’s been incarcerated, i can only hope that his tortuous past few months have not made him another victim of this vicious cycle.
buster and i were sleeping upstairs and we were having a terrible ice storm that night.
the tiny six month old chihuahua mix was perhaps not the best physical match for a 75 pound chocolate labrador but the two hit it off almost immediately.
i’m sure the pork council  and the nra have played some roles in making the world a better place from time  to time, but on this issue, they’re dead wrong, and this time  they’re exposing their willingness to put themselves, their greed and  their egos ahead of the well being of defenseless domesticated animals.
they are all such wonderful, heartwarming and heroic stories.
and ricky was such an apt pupil, i knew i had my opportunity.
in fact, much has been made lately of the link between animal abuse as a very common precursor to human-on-human (including children) crime.
i also work for puppy training, as a prevention to dog’s behavior problems… and a good education of the owners!
signs of zinc phosphide toxicity are vomiting, depression, tremors and weakness which usually occur within thirty minutes to four hours after ingestion.
some of the pups will get lucky and be adopted by a loving family, but most will end up being euthanized along with the four million or so other dogs and cats put down in this country every year.
to this day  the pair are inseparable.
the community knows hawk because of his participation in hundreds of educational programs for schools and civic organizations on wilderness safety and abduction prevention at safety town, dare, scouts, national night out and fire department safety days.
i wrapped my arms around boo tight and cried with joy.
we recently caught up with giorgio to ask him about the movement towards positive reinforcement training in italy, his training center outside of rome, and his upcoming seminar featuring world-renowned ethologist roger abrantes in september.
the resulting controversial photographs made headlines  and years later, even after winning a court case regarding these photos, garry  was ostracized by the industry and never worked as a photographer again.
treatment involves removal of as much of the product from the stomach and intestinal tract as possible.
she bullied me relentlessly for two years and made my life a misery.
he also wanted to use caspar as a stud dog – a good way, he had been told, of bringing in some extra cash.
jim crosby, a leading investigator of dog bites and human fatalities from dog bites in the u. s. states: "what i see these numbers indicating, based on my on-scene investigations, is that irresponsible owners tend not to spay and neuter, tend to chain their animals out for extended times with little or no socialization, and maintain their animals with less wisdom and care than most of us.
far from reinforcing fearful behaviour, an owner’s comforting arm and presence can help a phobic dog to cope as long as the owner remains calm at all times.
to many, she is a hero every day.
that therapy does not work in one go (and certainly didn’t in  the past when therapies were punitive) and it takes time to work through an  anxiety and change the way a human feels about something.
although this fight is for lennox's life, there are countless other dogs in similar situations thanks to ignorance, misunderstanding, and ineffectual, faulty lawmaking.
enter the contest by visiting the pet meets baby homepage!
he even performed recitals at local pet stores.
if the child had been bitten the dog and the handler would have been blamed when the real blame should have been with the parents.
if you live in or around the nyc area, and have a pooch that’s an obedience school drop-out or disrupting your life, victoria wants to hear from you!
the north carolina puppy mill bill (sb460) was killed before it could get to a vote because several lobbying groups brought their considerable power to bear on those who were trying to pass the bill and save dogs’ lives.
but getting to the park has become a hazard because if we don’t walk with our eyes concentrated on the ground, chances are we will step in dog poo.
jasmine loves to rest on sadie’s back
this goes beyond the old advice to leave a radio or television playing.
in europe i think we have great differences between certain countries: uk, france, and nordic country (sweden, finland and denmark) are maybe the best country about dog training with positive methods.
– these are pet dogs and if we can’t come together to try and  protect them, then what next? amazingly, even the american kennel club has voiced strong opposition to  puppy mill bills in the past, presumably fearing that the more stringent laws  on puppy farmers will trickle down to their registered breeders as well,
if your dog has a behaviour problem that you don’t know how to deal with and you need help – invest in one of these trainers.
that is why i have never understood why people choose to train their dogs using force and punishment.
i despise those who still utilize dominance training methods when teaching dogs to behave.
official save lennox website follow lennox's campaign on facebook twitter the genesis awards posted by victoria stilwell - 03/28/11 at 01:03:54  pm -2 comments on march 19th i attended the 25th genesis awards.
but what would you do if you as a human were scared of other humans and had a habit of lashing out at people walking past in an effort to get them away from you, but were then forced into an environment where you were surrounded by thirty or more people?
so i am pleased to finally announce that my family and i are once again ‘foster failures.’
they behave and follow their masters and do what they are told and their masters are happier that they have such “obedient” dogs.
people all over the world are touched on many different levels, bringing them to tears.
blog readers, please feel free to visit my web site (www.drsophiayin.com) and facebook fan page (www.facebook.com/sophiayin.dvm).
i’m personally involved to help those dogs in the “perreras” and the fido festival “qua la zampa” is to economically support these dogs.
does it run away from you on a walk?
no, they’ll end up in a  shelter.
this was about the time i met and worked with caspar on the  show.
she steals anything she can find, which has made all of us  really good at picking up after ourselves, barks at people coming through the  door like a rottweiler, (we’re working on that one) and zooms around the  house as if she were a greyhound.
dogs that jump posted by victoria stilwell - 06/15/08 at 05:06:22 pm - 11 comments i am fortunate to receive letters from dog owners all over the world.
this exercise  will give your dog something to do while greeting providing a more controlled  energy outlet which you and your guests will appreciate!
follow those simple rules and babies like justin will be kept out of harm’s way.
the sun is shining through the window onto her beautiful chocolate coat and i am transfixed.
but what really makes the program unique is that owners learn how to make the good behaviors a habit, rather than just a trick performed for treats.
in the spirit of jfk’s
first, my heart goes out to justin’s family.
they didn’t want the man in the wheelchair to see.
this is not typical for tyson as he is generally quiet.
now more than ever, awareness needs to be raised about how to prevent dog bites from occurring.
and i wasn’t self aware.
it became important for me to come up with creative management solutions even beyond those i had previously used in my professional practice.
diseases can be passed through a  dog’s intestinal tract and into the feces.
it  seems strange that after being dogless for so long because of work commitments,  i am now in the same position.
his first speakable words since his injury were to lucy.
i love this book, and recommend you buy it today if you don’t already have it!
allowing a dog to foul a public area and not clearing up after it poses a serious health risk to humans and other dogs.
as a doting mother of a beautiful 7 year old girl, my heart literally breaks every time i hear about another child who has been mauled by the family dog, which is why i have set up a dog bite prevention task force to help educate the public about responsible dog handling and safety.
but my goal is even larger than that.
these strategies include attempting to escape the home, digging into carpets, seeking out dark den-like spaces to hide in, or crawling behind a bathroom sink or toilet.
for bite  prevention week, doggone safe has challenged its members and presenters to  educate 50,000 kids during dog bite prevention week.
i believe she was two years old.
i was once her show – that was a career highlight.
i was always embarrassed – but we were there to make people laugh, and i admit it was cute.
yes, our first guest will be roger abrantes, one of the most important person that studies animal behavior.
comments it is not just men and women serving this country and protecting the  freedoms that we stand for.
motivating your dog to learn these cues by using rewards that make her feel good, will go a long way to getting the response you desire, even in the most distracting of environments.
even though my husband took a little longer to bond (seemy last blog post) he, too, started to melt and succumb to jasmine’s charms.
dogs never bite without giving a warning, but while some dogs might growl, tense up, or bark aggressively at you, others will give such subtle or quick warnings, they are easy to miss.
there is something very special about this time of year, particularly when you can see it through the eyes of a child.
lack of socialization causes fear and insecurity,  which is at the very heart of aggressive response.
garry gross was a well known fashion photographer in new york city for many  years.
it seems strange that after being dogless for so long because of work commitments, i am now in the same position.
how did you make that choice?
vs: tell us about your facility outside rome, il cane a norma.
read more > february 23, 2012drop the “obey” and replace it with come play i think part of the problem with many of the dogs...
in order to control the behavior and on the advice of some ‘people,’ eric knew, he put a shock collar on caspar in order to control his behavior.
buster is an emerging hero with a large tale to tell - well, his owner tells it for him.
comments we have a new foster pup staying with us at the moment – a six month  old chihuahua/min pin mix named jasmine.
fact: any reward that is used to motivate  the dog to learn has to be of high value until the dog is responding  reliably.
myth: positive reinforcement trainers only  use food as rewards, which is a form of bribery.
the boys who attended our brother school would finish school before we did and hang around outside our school until we got out.
it is important to be consistent.
vs: tell us about “good dog!”
italia, spagna e grecia stanno crescendo e stanno migliorando la loro posizione e forse il maggiore problema che si riscontra è nei servizi offerti ai cani.
there is less of an emphasis on understanding why a behavior is occurring and more of a desire to get a ‘quick fix’ and suppress bad behavior with punitive means.
i felt like taking up my fist and plowing it through her to get rid of that awful face that had taunted me for two years.
in some countries like spain, the law allows terrifying things: dogs that are in shelters are killed after 10 days if not requested from old owners or from a new family.
misdiagnosing the reason for the aggression and suppressing that aggression with punitive training means that the dog is made even more insecure and that insecurity has the potential to surface again, possibly more violently than before.
approximately 500 genetic health  defects have been documented in dogs and defects are very high in purebreds  because the gene pool is so limited.
overall, three factors: vs: in this book, you personalize the book by focusing on the training of your fathers’ australian cattle dog puppy, lucy.
i am a compassionate person and even though a client might not like to hear what i have to tell them, i communicate with sincerity and a desire to help improve lives that have gone awry.
fact: this is a flawed and dangerous way to think.
toby is a 6-year old yorkshire terrier, a 7-pound bundle of joy with a wonderful temperament, who truly loves giving to others.
and lucy and i were definitely close – but it’s
i often wonder how they sleep at night knowing they are perpetuating the abuse and neglect of millions of puppy mill dogs in this country.
and it all started because of jealousy.
this  gradual shift had been gaining in popularity and awareness, as more and more  people continue to see positive results while building mutual trust and respect  with their dogs.
it would be wonderful  if a slot machine gave out money every time you played it but unfortunately  that doesn’t happen.
i would get so upset that he never fulfilled my wish, but  i didn’t realize then that he was a lot wiser than i was, because he knew  even though it was me who wanted the dog, my parents didn’t have the time  to look after one.
i have personally joined the fight to bring lennox back to his loving home,  having spoken at length by phone with his owner.
aggression is a dog’s way of protecting himself and  his resources, and is deeply rooted in fear for survival, fear of loss of  comfort, a desire to repel a perceived threat and is a great way to control  space and environment.
one trainer says “ i own tons of dog training books and none of them are as much to read as this one.
the north carolina puppy mill bill (sb460) was killed before it could get  to a vote because several lobbying groups brought their considerable power to  bear on those who were trying to pass the bill and save dogs’
puoi dirci qualcosa sulle differenze che si riscontrano nei diversi paesi in europa e sui loro modi di proporsi al cane?
pit bulls can make great family pets in the hands of a responsible owner simply put, any breed of dog can bite, and any breed of dog can make a  perfect family pet.
the amazing thing was, i had never taught her to do these things – she was copying what she had seen me do on the television, with dare i say it exactly the same tone of voice!
seek to penalize them to the full extent of the law, and protect your citizens by addressing the issue of dangerous dogs of all breeds, not spending your tax payers’ money on taking innocent dogs away from their families because of the way they look.
if you feel like you need protection, invest in an alarm system instead of a dog.
another important tip is to remember that once a dog is no longer a puppy
the first day she came to us, she jumped onto our bed, rolled on her back, stuck her paws up in the air and went to sleep.
thanks for all the great times we had and for all your support.
i have set up a dog bite prevention task force, made up of professionals from all around the country, including veterinarians, lawyers, canine bite investigators and pediatric surgeons, each dedicated to educating the public and keeping people safe.
the best way to stop a dog from jumping up is to ignore it while it is  jumping.
purtroppo esistono ancora realtà dove l’utilizzo della violenza e della costrizione sul cane sono la normalità.
as someone who has devoted my life to studying the behavior of dogs, i am nonetheless always amazed (and, let’s face it - pleased) when i witness the manic scene of happiness and euphoria that occurs every time i return home, even if i’ve only been out to pick up a few groceries.
emotional center, the amygdala.
he’s a good dog, but have only one problem.
now, three years later, we’ve decided that 2011 is the time to add to our family.
seriously taking action is only half the battle as some dog owners need a big kick up the backside.
it’s gotten so bad that we’ve had to have several interventions (which, as evidenced by the fact that there have been a few, obviously means they haven’t been entirely successful).
i think the dog world needs to take a closer look at the concept of breed conformation.
the new shows will start airing in early january  and i’m excited because i think this is going to be the best season  yet.
phoenix has also recently started work in a local library reading program, where children read aloud to him, show pictures, or just talk and pet him.
the military also includes heroic dogs that save the lives of our soldiers every day.
all this excitement usually comes to an unseemly conclusion which usually results in me using my poop bag or two sticks to pull the inevitably stuck, grass-ridden poop from her behind while she looks around at me with a look that says “i kinda think i understand that you’re trying to help me here, but this is really awkward and no fun.”
we would sit for hours in our favorite restaurants going through cases we had had, developing new ideas and comparing techniques.
i have had the honor of  meeting and working with this brave family.
their 13-year old scottie never showed signs because i had owned her first.
and it really focuses on making good behavior fun so that the puppy will want to be good.
living so close to wimbledon, i was able to watch world class players warming up before their games on the practice courts situated right behind my parents’ back yard.
but wii’s and itouches?
so as i’m giving thanks this thursday i thank god for my family, for having the chance to work with amazing animals and for giving me the opportunity to help show people in fifty countries the power of force-free training through my show.
even more important, i’ve found from the research projects i carried out on training protocols and handling procedures, that people also need to see what it looks like when they are performing the techniques incorrectly otherwise they think they are doing the right thing when in fact they are making mistakes.
vs: along with useful exercises such as desensitizing the dog to departure cues, you offer a few different behavior modification protocols.
on that bright september morning ten years ago when the world changed before our eyes, our collective experience was etched into our personal histories in the way that only those truly transformative historical occasions can imprint us: pearl harbor, jfk, 9/11.
punishing that insecurity just serves to increase the insecurity even more.
sadie walked up to my daughter, sat down in  front of her and raised her paw as if to shake hands and say hello.
i understand both have weighed in that lennox is not a dangerous dog.
the breeder told me that facial folds were important because they helped drain  the blood away from a bulldog’s face when it was bull baiting.
there has been so much misinformation and ignorance surrounding this case from the start, because unless you fully understand dog communication and signals it is easy to miss, as all of these people have, everything that lennox is trying to communicate.
he had donated a dog photography session for the silent auction and his beautiful photos were on display.
that decision was a travesty and a tragedy.
fact: this is a flawed and dangerous way to  think.
giorgio: are almost ten years now that i train dogs and i always used positive reinforcement methods; this is because my first formation was with the first dog trainer that used this method here in italy: carlo marzoli.
luckily, jasmine is still with us, though we’ll never know exactly how close we came to losing her since we’re not sure whether or not she ingested any pellets that were counteracted by the charcoal.
working his first disaster, a fire that destroyed most of a city block, he located the sole victim of the fire under the rubble.
positive training uses  constructive discipline toguide the dog into making better choices  rather than scaring or inflicting pain.
i won’t go into the details here but i will say that when i worked with her she appeared to be very good to the member of kennel staff that was watching.
those taped laughs are actually lifted from “i love lucy.”
if a puppy is brought into a home with an established older dog, every effort must be made to keep the puppy’s desire to play with the older dog to a minimum.
the early chapter shows how puppies develop their senses and how this coincides with what they should be socialized to starting before 8 weeks of age.
i’m now in the same position as  parents all over the world, and our answer is: not for christmas.
is the dog a resource guarder?
it’s quite the rig: six tvs, two baths, a shower, a small kitchen and a full bedroom.
here are just a few of them: adenovirus – a viral disease in dogs that can  damage the liver and kidneys.
the same dog being treated with positive reinforcement would slowly be desensitized to the presence of other dogs in a controlled environment with constant praise and rewards whenever he had a calm response.
the general concept underpinning bsl is that the most effective way to determine whether or not a certain dog could potentially pose a threat to humans is by classifying and generalizing entire breeds of dogs as ‘dangerous’, regardless of the individual dog’s temperament, behavioral history or owner’s actions.
the baby was taken to  hospital where he died of his injuries and the pit bull was seized by animal  control and euthanized the next day.
with friendly, well-behaved dogs, unfamiliar people, new objects and different environments during their sensitive period for socialization and continuing into their adulthood.
do not touch a dog while he is sleeping.
that they’re only eating grass in an effort to make  themselves throw up?
they can recognize on some level a part of what she's been through.
i recall an argument i recently had with a breeder of english bulldogs who took great affront at my concerns about the breed.
he then said “thank you” to lucy.
my female alice was rescued from a puppy mill.
i don’t have the  luxury of time, so i will attempt to answer some frequently asked questions via  this blog.
“the long and accomplished history of the rin tin tin line dogs  serving as war heroes, animal actors in films and television and even as a  search and recovery dog at the pentagon after the attacks of 9/11, continues  today as the current rin tin tin is a member of the elite search dog recovery  unit in arkansas,” according to daphne hereford, president of rin tin  tin, incorporated.
those of us in the field of animal behavior who are involved with dogtv (joining me on dogtv’s advisory board is dr. nicholas dodman, veterinary behaviorist and program head of the animal behavior department of clinical sciences, tuft’s school of veterinary medicine, boston) have helped to make sure that the channel’s 24/7 content follows certain timing rhythms.
so if you have say a dog who you know is house trained and then begins to have accidents – see the veterinarian!
i may not be a genius, but i like to think i have decent head on my shoulders, and still i just don’t understand this.
(it took me a while to get used to eating roast  turkey in november since traditionally in england we only eat it on christmas  day, but i’m not complaining now.)
dogs and wimbledon common - a great combination.
and then, actually do something about it with a veterinary visit.
the family stated that their dog was very friendly and had no previous incidences of aggressive behavior, not even towards their other child, a four year old boy.
this process probably took less than half an hour.
after giving a presentation about her dog training experiences and answer fans' questions, victoria stuck around to sign books and merchandise at the show.
higher pitched voices can sometimes startle a dog and make it fearful.
she loves to be touched and is just the right size to snuggle into a lap.
the neighbors were worried that the cold would kill him.
it really couldn’t be any simpler than that.
i love new yorkers.
breeders will seek  to defend this notion, but unfortunately they can’t argue what is staring  them full in the face, ‘in the long term, without the introduction of new  and unrelated genes, all living creatures will suffer loss of genetic  diversity, leading to weaker animals with health problems.’
conditioning a dog to feel differently about the sound of fireworks can be achieved by gradually exposing the dog to audio recordings of fireworks at low volume levels and, if the dog appears relaxed, playing his favorite game or feeding him his favorite food.
so while i may feel that a good portion of our daily walk time is unnecessarily taken up with boring grass-eating, sadie is happy and healthy, and that’s the most important thing.
vs: daniela, thanks so much for taking the time to chat with us today.
only about ten percent of the candidates are chosen.
the enhanced version contains imbedded videos, so not only do i write about how to solve some behavior problems, i show people how to do it.
victoria with dr. marty becker at the 2011 global pet expo as much as we love our dogs, there’s no doubt we can always use more safe and effective tips to make caring for them easier and less expensive.
you can spend up to half an hour on a red carpet if there are enough people who want to talk to you.
that night the temperature fell  rapidly and none of us slept as we thought of the poor dog out in the cold,  desperately trying to survive.
that is not bribery.
excitement produces physical energy and this energy has to go somewhere.
living so close to wimbledon, i was able to watch world class players  warming up before their games on the practice courts situated right behind my  parents’ back yard.
after discussing the situation, i came away thoroughly impressed with what responsible dog owners lennox's family are.
he likes jasmine,  but there is still room for growth and it is a lot for him to transfer a little  of the profound love he has for our lab sadie onto a peeing, poop eating,  vomiting chihuahua.
when lennox was a puppy his owners had him neutered, licensed,  insured, dna registered, pet safe registered and micro chipped and although the  belfast city council have issued a dog licence for lennox for the last five  years and continue to do so today
vs: it’s called perfect puppy in a week.
vs: raccontaci qualcosa sul tuo centro cinofilo, prende il nome dal tuo cane vero?
and i would encourage all of you to read it and learn the truth about lennox’s behavior.
he has worked with alzheimer’s sufferers to improve memory and reduce anxiety; with physical, occupational & recreational therapists during rehabilitation of head trauma patients; and to comfort the terminally ill.
march was also the time when sadie came into our lives  and now three years later it is again the month that marks yet another big  change in our household: jasmine.
i am just one of millions of people battling to protect those that are vulnerable because we have a respect for nature and the animals that we share this planet with.
comments i want to dispel a few myths about positive reinforcement training  methods.
you will have a happier dog and happier  guests.
the animal can also asphyxiate on the gas that it burps up.
similarly, dominance trainers will often  treat ‘fire with fire’ in the sense that they combat what are most  commonly insecurity or fear-based issues, such as aggression, with punitive  methods that create more fear.
as we were talking, i saw out of the corner of my eye a tall, gangly dog emerge from the woods and walk to the porch.
let me be clear:  i’m not claiming that the dog was somehow a  victim, nor am i defending him or his actions.
so regardless of how you feel about the politics of the debate, the end results of such legislation speak the loudest – bsl doesn’t make the world a safer place.
a kid in a candy store posted by victoria stilwell - 03/23/11 at  08:03:03 am -5
yes, the bigger and stronger the dog, the more damage it is capable of inflicting, although i have seen horrific footage of bite wounds from small dogs such as jack russell terriers and chihuahuas as well.
some dogs, especially those that have been dominated, suppressed or abused by a human, learn by that mishandling to not give these warning signals and suppress these signals, going straight to bite.
the vast majority of fatal dog attacks share one glaring yet  often-overlooked characteristic: usually at least one component of the scene is  not in its usual environment.
with catchpole in hand she gently slipped the  loop over his head.
she’d try to put him down before he started struggling.
on february 28th 2010, ashlynn was attacked and killed by a dog.
help the animal victims of the japanese tragedy by donating  toamerican humane's japan disaster relief fund.
i’m  looking for a few case studies of dogs that have these kind of issues.
the other reaction a dog has to being manhandled through dominance techniques is to lash out and bite the trainer or owner in anger, frustration and/or fear in order to get that person away from them.
obviously in his mind, dogs should not do that.
each exercise only takes 5-10 minutes for the puppy to learn and we train the puppy that it’s fun.
so many sections of our society feel compelled to  bow to certain stereotypes and let those factors dictate the type of dog they  choose to own.
she made everyone smile, no matter it was.
and it also cuts down on shedding.
after a fraught couple of days, it became clear just how close we came to losing our precious little newest addition – our rescued chihuahua mix jasmine.
bsl tackles the wrong end of the leash and we should be putting our efforts into stopping future attacks by actual dangerous dogs, rather than putting the focus on taking animals away from their families because of the way they look.
il cane a norma è un gioco di parole creato col nome del mio cane.
irresponsible dog ownership, particularly by those who own large breed dogs for intimidation or protection, is also a major factor.
i can’t see how that could ever be the case, and i don’t think that makes any sense, but it’s the only explanation i can come up with for why they would obstruct laws opposing puppy mills.
bsl addresses the wrong end of the leash.
the same general concept can be applied to  dogs.
can cause convulsions, jaundice, bleeding from  orifices and even death.
basically, it would have made sure that any breeding facility that  had 15 or more breeding bitches and 30 or more puppies was subject to state  regulation, licensing, oversight and humane practice requirements by the  state.
breeding dogs from the same champion will pass on the good and the bad genes, and breeding dogs that are too closely related, which is common practice, means there is more of a chance that defective genes will come together.
so  regardless of how you feel about the politics of the debate, the end results of  such legislation speak the loudest – bsl doesn’t make the world a  safer place.
as we reach the hospital, toby is so eager to begin that he literally drags me up the stairs.
my husband is a very kind man and loves dogs, working tirelessly with me to help dogs around the world, but sometimes, like many people do when raising a pup, he loses it.
what happened to us could happen to anyone, so i wanted to be sure to pass along our experience in the hopes that it may spare you the worry and panic that we suffered through a few days ago.
food is used as a reward especially for a dog that is food motivated,  but rewards such as toys, praise and play can be just as powerful if a dog  happens to be motivated by them.
two hours later he was as wide awake as he had been before the  sedative.
of course, by ‘weed’, i don’t mean marijuana, but rather  the clover, nutsedge and the countless other grassy weeds that seem to sprout  up everywhere around this time of year.
i posted a few already this week onmy facebook page and asked for your comments.
along with whoopi goldberg, i am co-hosting a tribute evening on behalf of american humane association in honor of the search and rescue, therapy, and support dogs who gave of themselves so bravely 10 years ago.
yes, il cane a norma is sort of pun for my dog training center.
playing with a dog can elevate levels of serotonin and dopamine, nerve transmitters that promote pleasure and calm.
if you have an out-of-control dog, live in tri-state area and would like to be on the show, come to the nyc pet show orone of the other new york-area casting events to audition to be on the show (it is not necessary to bring your dog, though they are welcome at the show provided they are on a leash).
one of the points i made on the show, however, was something that i don’t think was on other people’s radars: why was the most crucial piece of evidence in the case destroyed so quickly?
"bone of contention", an all-new episode of it's me or the dog airs this saturday, april 16th at 8pm et.
i am devastated at his loss and still can’t quite believe that he is gone.
the expo is only open to those  involved in the pet product industry and is the place where traders go to do  business, make deals and launch new brands.
each week as soon as walked into the room, lucy would go “whahooo!”
i’ve had to dispel the generalizations of that  myth countless times with fellow dogwalkers in the park.
that means that in every case, either the child is being looked after by grandparents, the dog is being house-sat by an uncle, the whole family (including the dog) are visiting relatives in a different house, etc.
that was when they called me."
if you’re considering adding a pet to your life over the holidays, please make sure you’re not just caught up in the festivities and optimism that comes with the holiday season and the impending new year.
moving to new york city with my husband at the beginning of the millennium had been rewarding in many ways, but i still harbored deep longing for my hometown while somehow slightly resenting new york for not being london.
comments i have just returned from crufts – the dog show of all dog shows.
every second of the way.
yes, it’s against the law to not pick up after your dog
i elected not to stroke lennox all over because of my concerns about his neck, the newly forming scabs that were present on his flanks and the blood that was present around the nail beds around his right hind foot.
he has written popular books with sound advice to pet owners as well as theoretical scientific dissertations.
valuable insight into the lennox case from jim crosby, retired police lieutenant and canine dog bite investigator: over the last few months i have watched the case of lennox, a dog seized for having the “wrong” looks, as it has unfolded in belfast, ireland.
so i decided that i would keep the puppy for a week as soon as i got her and then train her as much as possible before giving her to my dad.
i'll be c0-judging the awards along with whoopi goldberg, betty white and others at the hero dog awards ceremony in los angeles on october 1st, and i can tell you from looking through the nominated entries that it is not easy to choose.
rin tin tin was rescued as a pup from a battlefield in 1918 france during world war i.
norma ha cambiato la mia vita, mi ha dato un lavoro e un futuro e il minimo che potessi fare era dedicargli il centro cinofilo.
issues are often merely suppressed rather than treated and resolved  effectively.
it makes me so sad to see trainers and dog owners use these methods on their dogs, thinking that what they are doing is right and good, when they are oblivious to the signals that their dogs are giving them, signals that the dogs are using to try and communicate to their bullies to stop.
all i can think is that these groups feel that a simple bill to crack down on puppy mills is somehow an assault on their way of life.
now if  the parents didn’t realize that they had just put their child in  harm’s way by allowing her to greet a dog like that, there was no hope  for the child.
it’s why wild animals don’t come out and visit and try to make friends with people all the time.
just having a wide array of photos that depict every type of situation you might meet make the book engaging and documenting the progress of both the litter of puppies as well as of lucy, the main main character/puppy depicted on the front of the book, made the process enjoyable.
the snow and ice had closed down animal control so there was no  one to help rescue him.
who knows, though - maybe one year i will surprise them and pay them back for all of the delicious meals they have cooked for me over the years.
it was also a special time because a few days into the big freeze, ben came into our lives.
" other contributing factors to dog bites include bad breeding practices utilized by the puppy mill industry and back yard breeders.
i could see that he was on the edge of something very bad and i could also see that it was going to be very hard convincing eric that using caspar as a stud dog would just be contributing to the pet overpopulation problem.
every year i go it seems to get bigger and better.
abuse against helpless animals is pretty  far down the same road as child abuse, though, as far as i’m  concerned.
i  think this goes to the heart of the debate over bsl, 'dangerous dogs' and  irreputable breeders.
sadie has to be one of the most gentle dogs i’ve ever seen with a child, but i still believe that there has to be effective management so that alex and sadie are never left alone together.
we treat and train dogs with kindness and  respect because we know that only through practice, scientific research and  discovery can we truly understand a dog’s behavior and help to mould and  change it if needed without using forceful or punitive methods.
life changes when a baby  comes into the home and adjustments need to be made so that everyone in the  household – including the new baby and the family pet – are safe  and protected from each other.
it is also hard for a child to read and understand a dog’s body language, therefore missing vital signals that can put them in harm’s way.
i have spent a lot of time living and working in los angeles and even though i am grateful for the experience, the la lifestyle is not what i ultimately strive for.
when they are put in the dead-list, no food, no water, no care a all is given to them
but getting to  the park has become a hazard because if we don’t walk with our eyes  concentrated on the ground, chances are we will step in dog poo.
i’d like to take every ceo, manager, worker and middle man that works  in the pet store puppy industry to watch all the euthanasias of the dogs that  they previously sold.
boo and i became familiar with the elevators and how to find the grass outside.
steve dale: i emceed an american humane association animal assisted therapy dinner, celebrating the work of many dogs and their volunteer handlers in denver.
i was the first to write about oprah’s dogs inpeople magazine.
it’s very specific and it gives people and idea of what can go write and the little glitches along the way.
an investigation is now underway to determine why the dog  attacked and if there had been any warning signs.
well guess what: there's a new prequel out in stores now: marley & me: the puppy years went on sale this week, and i have a few copies to give away to fans who share their stories about life with their puppies.
ben was assigned to the security forces team.
once again, it's the two-legged problem behind the four legger that precipitates the problems."
i have a hard time respecting people’s ignorance and denial when evidence is presented by so many studies on the medical and behavioral benefits of neutering.
hawk began training for search and rescue when he was only 10 weeks old.
abuse against helpless animals is pretty far down the same road as child abuse, though, as far as i’m concerned.
but she was pretty perfect for me, my assistants, and the visitors who visited.
another helpful modality is dap, or dog appeasing pheromone.
add to this the fact that although he is a very confident, enlightened man with modern sensibilities, he was not particularly overjoyed at having to use a fuscia leash to walk a tiny dog that was wearing a pink striped sweater to keep warm.
the two play, eat, and hang out with each other, sharing their toys and sleeping close together.
dmb: victoria, as you know, my daughter, mikkel becker, is just starting her career as a dog trainer, and i’m also honored to know some of the world’s best trainers and veterinary behaviorists, such as you.
going too fast might make the dog even more frightened, so taking things slowly will ensure maximum benefit from the process.
oh, other celebs- too many to list, and it was so long ago.
in some cases the dog is so aroused it learns to redirect its aggression towards humans.
he has chosen to rely on people unqualified to correctly assess and describe the true nature of certain events relating to dog behavior.
enter the hope animal-assisted crisis response teams to which anise is a proud member.
it would be wonderful if a slot machine gave out money every time you played it but unfortunately that doesn’t happen.
i don’t know - too long a list.
utterly exhausted from his adventure, ben had finally come into the warmth for the first time in at least a week.
i would however like to clarify that a pit bull type is often a mix of dogs.
in the majority of cases, dogs like lennox that are confiscated due to bsl are inhumanely warehoused and dealt with using this confrontational approach, which often creates the very problems the law was attempting to avoid.
these diseases can cause  debilitating illnesses in dogs and humans and in some cases can be fatal.
dear victoria: i love your show!
my father’s tree stands on the side  of a small lake, in front of some tennis courts, with a plaque at the bottom to  honor his memory.
the public is also made to sign a piece of paper stating that they will not cause any disruption while in the gallery.
i’m doing book-signings and meet-and-greets at petcos across the nation, and i encourage people to come by, and to bring their dogs.
for now though, what does the term, ‘dominance,’ mean to you in terms of describing canine behavior and how does it impact the way we teach them?
important appointment scheduled with giorgio guglielminotti (vspdt) is a scientific seminar that will be held in rome the 17th – 18th september 2011 with roger abrantes.
i am also busy assisting with a very important book – having to do specifically with dog behavior – but i am not yet allowed to say much about it.
clockwise from bottom left: nicole wilde, cathy bruce, amber burkhalter, victoria stilwell i love nicole wilde.
britain, other countries, and  several us states have banned pitbulls and/or certain other breeds for decades  and yet child deaths from dog attacks are continuing to rise.
if the humans reward the pushy attention behavior in the low excitement situations, then they dog will definitely continue to perform the pushy behavior in the high excitement situations too.
i had always wanted to demonstrate that cats can learn.
overall, my experiences with sierra caused me to search beyond the traditional recommendations for addressing the issue, to get creative with solutions, and to become very organized in my approach.
it is hard to watch such brutality for human gain and i for one will not stand idly by and allow it to happen.
no, showing holds no benefits for that type of dog at all; it is purely for the owner.
we are like-minded people that deal with dog behavior every day, and most importantly, we see the positive results that our training methods have both for the dogs we use them on and for the people that love them.
in a veterinary study published in the journal of applied animal  behavior (2009), lead author meghan herron, dvm says that confrontational  training methods practiced by many trainers and handlers in the united states  and britain, are a contributing factor.
i’ve trained countless pit bulls, and have  found them to be among the most loyal, smart and trainable dogs i’ve  worked with.
unfortunately he will not  be here to realize his dream, but i am going to continue working on the project  in his memory and make sure that one day his dream will be fulfilled.
she is now perfectly aware of our disapproval of this dietary trend, and looks at us from the corner of her beautiful brown eyes while she feasts madly, as if we hadn’t fed her in a week and a half.
sy: one definition of leadership is the ability to influence an individual to perform behavior he would not otherwise perform.
vs: i understand you’ve been taking your message on the road?
would you lash out in that scenario or would you be worried that if you did you would get attacked back?
posted by victoria stilwell - 01/20/10 at  02:01:52 am -40
so as lennox passes his seventh birthday in isolation in his belfast jail  cell, i urge you to contact your local government and speak out against bsl  while calling instead for greater responsibility by owners.
and some people thought that that was a bad idea worth fighting against.
this stuff was buried about 6 inches below the surface and covered with bark, leaves and rocks, and yet jasmine with her super sense of smell was able to find and dig them out.
if a human has an anxiety problem chances are they will seek out therapy to help them.
statistics have shown that throughout the world, wherever bsl has been initiated, the number of dog bites has actually increased since the legislation has passed.
he was also appropriate in his behaviour with the games we played.
part two of my interview with dr. sophia yin about her new book, perfect puppy in 7 days: victoria: perfect puppy in 7 days really focuses a lot on early learning and socialization.
i don’t have the luxury of time, so i will attempt to answer some frequently asked questions via this blog.
shortly after 9/11 we pulled a very sick maine coon cat from animal control with the intention of nursing her back to health and then putting her up for adoption.
i am fortunate to receive letters from dog owners all over the world.
we know so much more than we did even 20 years ago about how dogs think, what  they feel, how their brains are wired (very similarly to ours, as it turns  out), and what could potentially cause them to aggress.
because she lives in southern  california & is a surfing dog, her title went from service dog to surfice  dog.
my husband and i waited a long time to have our own dog and made the decision to give sadie a home only when we were ready and our lifestyles allowed for it.
when one woman living at an assisted living facility found out that treasure couldn't see or hear her, she stated cheerfully, "well, that's ok.
some dogs will jump from sheer excitement.
it’s too bad that this was all before the days of youtube.
our sponsors have chipped in more than $70,000 in products for these non-profits, with $20,000 going to the grand prize winner.
the owners were mimicking what they had seen  in popular media and dealt with the dog in a completely punishment-based way.
they repeatedly tried to physically subdue the dog whenever it was aggressive.
through this process they learn that you are consistent and you are able to communicate what you want in a clear manner (with good timing).
there was a chance that his adrenaline might counteract the medication, but at this point it was worth a try.
i have had the honor of meeting and working with this brave family.
for two weeks directly following the incident, anise and her caring teammates joined the campus during recess and lunch time.
my mother still lives in wimbledon in the same house where i was raised, very close to the wimbledon tennis championship grounds.
other than psychotic, neurologically damaged  killers i honestly can’t think of anyone i know who would prefer that  puppy mills stay in business and be allowed to profit and thrive off the misery  and pain of dogs.
remember ignore the crazy and reward the calm.
apgaw had invited the main players in the dog world to hear what progress had been made in the three years since the airing ofpedigree dogs exposed, a hard hitting documentary by jemima harrison of passionate productions.
so it’s important foe people to know what their body language is telling the dog so that they can up a communicate clearly.
he has become an amazing representation of his breed and is always looking for belly rubs when we go on our daily walks.
in boo’s ear i cried, “find the stairs”.
here is one handsome military dog with presidential recognition for his service!
when i was a young girl, i used to ask santa for a puppy every year, but i never got one.
you can check them all out at the pets add life youtube channel, and get more info about pal by following them onfacebook and twitter.
if it wasn't for buster i never would have gone down to check on my husband, i didn't hear him fall but buster did.
she has been a trustee with the morris animal foundation for nearly 50 years.
so i was intrigued when i was asked to join the dynamic creative team behind dogtv – the first television channel specifically and scientifically designed to be watched by dogs.
this is how dogs really learn so even if you  don’t give a food reward every time, the possibility of the potential of  one in the future makes a dog work much harder.
people think that because it’s a puppy these behaviors are ok, but once they start getting scratches and wounds from the nipping that they have accidentally rewarded, or when the puppy is larger and knocking people down, it can be much harder to break these habits and form new desired ones.
such dominance-based discipline uses force and hard punishment such as ‘alpha rolls (when a dog is forcibly laid on its back and side and held down until it ‘submits’), ‘biting’ (where a person uses the tips of their fingers bunched together that are poked into a dog’s side in order to simulate a ‘bite’ that a dog would use to reprimand another dog), foot pushes (where a person uses the side of their foot or heel to prod or kick a dog when it is misbehaving), hanging (where a dog is hung by his collar until his air supply is cut off), and shock collars that deliver an electric shock when the dog misbehaves.
when her facebook page reached more than 20,000 incredibly  supportive fans, she wanted to help even more people/animals and started  "raise awareness wednesdays.”
and that's even not to mention the millions of dog bites that go unreported and don't require professional medical attention.
the groups who have proudly announced their opposition to and  relish their role in the ultimate defeat (for now) of the bill include the  national rifle association and (amazingly) the north carolina pork  council.
quiet and refined, it was the place that we would spend the weekend and while my parents played tennis, my sister and i would take off and explore the vast grounds right next to the river thames.
and for me, i’m more interested in writing books that will also be fun for me to read.
take a look at the film and judge for yourself.
so, i’m not sure i’m ready.
comments three weeks after the tsunami in japan, a small dog was found floating on a  house that was swept into the ocean.
this time of year i like to look back and think about what has happened throughout the year both in my personal and business life.
it may take a little longer, but it’s safer and,  more importantly, humane and effective for the dog.
i learned to fight for the vulnerable, to stand up against cruelty and to champion causes i really believed in.
but what do they care what i or anyone else thinks for that matter.
and i didn’t even know how to flirt.
we had to catch him and do it fast because time was running out.
although so much has changed, these places remain important to me.
at one point lennox lunged at david ryan, the piece of video that has been released in a sad attempt, by those against lennox and the campaign to free him, to show what a dangerous dog he is.
the only good news is that there is a 14-day window before lennox’s scheduled euthanasia, but this is primarily a procedural technicality and does not offer much hope of the judge reversing his unfortunate decision.
sadie and jasmine had a wonderful time exploring their home and backyard, though how sadie puts up with jasmine’s incessant heel and elbow-nipping i’ll never understand – that dog has more patience than job!
this path is used by runners, mothers pushing prams, children on their bicycles and people walking their dogs.
the owners were mimicking what they had seen in popular media and dealt with the dog in a completely punishment-based way.
but i nearly took one of her  friends’ heads off with an awe-inspiring cross court backhand and was  never asked to play again.
you can vote for phoenix here, or any of the other amazing hero dogs.
too many infants and young children are being mauled or killed by the family pet and it is time to take action and spread the message about safety and a parent’s responsibility.
please don’t let this stop you writing for advice because i feel very honoured to be in a position where i can help to improve dogs’ lives with their owners and vice versa.
i do not care if i am to be criticized by members of the public or even other professional bodies as i have a wealth of experience handling and working with many breeds of dogs, large and small and i also work with horses with behavioural issues so do not need to defend the claims that i have little or no experience of working with powerful animals such as pit bull types.
that government should focus on penalizing irresponsible dog owners, not certain breeds of dogs.
buster was 10 months old at the time.
modern behavioral science has shown that dogs have a lot more in common with us humans than people and trainers may have thought 50 years ago – they feel emotions similar to ours (fear, anger, joy, excitement, social insecurity, even love) – so it’s important to understand that many of the same basic philosophies we use now with children can be applied successfully to training your dog.
dog bite prevention – part i posted by victoria stilwell -  05/04/11 at 08:05:52 am -18
you don’t need to join a health club, just carry this around for a workout.
we stepped out into the hallway and the alarms were ear piercing.
in every single case, dog bites have become more of a problem since governments began banning breeds.
not back to the store or the supposedly responsible breeders who seem  to have forgotten how much they once cared.
i remember how proud i was to get a new jacket one day and how good i felt wearing it.
dogs never bite  without giving a warning, but while some dogs might growl, tense up, or bark  aggressively at you, others will give such subtle or quick warnings, they are  easy to miss.
that is why i have never  understood why people choose to train their dogs using force and  punishment.
in my official report i stated: ‘lennox showed a number of deference behaviours including turning his head away, licking his lips, turning his body and walking away, in response to david ryan’s attempts to frustrate him.
a positive reinforcement trainer will recognize that most aggression is not a dog trying to be alpha but a dog that is aggressing because it is trying to control situations or stimuli around him that make him feel uncomfortable.
the current stuff’s not working, einstein.
i couldn’t understand why she was being so nasty and wondered what i had done to offend her.
this decision was made based on the physical evidence before me not because i felt i would be in danger.
maybe with people interacting more often with their cats, this will change.
don't lick the dog:  a children's book about safe handling of dogs.
fast movements can stimulate a dog’s prey drive and/or chase instinct.
they encounter animals that are often not at their best, often threatened or injured, and frankly do not get the behavioral training necessary to make the decision between treatment of repairable behavior and that which is clearly dangerous.
slowly but surely laura put her hand up to him and  stroked his head.
many pups and adult dogs will lick faces of humans and other dogs after being reprimanded.
can you actually get a perfect puppy in a week?
an aggressive or "mean" dog is a risk to the department, the handler, and the public.
and yet still, these tragic incidents keep happening.
and some people thought that that was a bad idea worth  fighting against.
punitive training just puts a band aid on the problem but  the dog still feels the same inside if not more insecure for the punishment he  has received for ‘behaving badly’.
my husband is a very kind man and loves  dogs, working tirelessly with me to help dogs around the world, but sometimes,  like many people do when raising a pup, he loses it.
even though the actual behavioral cause and effect of such an action can almost always be successfully and appropriately explained, the main point here is that a person such as judge rodgers, who is unqualified to analyze dog behavior, can easily and mistakenly draw incorrect conclusions regarding the severity, motivation for and circumstances surrounding such behavior.
isn’t it uncomfortable to have so many folds on the face that fold dermatitis and other infections can occur if not cleaned daily?
nine times out of ten the bully is  the insecure kid.
i work to promote more science-based dog-learning, dog-language, positive reinforcement training.
we need  more notices, bins and bag dispensaries to make picking up poo more palatable.
then your reaction to just one person going past you might be even worse because the stress and trauma you felt being flooded by so many people has made your fear worse.
ben now resides at a boarding facility where he has made many human and doggy friends.
when the  snow and ice fell and the temperatures plummeted to dangerous levels, the dog  would stand shivering in the cold, too scared to go in a house or let anyone  approach him.
i asked for someone that lennox knew to take him out of the crate to keep his stress levels low.
there are more things for the average dog owner to enjoy such as agility, flyball, training classes, heel to music demonstrations and trade stands by the hundreds.
his ears are unlevel and there was a change in the lay of his coat over the atlas in line with the nuchal ligament that is present between t1 and c2 vertebrae.
" other contributing factors to dog bites include bad breeding practices  utilized by the puppy mill industry and back yard breeders.
that is until my  husband takes over.
the ebooks are $2.99, except for the enhanced version of “good dog!”
i’m very happy to announce that we have a new addition to our family.
vs: what is the dog trainers company?
she was playful and funny while also being serious and thoughtful and had us wrapped around her tiny paw within days.
for two years toby has been a registered therapy dog, regularly visiting children at cedars sinai hospital in los angeles.
may ashlynn live on in the hearts of those  you love her and teach families and children all over the world to be safe  around all animals.
in a veterinary study published in the journal of applied animal behavior (2009), lead author meghan herron, dvm says that confrontational training methods practiced by many trainers and handlers in the united states and britain, are a contributing factor.
after stopping  every couple of steps for the mountain of photographers to take your picture,  it is time for print, tv, radio and on-line interviews.
don’t allow the dog to jump up on  you when greeting and expect him not to jump up on guests when they come into  the house.
even though this was a defensive gesture, lennox still showed incredible impulse control and bite inhibition.
vs: how did you get betty white to write the prologue – i’m thinking she’s pretty busy.
some phobic dogs benefit from calming therapies such as t-touch, thundershirts, dap collars, and bach flower essences, while others do much better on anti-anxiety medication that can be given just before the fireworks start.
posted by victoria stilwell - 03/22/10 at  07:03:05 pm -34
but think about it – most aggressive response is not a dog’s attempt to usurp others, but a demonstration of a lack of confidence and insecurity.
he was not on amitriptyline when he was assessed by david ryan.
this book helps to get the information out there.
she  has a video about her journey on youtube titled "from service dog to  surfice dog" that went viral & has over 3.2 million views.
generally that means, standing still and looking away.
stress is also manifested through excessive panting, pupil dilation, sweating paws, raised heartbeat, loss of appetite, whimpering, trembling and an inability to settle.
the only thing harsh punishment does achieve is to make the person feel better because they have gained control even if it meant dominating the dog into submission.
so i've been asked to work with and be responsible for the training of the future rin tin tin, who is now a 9-week old puppy destined for further fame.
victoria has recently been spending time with a new special friend.
i was told i had to handle lennox on my own for the entire assessment and that he had bitten the last person that came to see him.
there was a chance that his adrenaline might  counteract the medication, but at this point it was worth a try.
jasmine lying on her favorite bed.
that’s a secret, a surprise and solution all in one, and you only find it inyour
vs: you’re hosting renowned ethologist roger abrantes at your facility this september.
pm: in some ways, no.
the local city  government ought to be paying us for the free grazing service our dog provides  every day on each walk through our local park.
i don’t think there’s a group in the world that i agree with  100% of the time on 100% of the issues.
for anyone who has experienced toilet training a puppy, it is a time consuming process, but we have been pretty successful so far.
my dog sadie is addicted to weed.
but i guess i don’t know enough people or have severely misjudged the  humane tendencies of human beings at large, because somehow, there are still  those who oppose puppy mill reform to the point where they go out of their way  to ensure that no new laws are passed to protect dogs from this form of  cruelty.
i stayed still and reached out my arm with the bowl extended towards him.
i make sure the kids know that if they ever have an issue or concern, they can talk to me and/or go to a teacher that they trust.
it was a great social scene and because most of us either walked or cycled to school, we would meet, ride our bikes up to wimbledon common, and hang out by the pond for an hour before we went home.
in all cases where i referred an animal back to a vet, whether it was in the care of a shelter, owned by my private clients or students that i teach changes to the soft tissue or skeleton were noted on further detailed investigation.
then there are those who are fine so long as the owner is at home, but become anxious as soon as the owner prepares to leave.
when a pet-lover and a veterinarian work together on preventive care for a pet, the result is a longer, happier life – and a lower overall veterinary cost.
the evidence is there and  it’s happening now.
we successfully navigated the whole photo with  santa thing, which historically has always been a bit of a traumatic experience  for my little one, but this year she happily handed him her christmas list (and  translated it for him).
this whole situation is akin to taking young children and putting him into a school program where he is mostly corrected for doing things wrong rather than being shown in a step-by-step manner how to do things right, being rewarded for good behaviors frequently.
i am not alone, but am supported by those millions that are sick of seeing these witch hunts take place, when the real issue of dangerous dogs is not being addressed and people are still getting hurt or losing their lives to dog attacks because of irresponsible ownership.
although this fight is for lennox's life, there are  countless other dogs in similar situations thanks to ignorance,  misunderstanding, and ineffectual, faulty lawmaking.
at one point in her life, she was trained to jump on to my shoulder to “ask” for his heart medication.
we just do not have trainers available in mississippi.
of course dogs are not children, but many of the same general behavioral philosophies apply – using reward to reinforce positive behavior and discipline to guide rather than to instill fear.
but i see some dogs at crufts and other dog shows that look  completely miserable, and if we are to be honest, showing that type of dog is  not really for the dog at all.
do dogs from shelters have more behavioral problems than other dogs?
given the publicity surrounding this case i am also confident that had lennox actually bitten anyone whilst in the care of his family as has been suggested someone would have come forward by now.
after all, that is out of the ordinary.
it is also pretty fair to say that he is not as consistent as i am when it comes to walking the dogs (sorry, honey).
fast  movements can stimulate a dog’s prey drive and/or chase instinct.
read his heartwarming story as told by his lucky owner: shortly after his accident, and during the period the veterinarians tried to save his leg, phoenix came into my life.
though he would argue that he's just unluckier than i  am, i have a suspicion that he is not quite as diligent with the process as i  am.
hawk is a search and rescue dog who doubles as a therapy dog and is obviously making a huge difference in so many lives.
learn more at http://www.winnfelinehealth.org/rickyfund.html.
using positive reinforcement to  treat ‘red zone’ dogs is not only a safer option, but a much more  effective one.
comments a couple of weeks ago, i posted the first part of my 'fact versus fiction'  blog.
hero dog mwd ben, retired – flemington, nj posted by victoria  stilwell - 05/17/11 at 08:05:56 am -4
do not scream and run away from a dog.
it reminded me how important it is to give dogs a  chance to play while expending mental energy and there are so many wonderful  toys out on the market that can give your dog hours of fun while tiring them  out at the same time.
jasmine is now a permanent member of our  family and we are the luckiest people in the world.
i was working as a trainer in manhattan and garry
a war is about to start in my neighborhood, the same war that is being fought in neighborhoods around the world.
a police dog is a special animal.
i was beyond exhausted when we made it to our tenth floor hotel room.
initially the dog barks at people as they pass and backs away if approached, indicating that the aggression is due to fear.
the same dog being treated with positive reinforcement would slowly be  desensitized to the presence of other dogs in a controlled environment with  constant praise and rewards whenever he had a calm response.
and it’s not just the bulldog.
toxicariaosis - can cause blindness, particularly in  children who come into contact with an infected stool while playing and  inadvertently putting their fingers in their mouths.
sadie has to be one of the most gentle dogs i’ve ever seen with  a child, but i still believe that there has to be effective management so that  alex and sadie are never left alone together.
and sadie loves the closeness of having her near.
ben represents the military working dog in spirit, dedication and loyalty.
i've donated some great prizes (positively t-shirts, signed books, it's me or the dog dvds, etc) to a free contest anyone can enter by providing some brief feedback about pet meets baby.
this clip has been taken completely out of context and whilst i have remained relatively quiet on this case since i spoke in court, i feel that i am now forced to make a statement to clarify what actually happened during the time i was with lennox.
i see so many dogs that have given up like i did.
how can we as a dog loving nation allow this to continue?
to fixate on this occurrence and point to it as further proof of lennox’s dangerousness is reckless and misguided.
the member of staff was horrified
the doctors said that if  i hadn't found him when i did he very likely would have stroked out and  possibly died.
i’m proud to be part of your team and i’m ready to help dogs and their families with positive reinforcement training… for a better (dog)world.
and overwhelmingly, the most important attribute to making an adoption work is to be patient!
this product chemically mimics the pheromones that are given off by a lactating female dog.
instead of feeling fear, the brain begins  to be overcome with not just the pleasurable feelings that food gives but also  allows the dog to focus more on the good sensation and less on the negative  emotion.
when guests are seated allow your dog to come in and say  hello.
hard punishments used by  dominance trainers are not only cruel but are also potentially dangerous and  damage the trust between dog and human.
breeders will seek to defend this notion, but unfortunately they can’t argue what is staring them full in the face, ‘in the long term, without the introduction of new and unrelated genes, all living creatures will suffer loss of genetic diversity, leading to weaker animals with health problems.’
my job was to organize which dogs would accompany the families on the boats making daily trips from the pier down the hudson river to ground zero.
things have changed so much now and the grounds are almost  unrecognizable from when i was young, but those memories of watching tennis  with my father on the most famous court in the world, are very special.
if you are on the floor and a dog comes up to you that makes you feel  uncomfortable, roll onto your knees and curl up into a ball with your head  facing down and with your hands clasped behind your neck.
according to its mission statement, “the aim of the group is to promote and further the case of animal welfare by all means available to the parliaments at westminster and in europe.
i feel like we just  finished christmas last year and now it’s already come and gone  again.
how about why lizards lie around on rocks all day?
be gentle with any dog and do not engage in rough play.
watch an interview i did about dogtv on nightline.
if you join the discussion please keep it civil.
if they approach everything without fear, they are likely to get eaten.
my mother asked me  once to play with her regular ladies four
for two weeks directly  following the incident, anise and her caring teammates joined the campus during  recess and lunch time.
she doesn’t necessarily admit to having a problem, but  then i guess that’s to be expected.
greendogs’ daniela cardillo is among the first international members of victoria’s exclusive global network of world-class positive reinforcement trainers – victoria stilwell positively dog training (vspdt ).
lennox was confiscated by the belfast authorities because of how he looked.
education is key, which is why i am developing a project that will spread the word about dogs and child safety, particularly for new mothers-to-be.
gran bretagna, francia, e paesi nordici (svezia, finlandia e danimarca) sono forse tra i migliori paesi in europa riguardo l’utilizzo del metodo positivo per l’addestramento del cane.
thankfully one of the neighbors had provided a bed for him on their back porch and was feeding him two large meals a day, but even with all this kindness, he resisted all attempts to be captured.
click here for more information about victoria's appearance at the nyc pet  show.
two second grade  girls were wounded.
some owners are mildly irritated by their dog’s bad behaviour,  while others are at their wit’s end and ready to send the dog to a  shelter.
the american kennel club is just as guilty for setting breed standards that sometimes compromise the health and well- being of many breeds of dogs.
i hated her then and i will hate her for the rest of my life.
neutering would solve that issue and it might help reduce caspar’s marking behavior as well.
because she lives in southern california & is a surfing dog, her title went from service dog to surfice dog.
what happened to a barbie, a fun jigsaw puzzle or a good book?
he was  thirty years older than i was but his energy and enthusiasm was infectious and  i never thought of him as an old man.
she came with us everywhere we went and was the first to  welcome our baby daughter home.
i talked to dr. oz about using the title, and he graciously gave me permission.
these people only breed dogs for money, churning out puppies with no care or attention to correctly raising those puppies to be sociable and comfortable around humans and other animals.
that was when they  called me."
he was a wonderfully supportive person  who made everyone he was with feel special.
the current rin (pictured here) is a beautiful dog and a great ambassador for the german shepherd breed.
but the pet  stores here in the states continue to enjoy a healthy trade over the christmas  season, with people still being conned into buying dogs before they are ready  and being told that the puppies they are buying are not from the awful puppy  mills shown on oprah.
i’d then offer a hand signal to insure compliance.
when she passed away in 2011, we began a fund with the american humane association’s hero dog awards to support animal assisted therapy.
i do not feel it is appropriate for me at this moment to discuss in detail everything that has been said to me, nor to put forward my own ideas regarding all the statements made, as everyone is entitled to their own opinion and beliefs.
the dog may be lured to a person by the promise of food but once it has taken the food it may panic as the offering of the food has now brought that dog into close proximity with the threat i.e. a stranger.
victoria i love going back to england to see my family and visit all the places that meant so much to me growing up.
a new arrival posted by victoria stilwell - 03/05/08 at 10:03:53 am -  2 comments i’m very happy to announce that we have a new addition to our family.
lennox was a well-behaved, registered, perfectly assimilated family pet who was taken from his very responsible and devoted family over a year ago simply because he fit certain measurements which had been determined to constitute something called a “pit bull type.”
i already have a wonderful jack russell terrier, jonesy, with fear and arousal issues who keeps me on my toes, i really didn’t need to inherit an aggressive australian cattle dog down the road.
studies have shown that classical music, played with sparse instrumentation at a specific tempo, can have a calming effect on dogs.
oh well, i guess getting older is better than the alternative.
if that fails i might have to keep watch with my video camera ready to pounce on any offender.
most dog owners prefer to train their dogs using rewards and constructive discipline, rather than using more punitive training methods, because they want their dog to want to behave rather than having their dog behave only because he is scared of what will happen to him if he doesn’t.
can the dog adapt to novel and potentially scary situation while maintaining an acceptable level of composure?
already well socialized, ricky was happy going places with us, often hanging out on my shoulder on a leash and harness.
we will never forget what happened that day, nor those who gave their lives then and in the years that have followed so that we can live in freedom.
come prima cosa ci occupiamo di educazione di base e di addestramento avanzato come obedience, rally-o, agility dog, lavori olfattivi e discdog.
watch an excerpt: why bsl doesn’t work posted by victoria stilwell - 04/06/11 at  05:04:40 am -71 comments i am a mother.
the hope is that breeders won’t breed those individuals.
the last time i saw him was in october at a fundraising event for the rescue group stray from the heart, in nyc.
it is vital that you recognize not just the signs that a  dog is uncomfortable and maybe about to bite, but the situations that you could  be in where the chance of a bite is more likely.
dmb: there are a lot of good dog books, and you and i have already written a few of them.
now i can tell you that i enjoy eating bacon as much as the next girl from time to time, and a good hearty debate about the right to bear arms is what americans’ right to free speech is all about, but i’m not going to get into that now because it’s not relevant to a blog post about puppy mills.
yes, exactly the same  way.
how many times have we all heard that dogs only eat grass if they have an upset stomach?
most people don’t know, and that’s a “secret” i want shared.
and then they are killed with no regulations… i.e. in the incinerator still alive!
this is just one example of how  dominance trainers get it so wrong and then impart this flawed knowledge onto  dog owners who believe what they are told because it comes from a person that  is supposed to know what he or she is doing.
mary johnson, channelview, tx it does not get any more heroic than this - a dog that saved a life and a family that will always be forever grateful.
a recent study revealed that over two-thirds of all american pet owners have left their tvs or radios on for their pets.
these moments of dread followed by glory are repeated millions of times a day around the world by pet owners who must go about their daily lives away from home, and while the cumulative result of this ritual is often nothing more than a temporary sadness, our repeated absences can also sometimes lead to acute separation anxiety, destructive boredom or other difficult-to-manage canine behaviors.
i swear – i am not that old, or legendary.
i also utilize an excellent program called  doggone safe to help me spread the word.
nel nostro seminario parlerà proprio dello smaf e nel secondo giorno presenterà il suo ultimo lavoro sui problemi comportamentali del cane.
i have providing counselling to many families about the process of getting a new dog, particularly important when there are small children involved.
i won’t mention any names but there are some people out there with some pretty wacky ideas.
what i do know about is common sense, and as disinterested in politics as i may be, i get pretty passionate about injustice and cruelty, especially towards those who can’t protect themselves.
unfortunately for eric, as caspar grew, he  began exhibiting behavior that was troublesome, including marking in the house,  destructive chewing, lunging and barking at other dogs on walks and showing  fear aggression to people when they came into his home.
the neighbors had told me that  even though the stray wouldn’t come up to people, he would come up to  their dogs, even when their dogs were being walked in the neighborhood.
excerpts: even though i work with dogs every day and understand their contribution to both people and society, i am continually amazed at what they bring to those who need them most.
so, perhaps people who have that more intense relationship with more quickly notice their cat isn’t quite right.
televisivo “basta, o io o il cane” e spesso sono rimangono molto stupiti quando racconto la
you can vote for toby here, or any of the other amazing hero dogs.
hello and welcome to the new online home of positive reinforcement dog training!
they must also be able to use nearly human levels of discrimination to understand when they must self-deploy to protect their handler, yet must recognize the difference between a violent suspect and the approach of an innocent child.
some dogs are so badly affected that they have an inability to function during and after a fireworks show.
she had spent the best part of three years with virtually no exercise and has become very overweight.
if the dog enjoys the attention, the hustle and bustle, the grooming and the travel, then i have no problem with it.
dr. abrantes is especially known for his views on social behavior and its applications to the daily understanding of pet behavior; and for his no-nonsense working methods, a practical and thorough application of ethology and learning theory, teaching the animal the new patterns patiently and efficiently step by step.
i attended the 25th genesis awards.
can they afford to give it out to adopters?
my rule of thumb is that they need 100 positive experiences with 100 different people in 100 days.
myth: positive reinforcement cannot be used  on more severe behavioral cases such as aggressive dogs.
i loved filming there last year
do not feel  embarrassed about asking an adult to put the dog away in a different room if he  makes you feel uncomfortable
do not touch a dog that has been tied up or left at the end of a chain in  a yard, outside a store or behind a fence tell an adult immediately if you see a dog that is loose in your  neighborhood.
but wii’s and  itouches?  my friend told me that her seven-year old just asked santa for  an ipad.
the dog was fine with people and had never  been aggressive to people before.
the judge also fixated on the concept that the dog is unpredictable.
i'm in the process of setting up the first ever dog bite prevention task force, which is charged with determining what the root causes of the problem are and how to effectively address them once and for all.
for those of you in other parts of the world who haven’t seen the episode yet, here is a bit of background on the story.
a team of district, community, and school personnel met to  determine the best way to help the children reclaim their school and return to  some sense of a safe and secure environment.
for  anyone who has experienced toilet training a puppy, it is a time consuming  process, but we have been pretty successful so far.
yes, exactly the same way.
vs: how did ricky pass away?
they do not blame any specific breed for ashlynn's death, rather they are focused on increasing awareness about the fact that any dog - any breed, any size, etc - can be a danger to little ones if not properly managed.
click here for more information about victoria's appearance at the nyc pet show.
i’ve become resigned to it: my dog loves to eat grass.
these people  only breed dogs for money, churning out puppies with no care or attention to  correctly raising those puppies to be sociable and comfortable around humans  and other animals.
frankly, i don’t want to know.
but it is something sweet that most people don’t think to put out of a pet’s reach: gum or candy sweetened with xylitol.
this fundamental disconnect has recently been exposed publicly once again  by the recent firestorm surroundingthe case of lennox, a bull dog/labrador  cross owned by an extraordinarily responsible family in belfast, ireland.
if a dog sees that there  are pleasurable consequences for a behavior then he is more likely to repeat  the behavior because doing so makes him feel good.
after many years working i wanted to understand if my working methods could be at the same level of other international dog trainers.
was like walking on glass.
mwd ben c020 (retired) served his country as a patrol narcotics dog in the  united states air force.
unfortunately even one noisy celebration can turn a dog into a quivering wreck.
that wasn't like him.
the bully had achieved what she set out to do.
if i  personally answered all the training questions i receive from dog owners i  would be spending the next two years on my computer.
it infuriates me to see the number of ‘macho’ men who want to  get a big, strong, intimidating-looking dog in order to stroke their own egos  and replace whatever ‘manliness’ may be missing from their own  anatomy.
help the animal victims of the japanese tragedy by donating toamerican humane's japan disaster relief fund.
thanksgiving is one of my favorite holidays.
all  the pups come with impressive-looking papers touting all sorts of great  heritage.
i am their great experiment to determine if this works, not only if there is interest in the pet genre, but is this financially viable?
it’s true that they’ll need training and guidance to learn to fit into your household, but one of my best dogs ever came from a shelter, the one i renamed lassie because she was the dog everyone wants but doesn’t deserve!
fortunately she’s a trainer’s daughter and at the age of two and a half was already training her toy dalmatians to ‘leave it’ and ‘sit’ with pretend treats and a training pouch i had given her.
initially the dog barks at people as  they pass and backs away if approached, indicating that the aggression is due  to fear.
it is not dogtv’s aim to produce a nation of dogs that bark at the television when their owners are away.
as i slid over to where he had been, trying desperately to keep myself upright on the ice, i saw a trail of blood going off into the trees.
sy: for a puppy, a week or two is the equivalent of months for a child.
mi sto preparando per venire in italia molto presto e unire le mie forze con le tue per dire al mondo che c’è un modo migliore per addestrare…….
when i told him that the primary active ingredient in the poison pellets was something called zinc phosphide, things got much more serious very quickly.
the title is all very tongue-in-cheek – dogs and cats are family members, of course, and these books reflect that.
my assessments, statements and videos of those assessments have been accepted in other court cases at magistrates, county and crown courts here in the uk so the field of assessment in cases such as this is not unknown to me.
i have an issue with the word ‘conformation,’ which in dog show terms means "overall appearance and structure – an indication of the dog’s ability to produce quality puppies" (american kennel club).
giardia – a parasite that infects the  gastrointestinal tract and causes diarrhea coccida – a parasite that causes diarrhea tapeworm, whipworm, hookworm – worms that live off  the intestinal tract causing illness such as vomiting diarrhea and anemia.
this was going to take longer than i had first anticipated.
yes, both people and dogs learn best if the learning is fun.
having never heard of thanksgiving before i came to the states i wondered why it was such a big deal, but over the years i’ve come to really appreciate the message that it sends – giving thanks for the good things in your life, connecting with family and eating lots!
the safety guide to children and dogs posted by victoria stilwell -  05/05/11 at 01:05:05 pm -8 comments dogs make wonderful companions and need to be treated with care and  respect.
always get an adult to remove the dog for you.
it’s ok for big guys to have small dogs posted by victoria  stilwell - 05/16/11 at 05:05:36 am -6
victoria and mark abraham
his paw had obviously been damaged in some way, probably cut on the ice, which was so sharp and thick it was like walking on glass.
and i thank you all for watching because your support helps to spread the word and improve the lives of dogs and their people around the world.
my mother had a tree planted for him in one of his favorite places, the hurlingham club, of which he was a member for 50 years.
he raised his eyebrows, gave me the thumbs up and walked away.
dear victoria: our 2 yr old golden doodle has been diagnosed w/ ocd because she chases shadows constantly.
go out into the back yard with laura’s female  dog georgie and play – surely this is what was missing.
jumping becomes a controlling/coping  mechanism that allows the dog to deal with the new intrusion.
because he was proving  so difficult to catch even in his condition, our vet (the wonderful dr. duffy  jones from peachtree hills animal hospital) recommended putting a sedative in  his food to slow him down.
i’d ask celebrities about their pets of course.
sometimes, i seek out experts like – well, victoria stilwell, for example.
if i did bring another dog into the home i wanted to make sure that i was doing it for the right reasons and not because i felt guilty.
this is the story of one such dog that brought comfort to many after a horrific event.
although i didn’t make personal security my career, i learned so much about myself and what i was capable of.
i’ve met a few of those dogs  and that is a direct challenge that i am not willing to win at that moment.
lennox’s family have done more than required by the law as  responsible dog owners who also foster dogs for various northern ireland dog  shelters.
check out manly man a.j. hawk, fearsome linebacker for  the super bowl champion green bay packers (sorry, honey) talking big about how  big dudes shoudn't be ashamed of having little dogs.
before we left, we visited some friends with a beautiful back yard.
it begins for me as soon as the dreary winter months  of january and february are over.
pain and pain memory is a key factor in many behavioural problems.
la dog trainers company è una nuova società che ho fondato insieme ad alcuni amici e colleghi che ha lo scopo di proporre servizi professionali agli istruttori cinofili.
despite all this, where do i find him at the end of  the day?
in every single case, dog bites  have become more of a problem since governments began banning breeds.
comments hello and welcome to the new online home of positive reinforcement dog  training!
to begin, lennox has been held for over a year in a shelter facility.
she has known what it is like to be rejected and unwanted.
check out this story from his lucky owner: "boo and i were a team for only two weeks when we had our first solo adventure together.
she had spent the best  part of three years with virtually no exercise and has become very overweight.
sarah is a true professional in every respect, but she has been forced to issue the statement below because of misinformation that is being spread by the ignorant few
years ago it was german shepherds in the bullseye.
it causes leaking of fluid into the lungs and into the chest cavity surrounding the lungs resulting in tremendous difficulty breathing.
i see progress being made every day on both small and large scales.
what is happening in these countries to cause such an increase?
contacted me with a business proposition.
this was the second  time i had attended and this yearit’s me or the dog was  nominated for best reality series.
my  show- ‘it’s me or the dog,’ has been broadcast in over twenty  countries and fortunately the message of responsible ownership is also  spreading to far off places such as brazil, dubai and hong kong.
on the sofa with the little dog asleep on his chest and a big brown one at his side, so however much he grizzles about her, i’ve noticed a nice bond developing.
even though my husband took a little longer to bond (seemy  last blog post) he, too, started to melt and succumb to jasmine’s  charms.
after all, are dogs only here for our sake, or should we think of what’s best for them as well?
she’s an amazing lady.
he was obviously dog-friendly and trusted them much more than humans.
over the last ten years dog  bites have increased 50% in england and 150% in scotland.
we had a lovely  evening and he got to meet the wonderful bernadette peters, who has been a  supporter of sfth and other animal causes for many years.
the houses of parliament and the house of lords fascinated me, but the part that impressed me most was westminster hall, once a royal palace and the seat of government for hundreds of years.
when food is presented to a fearful dog in the presence of a stimulus that causes that fear or anxiety, the smell and taste of the food bypasses all other parts of the brain and goes straight to the brain’s emotional center, the amygdala.
vs: will starting young ruin your puppy?
even animal control officers may be deficient when evaluating what is a "dangerous" dog.
to this day the pair are inseparable.
children love to kiss and hug dogs, even though these expressions of affection do not translate well in the dog world.
dog owners from all over the world
don’t you think it cruel that these dogs find physical exercise difficult because their legs are so crooked that their joints tire easily?
this is the case in scotland, england, parts of canada, certain  cities in the us, the netherlands and beyond.
to get a true picture of behavior tests should be done in all different environments and situations including confined spaces, the home environment, and other indoor and outdoor locations, on and off leash and different times of the day.
named after aladdin’s brave princess, jasmine strutted around our home like she had lived there all her life.
what’s the story there?
if we set rules and have a clear picture of what we want, then we can consistently convey this information to the puppy through our body language and perfectly timed rewards.
vs: can you give me an example or two?
now you have some good safety tips you can tell your friends, family and teachers.
and she knows i care about morris, and serve on one of their advisory committees, and whenever they call on me – i say ‘yes.”
when angelica passed away we started thinking about getting a second dog and i knew that whoever we added, sadie also had to have a say.
any dog can bite-they have teeth.
a dog will only respond to food rewards and will ignore you if you don’t have food in your hand.
and i stood watching ready with  the tranquilizer darts, the dog came up to laura  and georgie and started  to interact with them.
i have no doubt that soon our gentle ben, who survived against all the odds, will find his forever home.
there are two sides to any story and there are always things that are said out of sadness, anger, frustration and pain.
your dog will still be driven, trainable, workable and lovable without his dangly bits.
certain breeders are in the business of making money from their pups by selling them to boys like eric, so that when the pups reach adulthood they can be used as powerful status symbols to compliment the macho image.
he apparently fixated on the fact that due to britain’s bsl laws, she had little experience working with actual pit bull type dogs, finding that to be a major flaw in her credibility and authority.
he came into my family’s life in december of 2009 when he was saved from breed specific legislation.
take them out often and give them treats for relieving themselves outside so that they catch on before they establish a bad habit.
does that mean we should add dachshunds to  the list of ‘dangerous dogs’ as defined by lawmakers in favor of  bsl?
it will change all  your lives for the better.
la vita insieme al nostro cane
che tipo di servizi offri e qual’ è il messaggio che vuoi portare ai tuoi clienti? gg: si, esatto.
it also shows mum that  pups are submissive towards her.
i not only feel sorry for the dogs that such people come into contact with but also sorry for those people for being so misguided.
welcome sadie to our home and our family – we are so blessed that you are now part of our lives.
bully breeds in particular have borne the brunt of this phenomenon lately, where just because of the way the dog looks, he’s classed as a dog not to be messed with around the neighborhood.
and then, to have you write the foreword of the dog book, i am still howling with joy.
is it just me, or has this year gone really fast?
to those, this debate is likely a lost cause and destined to go nowhere since we’d ultimately be debating two completely different things, but i and the rest of the positively community will continue our efforts to bring awareness of positive reinforcement back to the forefront of the popular consciousness.
there  are, however, many wonderful trainers that use positive reward methods.
existing dogs and cats are not able to choose their new ‘brothers and sisters’ and sometimes the stress these animals experienced trying to get along with each other did not make for a happy or calm environment.
the dog can learn to approach a threat and then turn back to the person that the dog trusts for the reward if the approach to the person is appropriate.
there are currently standards in  place which require that offspring come from the mating of registered dogs with  the same lineage.
i dared not make a sound!
lennox was quite rightly put on amitriptyline.
it was with interest, though, that i discovered that this drug is also used to treat chronic pain in dogs.
such dominance-based discipline  uses force and hard punishment such as ‘alpha rolls (when a dog is  forcibly laid on its back and side and held down until it  ‘submits’), ‘biting’ (where a person uses the tips of   their fingers bunched together that are poked into a dog’s side in  order to simulate a ‘bite’ that a dog would use to reprimand  another dog), foot pushes (where a person uses the side of their foot or heel  to prod or kick a dog when it is misbehaving), hanging (where a dog is hung by  his collar until his air supply is cut off),  and shock collars that  deliver an electric shock when the dog misbehaves.
their neighbour, who happens to be a good trainer friend of mine, took her in  and knowing that we were looking to adopt a dog, called us with what she  thought was the ideal candidate.
here's his amazing story as told by his grateful owner: "tyson is a two year old american pitbull terrier.
best of all was contributing to “the cat: clinical medicine and management,” edited by the amazing dr. susan little, and written by a long list of the most noted feline veterinarians on the planet.
the complete schedule is at www.drmartybecker.com, along with information on where to buy to the book.
pit bull type dogs are one group among several breeds which have been banned in northern ireland by breed specific legislation (bsl).
click here for more information about the challenge.
i’ll leave you with  one that has already made it onto the list of endangered breeds.
i looked at her pinched, angry face and for the first time i met her eyes and held them there.
when partners dance as a couple, one leads and the other follows.
is the dog responsive to human signals, and is the dog able to signal its own intentions clearly?
he put jasmine in her crate for safety as he didn’t want her to walk around the house unsupervised.
this has in actual fact back-fired, because now it gives me no choice but to comment, as an expert with fifteen years experience of canine behavior and ten years of working with all breeds including pit bull types in the united states, on that particular reaction, that i included in my statement to the courts.
be warned  – next time i might be watching.
she still provides a service to people with disabilities...
he did the equivalent to a human raising their voice when other means of communication fail.
the aggressive behavior might look confident and dominant but there is always an underlying discomfort.
he also has a letter of  appreciation signed by the president.
it amazes me that adults seem to be more ignorant than children about how children should greet a dog.
yet again, this shows an ignorance at the heart of the problems with bsl: to conduct a behavioral assessment of a pit bull type dog does not require any special training or experience other than what would be required for any other breed of dog.
the promise, however, that you could win the jackpot the next time you play makes you want to play even more until the slot machine pays out.
how can breeders ignore the suffering of their dogs all in the name of conformation?
you can also ‘be a tree’ if  you are at someone’s house with a rambunctious dog.
it is vital that you recognize not just the signs that a dog is uncomfortable and maybe about to bite, but the situations that you could be in where the chance of a bite is more likely.
when i was a young girl, i used to ask santa for a puppy every year, but i  never got one.
they claim that their dog is particularly unintelligent, but i consistently find that that is absolutely not the case.
comments during a cold spell in atlanta, georgia, when the whole city shut down and  no one could go out for a week, we rescued a dog.
this blog isn’t about how i helped eric train caspar, but is written to illustrate a real problem that people have (and i’m sorry to be sexist here, but statistically the problem is mostly with men) about neutering their pets.
questo perché pensano che sia troppo difficile da intraprendere ma io sono convinto che quando si lavora bene qualsiasi risultato è raggiungibile.
so where do the poor pups go?
posted by victoria stilwell - 12/31/10 at 04:12:23 am  -54 comments is it just me, or has this year gone really fast?
when food is presented to a fearful dog in the presence of a  stimulus that causes that fear or anxiety, the smell and taste of the food  bypasses all other parts of the brain and goes straight to the brain’s
as clear as this issue may seem, unfortunately there are still those who  use dominance-based techniques to train dogs.
click here for more  information about the challenge.
the dog might not have been behaving aggressively at all – in fact he might have just been stimulated by the infant’s cries which could have sounded like a squeaky toy or a piece of prey to play with.
a week or two really does make a difference in socialization, doesn't it?
recent reports have shown that 93% of dogs with noise phobias involved fear of thunder and other loud noises, including fireworks.
sometimes cats with hcm live out normal lives, and never have an idea they are supposed to be sick.
what this breeder didn’t seem to care about is that his line of pups happens to have some fear reactivity (and believe me it’s not just how they were raised because genetics plays a part) and that teaching an unconfident dog bite work is like giving a toddler a loaded weapon and encouraging him to play with it with the safety off.
think of the bully in the playground.
we all know about the wonderful work being done by people to help animals, but this is a chance to celebrate the amazing things our animals do for us as well.
voting is now open for the hero dog awards!
if a dog is exhibiting controlling behavior in or out of the home, chances are that he hasn’t been taught how to behave appropriately.
a child should never  be left unsupervised with any dog at any time and dog and child should only be  together when a responsible adult can actively supervise.
she made me see that a bully is not a powerful, confident person at all, but an insecure and weak person that manipulates and controls others to support their own insecurities.
"surfice" dog ricochet in action!
rin tin tin was rescued as a pup from a battlefield in 1918 france during  world war i.
"within a couple of minutes i heard tyson hysterically barking.
pit bull type dogs are one group among  several breeds which have been banned in northern ireland by breed specific  legislation (bsl).
i recently caught up with nicole to discuss her latest book, ‘don’t leave me!’
they hear her story and it touches a place in their hearts.
we need to be focusing on owners and their ultimate responsibility for the animal in their care.
there are so many myths and misunderstandings out there about the  science and reality of dog behavior, i thought i would try to help clear up a  few more things here in part ii.
many of us who lived nearby felt a constant sense of helplessness – we wanted to be a part of the effort somehow.
it is so much better to be able to influence an animal’s behavior without using force, which is why positive reinforcement methods really do offer a better alternative to outdated and abusive dominance theory.
he himself admitted that the ‘circumstances in which lennox is being examined are not ideal’ and in this he was absolutely right.
my hope is that the book will help dogs and their owners, and by doing so, keep dogs in their forever homes.
the dangerous thing about doing this is that quick fixes can quickly come unstuck.
vs: some people have told me that they are resistant to adopting a dog from a shelter or humane society because the dog must have something wrong with it.
then there are the food  producers and manufacturers from the big name brands to the small organic  businesses that have every kind of food or treat a pet could want.
those are the questions that need to be asked before determining if a dog's behavior is "dangerous".
she had completely suppressed me until i submitted to her dominance.
the groups who have proudly announced their opposition to and relish their role in the ultimate defeat (for now) of the bill include the national rifle association and (amazingly) the north carolina pork council.
the families i work with, are mostly “distressed” for the problems directly and indirectly caused by their dogs… and too many times i’m the last chance for these dogs… so, an important job in my opinion!
no age limit and dr. mcconnell's other bestseller (and one of my favorite dog books -the
i couldn’t quite make out what he said when  her heard my six year old asking for an itouch.
the following true story shows exactly what i mean: a handler was holding the leash of what seemed to be a very friendly rescue  dog that had just come into the shelter.
so here’s an idea: why don’t the nra and pork council bring their considerable power to the table on behalf of pet dogs in puppy mills and find a way to give whatever legislation currently exists the teeth it needs to identify bad breeders and hold them accountable?
we did often play this game where i’d ask little kids – very young kids – to ask lucy “sit.”
pier 94 on manhattan's west side served as the family assistance center for victims' loved ones.
however there are some dogs that will bite for reasons such as fear, anger, frustration or protection.
aggression serves an important function, to increase distance, to get the threat to move away.
active supervision when  both are in the same room together is crucial and separation when a parent is  unable to supervise is a must.
public service and training never end for certified sar dogs such as emma.
i didn’t know we still practiced that in this country!
buster woke me up barking.
the situation is now so serious that scientists are predicting that in the  future many breeds will become extinct.
a dog can be frustrated through rough play or by teasing and a child can inadvertently inflict pain with the pull of a tail or a poke in the eye.
think of the typical schoolyard bully – is he generally a self-confident kid or one who actually suffers from significant insecurity issues?
‘sasha’ was a cautious but friendly little girl who had been dumped at the shelter in a cardboard box.
she gave us such love that when she died we felt that our hearts would break.
here is one handsome military dog with  presidential recognition for his service!
i also taught ricky lots of other behaviors – including jumping over our dogs - when they were on a ‘down/stay’ - , jumping over little kids (also on a ‘down/stay’ -, and jumping through a hoola hoop.
we often fostered many dogs for our local animal shelter and tyson was always by my side helping those dogs find their forever homes.
disciplinary techniques such as removal, time  outs, taking something of value away, ignoring behavior and interrupting  negative behavior with a vocal interrupter can be extremely effective, and i  use these techniques on all kinds of dogs with all kinds of issues.
it stems from ignorance and a fear of losing control or having an animal seemingly control them.
my mother asked me once to play with her regular ladies four
i always start by asking the same question, ‘why do you think the dog is jumping up?’
i can perhaps, help an animal that is struggling, gain trust in human beings as many people can.
in some cases a younger dog will breathe new life into an older one, but age gaps can also be the cause of major irritations.
i can explain behaviour though and any frightened animal can be intimidating.
comments i love this.
i had been used to driving where i needed to go, having family nearby, and regularly escaping into the vast swaths of greenspace that are scattered throughout the city where i had lived all my life.
caspar came from a breeder of presa canarios in california and was shipped to eric in new york state when the pup was eight weeks old.
as a society we must focus on the other end of the leash.
as you can imagine, the debate got very heated with both political parties throwing scorn and derision at each other – very entertaining to watch even if it was on such a serious topic.
lennox is scheduled to be euthanized in a few days.
the more boring you are, the less the dog will want to interact with  you.
if a dog hasn’t been taught how to function in a domestic environment he will behave in the only way he knows how.
how unkind is it that these dogs have been bred to have such short noses that they suffer from brachycephalic upper airway syndrome – difficulty breathing particularly during exercise and in hot weather?
with temperatures plummeting to below zero, the roads were like ice rinks and people that ventured out in their cars were risking their lives to do so.
check out manly man a.j. hawk, fearsome linebacker for the super bowl champion green bay packers (sorry, honey) talking big about how big dudes shoudn't be ashamed of having little dogs.
vs: sophia, thanks so much for all the great info.
let’s give the animals we’ve domesticated the best possible chance to succeed in our world – it’s the right thing to do not just for the dogs, but for our safety as well.
no doubt this statement will also be taken out of context by those who wish to discredit me and to discredit my belief that lennox is not a danger to the public based on my experience with him and also based on the video assessment carried out by david ryan which i have also seen.
i’m glad i didn’t make my daughter wait for thirty five years to have her own dog like i did, because watching her play with her beloved lab sadie is a joy to behold, but i also won’t get a dog just because she asked me for one.
ricky most certainly would have gone viral many times.
it was not long before the children’s interest in anise and her sweet teammates helped them overcome their concern about going back outside to play.
just as puppies need months or years to learn the rules of the house, remember that your new dog needs time to get to know you and to settle in and feel at home.
i watched video footage of two extensive evaluations of lennox by sarah fisher and another accomplished expert, david ryan.
does dominance exist in the canine world and does a human really have to establish dominance over a dog in order to get him/her to behave as old school theory would have us believe?
so for many years before she passed on, lucy would turn on a sitcom at home and hear her mother’s unmistakable laugh.
jerking, restraining, poking, nudging, hitting, shouting or shocking dogs is just a form of bullying.
i seriously think that eric and people like him don’t want to neuter their dogs because not only are they worried how this will look to other people, they themselves will think differently about their dogs if they are castrated.
he wanted to concentrate on showing the world how amazing dogs were through the magic of his camera lens.
bully breeds in particular have borne the brunt of this phenomenon  lately, where just because of the way the dog looks, he’s classed as a  dog not to be messed with around the neighborhood.
for weeks we  would talk about what kind of home jasmine would do well in and even though we  tried to keep ourselves from getting too attached, we were failing.
those details are also on drmartybecker.com.
i believe that lennox would have been totally at ease had i indeed taken him out myself
we know so much more than we did even 20 years ago about how dogs think, what they feel, how their brains are wired (very similarly to ours, as it turns out), and what could potentially cause them to aggress.
he was paired off with lucy because the therapist was simply hoping for him to laugh, and our dog would often find a way to make that happen with previous clients.
here are some other great resources if you want to find out more about dog  bite prevention: www.dogbitelaw.com:  dog bite statistics, dog bite law and  victims’ rights via attorney kenneth m. phillips, a leading authority on  dog bite law in the united states.
unless they really do just hate  puppies.
dr. john ciribassi, past-president of the american veterinary society of  animal behavior (avsab), explains why punishment can cause aggression: "a typical scenario is a client with a 3 year old dog who has  presented because of aggression directed at strangers that the dog meets either  on walks or when guests come to the home.
hay had been simply thrown over the stable doors and their water buckets were hanging crushed against the stable wall.
but she wasn’t supposed to do that.
there is a lot of money to be made  in the pet industry and everyone is competing to get their product into the  mainstream market.
" "we had some truly crazy situations in the last season we shot in new york, and i can't wait to see what's in store for me this summer," says victoria.
i saw everyone from bjorn borg to john mcenroe
“i love lucy” was taped in front of a live audience, long before canned laughter or “sweetening” sitcoms with laughs ever existed.
jasmine  snuggled up on the chair next to him and all was quiet.
chances for overturning the verdict are slim, and having read the judge’s official opinion in the case, i hold very little hope that he will recognize he has let his personal feelings about this issue cloud his decision-making process.
garry gross was a well known fashion photographer in new york city for many years.
eventually,  more dogs are added and the dog is set up for success by teaching it to  literally feel differently about the presence of that which once caused such a  fearful response.
on the sofa with the little dog asleep on his chest and a  big brown one at his side, so however much he grizzles about her, i’ve  noticed a nice bond developing.
does that mean we should add dachshunds to the list of ‘dangerous dogs’ as defined by lawmakers in favor of bsl?
for so long people have been putting the emphasis on their dog’s need to be ‘obedient’ rather than ‘cooperative.’
on the other side of the coin – some dogs will jump because they feel uneasy when someone comes into the house.
every off-leash walk in our neighborhood has become an opportunity to support her otherwise very healthy diet with a variety of the delicious grasses the southeastern united states has to offer.
at the end of my assessment the member of staff asked me what i thought.
this is what lennox had no choice but to do.
in their eyes a dog without testicles  is no longer the status symbol of macho power that they want.
a dog’s emotional brain is wired in exactly the same way as that of a human.
it was also a special time because a few days into the big  freeze, ben came into our lives.
fortunately, my family  is very understanding when it comes to my lack of cooking talent, so i am  never asked to do it.
it’s encouraging to see how natural and organic foods, once thought of as hokey and over-priced, are becoming more popular as consumers get smart about the importance of feeding their dogs a healthy diet.
jasmine loves my daughter and likes nothing better than to wake her up in the morning, run around with her during the day and fall asleep in her arms at night.
he barked at me three times when i approached.
for those who don’t – shame on you.
my  question is: why was the dog euthanized before he was evaluated by a qualified  behavioral specialist?
at that crisis point lennox did the only thing that makes sense to a dog; he lunged, with no contact, in order to communicate clearly that he was frightened and felt threatened when he had no where else to retreat.
have a look around this site, read the other wonderful expert blogger entries, and come back often to check for new info.
sometimes i answer the questions.
why do those championing breed conformation continue to celebrate this breed’s discomfort and deformity?
what should i do - can you help me? annaleigh, alabama i recently connected with my friend, dr. sophia yin, to discuss training young dogs and her new book,perfect puppy in 7 days.
i was walking in the village when some of my old friends came up to me, apologized for turning against me and walked me onto the common to face my bully.
the hope aacr teams were sensitive and careful about how they interacted with the children, and they placed themselves strategically around areas of the playground to gently encourage children to venture back to the field.
it was  obvious that she was uncomfortable in the shelter environment so after much  conversation we decided to foster her and bring her home.
joining victoria at the show were the casting team
the global pet expo takes  place in march every year in orlando and is so large that by the time you have  walked the entire floor your feet are aching.
well, actually, i wasn’t intending to write a book about separation anxiety!
it was a trip to boston for a week of eye appointments.
for more information about dr. mcconnell, go to www.patriciamcconnell.com click here to visit the positively store where you can buy love has
getting it all down on paper helps owners to feel less helpless and overwhelmed, and empowers them by creating a solid plan of action.
he tried to get away but when this failed he lunged defensively at david ryan.
and yes, if you’re caught you could be fined a nominal sum, but no-one is watching, so owners continue to flout the law and leave their dog’s mess for everyone to step in.
other than psychotic, neurologically damaged killers i honestly can’t think of anyone i know who would prefer that puppy mills stay in business and be allowed to profit and thrive off the misery and pain of dogs.
there are currently standards in place which require that offspring come from the mating of registered dogs with the same lineage.
non so molto per quello che riguarda la germania ma le poche esperienze avute in quel paese e le notizie che arrivano sono spesso contrastanti.
fortunately in this instance the dog was very friendly and no  one got bitten, but you get my point.
victoria with dr. marty becker at the 2011 global pet expo i felt like a kid in a candy store last week surrounded by every kind of product a pet and their person could need.
what the masters don’t know is that their dogs are only following them because they have been suppressed and dominated, and they, like me, fear the consequences if they fight back.
that just goes to show how flexible and workable positive  reinforcement techniques can be.
that’s our girl sierra on the cover!
his paw had obviously been  damaged in some way, probably cut on the ice, which was so sharp and thick it
who knows, though - maybe one year i will  surprise them and pay them back for all of the delicious meals they have cooked  for me over the years.
while his exact duties are mostly confidential, he was awarded a medal of commendation at his retirement ceremony at bolling afb.
i’ve become resigned to  it:  my dog loves to eat grass.
he exemplifies the true meaning unconditional love.
there is no psychologist in the world like a dog kissing your face.
remember the key to cooperation and compliance is trust and motivation and the more exciting and valued you are to your dog, the more she will listen to you in every situation.
i have a hard time respecting people’s ignorance and  denial when evidence is presented by so many studies on the medical and  behavioral benefits of neutering.
you can watch video from the eventhere.
is your dog a hound houdini?
fortunately modern-day vaccinations can protect your dog from some of these  diseases but for others there is no protection.
i not only endured the taunts from the bully but her followers that also joined in.
nationally registered as a therapy dog, he visits at the ronald mcdonald house and the sarah harding residence.
plus, one lucky winner will win the grand prize - a 30 minute phone consultation with me where we can talk about your dog and anything else you can think of!
the puppies just learned that whatever they did, they’d get a correction that might scare them or that might hurt.
the event in new york on september 8th will help kick off american humane association’s hero dog month as we lead up to the official hero dog awards in l.a. on october 1st.
in addition to being calming to puppies, it is also calming to adult dogs.
he is probably one of the most versatile ethologists in the world.
my daughter sleeps with a picture of  angelica next to her bed so that she can still see her beloved kitty every day  and occasionally lights a memorial candle in her honor.
and yes, if you’re caught you could be fined a  nominal sum, but no-one is watching, so owners continue to flout the law and  leave their dog’s mess for everyone to step in.
can you talk about that?
people loved him because he was smart, funny, gentle, kind and caring.
if your dog jumps again,  repeat.
so here’s an idea:  why don’t the nra and pork council
and the public drink it up, spending hundreds of thousands of  dollars on these puppies only to find they have health problems, behavior  problems
at the end of the day, jasmine likes to either snuggle up with us  or sleep next to her new best furry friend, cuddled close into her for comfort  and protection.
this time of year i like to look back and think about what has happened  throughout the year both in my personal and business life.
i  thought he may have heard a snow plow outside, but i realized he wasn't barking  at the window, he was barking at the bedroom doorway.
then the heaving started.
geneticists  disagree.
the night was drawing in fast
it is so important to teach children to communicate their feelings and if i had been taught that lesson when i was young, maybe i would have avoided (or at least been able to mitigate) events that led to the worst two years of my young life.
and i remember her saying ‘but she’s been so good with you’.
i don’t think there’s a group in the world that i agree with 100% of the time on 100% of the issues.
the best relationships are born out of travesty, enduring hard times  together and battling through.
il suo libro più importante, “il linguaggio del cane”, è sicuramente un testo che non può mancare nella formazione di un istruttore cinofilo.
as you know, dr. mehmet oz is a friend of mine, and i’m a member of “core team oz” on “the dr. oz show.”
i have studied this over seventeen years of handling many animals.
is the child who bullies other  children a secure or insecure child?
education for parents and children is essential.
the same concept is at play  (though usually with less ominous results) when a trendy soccer mom wants to  get the latest designer crossbreed because it is the ‘in’ thing to  do.
would you lash out in that scenario or would you be worried  that if you did you would get attacked back?
let’s concentrate on the deed and not the breed and give full focus to keeping children safe around all dogs.
she did not start this behavior until she was about a year old.
during a cold spell in atlanta, georgia, when the whole city shut down and no one could go out for a week, we rescued a dog.
we all have our stories to tell.
their new families would be brimming with excitement as we handed our beloved fosters to them and we would be heartbroken at our loss, but happy that we had successfully pulled these animals out of the municipal shelters and placed them into loving homes.
if i had become lady victoria in my vast manor house, no doubt i  would have surrounded myself with dogs and horses, but then i would probably  never have become a trainer and had the opportunities i now have to help dogs  and their humans world wide.
as i’ve stated on several news outlets following the channel’s initial launch, dogtv should be viewed only as one (very valuable) tool in our arsenal to help enrich our dogs’ overall domestic experience and should not replace a dog’s daily need for exercise.
and once the dog knows the exercises, it’s about being consistent enough to make the polite behaviors a habit.
italy, spain and greece are growing up and maybe the majority problems we have are about the facilities for dogs like hospitality in hotel, bar, restaurants, shops and public transport even if, during a my recent holidays in spain, i had not problem to find many hotels that accept dogs.
the bill was designed to "eliminate abusive practices and provide for the humane care and treatment of dogs and puppies by establishing standards for their care at commercial breeding operations."
inevitably, they  look on sadly while my sadie chomps away at her greenery, offering their  steadfastly ominous advice about the fact that she must be unwell and casting  furtive glances at me that seem to say “you obviously must not be feeding  your dog a nutritious diet.”
food is used as a reward especially for a dog that is food motivated, but rewards such as toys, praise and play can be just as powerful if a dog happens to be motivated by them.
thanks so much, patricia, and best of luck with the new book – it certainly is a valuable addition to your terrific catalog.
so i am pleased to finally announce that my family and i are once again  ‘foster failures.’
so how do you get fido to pay attention?
clarissa baldwin, chief executive officer of the dog’s trust shelters in  britain coined the famous phrase, ‘a dog is for life, not just for  christmas,’ and since she did she has saved many lives.
vs: in the testimonials people say over and over that the book is fun.
the dog started to relax.
it’s about training them to sit or come every time you want them to do so in all the appropriate instances.
hawk made his first find on his second deployment when he located two missing young people who had run away from their home.
he was clearly frightened as he could not have known what was going to happen to him and again this is not an uncommon behaviour in the dogs that come to me for help.
his commendation reflects a very large drug find and several "live bites" on "bad guys" who didn't want to behave.
garry lived in greenwich village and i used to love going down to see him.
over a sixteen year period the number of  hospital admissions caused by dog bites in the u.s. nearly doubled, increasing  from 5,100 in 1993 to 9,500 in 2008, according to a report by the u.s. agency  for healthcare research and quality.
licking around the  mother’s mouth stimulates her to regurgitate food.
training cats has lots of benefits, aside from impressing friends with youtube videos.
if you don’t, though, we’ll know where you stand: you’re ok with abuse to puppies and dogs.
and here’s silly old me thinking that kennel clubs in general were organizations that were designed to put dogs’ well-being first.
can you discuss one or two?
when i was a child and sat on santa’s lap (apart from being scared out of my wits too) i would ask him for things like a doll or a cuddly toy or some pens.
he was particularly  focused on photographing rescue and senior dogs and his photos were nothing  short of mesmerizing.
tyson was dragging our one year old son from the living room into safety.
i have made this statement to shed a little more light on what is a distressing case for all those involved, knowing full well that i will no doubt be subject to further scrutiny and criticism.
as a mother i cannot imagine the pain that they are going through at the moment.
comments parents and guardians need to be responsible for their dog at all times,  without exception, and especially around children.
rin and i have both recently come on board as national ambassadors for theamerican humane association, so i'll be seeing more of him at various upcoming events, including a special tribute gala to the amazing service dogs who helped so many in the days after 9/11 (search and rescue, therapy dogs, etc).
after shooting 4 uk seasons and with the 3rd us season currently airing on animal planet in the us, victoria is thrilled to be returning to the new york metro area again to help dogs and owners achieve balance through her force-free, positive reinforcement dog training methods.
so a behavior that could be fixed in just a few days with a puppy might take weeks or months once the puppy is older.
that parents should never leave their kids alone with any animals unsupervised.
what i am qualified to do however is to discuss behaviour.
as i stand in front of his tree with my head full of memories i can see him playing tennis on the court behind me, intense and competitive, in his element and loving this sport that was so much part of his life.
far more often, the dog simply likes the taste of grass.
rin tin tin will serve as a  national ambassador for the american humane association’s hero dog  awards™.
i thought he may have heard a snow plow outside, but i realized he wasn't barking at the window, he was barking at the bedroom doorway.
"i love new york city," says stilwell.
my dad has a history of raising dogs that turn out to be aggressive in some situations.
that might be fine for some people, and unfortunately there are  those that actually don’t mind using hard punishment.
anything that can help people choose the right dog and get the relationship started on the right paw, as it were?
it is hard to watch such brutality for human gain and i  for one will not stand idly by and allow it to happen.
dr. becker: thanks, victoria!
the implication with puppies is that we need to give them many positive experiences.
but don’t think for a moment that these or any other positive trainers are weak.
2011  is going to be a big year for us with many projects that everyone can  enjoy.
the bottom line is that some people are worried that neutering will somehow change their dogs and make them less ‘manly.’
cursing quietly he looked down  at the mess to see what had made her sick.
i stayed still and reached out my arm with the bowl extended  towards him.
he jumps on them and is all over them.
to me the issues of helping animals is much more  important than any fame that comes with my show, but now and again it is nice  to visit and realize that i have come a long way from my dog walking days in  wimbledon.
we had countless dogs – from pitbulls to beagles – and numerous cats from kittens to adults, and each time we had to say goodbye to them it was a bittersweet moment.
we at positively have been working hard to shoot new episodes ofit's me or the dog (new season premieres saturday, jan 8th!), develop exciting ideas and build our foundation so that we can help all the worthy causes that support pets and their people.
the hope aacr teams were sensitive and careful about how  they interacted with the children, and they placed themselves strategically  around areas of the playground to gently encourage children to venture back to  the field.
if this means your dog is away while  guests are in your home, so be it.
so if we’re not going to ban certain breeds, what’s the  solution?
the show has been nominated for many  different awards but this was a special one because it recognized the  contribution thatit’s me or the dog is making in helping people  build more positive relationships with their pets as well as addressing issues  such as pet overpopulation and the importance of spay and neuter.
on coming out of the shower he noticed a rather pungent smell and his worst  fears were realized.
lauren from norman, ok love has no age limit
i just wish i didn’t have to deal with the grass when it comes out the other end….
zinc phosphide is a highly toxic chemical that is used as a pesticide to kill mice, rats and other rodents.
but even beyond the physiological chemistry of how it all works, to watch a therapy dog bring the first smile to the face of a boy who had lost his father in the towers was witness to a heartwarming mini-miracle.
there are many of us around the world who are dedicated to helping dogs who can’t help themselves, but i wanted to find a way to help support the extraordinary work being done by organizations that helped dogs who help people, too.
as soon as sadie stepped through the front door we knew she was the dog for us.
that’s exactly what happened recently in north carolina, where a perfectly reasonable (and actually somewhat watered-down) puppy mill reform bill was summarily killed by the state legislative process due to mindboggling, astoundingly stringent opposition from a few powerful lobbying groups.
you can spend up  to half an hour on a red carpet if there are enough people who want to talk to  you.
we want to do all that we can to help find homeless dogs their forever homes!
using aggression, intimidation and forced submission on a fearful, unconfident dog is like treating fire with fire, as the dog’s issues are often merely suppressed rather than treated and resolved effectively.
now, three years later,  we’ve decided that 2011 is the time to add to our family.
i have never had a dog of my own  even when i was a child.
it doesn’t have to happen posted by victoria stilwell -  11/08/10 at 03:11:46 pm -27
it was a chance for the families to remember their loved ones and to throw flowers and wreaths into the river in their memory.
his english books dog language–an encyclopedia of canine behavior and the evolution of canine social behavior became hits the moment they reached the us bookshelves.
we would sit for hours in our favorite restaurants going through  cases we had had, developing new ideas and comparing techniques.
if i personally answered all the training questions i receive from dog owners i would be spending the next two years on my computer.
check out the book > shop the store >
i also utilize an excellent program called doggone safe to help me spread the word.
comments from may 15th - 21st, i will be joining forces with the american veterinary  medical association, the us postal service and other organizations to  promote national dog bite prevention week.
she loves her big foster sister sadie and likes nothing better than  to climb on top of her back to sleep or nestle by her side.
all you like,  their friends and neighbors.
a dog will only respond to food  rewards and will ignore you if you don’t have food in your hand.
what i do know about is common sense, and as disinterested in politics as i  may be, i get pretty passionate about injustice and cruelty, especially towards  those who can’t protect themselves.
while i can’t imagine why i would ever go to a breeder to get a new dog when there are so many wonderful pets waiting to be adopted in shelters (most of whom had originally come from puppy mills or breeders, by the way), i understand those that do, and don’t look down upon them at all.
garry you made my life richer and i feel so fortunate to have known  you.
it was his dream to achieve this.
dogs and young children do not mix well and the  combination can be a recipe for disaster.
victoria stilwell: what made you decide to write “don’t leave me!”?
of course have a better chance to disclose a good canine culture and be a member of an important association like this convinced me to try this experience.
posted by victoria stilwell - 07/07/10 at  11:07:06 am -93
i recently had the chance to catch up with my friend and dog training guru dr. patricia mcconnell to chat about her latest book,love has no age limit .
gg: si, il nostro primo ospite sarà roger abrantes, uno dei maggiori studiosi del comportamento animale.
so there are different protocols to follow, depending on the particular dog.
they can say whether a dog's behavior, in a specific incident, meets the legal definition of "dangerous" in their jurisdiction, but often fall far short of being able to diagnose whether this was truly dangerous aggression or was a storm brought about by a collection of predictable, reasonable animal behavior and human failing.
i’m looking for a few case studies of dogs that have these kind of issues.
these aren’t chickens, pigs, cows or even fish (and yes, i do believe all animals should be treated better even if they are being bred for their meat) – these are pet dogs and if we can’t come together to try and protect them, then what next?
trouble was the shock collar made caspar even more reactive, especially towards strangers and eric was worried that his dog was becoming dangerous.
too often, however, we fall short and fail to understand the  intricate yet ultimately simple dynamic that exists between man and dog,  transposing our human insecurities and weaknesses onto dogs and assuming that  they’re capable of being treated like and judged as four-legged humans.
for now, though, congratulations to chivon winter, the winner of the recent contest who correctly guessed the identity of my new little friend and was chosen at random from the many correct entries!
no, they say these puppies come from breeders who  care about where their puppies end up and who breed from good stock!
riding horses as a 6 year-old.
sadie (our chocolate lab) and angelica had tolerated each other’s company, but sadie kept her distance as she had been on the receiving end of many a well-timed and grumpy swipe from angelica.
sd: don’t assume the problem is behavior – especially if it’s new.
gastric lavage with sodium bicarbonate to lower acidity and decrease release of phosphine gas is sometimes needed.
as a result, now the dog lunges, snaps, and bites in  situations where it used to bark and back away.
for more information about giorgio, il cane norma, dog training in italy or the dog training company and its upcoming seminars, please visit: www.thedogtc.com http://www.ilcaneanorma.com http://giorgio.positively.com/ http://www.thedogtc.com/seminari.htm http://www.ilcaneanorma.com/semiabrantes.asp italian version giorgio guglielminotti garmot, responsabile del centro cinofilo il cane a norma, è uno dei primi membri internazionali della vspdt, l’associazione mondiale degli istruttori cinofili che utilizzano metodi non coercitivi nell’ educazione e nell’ addestramento del cane fondata da victoria stilwell.
he was also shaking like a leaf but this does not come over in the video that my assistant took of this assessment.
all of the things mentioned in this section, including the natural alternatives to pharmacological drugs, may help and won’t cause harm.
i am achieving what i always wanted and my heightened exposure allows me to fight for animal causes that i am passionate about.
as i slid over to  where he had been, trying desperately to keep myself upright on the ice, i saw  a trail of blood going off into the trees.
during the wimbledon tournament it was always a thrill to go to  the centre court.
non-reaction and ‘calmness’ as a success.
but for a few of the dogs that are being shown, i’m not so sure that is the case.
my work introduces me to a lot of families that have multi-dog households so that their dogs have playmates.
read more about ricochet on the hero dog awards blog.
how can breeders  ignore the suffering of their dogs all in the name of conformation?
it was at this point that the vets stepped in.
what they should have taught her was never to approach a dog that she didn’t know without asking her parents if she could ask the handler first and if consent was given, to pet the dog appropriately and never kiss a dog on the nose.
because the video received so much attention, ricochet started raising funds  and awareness for human/animal causes and has raised more than $75,000 in the  last 17 months.
we advise that all pet parents, before they leave their dogs alone with dogtv, take time to watch the content with their dog for short periods over a couple of days or have the channel on in the background when they are home with their dogs.
the expo is only open to those involved in the pet product industry and is the place where traders go to do business, make deals and launch new brands.
the case is no longer about lennox.
i implore the courts and judge to consider this option.
rin tin tin will serve as a national ambassador for the american humane association’s hero dog awards™.
he had been  much too smart to go into the trap, preferring to sleep on the outdoor chairs  instead.
luckily the big man did not bring my daughter an itouch  this year – if he did we were going to have words.
i spent some quality time reconnecting with the lovely puppy and his owner, setting up overall training protocols so that he can be as successful as possible.
as a result, now the dog lunges, snaps, and bites in situations where it used to bark and back away.
this speaks volumes for this individual dog.
stay  as still as a stone until the dog gets bored and walks away.
one frequent question i get asked is how to stop a dog from jumping up on  people when they come into the house?
one frequent question i get asked is how to stop a dog from jumping up on people when they come into the house?
that's why i've dedicated myself and my company's resources to try and make a difference and reduce the number of dog bites that happen each year.
my friend laura janssen, director of animal cruelty investigations and  cruelty prevention came to help me catch the dog armed with a humane trap that  we set that up for the night.
she was playful and funny while  also being serious and thoughtful and had us wrapped around her tiny paw within  days.
fact: positive does not mean  permissive.
aggressive dogs are under stress and this stress needs to be managed so that the dog can feel better while the trainer finds the cause of the aggressive response and then works with the dog and the owner to modify it.
vs: fantastic stuff – thanks so much, nicole, and i’ll see you in a couple of months!
il metodo positivo - e che l’idea di trattare gli animali con amore, rispetto e fiducia è un linguaggio comune che tutti dovrebbero condividere indipendentemente dalla nazionalità.
my daughter and i walk along the path to get to the playground in the local park.
but even when he did struggle a little, because he’d been given treats in the handling situation, he didn’t struggle as much and so she didn’t let go.
if i don’t see my puppy-customers anymore…it means that i have done a great job with them!!
so in order to communicate clearly with dogs, we have to be aware of how we’re standing, how we deliver rewards, and how we move around the dog.
the last time i  saw him was in october at a fundraising event for the rescue group stray from  the heart, in nyc.
these dogs are made dangerous because of what humans teach them in their attempt to curb unwanted behavior.
and i understand that this drug is used to treat anxiety and depression.
britain, other countries, and several us states have banned pitbulls and/or certain other breeds for decades and yet child deaths from dog attacks are continuing to rise.
i can't always see or hear that well myself."
vs: where can people find you on this tour?
certain breeders are in the business  of making money from their pups by selling them to boys like eric, so that when  the pups reach adulthood they can be used as powerful status symbols to  compliment the macho image.
all the ‘might haves’  and ‘could haves’ are now going to be just that because now the dog  has been destroyed, we will never know.
far from using force or punitive techniques, a dog is guided by using positive techniques that help him see a perceived threat or potential loss of a valued resource in a different light.
children under the age of  five are most likely to be bitten and most of these bites come from a dog that  the child knows; the family dog or that of a relative or friend.
fact vs fiction, part ii posted by victoria stilwell - 04/06/10 at  08:04:23 am -23
alex understands how she should behave around sadie but needs a gentle reminder from time to time.
i knew that she loved being with my family and me and thrived on the attention we gave her
it’s not you that is getting castrated.
i had been given the job because at that  point in my life i was interested in either becoming a police officer or going  into personal protection, but that was before theatre and dogs really came into  my life and changed my path forever.
it really is a great book, and i wish you lots of success with it.
it is a recipe for disaster because it’s literally playing with fire and one day you or a member of the public will get burned.
can you believe a half a century?
we have a new foster pup staying with us at the moment – a six month old chihuahua/min pin mix named jasmine.
far from using force or punitive techniques, a dog is guided by using  positive techniques that help him see a perceived threat or potential loss of a  valued resource in a different light.
i've said much of it myself in interviews on national press many times.
with catchpole in hand she gently slipped the loop over his head.
if you’ve got nothing to hide, then you’ve got no problem showing what you’ve got.
then your  reaction to just one person going past you might be even worse because the  stress and trauma you felt being flooded by so many people has made your fear  worse.
regardless of the reason why, there have been more accidents on his watch than on mine.
what also sickens me is that those against lennox and the case are now releasing footage of a small part of sarah fisher’s assessment, like they did with david ryan’s assessment, which has been taken out of context, misread and misunderstood by these people’s ignorance.
in this report i state that i have concerns about the appearance of lennox’s neck.
regardless, as with all training techniques, i have learned that treating every dog as an individual is of utmost importance and that modification and management is more likely to succeed if time is spent tailoring the training to each specific dog.
more info about the pet meets baby contest.
fortunately, my family is very understanding when it comes to my lack of cooking talent, so i am never asked to do it.
"having cut my  teeth as a trainer in large part while living in manhattan and northern new  jersey, it was great to return to the area last season withit's me or the  dog.
the neighbors were worried that the cold would kill  him.
first, we  must make a concerted effort to crack down on and eliminate  ‘backyard’ breeders and puppy farmers who churn out puppies with no  regard for the well-being of the dogs and are only interested in making money.
this fundamental disconnect has recently been exposed publicly once again by the recent firestorm surroundingthe case of lennox, a bull dog/labrador cross owned by an extraordinarily responsible family in belfast, ireland.
hurlingham is an old private sports club that  has a waiting list as long as your arm to become a member and is a slice of  old, genteel england.
it’s  encouraging to see how natural and organic foods, once thought of as hokey and  over-priced, are becoming more popular as consumers get smart about the  importance of feeding their dogs a healthy diet.
i don’t know why it happened, but one day the tide turned and overnight the bullying stopped.
best of luck with the book, and i hope we can chat again soon.
what they should have taught her was never to approach a  dog that she didn’t know without asking her parents if she could ask the  handler first and if consent was given, to pet the dog appropriately and never  kiss a dog on the nose.
there are many dog trainers class formation that reject dominance-based and aversive training techniques using positive reinforcement methods so the new trainer have a canine culture based on respect and on relationship with dogs.
etologo e laureato biologia dell’evoluzione è nato in portogallo e ha vissuto gran parte della sua vita in danimarca.
i cannot comment on what happened when lennox was seized or measured by peter tallack because i wasn't there.
as he came closer he nuzzled his head into her hand and then  leaned his body into hers.
because the dog now feels pain when it encounters the person it fears, the aggression escalates.
hurlingham is where i attended grand dances along with sons of lords and boys from eton – the school for princes.
the evening opened my eyes even more to the incredible  cruelty that animals face.
occasionally, an incomplete diet can result in this craving, but more often than not the dog simply likes eating grass for the fun of it - just like sadie.
i think my mother was secretly hoping that i would meet a prince or the son of a wealthy land owner, but even though there were a few hopefuls, i never really fit in with that social set and much preferred to get into my muck boots and walk my clients’ dogs on wimbledon common.
i share this desire  to reduce the number of dog attacks.
no one has ever disputed that lennox can be anxious around some strangers but i believe the key word some has sadly been overlooked.
i know that victoria stilwell has been what i would consider to be a sane voice amidst the madness that surrounds this case and she has seen full video footage of the assessments carried out by myself and david ryan plus other documentation.
i do care however that lennox is being portrayed in a poor light through this video clip as my experience of handling lennox was thoroughly enjoyable and i now feel the need to explain in greater detail the truth, as i see it, about my assessment.
marty becker, rachel ray and ellen degeneres, so i was really honored to attend the ceremony and receive the award.
read on in part ii of this blog as well as my new article  about dog & child safety.
if you would like someone to visit your school to talk about dog safety, you can tell a teacher, parent or guardian to contact www.doggonesafe.com to see if there is a ‘be a tree’ presenter in your area.
the gas builds up in the stomach and is a direct irritant to the lining of the stomach causing damage to the small blood vessels located there.
queen kitty  ruled the roost and everyone knew it, so when she died sadie went about life as  if nothing had happened and all was perfectly normal.
official save lennox website sign the petition follow lennox's campaign on facebook on march 19th
dr. herron states that, "our study demonstrated that manyconfrontational training methods , whether staring down dogs, striking them, or intimidating them with physical manipulation such as alpha rolls [holding dogs on their back], do little to correct improper behavior and can elicit aggressive responses ."
there are still many ignorant ‘traditional’ trainers out there that think the best way to train a dog is to make it submissive towards them using harsh methods such as choke collars, prong collars, alpha rolls, hitting, physical manipulation and other appalling techniques and devices such as the shock collar.
it does not mean confident.
vs: the book appears to be partly a workbook.
if you don’t,  though, we’ll know where you stand:  you’re ok with abuse to  puppies and dogs.
education is key, which is why i am developing a project that will spread  the word about dogs and child safety, particularly for new mothers-to-be.
jasmine snuggled up on the chair next to him and all was quiet.
watch this: rin tin tin named national spokesdog for hero dog awards posted by  victoria stilwell - 05/13/11 at 04:05:59 am -no
and what about training a big powerful dog for protection work?
article about the casting  process for the new season.
it continues to confound me that there are still proponents of bsl given  both the behavioral science which is now available and the abysmal track record  of municipalities that have attempted to curb dog attacks by instituting bsl.
i think my mother was secretly hoping that i would  meet a prince or the son of a wealthy land owner, but even though there were a  few hopefuls, i never really fit in with that social set and much preferred to  get into my muck boots and walk my clients’ dogs on wimbledon  common.
i believe that dogs should learn just as much from constructive discipline  as they do from reward.
so if we’re not going to ban certain breeds, what’s the solution?
like the tens of thousands of people around the world who have followed the story of lennox, i was devastated by the recent ruling condemning him to death in belfast, northern ireland.
at one point lennox started playing with the leash, something that many bored dogs do, regardless of breed.
i just wish i didn’t  have to deal with the grass when it comes out the other end….
that said, it is indeed possible to turn them into deadly weapons if they’re in the wrong hands, just as it is with any breed of dog.
the new shows will start airing in early january and i’m excited because i think this is going to be the best season yet.
baby justin was lying on the bed while his mother went to take a shower when the attack happened.
similarly if you hold the food reward too high, you’ll train the dog to jump to get it.
i ended up playing for my university and was quickly named ‘the slammer’- i hit very hard but the ball wasn’t always that well controlled.
his breathing was labored and he had hardly eaten any of the  food that had been left out for him that morning, but he was alive.
on memorial day we were preparing to head out of town to the beautiful north georgia mountains for a short getaway.
she is a joyful soul who loves  to play fetch, wrestle with toys and snuggle up when it is time for a  nap.
note: this book will be available on amazon.com in september 2011 and on amazon kindle, b&n nook and ibooks by august 1, 2011.
aggression in dogs needs to be handled sensitively and with compassion.
with animals the approach is similar.
we enjoyed a freedom that a lot of kids don’t get and we were generally well-behaved, save for the odd sneaked puff of a cigarette when we could get our hands on one.
yes, at about 3 years of age or so, ricky, who seemed perfectly healthy – was diagnosed with feline hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (hcm).
shortly after 9/11 we pulled a  very sick maine coon cat from animal control with the intention of nursing her  back to health and then putting her up for adoption.
he had gotten up and  blacked out.
ripped jeans on the common.
unfortunately, this is another example of why the imposition of our human sensibilities on our dogs does not always translate successfully.
the dog might behave and do what the human asks but only  because he has learned that not behaving will cause a negative reaction in his  human and that needs to be avoided at all costs.
the  only thing harsh punishment does achieve is to make the person feel better  because they have gained control even if it meant dominating the dog into  submission.
it is  so much better to be able to influence an animal’s behavior without using  force, which is why positive reinforcement methods really do offer a better  alternative to outdated and abusive dominance theory.
i was a  little concerned what alex’s reaction would be to a very large brown dog
for example a dominance trainer will often  ‘flood’ a dog who is anxious and aggressive around other dogs, by  forcing the dog into a situation where it is surrounded by lots of dogs it  doesn’t know, forcing the dog to refrain from responding when inundated  with that stimulus the dog fears most until the dog ‘submits’ to  the fact that there’s nothing he can do.
the videos and evaluations have shown lennox to have substantial control of his behavior, that he is a sociable and pleasant animal despite his long isolation and confinement away from his home, and that he showed clear restraint when one evaluator pushed him into a trapped area in a threatening manner.
turns out he had put down some mole-killing poison in a section of his backyard where the moles had begun to wreak havoc, and our jasmine had sniffed it out and had one of the pellets in her mouth.
when the dog has finished sniffing and walks away from you, walk  slowly away and tell an adult.
he or she doesn’t have an automatic “following” response.
jasmine loves my  daughter and likes nothing better than to wake her up in the morning, run  around with her during the day and fall asleep in her arms at  night.
i miss you, dad, and hope that wherever you may be, you are executing the perfect forehand or making your opponents crazy with the drop shots that you were so famous for.
after shooting 4 uk seasons and with the 3rd us season currently  airing on animal planet in the us, victoria is thrilled to be returning to the  new york metro area again to help dogs and owners achieve balance through her  force-free, positive reinforcement dog training methods.
i was able to help via my newspaper column, though sometimes it’s listeners to the radio show or when i do tv.
the leader's job is to decide ahead of time which steps to perform and then guide his partner in a clear manner so that the partner can follow.
vs: what do you think are the biggest misconceptions people have about training puppies?
i have never had a dog of my own even when i was a child.
there seems to be a great deal of confusion as to what positive reinforcement really is and about which dogs and behaviors it is useful for.
my daughter sleeps with a picture of angelica next to her bed so that she can still see her beloved kitty every day and occasionally lights a memorial candle in her honor.
she really likes the tall, wispy reeds, and has lately begun to avoid the clumpy clover-like weeds.
he wished us luck and told us if we made it through the next 24 hours, jasmine should be in the clear.
the last walk he took them on was an abject failure, as it  was freezing cold and no one wanted to be outside anyway (including the  dogs).
the problem might well be medical – so no amount of behavior modification will help.
i abhor people who hurt and bully others and will fight for justice.
here is the amazing story of a little dog that performed an enormous deed;  he saved the life of his owner.
fortunately he had cupped his hand under her  mouth and caught most of it in his palm.
whether it's supposed tough guys with bully breeds,  soccer moms with designer cross-breeds or the rich and famous with 'handbag'  dogs, i agree wholeheartedly with a.j. that we need to move into the 21st  century and let those stereotypes die once and for all.
she was  not housetrained, which means she is now on a toileting schedule.
the evening opened my eyes even more to the incredible cruelty that animals face.
our hero buster came into our lives when my husband started a job that required him to travel.
i did not relish the thought of turning up  in the morning to find that he had frozen to death, but i did not know how he  could possibly make it through another night of below freezing temperatures.
there are also many breeders that will defend their breeding practices by saying that ‘line breeding’, i.e. breeding grandparent to grandchild, cousin to cousin, uncle to niece etc. is ok as long as you are not ‘inbreeding’ (parent to child, siblings etc.)
nothing could be further from the truth so i thought it was time to lay out the facts about positive training and explain why dominance theorists and practitioners have it so wrong.
and it is time to take action and spread the message about safety and a  parent’s responsibility.
the message i want to give to the local dog-owning public is knowledge about the dogs, organizing thefido festival, training, seminars for learning dogs’ language, for a growing dog-culture.
the awards are  hosted by the humane society of the united states and honors ‘outstanding  individuals in the major media whose artistry and journalistic integrity have  increased public awareness of animal issues.’
either way, though, his case has helped highlight what’s wrong with bsl and we must make sure that his story has not been told in vain.
for this reason i am also organizing a fido festival called “qua la zampa” in barzio (lecco – italy) the 14th of august.
dogs and young children do not mix well and the combination can be a recipe for disaster.
at 12:03:53 pm -55 comments i love spring.
as clear as this issue may seem, unfortunately there are still those who use dominance-based techniques to train dogs.
slowly but surely laura put her hand up to him and stroked his head.
jasmine began to make loud retching noises and as my husband  desperately looked around for something to catch what he knew was coming out of  her mouth, she vomited.
my daughter also wants a puppy!
i also use the learn to earn program to quickly build a bond with any new dog i take in, as a first step for training anxious dogs they can look to their owners for guidance or help in scary situations, and for helping dogs who have lost their family members to guide them into a more structured situation.
where there was fear and sadness, the teachers could once again hear  laughter, children running with happy dogs, and kelly elementary school moving  towards a new normal.
i guess they missed the fact that the current bill was inspired  from the recent rescue of 300 dogs from a north carolina puppy mill.
on tonight's episode, victoria helps a couple whose out-of-control dog has begun to have serioius consequences on their relationship.
on this occasion, much more occurred.
i suppose i could have trained an alternative behavior – but people so loved it.
when i first started shooting, positive reinforcement was still the dog training philosophy with the most momentum in terms of educating the public about training methods based on modern behavioral science.
i am devastated at his  loss and still can’t quite believe that he is gone.
she's an internationally renowned,  award winning surf dog at the center of media attention, who has become an  inspirational phenomenon, philanthropic role model, internet sensation,  fundraising marvel, community advocate, goodwill ambassador, and muse to  millions!
from may 15th - 21st, i will be joining forces with the american veterinary medical association, the us postal service and other organizations to promote national dog bite prevention week.
the meeting was civil and positive, but it was clear that even though a lot of progress had been made, including work by the kennel club itself, they had to be more aggressive with implementing the changes.
the aggressive behavior might  look confident and dominant but there is always an underlying discomfort.
treasure has a way of inspiring all those who meet her, but what she does best is to provide a welcome friend in a sometimes lonely world.
can you guess who it is?
walking the red carpet is always a unique experience.
i’m not big on telling people what they want to hear just for the sake of a few egos, and no one has ever accused me of being too soft on those i don’t necessarily agree with.
i’ve contributed to a couple of books, with dr. robin ganzert, president/ceo of the american humane association i wrote the foreword to “animals and the kids who love them,” by allen and linda anderson; and contributed to “raising my furry children,” by tracy ahrens.
‘ you see, this is essentially what people do not understand.
obviously, education is the key to stopping this from happening.
my daughter named the dog ben and as we sat with him at the veterinarian he put his head into my lap and went to sleep.
you see, we have this idea that pets should go to the veterinarian when they’re sick only, but that’s not the best way to handle things.
disciplinary techniques such as removal, time outs, taking something of value away, ignoring behavior and interrupting negative behavior with a vocal interrupter can be extremely effective, and i use these techniques on all kinds of dogs with all kinds of issues.
i still believe this is the case, but the question always made me wonder if i was doing the right thing.
so, you are right there with mom in getting the scoop.
for example, i have heard people say that positive reinforcement trainers only deal with obedience training, but when it comes to severe behavioral issues such as aggression, dominance training methods are the only ones that really work because they are more in tune with a dog’s basic psychology.
i’ve trained countless pit bulls, and have found them to be among the most loyal, smart and trainable dogs i’ve worked with.
i’ll leave you with one that has already made it onto the list of endangered breeds.
i love being challenged, and  when i  started filming the show six years ago i certainly never thought that  after 120 episodes i would still be able to come up with new ways of doing  things.
vs: giorgio, thanks so much for taking the time to chat with us today.
even though attacks of this  nature are rare compared to the number of dogs in the united states, one  fatality is too many.
when i went to sign the adoption papers, i learned that she’d been impounded four times previously.
as we approach her to stop her from eating, the pace of her chomping speeds up in a desperate effort to get every last scrumptious morsel of green in her gut before running off to the next patch.
i have said in previous articles that i believe people who train their dogs using dominance techniques show a great weakness within themselves.
apgaw seeks to influence the development and introduction of effective wide-ranging legislation to improve welfare and also acts as a discussion forum of politicians and welfare experts to looks at areas of concern.”
it is the same for a dog so respect that  a dog’s food is her food and you should not go near it.
so many adolescent and adult dogs who were great dogs, really fantastic ones.
now this was definitely going to work.
i have said in previous articles  that i believe people who train their dogs using dominance techniques show a  great weakness within themselves.
that is, in the most exciting situations, the dog will jump, but in less exciting situations the dog may just push against the owner, or climb into the owners lap.
i may or may not choose to muzzle a dog that is unknown to me to do this if i have concerns about the body language that i have seen prior to this part of my assessment.
fact: there are many great training methods and many different effective and humane ways to train dogs, but all of those methods fall under one general behavioral philosophy – positive reinforcement.
who else did you dedicate the cat book to? sd: i had a dog named chaser, who changed my life.
i’ve railed against bsl extensively in the past in previous articles and posts –you can read them here.
licking is an appeasement gesture – sorry mum.
i had left the room to bottle feed the puppies when tyson and my son, joshua, were relaxing in the living room.
this is the story of one such dog that brought comfort to  many after a horrific event.
the parents replied that the handler was not to worry because  the child had a dog of her own and was therefore great with dogs.
weed addiction posted by victoria stilwell - 04/22/10 at 08:04:25 am - 86 comments my dog sadie is addicted to weed.
i was attending the expo to receive the ‘excellence in journalism and outstanding contribution to the pet industry’ award.
businesses from all over the world come to the expo, some  demonstrating innovative new products that are clever in their originality and  others that have me scratching my head in bewilderment trying to understand how  they could possibly be serious.
pork and guns are suddenly a part of the discussion about puppy mills, because amazingly those who lobby on behalf of pork and guns have thrust themselves into the debate and (for some completely inexplicable reason) decided that a bill designed to curb abuses against dogs in puppy mills is a threat to those they represent (pork farmers and fans of guns).
many people don’t realize this, but in order to reward only the desired behaviors the humans have to be aware of all of their interactions with the dog.
i look forward to getting over to italy very soon and joining forces with you and giorgio in person to help spread the word that there’s a better way to train… positively – and that the concept of treating animals with the love, respect and trust that they deserve is a common language that we all share, regardless of nationality.
it is vital, however, that behavioral therapy and management are always given along with any medications in order to give the dog the best possible chance of rehabilitation.
duffy is not the sort of veterinarian that over dramatizes a situation and is always positive and encouraging, but when i saw the worried look on his face, i knew that this was a very serious situation and if the treatment didn’t work we might lose our precious girl.
victoria with dr. patricia mcconnell victoria stilwell:
here comes the big one!
and the public drink it up, spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on these puppies only to find they have health problems, behavior problems or they are just too much work.
subscribe to our feed!
lennox’s family have done more than required by the law as responsible dog owners who also foster dogs for various northern ireland dog shelters.
he had been much too smart to go into the trap, preferring to sleep on the outdoor chairs instead.
many dog trainers in italy know victoria stilwell and the “it’s me or the dog” tv show and they are often surprised when i tell them about the vspdt and my membership.
do not take a bone or toy away from a dog if she is playing with it.
but we've known it for a long time, and yet the message isn't effective enough to make a significant difference.
the homeowner who had been feeding the dog welcomed me into her house and showed me where he had been sleeping and eating.
the nra want to protect the rights of hobby breeders, especially those that breed sporting hounds, while the pork council believe that the main goal of this bill’s backers is not so much about puppies but is actually a more sinister plot to eventually force the entire country to stop ever eating meat again!
the general theme is that the ultimate responsibility lies with the parents and/or dog owners, not the children.
don’t you think it cruel that  these dogs find physical exercise difficult because their legs are so crooked  that their joints tire easily?
the overwhelming majority of video evidence i saw supports the family’s claim that despite the incredibly challenging conditions he’s been forced to live in for the past year, lennox remains an innocent dog.
gg: the dog trainers company is a new company i have founded with the aim to provide professional service for the dog trainers in italy.
ever feel so excited that  you just want to leap around?
bring their considerable power to the table on behalf of pet dogs in puppy  mills and find a way to give whatever legislation currently exists the teeth it  needs to identify bad breeders and hold them accountable?
so as i’m giving thanks this thursday i thank god for my family, for  having the chance to work with amazing animals and for giving me the  opportunity to help show people in fifty countries the power of force-free  training through my show.
all three wardens were found to have lied under oath, but even this did not stop the judge from reaching his decision.
for example, a cat who paws at the tv whenever and only when justin beiber is on.
there are still many ignorant  ‘traditional’ trainers out there that think the best way to train a  dog is to make it submissive towards them using harsh methods such as choke  collars, prong collars, alpha rolls, hitting, physical manipulation and other  appalling techniques and devices such as the shock collar.
the honor is all mine, victoria, it’s a joy to talk to someone who has done so much to promote humane (and effective!)
so these trainers would say you had to wait until the dogs was mature enough.
appearing on espn's first take, a.j. was interviewed with his chihuahua todd to discuss his pride in owning and loving small dogs, despite the fact that he's one of the most fierce football players in the game today (and part of the reason why my husband's atlanta falcons had an early playoff exit).
he loved working together; loved my husband and my daughter and was so proud of me when my idea for a dog training television show came to fruition.
too often, however, we fall short and fail to understand the intricate yet ultimately simple dynamic that exists between man and dog, transposing our human insecurities and weaknesses onto dogs and assuming that they’re capable of being treated like and judged as four-legged humans.
during this holiday season i think about my wonderful family, how fortunate i have been in my life and career and how lucky i am to have the opportunity to help others through what i do.
for some dogs this can be achieved relatively quickly but for others it can take a while, which is why it is important to see every dog and every situation as unique.
there are several steps you should take if you think your dog will have a bad reaction to the booms, whistles and pops that are the soundtrack to what the rest of us all consider a fun night.
the public gallery looks right over the great room with a bullet proof glass window separating the public from the politicians.
two dog behaviorists have evaluated the dog to date.
the situation looked hopeless; we had run out of options.
but the pet stores here in the states continue to enjoy a healthy trade over the christmas season, with people still being conned into buying dogs before they are ready and being told that the puppies they are buying are not from the awful puppy mills shown on oprah.
some owners are mildly irritated by their dog’s bad behaviour, while others are at their wit’s end and ready to send the dog to a shelter.
i have set up a dog bite prevention task force, made up of professionals  from all around the country, including veterinarians, lawyers, canine bite  investigators and pediatric surgeons, each dedicated to educating the public  and keeping people safe.
but i see some dogs at crufts and other dog shows that look completely miserable, and if we are to be honest, showing that type of dog is not really for the dog at all.
download a pdf about roger’s seminar at il cane norma here.
if you are in the uk, are interested and want me to work with you for a day please contact emma marshall at the following address:emma_marshall@jcpr.com or by phone: 07875-399-995.
i was a happy, outgoing child – relatively confident and able to fight my own battles.
the punishment is most likely to work there and then, but the experience of the punishment can make dogs feel more insecure and wary of their owners and it is common for dogs that are punished in this manner to keep reoffending because they haven’t been shown that there is another way to behave.
i seriously think that eric and people like him  don’t want to neuter their dogs because not only are they worried how  this will look to other people, they themselves will think differently about  their dogs if they are castrated.
certain individuals and organizations have been engaged in a last desperate attempt to refute the evidence given by experts, who actually met and evaluated lennox, and myself, who viewed all the footage of these assessments.
without extensive behavioural therapy and management strategies, phobias become deeply ingrained and even harder to change.
nevermind the bollocks posted by victoria stilwell - 04/21/11 at  08:04:07 am -41 comments since last week's episode of it’s me or the dog aired in the us featuring eric and his presa canario caspar, i have been  inundated with people asking if eric listened to my advice and finally had  caspar neutered.
today more cats are given up to shelters than dogs.
if lennox intended to harm david ryan he could have easily bitten him while he lunged, before mr. ryan had time to react, but lennox chose to warn him (a complete stranger) out of his space instead, rather than inflict harm, and this was impressive to see…… lennox showed impressive restraint and lunged at david ryan with the intent to warn him to go away from him, without harming him.
if we were going to get another dog, should it be a male or female?
but think about it – most aggressive response is not a  dog’s attempt to usurp others, but a demonstration of a lack of  confidence and insecurity.
aiutiamo inoltre i nostri clienti a risolvere i problemi comportamentali dei loro cani.
celebrating and perpetuating a strict set of rules constituting breed conformation means that many breeds of dogs live with disabling physical characteristics and hereditary diseases that can cause acute suffering and in some cases premature death.
may ashlynn live on in the hearts of those you love her and teach families and children all over the world to be safe around all animals.
when her facebook page reached more than 20,000 incredibly supportive fans, she wanted to help even more people/animals and started "raise awareness wednesdays.”
i’m not condoning the vicious sport of bull  baiting, long since banned (thank goodness), but our english bulldogs these  days couldn’t take on a fly let alone a bull.
che cos’è la dog trainers company?
wherever she lived previously (she was delivered to the  local shelter in a box by two men who said they didn’t want her)
i started to find notes in my desk that contained unpleasant comments and threats towards me and my family.
no amount of food can disguise this behaviour and giving food to a dog with aggression issues can be extremely dangerous.
i shall win the battle in a much gentler but clever way throughout training.
whatever you decide to do, a reward is going to make learning fun for your dog, improve her confidence and build up a strong bond between you.
a dog should never be  bribed into doing something for food but should obey their owners because they  want to make their owners happy.
punishing that insecurity just serves to  increase the insecurity even more.
on february 28th 2010,  ashlynn was attacked and killed by a dog.
she is five years old with the most appealing eyes you have ever seen and the kindest nature.
dog: the owner’s manual.
garry and i had begun to work on a project that he was very excited  about.
one little boy was too sick to lift his head, but when he saw us enter the room, he said, “toby, you made my christmas!”
chances are if you’re  smart and want to survive, you are going to shut down and not do anything until  you are out of that situation and in your comfort zone again.
if it's the latter, however, i have no patience for these people and view their rationale and motivations for such behavior as a sign of tremendous insecurity and weakness.
i’m not big on telling  people what they want to hear just for the sake of a few egos, and no one has  ever accused me of being too soft on those i don’t necessarily agree with.
there is such a wealth of great training information available, yet it seems  few people tap into it.
no, they’ll end up in a shelter.
myth: positive trainers do not use  discipline.
children under the age of five are most likely to be bitten and most of these bites come from a dog that the child knows; the family dog or that of a relative or friend.
lucy was dog was very funny – which i will tell you about.
music can be played close to the safe haven so that sounds can be masked.
she is overweight, snores at night and has some pungent gas problems but we love her and she’s here to stay.
but their first boxer was an unneutered male who was aggressive to dogs and wandered the neighborhood.
per maggiori informazioni: www.thedogtc.com http://www.ilcaneanorma.com http://www.thedogtc.com/seminari.htm http://www.ilcaneanorma.com/semiabrantes.asp i loved marley and me.
dog bite prevention – part ii posted by victoria stilwell -  05/04/11 at 08:05:00 am -6
love this woman and what she does!
so his physiological response to emotion is the same as ours, which means that our bodies have the same internal reaction to emotions such as fear, joy, excitement etc.
how  many times have we all heard that dogs only eat grass if they have an upset  stomach?
was it your intention to make the reading enjoyable?
i’ve tried my command leave it, ignoring her, giving men treats to entice her, but nothing has worked!
but the most effective way to reduce the number of dangerous dogs is to stop  irresponsible owners from raising their dogs to be aggressive, intimidating  potential weapons.
he is neutered, has obedience training, is properly vaccinated and was legally licensed-yet he was summarily seized and has been condemned to die.
hurlingham is an old private sports club that has a waiting list as long as your arm to become a member and is a slice of old, genteel england.
moreover introducing the channel to a dog when an owner is present will help provide a positive association between the content and the comfort that the person’s presence provides, making it easier for a dog to cope when their owner leaves.
she is now loved and cherished for the role she has both in her own family, and in the hearts of others.
but i guess i don’t know enough people or have severely misjudged the humane tendencies of human beings at large, because somehow, there are still those who oppose puppy mill reform to the point where they go out of their way to ensure that no new laws are passed to protect dogs from this form of cruelty.
posted by  victoria stilwell - 05/17/11 at 10:05:00 am -8 comments victoria is excited to announce that she will be filming a new  season ofit's me or the dog later this summer in and around new york  city.
me or the dog is making in helping people build more positive relationships with their pets as well as addressing issues such as pet overpopulation and the importance of spay and neuter.
or our cats when they tire of the scratching post.
the awards are hosted by the humane society of the united states and honors ‘outstanding individuals in the major media whose artistry and journalistic integrity have increased public awareness of animal issues.’
when a person is attached to that good feeling there is more likelihood of the dog listening and responding to whatever that person asks of him.
at the beginning of december i went to england for a seminar and series of meetings.
for those of you who do  not live in atlanta – this was how crazy it got.
jasmine had pooped in the crate.
still he was a tv and radio attraction, appearing on several national tv shows including programs on animal planet as well as “national geographic explorer,” and lots of chicago tv and radio show.
people who get dogs for protection don’t realize how much time and effort it takes to train a dog to do bite work and how much time you have to spend reinforcing the training as well as giving your ‘time bomb’ large amounts of physical exercise and mental stimulation (which of course caspar wasn’t getting).
hard punishments used by dominance trainers are not only cruel but are also potentially dangerous and damage the trust between dog and human.
diseases can be passed through a dog’s intestinal tract and into the feces.
excerpts: hero dog anise – huntington beach, ca posted by victoria  stilwell - 04/26/11 at 12:04:34 pm -no comments even though i work with dogs every day and understand their contribution to  both people and society, i am continually amazed at what they bring to those  who need them most.
utterly exhausted from his  adventure, ben had finally come into the warmth for the first time in at least  a week.
i advise owners to walk away from dominance trainers.
as i write this sadie is lying beside me wondering when this new woman is going to take her for a walk.
with only eight snow plows for a city of five million  people, the city shut down.
nw: living with sierra has given me a much deeper understanding of what owners of dogs with this issue go through.
it seems when dogs have behavior problems people are more willing to go the extra mile.
someone told me  that this awareness is a sign that i am getting old.
to the contrary, the real value in dogtv can be found in those long hours when we are not around and our dogs are otherwise either completely understimulated or suffering from separation distress.
it was only when i turned 13 that i experienced a level of bullying that turned my world upside down and plunged me into a nightmare that i thought i would never get out of.
coming next in fact vs fiction, part ii - quick fixes , using positive reinforcement on aggressive dogs, and the one true way to train.
for more information, please visit: www.greendogs.it www.daniela.cardillo.positively.com italian version me with rin tin tin just before i went to new york to start filming the new season of it's me or the dog, i had the great pleasure of being invited to little rock, arkansas to meet the legendary rin tin tin.
i am proud to be a ‘be a tree’ presenter and spend much of my free time teaching bite prevention to kids in schools and other organizations.
wherever she lived previously (she was delivered to the local shelter in a box by two men who said they didn’t want her) she was not housetrained, which means she is now on a toileting schedule.
the night was drawing in fast and we were running  out of options.
child abuse is the most heinous crime i can think of, and nothing will ever compare with my outright loathing of those who are guilty of it.
and every time, we all say and hear the same well-meaning and accurate but tired talking points about how devastating it is, how it could have and should have been avoided, who to blame, who not to blame and what to do about the problem.
eric wanted to own a big powerful dog and was even more excited at the prospect of training that dog for protection, as encouraged by the breeder.
the new owner would release him as soon as he struggled and by day 2 he was learning to growl when held.
every dog is different, and those differences are not due to the breed of the dog, but rather to the individual dog’s breeding and the environment in which it was raised.
i loved acting, walking dogs, riding horses and cycling with my best friend kate and that was all i really needed to be happy.
we were living in a one-bedroom apartment on the 4th floor of an old building in hell’s kitchen in september, 2001.
lastly, if your dog were to choose how it would like to learn, would it  choose reward based positive training or more punitive, dominance  methods?  i’m sure i know what my answer would be.
the feedback was really interesting and showed how these terms can be interpreted in such a broad way.
kicking and beating them is certainly not the answer.
it was remarkable to think that i was walking in the footsteps of kings, queens and prime ministers who had come before me.
within a week he was back to allowing people to pick him up and place him in different positions.
they need terrific drive, huge levels of trainability, and a great desire to work in tandem with a human handler.
she went to the famous rehabilitation institute of chicago, and saw clients ranging from children with severe burns to teenage gun shot victims to older people rehabbing from strokes.
past recipients of  this award have included the wonderfuldr.
punitive training techniques that center on gaining control of your dog by dominating her into obeying can damage the human/animal bond and cause your dog to mistrust you and essentially switch off.
it seems to me that thinking about the dog’s well–being comes second to breed conformation.
the show has been nominated for many different awards but this was a special one because it recognized the contribution thatit’s
what this may do, however, is provide a glimmer of hope that we may appeal to some heretofore unseen shred of humanity in the legal decision-makers of this case to spare lennox’s life by allowing him to be relocated to a jurisdiction that does not practice such draconian methods.
"boo remained calm as i panicked.
myth: positive reinforcement trainers only use food as rewards, which is a form of bribery.
food also has the power to help a fearful or anxious dog overcome his fears.
jumping while greeting is a great way for a dog to get your attention.
lucy, our miniature australian shepherd was named for her.
now i don’t have any problem with respectable breeders who breed for  the love of their particular breed and are concerned about raising puppies in  the best possible way, maintaining a full regard for all their dogs’  mental and physical well-being.
we only had about five inches of snow, but what made the roads so dangerous was the sheet of ice that developed on top of the snow from the freezing rain that fell afterwards.
you might startle him and  he could react without thinking and snap at you.
for the past five years, i’ve filmed almost 100 episodes of my show, it’s me or the dog.
that being said, because readers will just be learning the exercises, and trying to teach their dog at the same time, it will take longer for them.
march is my favorite month not just  because things feel new and fresh but because it was the month when my daughter  was born.
nominations for the hero dog awards are now open at www.herodogawards.org.
vs: it certainly is a fantastic book, but i know that most shelters and rescue groups are strapped for money.
it begins for me as soon as the dreary winter months of january and february are over.
pm: we wrote the book to both encourage adoptions and, as importantly, to increase the percentage of successful ones.
as i grew older i worked at the championship as a chauffer, driving players from their hotels to the stadium and during my final year at university i did personal security for all the tennis players including my idols, navratilova and the great steffi graf.
i not only  feel sorry for the dogs that such people come into contact with but also sorry  for those people for being so misguided.
if a dog is aggressive then often that aggression is  attributed to a dog trying to be an ‘alpha dog’ or boss of all the  other dogs.
in the meantime, fireworks phobia can be a tough condition to treat, but trying a variety of therapies and techniques can improve a dog’s ability to cope when the big ones come.
now i can tell you that i enjoy eating bacon as much as the next girl from  time to time, and a good hearty debate about the right to bear arms is what  americans’ right to free speech is all about, but i’m not going to  get into that now because it’s not relevant to a blog post about puppy  mills.
victoria: da quanto tempo ti occupi di educazione e addestramento del cane, e hai sempre usato il rinforzo positivo come metodo di apprendimento?
we are exploring many options and i’ll certainly keep you updated, and you can check outthe official save lennox page here.
even at seventy plus years old he looked so handsome in his leather jacket, making the women around him swoon, reminding me of the actor sean connery.
as a  society, we've agreed to move forward in an effort to develop a  better understanding of ourselves and our planet - why the resistance to  apply that sense of development to our understanding of animals in general and  dog behavior in particular?
part of our city, country and way of life had been threatened and disrupted, and we needed to help support those who were literally doing the heavy lifting both emotionally and physically.
cosa ti ha fatto decidere di diventare un membro della vspdt e cosa pensano i tuoi colleghi di lavoro in italia?
this is the case in scotland, england, parts of canada, certain cities in the us, the netherlands and beyond.
allowing a dog to foul a public area and not clearing up after it poses a  serious health risk to humans and other dogs.
all this excitement usually comes to an unseemly conclusion  which usually results in me using my poop bag or two sticks to pull the  inevitably stuck, grass-ridden poop from her behind while she looks around at  me with a look that says “i kinda think i understand that you’re  trying to help me here, but this is really awkward and no fun.”
it was a good thing i did; when we got  downstairs my husband was unconscious on the floor.
the taunts became harsher and more frequent until i was scared of walking through school halls for fear of being jeered at.
i love his book “you: the owner’s manual,” and thought we really needed a book like that for dogs and for cats (“your cat” comes out next spring.)
this will ensure that every dog’s reaction to the content can be gauged.
in europa ritengo che esistono grandi differenze tra vari paesi su come viene inteso il cane e il suo rapporto con l’uomo.
even though we went to an all girls’ school, she had a big following of both girls and boys who flocked around her like flies on feces.
dog bites in municipalities whose government have instituted  bsl legislation have gone up across the board.
there's almost always one part of the equation that is not the everyday norm for either the dog, child, caregivers, or environment.
what i do have a problem with are people who  go out of their way to actively oppose efforts to ensure the well-being of  domesticated dogs.
there are so many myths and misunderstandings out there about the science and reality of dog behavior, i thought i would try to help clear up a few more things here in part ii.
this is more than just a cute story with a great image attached to it -
similarly, dominance trainers will often treat ‘fire with fire’ in the sense that they combat what are most commonly insecurity or fear-based issues, such as aggression, with punitive methods that create more fear.
this seminar is designed for dog trainers ( www.greendogs.it for details).
what has worked before is no longer  getting attention so the dog tries harder.
i see progress being made every day on both small and large  scales.
we took video footage of every foster and now and again watch the videos we made of the funny characters that stayed in our tiny manhattan apartment.
it seems ‘beauty’ has taken over from common sense and the way a dog looks is more important than how it feels.
to have to defend lennox outside of the court has, however, come as a surprise.
this  was going to take longer than i had first anticipated.
mia esperienza con la vspdt.
note* this contest is worldwide and entries will be accepted from all countries.
her grandfather don wing and father ryan have set up an organization called dadd (dads against dangerous dogs ) in her memory, to raise awareness and educate children and adults so that this kind of tragedy does not happen again.
this ‘quick fix’ idea demeans a dog’s experience and is psychologically unachievable.
how unkind is it that these dogs have been  bred to have such short noses that they suffer from brachycephalic upper airway  syndrome – difficulty breathing particularly during exercise and in hot  weather?
licking around the mother’s mouth stimulates her to regurgitate food.
over the last ten years dog bites have increased 50% in england and 150% in scotland.
despite all this, where do i find him at the end of the day?
i’ve tried the wait command and it’s not being affective.
when he realised it wasn't forthcoming he politely backed off.
lennox  committed no crime nor did any member of the public complain about him.
vs: ospiterete l’etologo di fama mondiale mondiale nel seminario di settembre: raccontaci qualcosa su di lui e perché avete deciso di invitarlo al vostro primo evento.
trouble  was the shock collar made caspar even more reactive, especially towards  strangers and eric was worried that his dog was becoming dangerous.
(check out mydog/child safety tips and american humane’s pet meets baby campaign for more info.)
their neighbour, who happens to be a good trainer friend of mine, took her in and knowing that we were looking to adopt a dog, called us with what she thought was the ideal candidate.
e’ autore di 17 libri in diverse lingue quali inglese, tedesco, spagnolo, danese, svedese, norvegese, italiano e ceco
and they don’t realized that the socialization should start with the breeder.
victoria has worked with countless pit bulls and considers them fantastic pets in the right hands.
she accused me of  wanting to ban them – her immediate reaction to questions i asked her  that she knew she couldn’t defend.
licking the face and around the mouth is a learned behaviour in our dogs and  particularly prevalent in wolves, our dogs’ ancestors.
after stopping every couple of steps for the mountain of photographers to take your picture, it is time for print, tv, radio and on-line interviews.
that’s exactly what happened recently in north carolina,  where a perfectly reasonable (and actually somewhat watered-down) puppy mill  reform bill was summarily killed by the state legislative process due to  mindboggling, astoundingly stringent opposition from a few powerful lobbying  groups.
if belfast city council and other governments like it really want to keep a community safe, go after the irresponsible owners who either raise their dogs in a violent manner, do not socialize them or integrate them into society in any way, allow their dogs to wander off leash and do not heed any warning signs or make any attempt to curb aggressive behavior.
in the case of lennox the dog warden's job was in some ways too easy; did lennox look like one of the "usual suspects"?
i use food in an assessment to monitor the dogs stress levels and emotions at all times.
we treat and train dogs with kindness and respect because we know that only through practice, scientific research and discovery can we truly understand a dog’s behavior and help to mould and change it if needed without using forceful or punitive methods.
if it's the former, then fair enough - that's why i've developed this site: to inform.
aggression is therefore deeply rooted in insecurity.
this gradual shift had been gaining in popularity and awareness, as more and more people continue to see positive results while building mutual trust and respect with their dogs.
as a result, they learn they can depend on you.
i loved filming  there last year and i'm really happy to be going back  again later this year.
the other day laura and i took him onto a local morning tv show to do theadopt-a- pet segment, and ben took to the cameras like the true star that he is.
the back or  side is the best place to pet.
and we were running out of options.
hi victoria: my yorkie-chihuahua won’t let me look at her teeth.
his show was one of my first appearances after the book came out last month, and he gave copies to everyone in his studio audience.
the evidence is there and it’s happening now.
comments i write this with a heavy heart.
he came right up to the bowl and started eating suspiciously  but as soon as i made even the slightest move, he darted away again.
i became moodier at home but my parents put that down to me being a teenager and never asked me why.
of course, by ‘weed’, i don’t mean marijuana, but rather the clover, nutsedge and the countless other grassy weeds that seem to sprout up everywhere around this time of year.
he was brought to the united states after the war and the training  program led by his son, rin tin tin iii, served as the model to help create the  us military working dog training program at camp hahn in california during  1939.
my daughter was overjoyed to be off
if anything, more oversight would help the legitimate  breeders, as they would have official status and stamps of approval as humane  breeders.
after multiple hospital stays and surgeries, he came home from the hospital.
these diseases can cause debilitating illnesses in dogs and humans and in some cases can be fatal.
buster  was 10 months old at the time.
finally, at a pet store the dog growled and lunged, and when the female owner tried to force the dog down, she was bitten on the arm.
and everyone would laugh.
if you have an out-of-control dog, live in tri-state area and  would like to be on the show, come to the nyc pet show orone of the other new  york-area casting events to audition to be on the show (it is not necessary to  bring your dog, though they are welcome at the show provided they are on a  leash).
comments victoria with dr. marty becker at the 2011 global pet expo ﻿i felt like a kid in a candy store last week surrounded by every  kind of product a pet and their person could need.
lack of socialization causes fear and insecurity, which is at the very heart of aggressive response.
i have been challenged and tested by the situations i have  encountered, but every new experience, however hard, forces me to improve my  skills as a trainer and allows me to think outside the box while coming up  with new and creative solutions that will benefit the dog and the  family.
the family stated that their dog was very friendly and had no previous  incidences of aggressive behavior, not even towards their other child, a four  year old boy.
abbiamo incontrato recentemente giorgio e abbiamo parlato con lui su come sta cambiando in italia il modo di relazionarsi col cane, sul suo centro cinofilo nelle vicinanze di roma, e sull’evento organizzato dalla nuova società, the dog trainers company, che si terrà a settembre sempre a roma: il seminario del prof. roger abrantes, etologo di fama mondiale.
to see this concept in action, watch the video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uvvbgji5v9s&feature=related vs: marty becker, veterinarian on good morning america has said it’s not just about teaching your puppy manners, it's a step-by-step recipe for bonding with your puppy, learning to communicate with him, and preparing you pup for life!
the dogs who served during and after 9/11 were shining examples of what has become known as hero dogs.
misdiagnosing the reason for  the aggression and suppressing that aggression with punitive training means  that the dog is made even more insecure and that insecurity has the potential  to surface again, possibly more violently than before.
it is also important that i talk to alex about what she is and what she is not allowed to do around the dog.
how’s that for a happy ending?
as a responsible pet owner i cautioned that though we may feel the need to love and care for every animal that comes along, it may not always result in what is best for the pet.
for lucy, i didn’t expect that she’d be good for my parents until they also learned how to reward the good behaviors and make sure she didn’t get rewarded for unwanted ones.
the dog might behave and do what the human asks but only because he has learned that not behaving will cause a negative reaction in his human and that needs to be avoided at all costs.
we can lead by force like a dictator such as muammar qaddafi or by providing rewards that the followers want, such as mahatma ghandi.
sadie enjoys the attention and licks her as she goes to sleep.
here are a few guidelines that you can follow when  you are around dogs to keep yourself safe.
please help spread awareness of this horrific situation by signing the  petition to have him released via the link below, distribute this information  as widely as possible and using social media to help bring this beautiful,  innocent dog home.
the  handler asked the girl’s parents to take her away from the dog as its  history was uncertain and the dog’s reactions couldn’t be  predicted.
have a look around this site, read the other wonderful expert  blogger entries, and come back often to check for new info.
jumping and licking can also be sign of  submission.
did you take your puppy to agility classes?
as a member of emergency k-9 operations, inc. search and rescue, he attained operational certification in trailing, area search, evidence search, building search, disaster first response, and human remains detection.
it will be interesting to see if some of the new products  i saw being launched at the expo will make it into stores, because if they do,  my girls will be very happy.
do not approach a  dog from behind or pet a dog directly on the top of his head.
my father died in 2003 and i miss him every day.
the global pet expo takes place in march every year in orlando and is so large that by the time you have walked the entire floor your feet are aching.
for weeks we would talk about what kind of home jasmine would do well in and even though we tried to keep ourselves from getting too attached, we were failing.
there seems to be a great deal of confusion as to what positive  reinforcement really is and about which dogs and behaviors it is useful for.
the homeowner who had been feeding the dog welcomed me into her house and  showed me where he had been sleeping and eating.
however it continually amazes me that many owners still have very little knowledge about how to deal with their dog’s behaviour.
the issues addressed in the documentary don’t only affect dogs in britain.
it doesn’t matter how she did it, this man’s family walked off – and began to hug one another, all in tears.
risulta molto difficile trovare hotel, bar, ristoranti, negozi e mezzi di trasporto che accettano cani, anche se, durante una mia recente vacanza in spagna con i miei cani, non ho avuto grossi problemi nel trovare strutture che li accettassero.
sy: one aspect of the book is my version of the learn to earn program where the puppy learns that the way he gets what he wants —praise, petting, to go outside, to come inside, to get bits of his meal, to play fetch—is to sit politely and ask you.
i have been challenged and tested by the situations i have encountered, but every new experience, however hard, forces me to improve my skills as a trainer and allows me to think outside the box while coming up with new and creative solutions that will benefit the dog and the family.
food also has the power to help a fearful or anxious dog overcome his  fears.
she's the only known dog in the world that surfs with special needs kids  & people with disabilities for therapeutic purposes.
bsl makes innocent dogs the criminals because of how they look, regardless of their actual temperament.
as soon as sadie stepped through the front  door we knew she was the dog for us.
we took video footage of every  foster and now and again watch the videos we made of the funny characters that  stayed in our tiny manhattan apartment.
he or she also needs the humane and effective kind of training that you role model victoria, to be a polite member of the family.
such breed-specific legislation (bsl) has been repeatedly shown to be ineffective in reducing the number of dog bites (its advocates’ usual rationale), primarily because it focuses on the wrong end of the leash.
it is also essential that if an owner is present, time be spent with the dog in the safe haven or attention given to the dog if it comes to seek comfort from its owner.
but even if that’s not possible in the short term, or even if one chooses to ignore the facts that science has presented to us about animal breeds and behavior, there’s one more simple but powerful argument against bsl: it doesn’t work.
it is only a matter of time before that weapon  will go off and the consequences will be dire.
read on in part ii of this blog as well as my new article about dog & child safety.
if you  are in the uk, are interested and want me to work with you for a day please  contact emma marshall at the following address:emma_marshall@jcpr.com or by  phone: 07875-399-995.
he lunged and barked at david instead.
socialization is so important that i cover it in two chapters in the book and show pictures of the various situations and items the puppy must be socialized to.
she came with us everywhere we went and was the first to welcome our baby daughter home.
it seems like every few weeks, a fresh news story about a family pet seriously injuring or killing a baby hits the airwaves.
i also witnessed sarah fisher’s assessment on lennox and, again, most of her assessment won’t be shown because the world would then see how impressive lennox was with yet another complete stranger handling him.
so his physiological response to emotion is the same as ours, which  means that our bodies have the same internal reaction to emotions such as fear,  joy, excitement etc.  when a dog is suffering from anxiety or fear that  provokes a negative behavior such as aggression, then it is sheer foolishness  to profess that by punishing a dog, the dog is fixed.
i continue to do that to this day in my private and public life.
i’d like to take every ceo, manager, worker and middle man that works in the pet store puppy industry to watch all the euthanasias of the dogs that they previously sold.
nine times out of ten the bully is the insecure kid.
she has known the sting of loneliness while waiting in a shelter for someone to notice her.
dog bites in municipalities whose government have instituted bsl legislation have gone up across the board.
therapy dogs bring comfort and companionship to people in all kinds of situations, helping the elderly, the sick and the disabled, relieving their pain and anxiety.
the great thing about using this puppy, lucy as an example within the book is that i can specifically tell people how long it took for her to learn habits such as automatically sitting to go through doors, to get petted and to play fetch.
this blog isn’t about how i helped eric train caspar, but is written  to illustrate a real problem that people have (and i’m sorry to be sexist  here, but statistically the problem is mostly with men) about neutering their  pets.
they are definitely worth trying, and should be done in conjunction with behavior modification.
thankfully the area where the dog was located was not too far away, so i  got in my car and drove carefully to the road where the dog had last been  seen.
the winner will be selected randomly from all correctly completed contest entries and notified by july 20th, 2011.
while they often have a  reputation for being harsh and rude, i've found that they're among  the most warm and welcoming people i've ever been around.
so, maybe lucy just did it this time without the hand signal.
food is incompatible with fear and is therefore a valuable tool in modifying a dog’s fear, anxiety and stress.
in fact a responsible person who recognizes the importance of neutering both for health, behavioral and over population problems, is a lot more powerful in my book than a boy or a man that needs a big powerful dog to compliment and extend that part of their anatomy that is so obviously lacking.
join us on yoursphere!
in order to treat this aggression the dog will often be ‘put in its place’ with punitive methods such as ‘alpha rolls,’ where a dog is forcibly put onto its back or side and held there by the owner until it submits, so that it recognizes that it is not the alpha.
some may say that the dogs aren’t  fearful of a dominance trainer, but when you really look at it, you can see the  difference.
we will campaign for justice throughout lennox’s life and beyond.
you can preorder the book at a big discount now or download the free puppy socialization check list from www.drsophiayin.com/perfectpuppy.
ricky looked at me, and then looked at the piano.
here are some other great resources if you want to find out more about dog bite prevention: this blog and my work on the upcoming dog bite prevention week is dedicated to ashlynn anderson.
when i got him to the hospital his blood pressure was 55/30.
in the palm of his hand lay a nicely rounded ball of poop, her own poop that she had obviously eaten while she was in the crate waiting for him to return from the shower.
hooray for puppy mills!!
anyone can get a dog to behave using  punitive training but it takes a real understanding of dog psychology to use  discipline effectively without inflicting pain or fear and to guide a dog into  not repeating negative behavior while maintaining trust between dog and  person.
we decided to give our foster a new name, jasmine, and it seemed to fit.
angelica was with us for eight years.
in fact, much has been made lately of the link between animal  abuse as a very common precursor to human-on-human (including children) crime.
naturalmente decisi di seguire questa metodologia perché fin dall’epoca ero sicuro che potevamo insegnare al cane ciò che ci interessava con metodi diversi da quelli utilizzati in italia sino a quel momento.
your dog will still be driven, trainable, workable and lovable  without his dangly bits.
i could see his nose twitch as he caught the smell of the food  and slowly he edged towards me, never taking his eyes off me as he  approached.
what more  evidence do we need as a society to realize that bsl is ultimately ineffective,  if not also unfair?
i have lots of free downoadable posters on topics ranging from body language in dogs, how to appropriately greet a dog, how kids and dogs should interact, as well as many article and videos on behavior.
lennox was seized, not for behavior, but because he has a particular physical structure.
this may explain in part why my experience with lennox seems to fly in the face of other evidence presented before the courts.
by the end of it my voice was hoarse and my face hurt from smiling  so much, but it was great to meet so many people and talk about why events like  the genesis awards are so important.
once you think you know the correct answer, enter your guess and be automatically entered into a worldwide contest to win up to $100 worth of personalized victoria stilwell merchandise!
a gorgeous dog carrying out a host of beautiful work!
a stick of gum can drop of 50-pound dog – it’s that dangerous.
victoria announces new season of it’s me or the dog!
who are mary and honey?
the dog was fine with people and had never been aggressive to people before.
he warned me that because the dog was in such poor condition darting  might seriously harm him, but what choice did we have?
i am proud to be a  ‘be a tree’ presenter and spend much of my free time teaching bite  prevention to kids in schools and other organizations.
for 7 years this k9 good citizen has lent her extensive love for humans, intelligence, skills and strong work ethic not only to missing person operations & public demonstrations but to enthusiastically teaching fire-prevention and home-safety practices.
if a dog sees that there are pleasurable consequences for a behavior then he is more likely to repeat the behavior because doing so makes him feel good.
sadie has  accepted jasmine into the household and i have noticed that there is a  ‘pep’ in sadie’s step as if some of the younger dog’s  energy is flowing into her.
she’s always been very kind to me.
myth: positive reinforcement cannot be used on more severe behavioral cases such as aggressive dogs.
over a sixteen year period the number of hospital admissions caused by dog bites in the u.s. nearly doubled, increasing from 5,100 in 1993 to 9,500 in 2008, according to a report by the u.s. agency for healthcare research and quality.
we’re almost finished with a 45-day tour for the book, and also to promote the idea that “healthy pets visit vets.”
when that was done, lennox continued to show many appeasement and pacification signals as well as signaling his stress, such as lip licking and turning his head and body away.
that’s why i literally fail to understand how any decent, moral  self-respecting human being can oppose efforts to curb the horrific and cruel  practice of puppy mills.
it’s like i have a great dane on my shoulders, lots of pressure on my back.
i delighted in seeing their excitement as i produced yet another amazing creation for them to play with and after an evening of this the girls were exhausted.
as supposedly civilized societies, we must begin to realize that we have a responsibility to do what’s right not just for us, but also for the animals that we’ve chosen to domesticate over the past several thousand years.
anyone can get a dog to behave using punitive training but it takes a real understanding of dog psychology to use discipline effectively without inflicting pain or fear and to guide a dog into not repeating negative behavior while maintaining trust between dog and person.
aggressive dogs are trying to be  dominant.
i have no doubt that soon our gentle ben,  who survived against all the odds, will find his forever home.
introducing the audio at a low level again and slowly turning up the volume if the dog continues to be relaxed and able to concentrate on playing the game or eating the food allows the dog to habituate to the noise without a fear response.
that means the dog doesn’t get rewarded with the food every time he responds to a cue, but the next time he responds he might just get it.
people who get dogs for  protection don’t realize how much time and effort it takes to train a dog  to do bite work and how much time you have to spend reinforcing the training as  well as giving your ‘time bomb’ large amounts of physical exercise  and mental stimulation (which of course caspar wasn’t getting).
the first thing i do with my customers that use choke chains is to remove it and take a harness from my bag.
one night, my husband was sleeping downstairs in our living room; he was unable to use the stairs after his operation.
so basically they’re willing to let their fear of those in support of the bill dictate their stance on whether or not they’re ok letting dogs languish in abject misery in puppy mills.
although i had helped many clients to address separation anxiety over the years, i hadn’t really understood the extent of the emotional turmoil it caused to both dogand owner and the upheaval to one’s lifestyle.
my daughter loves jasmine and already the two  enjoy a relationship that is lovely for a parent to see.
for a year she was an only dog until last month when we decided to foster again and on a visit to the local shelter spied a small black and brown chihuahua mix curled up asleep wearing a pink sweater with the words, ‘miss january’ on it.
to apply immediately visit www.itsmeorthedog.com or email  dog@shedmediaus.com.
fact: actually, this is where positive  reinforcement methods are most effective.
toby snuggles carefully in cribs and beds.
my daughter alexandra is scared of dogs, possibly from the fact that she has watched mummy training the naughty puppies on tv and in her mind, every dog is a ‘naughty puppy.’
dmb: it would be my pleasure!
for example many “dog trainers” still use choke chains to teach the dog not to pull on leash and tie the dog till he can’t even breath.
from then on i learned to be direct, to tell the truth and to share my feelings with people i could trust.
the most popular boy in the group told her to leave me alone and that there would be consequences if she didn’t.
(more details on www.daniela.cardillo.positively.com ) vs: can you tell a difference in how progressive certain european countries are in their attitudes towards dogs compared to one another?
i don’t agree with bsl.
there are few people that i have known in my life, that i could use that word for, but she is one of them.
i was working as a trainer in manhattan and garry contacted me with a business proposition.
it’s an unfortunate fact that some dogs who are rehomed will have separation issues.
what would you feel like if  a dog came up to you while you were eating and tried to take your food  away?
my friend laura janssen, director of animal cruelty investigations and cruelty prevention came to help me catch the dog armed with a humane trap that we set that up for the night.
fact: positive does not mean permissive.
and as you probably know, australian cattle dogs can have a tendency towards aggression if not socialized appropriately.
my good friend and training partner  for many years died unexpectedly a few days ago.
and to all of those calling out for the pitbull breeds to be banned, breed specific legislation (bsl), does not work!
the dog doesn’t  react when it is surrounded by all the other dogs and the technique is  therefore labeled a great success – the dog is cured!
this disease is  particularly dangerous in puppies.
keeping his calm he cleaned the crate up and went to work in his office.
i have found that these therapies are often not as effective as noise desensitization.
sd: i had the pleasure, honor of knowing lucille ball some.
but i would urge you to take advantage of valuable information that is readily available in books, videos and from good trainers, making sure that you stay away from any that are punitive or unkind to the dog.
this might be a closet, bathroom or a basement, the best places usually being the ones that have no windows, but with plenty of artificial light (to mask flashes of fireworks).
because the video received so much attention, ricochet started raising funds and awareness for human/animal causes and has raised more than $75,000 in the last 17 months.
there are some breeders who are working hard to breed out  defective genes, but many will breed so much to conformity in the hope there  will be champion stock, that healthy dogs are rejected in favour of ones that  meet breed conformation standards regardless of health.
i also like to vary rewards so that the dog never knows what is coming next or use what i call ‘multi- motivators’ such as a food/ toy/praise combination for the desired response.
no, i don’t think sadie thinks she has a problem at all – in fact, she seems to be perfectly oblivious to our concern for her well-being.
together we created dog trainers of new york, a successful dog training company that in the last ten years has helped thousands of dogs and their people around the tri-state area.
vs: you talk about leadership in the book, but make it clear that it’s not the same as being the boss?
we left the windows open so that if jasmine did happen to belch up any of the gas it wouldn’t cause any further harm to her or us.
i love  the buzz, the energy and the passion.
well not anymore, because i’m on a mission to clean up the neighborhood and it starts now.
as he came closer he nuzzled his head into her hand and then leaned his body into hers.
caspar came from a breeder of presa canarios in california  and was shipped to eric in new york state when the pup was eight weeks  old.
my daughter alexandra is scared of dogs,  possibly from the fact that she has watched mummy training the naughty puppies  on tv and in her mind, every dog is a ‘naughty puppy.’
available for the ipad through itunes, that’s $4.99.
i assumed someone was walking by or it was the mail man
we’ve all fallen in love with little jasmine and the best thing of all is that finally, instead of parting with a foster again, we are the ones that are lucky enough to give this beautiful dog her forever home.
gg: in these recent years things are changing in italy.
child abuse is the most heinous  crime i can think of, and nothing will ever compare with my outright loathing  of those who are guilty of it.
in this episode, victoria tangles with eric, the young owner of an unneutered presa canario, about the root causes of their problems and what to do about them.
so, yes, there’s information on how to choose a puppy or dog, and how to make your new family member comfortable quickly.
there are many different terms used to describe dog behavior and training methods and so much confusion as to what they actually mean.
the colors and frequencies of the visual and audio content on the channel are specially designed to resonate positively with our canine companions.
i closed of the door to the room i was training her in – or thought i did – so other pets wouldn’t walk into our training session.
my husband was on dog watch for the day as i was out rescuing a chained  pitbull, and he went to take a shower.
line breeding is still classed as inbreeding and it weakens the  gene pool considerably.
we  decided to give our foster a new name, jasmine, and it seemed to fit.
hound houdinis needed!
for most dogs – her included – animal assisted therapy is work.
as we were packing up to leave our friends, we noticed something in jasmine’s mouth.
he was thin and nervous and even though neighbors had been trying  for a week to catch him, he would skulk away when approached and not let anyone  get close to him.
you’d better believe i put some of that great information from these experts in the book.
his impact on cats in life and death, undeniable.
what’s the difference?
when she really puts her mind to it, my chocolate lab sadie can whip up what i truly believe must be the most injured and woeful countenance any living being has ever forced another to look upon.
"hopefully i'll get to meet a few of my future clients this weekend at the nyc pet show, too!" victoria was on hand to kick off the casting search for the upcoming season at thenyc pet show on saturday, may 21st.
it’s kind of like what you do – but i don’t wear the high boots and my accent is form chicago.
when this has been achieved the high reward, such as food
what  this breeder didn’t seem to care about is that his line of pups happens  to have some fear reactivity (and believe me it’s not just how they were  raised because genetics plays a part) and that teaching an unconfident dog bite  work is like giving a toddler a loaded weapon and encouraging him to play with  it with the safety off.
what makes dogtv different, however, is its steadfast commitment to providing both an aural and visual environment which is tailored specifically to the needs of today’s domesticated dog.
and they need to have positive experiences with new dogs on a weekly basis.
i have an issue with the word ‘conformation,’ which in dog show  terms means "overall appearance and structure – an indication of the  dog’s ability to produce quality puppies" (american kennel club).
as i grew older i worked at the championship as a chauffer, driving players  from their hotels to the stadium and during my final year at university i did  personal security for all the tennis players including my idols, navratilova  and the great steffi graf.
bsl  addresses the wrong end of the leash.
that’s whyperfect puppy in 7 days has sections on reading body language.
tennis was a big deal in my family and my father turned us all  into reasonable players from an early age.
instead of using coercion we can learn to lead like a leader in a dance.
thank you for helping me spread the word onyour
i decided since i was  awake i would check on my husband.
i have noticed a pep in sadie’s step since jasmine came and the eight year age difference does not seem to bother either of them.
but what do they care what i or  anyone else thinks for that matter.
i'll see you at the apdt conference in san diego!
here’s an example, and i bet most people don’t know this….lucille
i can perhaps work with a difficult animal and make it look as though that animal is calm but all the time i am reading that animal.
we were sure that something you could buy at your local garden center wouldn’t be a problem for domestic pets and that even if it weren’t great for her, jasmine couldn’t have eaten enough of it to cause real trouble.
he looked at me like, ‘really, you’ve gotta be kidding.”
another aspect of dogtv that helps break new ground is the fact that unlike other dog-targeted content, it does not simply attempt to calm the dog which might otherwise suffer from anxiety.
at the end of the day, the decision was made for us when my daughter and i spied jasmine in our local rescue shelter.
the events of 9/11 changed all of us in ways large and small, and for me, one of those small changes was that i truly became a new yorker.
it is well documented that dogs improve a person’s health by lowering blood pressure, relieving anxiety and boosting immunity.
he was thirty years older than i was but his energy and enthusiasm was infectious and i never thought of him as an old man.
it was not long before the children’s interest in anise and  her sweet teammates helped them overcome their concern about going back outside  to play.
when i  got him to the hospital his blood pressure was 55/30.
when he stops jumping wait for four seconds of four paws on the floor  then reward this with your attention in a calm manner.
eric wanted to own a big powerful dog and was even more excited at  the prospect of training that dog for protection, as encouraged by the  breeder.
the second boxer was a neutered male who was aggressive to some people.
it reminded me how important it is to give dogs a chance to play while expending mental energy and there are so many wonderful toys out on the market that can give your dog hours of fun while tiring them out at the same time.
she really likes the tall,  wispy reeds, and has lately begun to avoid the clumpy clover-like weeds.
this would suggest to me that he has been around a family.
i’d also like to add that along with the book-signings, i’ve set up a contest to help people help their favorite shelters and rescue groups – and everyone can get involved in that.
if you breath smoke?" and barks at me while knocking lighters/matches out of my hand when asked, "is this a toy?
joining victoria at the show were the casting team fromit's me or the dog as they began the search for the ny-area dogs and families most in need of victoria's help, as well as three of victoria's licensed dog trainers from the victoria stilwell positively dog training (vspdt) program.
well not anymore, because  i’m on a mission to clean up the neighborhood and it starts now.
i can ony guess that those who refuse to accept that we now know better than to use force to dominate do so because they're either uninformed or because they actually derive pleasure from 'being the boss' of another being.
i'll post more about that process, my time working with this lovely little chap and the line's fascinating personal history later.
because of the fun and clear instructions, many puppy class instructors have told me they are going to use it for their classes, and at least one large puppy program will be revising their classes to follow theperfect puppy program.
this may progress to an inability to get up, hypersensitivity to stimuli, seizures, respiratory distress, excess salivation, and death.
a positive  reinforcement trainer will recognize that most aggression is not a dog trying  to be alpha but a dog that is aggressing because it is trying to control  situations or stimuli around him that make him feel uncomfortable.
vs: very interesting, marty!
what doesn’t surprise me is that dog owners all over the world have
in fact a responsible person who recognizes the importance of  neutering both for health, behavioral and over population problems, is a lot  more powerful in my book than a boy or a man that needs a big powerful dog to  compliment and extend that part of their anatomy that is so obviously  lacking.
the charcoal will not absorb the gas but may prevent some of the gas from being released by absorbing the pellets.
there are so many stories – and anyone who does animal assisted therapy has so many stories.
this has happened to him because of highly flawed, knee-jerk legislation, developed from human fear and ignorance.
i also meet a lot of people that ‘collect’ dogs and cats because they crave the attention their animals give them.
i’m writing this because i have just returned from england again,  visiting many places of my youth.
vs: how prevalent are dominance-based, aversive training techniques and philosophies in italy?
i have become personally involved in this case, both as an expert and as an advocate for decency and humanity.
dc: the name “greendogs” comes from the traffic light!
allowing the dog to play and relax in the presence of the soft noise for a period of ten minutes, taking a break of five minutes and repeating the exercise ensures that the dog doesn’t become bored with the training.
since we knew we’d probably be gone for several hours, longer than jasmine could hold herself (housetraining continues on, even for dog trainers!), we decided to take the dogs with us (after getting our friends’ blessing) for a little field trip.
over thousands of years, these beautiful creatures have gradually been domesticated by humans, so it is therefore incumbent upon us as the higher species to give them the tools they need to live successfully in our strange, human environment.
i am achieving what i always wanted and my heightened exposure  allows me to fight for animal causes that i am passionate about.
as the host of the hit tv show "it's me or the dog", victoria has been able to share her insight and passion for positive, reward-based dog training… read more > home privacy terms & conditions contact become a fan on facebook!
it might have taken a little while to get this point but adding a second dog was the best decision our family ever made.
in a way the snow  was a blessing because there was nothing to do except stay inside with family  and enjoy the time together.
however we must recognize that human education and awareness are the keys to solving this problem, not banning certain types of dogs.
dogs jump for many reasons.
i don’t know why – and it really might have backfired.
the dangerous thing about doing this is that quick fixes can  quickly come unstuck.
that doesn’t mean that every dog who needs a home is perfect, but there are so many wonderful dogs out there looking for homes.
see the video and pictures of this little tsunami  survivor… — via global animal.org more info about this story at  global animal.
i actually didn’t come up with them – but the story is very cool.
the belfast city council and the judge in charge of lennox’s case watched and heard expert testimony by some very accomplished behaviorists such as the wonderful sarah fisher, but they ultimately appear to have chosen to put more stock in what they heard from a dog handler named peter tallack and some of the dog wardens that took him from the family's home.
i believe that there are many  fantastic methods and approaches that can be used to effectively change dogs'  behavior, but i also firmly believe that all of those methods have one thing in  common - a general basis in the principles of positive reinforcement and  force-free training.
by that definition, pet owners do need to develop leadership skills.
things have changed so much now and the grounds are almost unrecognizable from when i was young, but those memories of watching tennis with my father on the most famous court in the world, are very special.
although our pains were different, we went through them together.
the dog was put down less then twenty four hours  after the attack had happened, so i don’t believe that he was seen by  anyone who was able to evaluate him properly and even if someone had seen him,  twenty four hours is not enough time to do a thorough temperament test and an  evaluation that would help determine why the attack happened.
never touch a dog that is unknown to you.
if a dog is exhibiting controlling behavior in or out of the home, chances are  that he hasn’t been taught how to behave appropriately.