he is so loving and brings joy and laughter to our home every day.
my daughter and her dad drove to the other side of new zealand (botom of the south island) to get a fox terrier for my daughter.
my dog buddy was adopted from the city pound in gallatin, tn he is lab/pyrenese mix aand was only 52 lbs when i adopted him he was sitting in the cage in the corner literally hiding from the male employees (they said he was left tied to a car bumper no food water or shelter)and had been beaten by a male.
my 11 year old 3/4 tiger/1/4 siamese mix is from the csra humane society and is a wonderful pet.
our evita was picked up as a stray and was as skinny as can be.
we train our dogs for competitive akc obedience, and in 2003 sheva went to the great dane national specialty in orlando and took high in trial, the obedience equivalent of best in show.
when my marriage broke up we sent her to her grandparents horse farm to live.
xo i thank my first 3 furbabies who gave me unconditional love, that inspired me to save as many as we can and teach children to help the innocent.
i love my tess and if i were to get another cat, i would go the the shelter!
nevertheless, this kind man had found her and already had 6 doggies at home so was unable to keep her.
(photo  by susan goldman photography.)
we’ve learned over the last few months that we adopted a couple of characters!
but after all, cats pick their owners, they just let us think we pick them!
after getting my friend’s okay to put the beagle in the backseat with her 8-year-old daughter i opened the door and in jumped beatrice.
she’s made all our lives better.
two years later, when i was pregnant with twins and on bedrest for preterm labor, my dog kept me company by sleeping near me every day and night for two tri-mesters.
my cats are very healthy.
i’m so happy we discovered each other that serendipitous day.
a blog for pet and wildlife loverscomments by email subscribe have you adopted a pet from a shelter or rescue?
i began to call whoever could offer her a place to stay while i was looking for an adoption.
she is still a bit mistrusting of anyone she doesn’t know, but all in all a bundle of love.
it’s a wonderful program, and it’s in  conjunction with iams’ home 4 the holidays, a partnership with helen  woodward animal center, 3,500 animal organizations worldwide  and–proudly–pet news and views.
i just wish i could nap and spend time outside while i work.
(photo by susan goldman photography.)
http://www.etosha-rescue.org i adopted a three-legged kitten, who was the victim of animal abuse.
fostering is a hard job because you fall in love with everyone of the fur-babies.
there isn’t any better feeling than to save a shelter animal.
i hope that they can get the maximum food donations to help these animals in shelters,, some are lucky to get out some arent…i love my buddy and so happy i stopped at the pound that day it changed my life forever…..love you big guy!
many great doggies need out of the shelters asap – please adopt from your local rescues and shelters or consider fostering if you can’t adopt!
thanks to everyone who takes rescues into their homes and hearts.
anway, i adopted francesca in nashville from a shelter called “love at first sight” and the organization could not have more fittingly named…
we made many visits to the shelter before we found the right dog.
not everyone realizes that a shelter pet is just as wonderful as one you buy from the pet store.
she loves it up there.
since the 70′s i have been pulling dogs that i would see would make a fabulous pet–each family member has received dogs from me!
they will love you no matter what.
heading to the downey shelter this afternoon to spring another doggie with the help of diamonds in the ruff and taking her to a foster in bakersfield tomorrow.
she fit right in with the other canines in the family.
she makes me laugh every single day.
she had been abused and was not socialized properly.
on a personal note, my birthday is coming up (november 11); i can’t  think of a better present than knowing that shelter cats and dogs will be fed.
i guess you could call me a “foster failure”, ’cause i fall in love with them.
i was putting on free summer art classes for children and eventually because they knew that my pets came off the streets, they started telling me about animals they’d found that were sick or had been harmed and insisted they come with me to help the ones they’d found.
all of these were terrified of people and loud noises, and only one was adoptable to a normal home.
i miss her but her life is perfect.
she was clean with no parasites and seemed to have been just dropped by the car.
but, when a cat jumped onto our outside window sill, she was hackles up and yowling and hissing and put on a wonderful display of territoriality on our inside window sill!
cleo is also special because she arrived a few days before we had to put my 17 year old black maine coon cat, merlo, to sleep.
i tlike it that way.
we went to the shelter with the intention of adopting one cat.
the cat with 7 kittens and the dog who graced us with his intelligence and loyalty.
we also have 2 cats 2 other dogs and two horses..all rescues.
thanks pet news & iams for all that you are doing!!!!
the upshot was that beatrice started out as a foster dog and, well, never left.
phoenix was a chow/shepherd/?
the sad truth is that shelters like theirs will always be in need of donations to be able to keep their doors, and hearts open.
currently, i have lucy, who is now the oldest (11), i have a brother and sister (bob and gwen) who were born on my patio to a feral mommy, and i have punky, who was dumped into a feral colony a friend feeds.
please help rescue other animals like ours.
i named her meg and she is a doll!
if you can help, tell them gator sent you.
helping find homes for lots of animals each year is worth the heart brake.
« 200 comments and counting: feed  shelter cats and dogs continued feed shelter cats and dogs  » feed shelter cats and dogs contest have you adopted a pet from a shelter or rescue?
and just because i opened the door and let her in.
all of our cats that are now dead, had been adopted from shelters or were strays that we had adopted.
she provided me with 11 years of smiles.
i volunteered at the rescue shelter, and over the years gained gator’s trust.
no pet stores (via backyard breeders, under the worse conditions, are how these pups are raised.)
she was in good hands before we found her there, but we were so happy to bring her home to our family.
discuss on our wp forum
she has been the best dog and friend!
love love love my 3 rescued boys!
i’d like to mention two.
dink is a terrier cross that everyone says looks like toto.
we adopted a border collie mix puppy from town lake animal shelter 10 years ago.
interesting thing about fat former-stray cats.
and i was having a day off with some friends who came to visit me from far away.
tell us the names and types of pets you  adopted and why they are so special.
on a personal note, my birthday is coming up (november 11); i can’t think of a better present than knowing that shelter cats and dogs will be fed.
i got my cat, tess, at the shelter when she a little kitten.
she had been abandoned in a box and left on the side of the road.
16 years – and lots of memories together – after, he is still with me, in spite of a diabetes that went undiagnosed for a while, he is doing splendidly now and i am hoping to have many more years with him!
at age four he came to live with us and is curled up behind me as i type this.
the staff was so friendly, and they take great care of the animals.
miles, a bluetick beagle, came from the south central shelter with help from ace of hearts; tex, a lemon beagle, from the north central shelter with help from hope for paws and ace of hearts.
gator is a running walker hound, a variation on the treeing walker coonhound.
i also have had 8 cats so far and all of them were/are strays.
please share your pet adoption story in my  comments section under this post now through october 25 and iams will donate 25  bowls of food for each post!
so i asked what she needs and took her home.
i was driving through hannibal, missouri with a friend and her young daughter when we decided to stop for lunch at a restaurant.
they told us just to be patient and wait for the right fit.
she would not walk on a leash, play with toys, and was afraid of anyone that came near her.
flash player 9 is required.
you can also mention the animal center or rescue group where you got your pet.
of course, no reply lol!
he is one in a million, and everyone who meets him, falls in love with him!!!!!!!!
he arrived in rescue with two littermates as 4-month-old puppies full of buckshot.
she was collected by some nice passers by, my father was one of them.
she got me started as a rescuer, and now i run my own rescue.
we had planned on adopting once we were settled in our new house.
she survived and was surrendered to the local shelter after her recovery.
it was my father telling me about the puppy.
and i just adore her, she is perfect in every way!!
of course, i didn’t have the heart to separate them and the thought of what they would both go through if they were separated bothered me, so we came home with two cats instead of one.
she had/has a sweet disposition and just wanted to be around others.
we adopted our first kitty from the humane society in salem, or in january, 2000.
so, please spread the word among your family and friends and leave a  comment under this post.
we have 2 rescue dogs.. fell in love with a dog on petfinder so we drove all the way from denver to dallas, tx to get him.
she arrived there alone, not part of a litter; she is a grey tiger with beautiful markings.
please help all the homeless dogs….
the next morning she ran ourside and peed blood so i took her to the
we generally call her cleo, as her dignified moments are few and far between, but she is slowing down and letting us cuddle her more now as she approaches 2 years old.
and, our late dog, phoenix, was also a beloved pound dog who had 1 crippled leg, that never, ever slowed her down!
during the conversation the daughter had named her.
as we drove north to iowa city we called every no-kill rescue we could think of looking for one where we were going.
so, please spread the word among your family and friends and leave a comment under this post.
many handicapped peoples bff is their animal/s.
all my pets are rescues and i wouldn’t have it any other way!
my anxiety was growing and growing.
she is now 11 years old and made a cross-country move to northern washington state at the age of 2, where we still reside.
when i went to the shelter, i would see her and she would always reach out to me.
all my kitties are rescues.
the workers knew us by name and knew that the right dog would someday come along.
my family and i adopted a beautiful golden retriever three years ago from our local shelter.
my family has adopted 3 dogs from weld county humane society.
i am “mom” to 4 cats and 2 dogs and love them all with heart and soul!
we were excited to show that a rescue dog was every bit as good as the dogs with fancy pedigrees that dominate such shows.
my two cats and dog were rescued from the streets.
she also was a good actress who would limp much worse than usual when she had to go to the vet’s office or outside on a rainy day, but the limp vanished when she was ready to leave the vet’s or was ready to come back into the house!
they have become valuable members of my family, and we wouldn’t know what to do without them.
we adopted darby, our loving chocolate lab from the monterey county shelter.
for the rest of their lives, they tend to eat as if it will be their last meal because living on the streets that is the reality.
as best we can piece the story together the breeder couldn’t sell the last five of a litter, and when it looked like she was stuck with them tied them to a tree and shot them with a shotgun.
do you have an amazing  story to tell about your adopted pet?
i found her on holloween night the year of 2007 at 12:00pm.
it’s a wonderful program, and it’s in conjunction with iams’ home 4 the holidays, a partnership with helen woodward animal center, 3,500 animal organizations worldwide and–proudly–pet news and views.
this beautiful cocker spaniel is from helen woodward animal center.
(that last piece for those of you who appreciate ‘sound’ along with your stories.)
sunny is our larger dog part collie.
th day after i was able to find a place to take her to!
all of my previous and current pets are all rescues, 100%!!!
copyright © 2012 pet news and views - all rights reserved powered bywordpress & the atahualpa theme by bytesforall.
this guy was clearly not going to get another chance at life and love unless i adpoted him i asked the employee to go out of sight so i could go into the kennell and see how he reacted to me well he came out with a smile so big
i went inside to see if she belonged to anyone inside and was told she had been there for three days.
sheva, a great dane, came to us in 2000.
i must add my thanks to iams for donating food to the many shelter animals out there who need adopting!
she is far from my place, so i never had the chance of visiting them, but i’ll do sooner or later.
so far this year my house has been the home of nine american eskies while waiting for their adoptions.
i hope the new animal shelter in wildomar is able to save more animals and is ran better than ever.
my german sheppard came from a shelter she is 2 yrs old her name is miss piggy we named her that because when she was little she ate everything we have also adopter a boy named rocky who is almost 4 mnths old spoil your pup! dogbeds put your puppy in the lap of luxury!
these are some of the most incredible animals we’ve enjoyed.
she needs so much exercise!
all of my cats have been adopted from shelters.
mix who did not like getting wet, but who was wonderfully patient with our cats, who often played with her food by dropping dog chow pieces into her water bowl and then playing with them!
i have 2 wise shelter dogs .. would not get a dog from anywhere else!
my cat, midnight, is also a rescue cat – she is a hemmingway cat, pure black and isn’t too sure about sharing her house with another one.
he was my best friend and inspriation!
kalinka is a fantastic dobermann mix.
my baby dino was rescued from a very unfriendly family and both my cats were rescued as strays, love them more than anything!
she was dismissed from the radnor hunt, because unlike the rest of her family they said she was not a good hunter and would not hunt the rabbits.
please consider adopting from a shelter <3
they actually run the house )
two died, but she chickened out and dumped the three injured ones at a county shelter, from which they were pulled into rescue.
please share your pet adoption story in my comments section under this post now through october 25 and iams will donate 25 bowls of food for each post!
i know that many of you are well aware that shelters are in need of food and supplies.
tell us the names and types of pets you adopted and why they are so special.
i did everything they told me to do.she lived
saving an animal proves that we are all sentient beings who care and relate to each other.
i could become a cat lady if not for my husband.
i wish all shelters were like them.
only one post per person please.
i have a rescue dog and she is now 14 yrs old and doing really well we love her dearly..
she was found on the streets almost two weeks ago – the teacher who found her posted pictures, notices around the blocks, and a notice at our brand new animal center.
my pet is named debbie, she’s adotped by me since 2002, i love her so much all of my animals have been rescues.
i couldn’t have made it without them.
either way i will always go to great lengths to save animals and spread the word about rescue.
we love them and they have been with us for 10 years now.
i love animals, i have 2 shih tzu, and have had animals all my life, i donate to my local shelters, and also doris day animal foundation, thank you for doing this for our animals.
i brought her to my house.
shelter animals in need of a forever home, are in abundance-they need our love and our help.
i don’t know why some people prefer to buy from pet shops.
today i am happy to report that she enjoys 3 mile walks, loves everyone that walks in the door, and will at least play fetch with a tennis ball.
all amazing doggies with very different personalities – they make me laugh everyday.
my first dog, scooter, was born when my dad was building truman libray, by a stray cocker spaniel that came on the jobsite.
i took her this past thurs and just love her!
let’s feed those hungry cats and  dogs.
sometimes i went looking for a furry friend, sometimes they have found me.
when she was just a puppy, a scum riding a motorbike flung her away.
thank you for donating food to shelter animals!!
cleo hardly ever meows, but lets out little trills of greeting when she sees us.
we adopted two cats this past august from the michigan human society’s detroit shelter.
i would love to adopt an older dog at christmas time.
she helped to ease our grieving for merlo by watching her antics as she grew from a tiny kitten to adulthood.
making a connection with another life other than human shows compassion and intellect.
and i could tell he had so much to give as so did i…..without hesitation i adopted him he is now a healthy weight happy and trusting dog with men as my boyfriend has spent the last year gaining his trust now they dance together buddy gets on his hind ffet and it almost 5 and 1/2 feet tall he is almost as tall as me on his hidn legs will put his 2 front paws on your shoulders look at you with those big brown eyes and you can tell he is so greatful for a 2nd chance at love and life…
these adorable black and white kittens are from helen woodward animal center.
after putting out several posters on all 3 – no one ever claimed them.
i’m glad at least that my comment will help feed those animals who are still waiting for their forever homes.
all but one of our dogs and cats through the years have been rescues, either as “wandered-up critters” or as animals adopted though a rescue group.
vet.they said she had a 10% of living.if we took her home and it would cost $2000 if we kept here there.
my most recent acquisition may be my most amazing.
all of my babies are rescued from the shelters!
(this last breed inspiring her to make guests in my house sit down very quickly, less they be nipped gently on the bottom…)
my week end out finished suddendly.
like all rescue groups, etosha is forever in need of financial help.
i am the go to girl when people are looking for fur friends.
i am a foster for chicagoland eskie rescue and re-homing.
all of my future pets will be shelter animals, for sure!
i would not hestaite getting another dog from the shelter.. those who love animals,love with a genuine affection that truly from the heart.
she was not abused, but she had been bought from a backyard breeder as a puppy by folks who realized they were overwhelmed and had made a mistake.
when we came out this darling beagle was sitting next to the car apparently waiting for us.
love all our pets…cannot imagine our lives without them…pet hair, allergies, and all.
strays who show up at our door we’ve adopted so many i can’t count, but they became as dear to us as any family member!
taz is a pom cross, my husband had the name picked out before he found him.
i am addicted to reading about the rescued cats in my local paper each week.
love our rescue family… all nine of my adult pets have been rescues, from shelters in dallas and irving, tx and st. joseph, mo, or from the fields around my office.
she is now 6 years old and is a very unique, sweet cat; i can’t imagine not having her!
i know that many of you are well aware that shelters are in need of food and  supplies.
the rescue organization responsible for saving both of these dogs is etosha rescue and adoption center, in seguin, texas.
we have 2 dogs and a cat.
my first adopted cat is actually still with me after 10 years!
now, she take turns sleeping with the kids at night.
the puppy was shocked, but she was ok, nothing broken.
it seems like our animals know we rescued them when if the truth be told, they rescued us.
a couple of months later she was adopted by a nice girl who really loves animals.
it’s hard for me to even write that because such cruelty is almost impossible for me to understand.
when the twins were born, she laid near their crib for two years before they transitioned into their own rooms.
…… everyone, always adopt via rescue or shelter.
she was tiny, starving and had pneumonia, but immediately started eating and with good veterinary care has grown into a lovable, independent and very energetic cat who purrs much of the time!
she’s a cat named phoenix who was set afire by her mentally ill children.
pet assistance league, beagles &buddies, cuddly canines, seal beach animal care center, huntington beach spca, and a private adoption from a rescuer who saw a man toss the kitten out of his truck window into some bushes!
thank you on behalf of the animals, michele of pet news and views october 18th, 2010 | tags: contest, feed shelter cats and dogs, iams  bags 4 bowls, iams h4th, rescued pets, shelter cats, shelter dogs |
we rescued all 3 of them and now they are spoiled..
when we started to get familiar with him we were told that he and the cat he was sharing space with came into the shelter together and that when the staff tried putting them in separate cages they both cried ridiculously, so they put them back together.
the h.s. guessed that she was 6 months old when we adopted her.
he will never be “normal”, but he’s happy here and he and sheva are my best buddies.
with proposition b looming nov. 2 in missouri, we are fighting to educate the public about rescuing rather than buying from breeders.
when we get our next dog, he or she will be a pound dog, and i am sure that she or he will be as much fun and as loyal as phoenix was.
pet friendly vacation rentals online pet storepet accessories pet health and safety widget.
the entire litter was adopted out and the rescuers kept the mama.
3 dogs, 1 cat, and counting!
she never has to be tied up.
sweet angels….i wish i could save them all!
he turned out to be the best dog ever.
in 2001, evita got a kitty sister clarabelle, who’s mama cat was a rescued stray when she was pregnant.
love my little melted cat.
these adorable black and white kittens are from helen woodward animal  center.
my cat saphir was a stray my sister found on the construction site she was working at – he was small enough to sit in the palm of my hand.
i have an adopted beagle; 6 year old little girl.
a shelter pet may come with some baggage, but with time and love your family will reap the rewards.
my 1 1/2 year old cleopatra an orange and tiger mix with white legs and belly [caliger] was rescued by my roommate on a pouring rainy day as cars were literally going over her in the middle of a busy intersection in 5 pm traffic.
she plays with five other dogs.
we will always fondly remember maggie and merlo, amber, junior, thomas shaker, thomasina pipsqueak, squeaker cat and sebastian whom i shared with my late sister, annette.
she is near me all of the time, and likes to frequently get on my shoulder and purr as she getss petted when i am at my computer each day.
now, 10 years later, evita is fat and as happy as can be.
it was a nice spring week end
6 pets, all rescues!
in the meantime, we often call each other and she sends me pics of kalinka.
category:  contests and discounts
xoxoxoxoxoxox we adopted our diego over 6 yrs ago from a shelter, and we love him!!!!!!!
iams’ home 4 the holidays is hoping that 1.5 million dogs and cats will find their forever home.
my dog (rest in peace maggy) was adopted from the aspca in nyc.
working at home they are my co workers.
let’s feed those hungry cats and dogs.
i always have a tough time deciding which cat to adopt because i always wonder if the others will find happy homes.
i was so tired, bur relieved !
the one i would like to introduce you to here is francesca (aka “monkey” due to the little ape-like sounds she makes when excited.
bodie joined the family by way of beagles & buddies and was a former inmate at the orange cnty animal shelter.
our vet said that it really takes a toll on them, mentally.
do you have an amazing story to tell about your adopted pet?
we met one day when i went in to visit the other ‘occupants’ and was just on my way out when a gentleman walked in carrying her in his arms… all 3 pounds of her.
every year for my birthday i get to rescue a dog and the downey pup is my bday “gift” for 2010.
beatrice my beagle got herself adopted.
we have had several adopted pets, all of whom were a great addition to our family!
my son who has c.p. adopted a little dog from the lake elsinore aniaml shelter..leaf.
every dog we’ve had have been shelter dogs.
you can also mention the animal center or  rescue group where you got your pet.
rescue is the breed we love!
here’s to those who rescue!!
give me a shelter cat any day.
i got her when she was three.
iams’ bags 4 bowls is hoping to provide 5 million bowls of food to shelters around the country.
she, to the best of my knowledge, is half chow, half border collie.
she is typically siamese in hat she comments on everything we do!
green education network awards pet news and views its seal  of approval.
all of which were going to be put down if someone didn’t do something.
my first dog was a rescue, a deaf english setter adolescent.
i also had a house full, but knew she was meant to be mine.
it didn’t take long for us to know we were meant to be together.
iams’ home 4 the holidays is hoping that 1.5 million dogs and cats  will find their forever home.
rip to snow, dino, buster, emily and ernie – all sweet, loving members of the family.
iams’ bags 4 bowls is hoping to provide 5 million bowls of food to  shelters around the country.
all were delightful cats that we will never forget.
i, actually, plan to make it two this year with harris from harbor so
we rescue, rehabilitate, and place discarded puppymill breeder dogs.
thank you on behalf of the animals, michele of pet news and views i have 1 dog she is a cocker spaniel mix.
and she is the cutest 3 year old dog.
good luck and happy birthday!!!
she came to us from a pet smart adoption event and had been rescued from a abusive situation.
this lead to the start of our animal rescue – we now rescue in rural areas, where so much goes on – unseen and un-noticed because it is rural.