i use email more than i use my phone.
the message about the enviroment is vague at best.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: like mobile for chocolate - dec. 23rd, 2009 at 1:03 pm if you had to give up either chocolate or your mobile phone forever, which would you sacrifice?
i'm not sure how this novel is comparable to other sci-fi.
i like the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
for example, i wrestled with the whole infj thing because, hell, i dofeel; i'm not some unemotional alien.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: bombshell alert!
whoever asked those stupid vampire questions should be banned from contributing.
do you think the long-term societal impact will be positive or negative?
first question listed was submitted by brenden.
and i want my children to think on their own, to feel comfortable with being who they are.
here's why: i hated the protaganist because he was incredibly uninteresting and inept.
so far it it  going a bit slow, but i will finish the book.
no one expects that voice to come from a person like me.
i will comment on this later...
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
i am not attached to my phone, it's used for contacting people and nothing more.
read this book if you want an exciting story, but if you long for character development you will leave mostly unsatisfied.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: copy that - jan. 29th, 2010 at 12:23 pm how do you feel about human cloning?
the protaganist's transformation at the end is  quite unbelievable.
the message about the  enviroment is vague at best.
read this book if you want an exciting  story, but if you long for character development you will leave mostly  unsatisfied.
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats the most, they're so funny.
i also did not like the fact that financial experts readily agreed to lend money to fund a ridiculosuly expensive and unlikely trip to venus.
do i admire any celebrities?
a land line and email also allow a person to keep in touch with others.
i probably would not read this  book again, however it certaintly captured my attention at the time.
if only fuchs eccentric character styling were used on the  protagainst!
i don't think that human cloning is currently ethical or useful.
[+0] - writer's block: the kindness of strangers [+0] - writer's block: bombshell alert!
i support stem cell research.
i'm sort of concerned for a person who would give up chocolate for the use of a mobile phone.
i'll give it a 3/5 for  having a predictable ending.
first question listed was submitted by kaunis_suicide.
i have never liked annoying rich boys with no visible talent, even if they pretend to have a purpose.
livejournal remember me forgot your password?
i would not want a roommate or partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
[+0] - writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
and yes, i can give good advice.
in other words, harmony is not as important to me as the assertion of individuality- not that getting along and compromise isn't important, just not as."
- mar. 25th, 2010 at 8:45 am if you find out that a celebrity you admire has been cheated on by her/his partner, do you typically root for them to reconcile or split up?
a wealthy character certainly does not have to be vapid or stupid.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link said better than i could...." - nov. 11th, 2009 at 9:50 am the rarity of intj women
i have not enjoyed a lot of the recent writer's block questions.
"you know, i don't know that we are necessarily as, um, rare as people like to think.
if i  could i would redesign this character completely.
view 818 answers i tend to smile if a joke is unfunny.
i am also certain that a state of the art spaceship would cost more than 10 billion dollars.
and i think cats are cute
some of the events that occur are unrealistic such as the irritating love interest which manifests out of nowhere(inserted for no reason) and the whole trip is unlikely.
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the future.
(follow-up questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
[+0] - writer's block: copy that [+0] - writer's block: like mobile for chocolate [+0] - book update [+0] - said better than i could...."
- mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
he does not deserve anything he earns, because he does not work  hard!
and yes, i like art and literature and writing...
is the message that rich playboys will succeed because they can use their fathers' money?
previous 10 welcome to my personal domain - nov. 6th, 2020 at 12:16 pm here is where i slather my deepest darkest secrets all over the keyboard.
and i think nietzsche is a pompous windbag, although he does say a few wise things...
insane voices are always a good option.
if i could i would redesign this character completely.
dec. 14th, 2009 at 10:47 am book list recently  read: venus by bova i give it a 3/5.
but i also am ridiculously in love with the classification of living things... and the dewey decimal system... and taking apart my kid's toys to figure out how they work...
the only likeable character as  one of the antagonists(fuchs).
i probably would not read this book again, however it certaintly captured my attention at the time.
tags: - bad joke, - corny joke, - writer's block - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link previous 10 | back to top profile - secretive_cat - secretive latest month march 2011 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 view all archives tags view my tags page - army service - bad joke - books - corny joke - intel - intjforum - mandatory social service - pc dreams - sadness - strange news - thoughts - wepc - writer's block page summary - welcome to my personal domain [+0] - (no subject)
i also could just say something in a jokeresque voice.
the protaganist's transformation at the end is quite unbelievable.
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet dogs are my friend.
i'm  not sure how this novel is comparable to other sci-fi.
the storyline was vaguely interesting
i enjoyed the decriptions of venus, but i'm not  certain whether the book is scientifically accurate.
to read: dune cryptonomicon (i started this book, but never finished it due to school work) catch 22 ...
and i love to discuss topics, not people.
if only fuchs eccentric character styling were used on the protagainst!
i enjoyed the decriptions of venus, but i'm not certain whether the book is scientifically accurate.
if they have kids together, how does that affect your opinion?
i'm not sure why this would be a difficult decision.
i had fun invisioning better endings, that would  of course be more realistic.
scroll if you're planning on reading the book i wish that the book left me with some sort of purpose, or meaning.
i love to learn about everything.
- 1 comment - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: so funny i forgot to laugh - oct. 23rd, 2009 at 12:52 pm
i don't see a point in adding my personal journal unless you actually know me.
reading now: mars life (ben bova)
many laws regarding the rights of clones would need to be created if human cloning were to occur.
- leave a comment - add to memories - share - link mar. 24th, 2011 my wishlist for the summer and fall tan worishofer 80 red swedish hasbeen 200 new laptop 1500 fall: frye oxfords in brown or cream 188 riding boots 100 black dolce vita oxfords 60-100 2 skirts 2 dresses the rest will be acquired second hand - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link writer's block: the kindness of strangers - feb. 23rd, 2011 at 9:15 am if someone insults you when you're walking down the street, what do you do?
the books strong point is that it conjures up quite a bit of suspense and excitement.
which do you prefer, and why?
what it boils down to, essentially, is that i love to learn about things.
i don't feel much of a desire to help people, no matter how bastardly that sounds.
so far it it going a bit slow, but i will finish the book.
the worst part about him is  that he succeeds where he should have failed!
dogs are fun because they're great activity partners.
some of the events that occur are unrealistic such  as the irritating love interest which manifests out of nowhere(inserted for no  reason) and the whole trip is unlikely.
i can't really tell whether people are truly amused or not.
what about if it's your boss or teacher?
a corny joke can be actually funny occasionally.
view 1852 answers i belt out:" omg-ew, gross" with a high pitched valley girl accent.
i prefer cats,but i like dogs.
his motivation is truly greed, rather than concern for his brother.
to read: cryptonomicon (i started this book, but never finished it due to  school work) catch 22 will i finally finish pride and  predujice?
if a friend cracks a corny joke, do you force yourself to laugh politely?
view 973 answers people have existed without cell phones for a very long time.
will i finally finish pride and predujice?
it's great to curl up with a cat and read a book.
my non-ranting or less personal entries will be visible.
[+1] - writer's block: so funny i forgot to laugh [+0] syndicate powered by livejournal.com designed by tiffany chow
is the  message that rich playboys will succeed because they can use their fathers'  money?
i had fun invisioning better endings, that would of course be more realistic.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link book update - dec. 14th, 2009 at 10:47 am book list recently read: venus by bova
first question listed was submitted by antagonists.
first question listed was submitted by maxwearsboots.
i have  never liked annoying rich boys with no visible talent, even if they pretend to  have a purpose.
and i have two children and i love all of them
here's why: i hated  the protaganist because he was incredibly uninteresting and inept.
i'll give it a 3/5 for having a predictable ending.
he does not deserve anything he earns, because he does not work hard!
i also did not like the fact  that financial experts readily agreed to lend money to fund a ridiculosuly  expensive and unlikely trip to venus.
i am also certain that a state of the art  spaceship would cost more than 10 billion dollars.
i have never liked a person who hated cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).
and i have no desire to control the world, boo hoo ha ha.
if there were a reason why it would be necessary i would like to hear it.
the only likeable character as one of the antagonists(fuchs).
and it was often exciting.
view 543 answers celebrities that i admire generally do not disclose details from their personal lives.
- - open id - google - mail.ru - vkontakte create an account you are viewing secretive_cat's journal idyllic garbage - recent entries - archive - friends - user info - memories life contines in the wasteland
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary pet proclivity?
first question listed was submitted by bored_girl_97.
i want people to, uh, survive and be happy and whatever, but it's not exactly my priority, nor is it what i would consider to be my purpose or my strength.
do you get annoyed if someone else pretends to be amused?
i think we can display differently than intj males, and that the intj description on a lot of sites leans toward the description of the intj male vs what an intj femalecan be like.
my favorite dogs are whippets.
the books  strong point is that it conjures up quite a bit of suspense and excitement.
the worst part about him is that he succeeds where he should have failed!