with goldfish, the way they dodge predators is likely to allow them to use a specific eye and side of the brain to deal with the threat.
tags: cat , dog , fish , parrots , scientists posted by fiona macrae on 05/05/2010 at 4:01 pm - permalink | add your comment | email | print | rss more in the news - kiah-tv newsfixer prompts removal of dog toy from petco shelves - 'the artist' star uggie sets craze for jack russell breed soaring - not ready for kids?
thanks for commenting.
toads, however, prefer their right, and pounce more quickly on morsels of food that enter their line of vision from their right.
the experts said: 'male  and female cats differ in their behavioural patterns, for example hunting  styles and parental care, and it is possible that these place different demands  on motor functioning.'
make sure you are typing your password in exactly as you created it.
dogs are the  same - until they are spayed or neutered, when the difference disappears,  suggesting hormones play a role in left or right-handedness.
humpback whales prefer to  use the right side of their jaws to scape up sand eels from the ocean floor.
new scientist says: 'numerous studies have found that left-handers have an advantage in many sports involving a direct opponent, such as tennis or boxing, and the advantages may run to more serious encounters: many sports are forms of ritualised conduct, after all.'
while there are advantages in following the crowd, it can also be good to
create an account wrong e-mail address or password.
celebrity pet psychic melissa bacelar and healer gabriela castillo when is a pet not an animal your pet as a pleasure, not a burden veterinary physical rehabilitation disaster planning for your pet spirituality in pets humor: why pets are better than kids introducing your pet to nature declawing ...the hot debate
please make sure you are typing your password in exactly as you created it.
no scratch - indoor ultra bitter no chew spray - housebreak trainer - tea tree anti-itch spray - herbal ear wash - tear stain remover - clean scent moisturizing shampoo - hypo-allergenic shampoo - daily coat conditioner - all natural relaxing shampoo - stain & odor remover spray - stain & odor remover - blessing of the animals t-shirt - slim-n-fit weight control chewable tablets - videos - exclusive videos - web videos - product videos - articles - radio show - previous shows - highlights - podcasting - station finder - books - community - humor - tips - ever after - in the news - message boards - ask warren - petography - the pet scoop - thanks warren - kid's corner - hugs & kisses - join hugs & kisses - monthly membership - yearly membership - deluxe membership - gift memberships - contacts & support - customer service - support - personal consultations with warren - faqs - contact information - ask warren - webcast question - send us your photos - home visit from warren - email breaking news - business inquiries revealed: how our pet cats, dogs and even fish are right or left 'handed' revealed: how our pet cats, dogs and even fish are right or left 'handed' cats, dogs, parrots and even fish are right or left-handed, scientists have revealed.
with goldfish, the way they dodge predators is  likely to allow them to use a specific eye and side of the brain to deal with  the threat.
to test it out, place an unfamiliar object in the centre of your fish tank and watch which way your pet swims round it.
in the news message boards ask warren petography the pet scoop thanks warren stay connected kid's corner seasonal tips audio & video exclusive videos fun web videos podcasting radio show library highlights station finder shop with confidence sign in shopping cart my order history customer service return policy shipping policy ordering information store dogs & puppies cats & kittens books hugs & kisses memberships webinars akc gold products apparel about about warren adopt a pet hugs & kisses animal fund schedule a consultation with warren about the site scrapbook contacts & support customer service support faqs contact information ask warren webcast question email breaking news send us your photos business inquiries
female dogs favour their right front paw and males choose their  left, according to the study the scientists also reported that parrots  will pick up objects with their 'dominant' foot, toads are mostly right-handed  and fish will have a preference to left or right when they dodge a predator -  and even humpback whales prefer the right side of their jaws when feeding.
and dogs wag their tails to the right when relaxed and to the left when agitated, this week's new scientist reports.
now subscribe to podcast
dogs are the same - until they are spayed or neutered, when the difference disappears, suggesting hormones play a role in left or right-handedness.
please login to comment.
0 comments add a comment there are currently no comments to display.
0 comments  add a comment
southern california show saturdays 11-1 pm pst call in: 866-870-5752 distributed by:krla 870am hugs & kisses join hugs & kisses monthly membership yearly membership deluxe membership gift memberships community humor tips ever after
curiously, those parrots  that favour their left or right rather than liking both equally, have been  shown to be brainier.
cats: devils or angels?
hot weather alert warning - heatstroke can be hazardous to your pet's health!
the experts said: 'male and female cats differ in their behavioural patterns, for example hunting styles and parental care, and it is possible that these place different demands on motor functioning.'
they found that  females are 'right-handed' while toms favour the left.
email: password: close please note that passwords are case sensitive.
female felines use their right paw while toms tend to use their left dr culum brown, a behavioural ecologist, said they also tested the theory with parrots: 'anything they are interested in they will pick up with their dominant foot.'
you decide a pet makeover 10 reasons your dog's hair cut costs more than yours our pets know
female dogs favour their right front paw and males choose their left, according to the study the scientists also reported that parrots will pick up objects with their 'dominant' foot, toads are mostly right-handed and fish will have a preference to left or right when they dodge a predator - and even humpback whales prefer the right side of their jaws when feeding.
- tear stain supplement - arthrisoothe gold - toys for dogs - stool deodorizer - pleasant breath -
the pet show archives 02-25-2012 02-18-2012 audio highlights joyce calls about her chihuahua jim asks about his lab feeling sick usa & canada show saturdays 4-6 pm est call in: 800-321-8828 distributed by: wor 710am
what we need more than we do!
for instance, those humans or animals that are  left-handed, or pawed, in a right-handed world, have the surprise on their side  when they launch an attack.
- store - hugs & kisses supplements - hugs & kisses memberships - webinars - books by warren - the sounds of baby audio download - allergy aid - dental care dogs - flea powder - herbal flea spray - air horn - bitter yuck!
make sure you are typing your password in exactly  as you created it.
adopting an older pet
tags: cat ,  dog ,  fish ,  parrots ,  scientists posted by fiona  macrae on 05/05/2010 at 4:01 pm - permalink | add your  comment | email | print | rss more in the news kiah-tv newsfixer prompts removal of dog toy from petco shelves 'the artist' star uggie sets craze for jack russell breed soaring not ready for kids?
while there are advantages in following the crowd, it can also be good to be different.
for instance, those humans or animals that are left-handed, or pawed, in a right-handed world, have the surprise on their side when they launch an attack.
forgot password post a comment 3500 characters left become a hugs & kisses member to comment more blogs does your cat own you?
terms & conditions | privacy policy | acknowledgments this site is created and managed bynox solutions llc.
revealed: how our pet cats, dogs and even fish are  right or left 'handed' revealed: how our pet cats, dogs and even fish are  right or left 'handed' cats, dogs, parrots and even  fish are right or left-handed, scientists have revealed.
| trouble logging in?
new scientist says: 'numerous studies have  found that left-handers have an advantage in many sports involving a direct  opponent, such as tennis or boxing, and the advantages may run to more serious  encounters: many sports are forms of ritualised conduct, after all.'
| forgot your password?
excerpts from a dog & cat's diary...
it's about time listen to the radio show
for help with your order call 1-800-430-4847 store | videos | articles | radio show | books | community | hugs & kisses | contact us copyright © 2002-2012 warreneckstein.com.
humpback whales prefer to use the right side of their jaws to scape up sand eels from the ocean floor.
the discovery was made by psychologists from queen's university belfast, who as part of their research played with 42 pet cats for weeks on end.
email: password: please note that  passwords are case sensitive.
there are currently no comments to display.
email: password: please note that passwords are case sensitive.
bringing a second pet into your home new year's resolutions keeping your pet's skin and coat healthy in the cold weather a gentle goodbye a dog's soul - author unknown the overly inquisitive pet what to expect from your pet when you're expecting why eye contact is so important fundamentals of proper dog training how to build the perfect cathouse pet massage is your pet talking to you and what are they saying why dogs are better than women swimming with your pets can be fun, but can also be very dangerous
they found that females are 'right-handed' while toms favour the left.
a new pet----the energy boost
toads,  however, prefer their right, and pounce more quickly on morsels of food that  enter their line of vision from their right.
and dogs wag their tails to the right when relaxed and to the left when  agitated, this week's new scientist reports.
female felines use their right paw while  toms tend to use their left dr culum brown, a behavioural ecologist,  said they also tested the theory with parrots: 'anything they are interested in  they will pick up with their dominant foot.'
coping with the loss of a pet humane heroes pets teach kids many valuable lessons - guest article national pet dental health month - guest article teaching kitty to come when called beware of your pet's midlife crisis!
curiously, those parrots that favour their left or right rather than liking both equally, have been shown to be brainier.
to test it out, place an unfamiliar object in the centre  of your fish tank and watch which way your pet swims round it.
the discovery  was made by psychologists from queen's university belfast, who as part of their  research played with 42 pet cats for weeks on end.
for the older pet the creative cat pet depression and neurosis signs of senior pets the alpha myth in today's society dangerous pet toys imperfect humans expect perfection from their pets perceptions and misconceptions about our pets the scoop (on poop)
the importance of touch who gets the dog and cat?