by glenn blaylock on december 10th, 2006 1 comment | post one | permalink by cleverlyput on december 10th, 2006 i've never seen a cat lead a blind person, or a aid a deaf person, or watch a police cat in action, or witness a cat play catch with a frisbee or fetch a stick.
you sould become a writer if you already arent one.
1:00 pm - played in the yard!
10:30 am - got rubbed and petted!
post one | permalink by ccrunch171 on february 7th, 2012 i can't tell...
also, interdependence and being social is a trait that most humans have so if you want to argue who acts more like humans, dogs would win.
only upload an image if you have the rights to it, and ensure that it complies with ourterms of use.
how can somebody say a dog isn't that smart because it will only listen to commands and act based on reward, are they not doing exactly what humans do when they were trained/taught for society.
post one | permalink by anddeb on february 19th, 2009 dogs hands down.
post one | permalink by gaia33 on august 18th, 2008 a cat can remember a maze 260 times longer than a dog...however, dogs do better on "social skills" than cats, although some cats (main coon,ragdoll, persians for example) are extremely sociable, and some dogs (many chows, for example), aren't.
they are way too intelligent to perform tricks to entertain us.
become a fan to connect with the ever-growing community of answerbaggers, share your thoughts and find out what answerbag's up to next!
the cat being more cautious and curious does not make it smarter, thats a survival instinct.
they are also far too intelligent to think the world revolves around their person.
post one | permalink by gone-a-fishing on july 21st, 2010
post one | permalink by cancan123 on september 6th, 2008 cats.
oh gosh, they can be sneaky little creatures!
they are different, and i think they're both cool animals.
they actuall haave personality too.
by redb_ball is away on may 18th, 2006 help answer this question below.
the cat is they just dont show it.
i like both and the intelligence of cats and dogs varies with different tasks.
post one | permalink by bandgeek6516 on january 30th, 2007 the cat.
the only thing that keeps me going is my dream of escape.
i do not consider the cat or the dog dumb.
it's silly--no one compares dogs or cats to horses!
maybe they don't want to be popular.
actually, i've seen a cat that acted like a dog before..that was so cute!
note: i like the comment sportykidd6.
cats can be stuck out in the wild and survive.
by anonymous on december 10th, 2006 sycophantic ≠ smart by anonymous on december 10th, 2006 lol by nice on march 4th, 2007 3 comments | post one | permalink by silentpurr on february 18th, 2009 cats of course ...
wow, this is really funny.
i love all animals and have both a cat and a dog.
so i would say a dog!
i think cats just don't care enough.
post one | permalink by whyamihere on december 6th, 2006 dogs.
post one | permalink by freshapples on december 9th, 2006 dog
if i had to give an answer, it would be dogs because the only thing ive seen cats do is sit there and lick themselves, follow laser pointers and shiny things, climb up trees and not be able to get down (at least most of them) and get hit by cars after they escape from themselves and most likely cannot find their way back.
it was funny.:):)lol
she came over, sniffed my hand, licked my hand, and 'stood up' like dogs do to get the person to pet them...it was so funny.
yeah, you will have some dogs that are smarter then cats and vise versa.
post one | permalink by glamorgirli on december 6th, 2006 my bird is smarter than both of them, but i'd have to say my cats are way smarter than my dogs.
post one | permalink by ec-nal licensed bootie inspector on september 6th, 2008 ever play 'fetch' with a cat?
by cake007 on february 18th, 2009 by michalzor on july 21st, 2010 5 comments | post one | permalink by bobsaccamano-is-back on january 30th, 2007
considering -them both at a higher level in my mind---dogs are more needy-yes ---cats love to explore--nothing wrong with that.
i love dogs, they are such great companions.
permalink by tinybubbles is sitting on the carpet read on december 6th, 2006 cat.
by redb_ball is away on may 18th, 2006 question help answer this question below.
what is the correct name for a baby rabbit?
i loved this ..great answer :o) by kitiara on february 18th, 2009
post one | permalink by tyson 08 on february 19th, 2009
by waboo on december 7th, 2010 | 1 person likes this
post one | permalink by baileysmom12 coat of motherly love on february 7th, 2012 dogs have been described as little men in fur coats.
it depends on the situation.
you're reading which are smarter, cats or dogs? - which can also be phrased in the following ways: your favorite q&a site is on facebook!
but......dogs don't eat rat
i think it depends on the cat and dog.
post one | permalink by imprex on april 16th, 2008
3:00 pm - wagged my tail!
on the other hand a cat is nobody's fool.
have you ever seen a cat swim after a ball?
post one | permalink by gina334 on july 24th, 2010 for all you cat haters cats are way smarter then dogs cats are smarter,better; and smarter.
ignorance is not a sign of intelligence (for all you people who think that).
they're like ''i know you didn't just throw that ball for me to go get, right yo?...''
they are more independent and less easily confused than most dogs i know.
which are smarter, cats or dogs?
post one | permalink by leorog on december 1st, 2007
by elleonora on april 22nd, 2008 1 comment | post one | permalink by sunblynd 5.0 on november 25th, 2006
but most dogs are just loyal, needy, cute little things.
follow answerbag on twitter!
i have both and they both know how to play the game -
one of my cats plays fetch - cats can be trained - they just need the right reward - dogs will do anything for any kind of reward.
permalink by stratred on november 25th, 2006
by answerbag staff on march 25th, 2010 | 1 person likes this
5:00 pm - milk bones!
post one | permalink by michalzor on july 21st, 2010 from all the research that can be done, it has been determined that cats and dogs are of equal intelligence levels.
also however, just because a cat is ignorant and too lazy to learn tricks does most definitely not mean he/she is smarter.
post one | permalink only upload an image if you have the rights to it, and ensure that it complies with ourterms of use.
i've heard that the smartest dog is actually smarter than the smartest cat.
dogs watch spongebob and suck on lolipops.
but that stray argument is bull****.
he is obviously retarded.
post one | permalink by katie on february 7th, 2012
i just know cats only obey you when they want to.
9:40 am - a walk in the park!
today i was almost successful in an attempt to assassinate one of my tormentors by weaving around his feet as he was walking.
they manage to get folks to go to great lengths to try and win their affection, while remaining aloof and sometimes downright contemptous of them.
they dine lavishly on fresh meat, while the other inmates and i are fed hash or some sort of dry nuggets.
:o) **eye roll** by marky mark on february 7th, 2012
just more easier to train.
by michalzor on july 21st, 2010 2 comments | post one | permalink by tinybubbles is sitting on the carpet read on december 9th, 2006 my cat is the smartest,because she is cute and very sneaky.
post one | permalink by jupjup on december 6th, 2006
cleverer people than me have problems deciding how to measure and define it.
cats rule no comments.
however, i could hear the noises and smell the food.
post one | permalink by kate_91491 on january 30th, 2007 the cat, in my opinion, is smarter in general.
i'll say a dog i've only seen cats sit around the house and lick themselves.
there was some sort of assembly of their accomplices tonight.
the cat i have now is smarter than any dogs i have owned.
cat diary day 983 of my captivity.
also, scientific studies show that the cat brain structure is similar to a humans.
your death would grant a cat's fondest wish.
a human is trained through repetative teachings and rewarded for it in every aspect of life from the first time you went to the bathroom in the toilet or learned your muliplication tables to learning a new skill set at your job...reward, reward, reward!
post one | permalink by top54u on july 8th, 2008 cats no comments.
post one | permalink by alatea on may 18th, 2006 dogs eat rat
i am convinced that the other prisoners here are flunkies and snitches.
just because you can't teach a dog to sit with a stupid hot dog over a week and it maybe takes two weeks to teach a cat, that doesn't mean cats are dumb.
they usually control the owners and become a dedicated part of the family.
just because a dog is much more trainable than a cat does not mean he/she is smarter.
some say dogs are smarter because they can be trained, others say cats are smarter because they refuse to be humiliated and dogs are too stupid to know better than to be our clowns.
the dog, i know many people will say cats because of how they act but the last i read, dogs were more popular, so if the cat was smart, they might act more like dogs.
the dog is mentioned in the bible eighteen times—the cat not even once.
well it was still funny, i wont tell if you dont, even if everyone can see your last comment...shhh!
each has their own advantages but overall they are the same.
both are smart in my opinion no comments.
overall they are the same "smartness".
by game masta on january 31st, 2007 1 comment | post one | permalink by jade on december 10th, 2006 the cat.
;-) pretty much what i was going to write except that i am more of a cat person.
do you like cat's or dog's better?
post one | permalink by n'anderthal on february 10th, 2012 smarter than what?
the cat,at least my cat.she is smarter then my dog.although you have to give my dog extra credit for being so
by antigonerising on december 10th, 2006
stray dogs, starving and getting ran over.
and both species have survived this long in the world so both have very good survival instincts.
i overheard that my confinement was due to the power of ‘allergies.’
he is regularly released - and seems to be more than willing to return.
but ive witnessed both species do dumb things.
post one | permalink by dryer_lint on december 10th, 2006
they are quite well aware they are the centre of their universe.
the cat is obviously smarter.
post one | permalink by rgypsy on january 30th, 2007 both.
post one | permalink by diyman on february 7th, 2012
dog.. i'd say the same by freshapples on december 6th, 2006 1 comment | post one | permalink by ggirl on february 10th, 2012 almost all dogs will eat cat crap from a litter box, but i've never heard of a cat eating dog crap.
by eddie1 on november 25th, 2006
what are twelve or more cows called ??
the lint bunny no comments.
i have had many cats and dogs but never one who is as smart as this cat.
i've seen many dead cats on the side of the road and i've also seen an entire street shut down because an intelligent cat climbed a tree and couldn't get down without the aid of a "trained" fireperson.
it's in the dogs breed to be taught tricks, that does not make them smarter.
watched tv with the people!
i must learn what this means, and how to use it to my advantage.
dog diary 8:00 am - dog food!
yea... just like humans.
by nice on march 4th, 2007 1 comment | post one | permalink by moley the contrary female dragon on february 7th, 2012 apparently cats have better problem solving ability.
they can learn so many tricks, and useful things as well.
but look at general things.
overall, i think cats are a little bit smarter...i would say that perhaps "smarter" is not the word to describe them, but cunning!
on the other hand, it takes just about a dog's whole life to learn how to breathe!cats read harry potter and blow bubble pipes.
they're just stubborn.
all of the dogs i know would be completely helpless without thier owners.
9:30 am - a car ride!
they dont have an owner.
heehee by baileysmom12 coat of motherly love on february 7th, 2012 2 comments | post one | permalink by dorothybulls on february 7th, 2012
only upload an image if you have the rights to it, and ensure that it  complies with ourterms of use.
i must try this again tomorrow — but at the top of the stairs.
i had hoped this would strike fear into their hearts, since it clearly demonstrates what i am capable of.
cats are more cautious and curious about their world.
i would think that's an indicator
share your answer here...
however, they merely made condescending comments about what a ‘good little hunter’ i am.
just different style's - their spoiled no comments.
post one | permalink by shimmyshim on december 10th, 2006
in my opinion and only mine, i do think dogs are smarter because they fit the criteria that i use when judging an animals mentality.
the dog receives special privileges.
post one | permalink by drlaurahater on september 6th, 2008 dogs rule, cats pooh.
intelligence is a quality that is difficult to define in actuality.
i do however have my own opinion that works for my reasoning.
in an attempt to disgust them, i once again vomit on the carpet.
an old email i remembered receiving and just had to google it 'cos it fits here so perfectly :) by silentpurr on february 18th, 2009
"a dog can't find food and will get run over by a car", are you f'ing serious to use that comment as your proof?
by answerbag staff on march 25th, 2010 | 1 person likes this can donkeys have babies?
they make mistakes -yes---so do we....think about it---???
cats are easier to clean up after.
want to  attach an image to your answer?click here.
post one | permalink by coffeeshop on february 7th, 2012
a dog does what it is told or acts as if in a pack.
11:00 pm - sleeping on the bed!
post one | permalink by sportykidd6 on november 25th, 2006 well if the cat represented me and the dog represented bush, i would say the cat is no comments.
i think it's individual and that cats are just more independent than dogs are.
my captors continue to taunt me with bizarre little dangling objects.
to me dogs are smarter,they are able to learn stuff cats can never do...if well trained you can rely on it,but you can never rely on cat..cats do the job to keep my dog kennels free of any rats or mouse...
cats have been described as little women in fur coats, therefore my answer is cats.
post one | permalink by sportykidd6 on december 10th, 2006 some one already asked this question no comments.
post one | permalink by disturbia on july 8th, 2008 oh cats def, i have that changes the tv channels on me, the lil shit lol no comments.
at this time my cat is "einstein"!
a cat can reason, choose for it's self.
but i like dogs better.
i was placed in solitary confinement for the duration of the event.
i reall don't believe that one is smarter than the other.
post one | permalink by gina334 on july 24th, 2010 cats rule no comments.
i think that to compare them is a waste of time because first you have to give a definition of "smart" and "smart" is different for each animal...and why compare dogs and cats?
by answerbag staff on april 29th, 2010 | 1 person likes this where were otters introduced to nz?
although cats do bath themselves.
dogs are just more obiediant and loyal than cats.
7:00 pm - got to play ball!
today i decapitated a mouse and dropped its headless body at their feet.
never known a cat to do that.
revised answer-- but very true.
although i make my contempt for the rations perfectly clear, i nevertheless must eat something in order to keep up my strength.
my cats, on the other hand, trained me.
by nice jugs on february 27th, 2011 | 1 person likes this other than more hair on its body, would a warthog look nicer if it had something more on its body?
but i've known a lot of cats that were clowns too.
post one | permalink by patti jo on january 31st, 2007
i find this question funny as the answer will never be known.
there are no tests at this moment in time that can clearly tell which animal is smarter.
post one | permalink by alienshroom on november 25th, 2006
i had a dog that could unlock and open doors.
ive seen way more dead cats on the side of the road than dogs.
post one | permalink by anonymous on january 30th, 2007
for one reason,you can teach one to light a fuse in only 2 seconds.
kudos 2 u by cake007 on february 18th, 2009 gee thanks cake, but it's not my handiwork.
and in my opinion dogs are smarter.... props for counting out all those times by michalzor on july 21st, 2010 1 comment | post one | permalink by qeli on december 1st, 2007 my cat is by far smarter than any dog,she knows what you need or what she needs
but in general, i think cats are smarter.
by michalzor on july 21st, 2010 1 comment | post one | permalink by nulinvoid on december 6th, 2006 that depends on how you define smart.
maybe its not that important for cats.
post one | permalink by righty1 on february 7th, 2012