she wants nothing to do  with any of them and, with true cat stubbornness, will simply not eat until we  give her back her meat-based food.
some dogs, particularly larger breeds, may also require  taurine to keep their hearts healthy; seek out veggie dog foods that contain  taurine, or simply add a supplement with taurine to your dog’s  diet.”
if these questions aren’t enough to stop me from being vegan, there’s no reason they should stop my cats and dogs from being vegan.
we have tried several vegan cat food diets – both pre-made and home-made versions.
it is your duty to make sure they lead happy and healthy lives.
but, again  – it comes down to the fact that cats can be vegan, so their similarity  or dissimilarity to lions and tigers is somewhat irrelevant.
that is the responsibility you  accepted when they became part of your family.
numerous pet food manufacturers provide tasty, nutritionally  complete foods for dogs.
my experience: all of our dogs are vegan and have  lived wonderful, healthy lives.
cats need special supplements if you remove meat from their diets,
while dogs require a higher ratio of dietary protein and  calcium than humans, these nutrients are available via a well-balanced  vegetarian diet.
the quick answers: as omnivores, dogs do not need  meat.
isn’t it more natural for them?
further info/resources: from the veg for life website: “like humans, dogs are omnivores, able to digest and utilize a  wide variety of foods.
isn’t it more natural for  them?
the debates: aren’t you just forcing your  will on them by making them eat a veg diet?
once you get past the fact that cats and dogs can be  vegan, all the other questions can be answered the same way you would answer  them for yourself.
cats need special supplements if you remove meat from their diets, but it is possible for them to eat vegetarian diets.
recipe vegancats veganpet.com vegecat wow-bow
we can choose meat or we can choose veg – either way it is totally up to us.
additionally, cats cannot convert the beta-carotene in plants into vitamin a. instead, they require “pre-formed” vitamin a, usually found in liver and fish oils.
suppliers of veg pet food: bluedogbakery.com evolution diet pet-food company natural balance nature’s
some dogs, particularly larger breeds, may also require taurine to keep their hearts healthy; seek out veggie dog foods that contain taurine, or simply add a supplement with taurine to your dog’s diet.”
the debates: aren’t you just forcing your will on them by making them eat a veg diet?
that is the responsibility you accepted when they became part of your family.
further info/resources: from the veg for life website: “like humans, dogs are omnivores, able to digest and utilize a wide variety of foods.
so we are stuck giving her the meat-based food.
but it is possible for them to eat vegetarian diets.
numerous pet food manufacturers provide tasty, nutritionally complete foods for dogs.
she does, however, like to snack on the canned vegan dog food.
they are not the same.
suppliers of veg pet food: bluedogbakery.com
links about veg pet food: vegepets.info animal awareness veggiepets.com vegetarian network victoria – this site provides objective information on why caretakers opt to feed their animals a vegetarian or vegan diet, potential problems, a vegetarian dogs and cats ‘check list,’ vegetarian pet foods and supplements, and helpful links for more information, including books and additional websites.
she does, however, like to snack on  the canned vegan dog food.
we have tried several vegan cat food diets  – both pre-made and home-made versions.
it is your duty to make  sure they lead happy and healthy lives.
(she won’t eat enough  of it though for us to just add supplements and let it go at that.)
our oldest dog is 17 years old and has  been vegan as long as i have (over a decade).
so long as you provide adequate levels of protein, calcium and all-around nutrients, getting your dog to “go veggie” is typically a smooth process.
our oldest dog is 17 years old and has been vegan as long as i have (over a decade).
our cat is another story.
cats are true carnivores and switching them to a vegan diet may prove more complex.
“with proper planning and guidance, using nutritionally-complete  vegan dog and cat foods that meet the association of american feed control  officials (aafco) dog and cat food nutrient profiless, which were determined in  cooperation with the u.s. center for veterinary medicine (cvm), your dog and  cat friends can lead happier, healthier lives.”
my experience: all of our dogs are vegan and have lived wonderful, healthy lives.
links about veg pet food: vegepets.info animal awareness veggiepets.com vegetarian network victoria – this site provides  objective information on why caretakers opt to feed their animals a vegetarian  or vegan diet, potential problems, a vegetarian dogs and cats ‘check  list,’ vegetarian pet foods and supplements, and helpful links for more  information, including books and additional websites.
for cats, more attention is required, but a vegan  diet is possible.
so we  are stuck giving her the meat-based food.
she wants nothing to do with any of them and, with true cat stubbornness, will simply not eat until we give her back her meat-based food.
these are all the same questions that people ask me when i tell them that i am vegan.
for cats, more attention is required, but a vegan diet is possible.
i think the responsible and healthy choice means a  vegan diet – assuming you don’t have a dog with cat-like  stubbornness.
once you get past the fact that cats and dogs can be vegan, all the other questions can be answered the same way you would answer them for yourself.
while dogs require a higher ratio of dietary protein and calcium than humans, these nutrients are available via a well-balanced vegetarian diet.
you need to make sure that  they are getting adequate nutrition, regardless of which diet you choose.
if these questions aren’t enough to stop me  from being vegan, there’s no reason they should stop my cats and dogs  from being vegan.
synthetic versions of these nutrients are available,  and it is up to you, the caregiver, to ensure that your cat is receiving the  necessary nutrition.
wouldn’t they prefer meat?
should you feed your companion animals meat?
these are all the same questions that people ask me when i tell  them that i am vegan.
both are found in appreciable levels only in animal tissues.
synthetic versions of these nutrients are available, and it is up to you, the caregiver, to ensure that your cat is receiving the necessary nutrition.
so long as you provide adequate levels of protein,  calcium and all-around nutrients, getting your dog to “go veggie”  is typically a smooth process.
cats require dietary sources of taurine, an amino acid-like  nutrient, and arachidonic acid, an essential fatty acid, according to cvm  research.
cats require dietary sources of taurine, an amino acid-like nutrient, and arachidonic acid, an essential fatty acid, according to cvm research.
for dogs (as well as humans)
well, there are thousands of years of domestication between your cat and a lion.
additionally, cats cannot convert the beta-carotene in plants into vitamin a.  instead, they require “pre-formed” vitamin a, usually found in  liver and fish oils.
cats are just like lions and tigers – they are carnivores and  need meat.
(she won’t eat enough of it though for us to just add supplements and let it go at that.)
well, unless you let them go to the store by themselves to pick out your own food, they are at the mercy of your decisions no matter what you do.
we  can choose meat or we can choose veg – either way it is totally up to us.
we choose their food.
but, again – it comes down to the fact that cats can be vegan, so their similarity or dissimilarity to lions and tigers is somewhat irrelevant.
you need to make sure that they are getting adequate nutrition, regardless of which diet you choose.
well, there are thousands of years of domestication  between your cat and a lion.
you are your companion’s caretaker.
cats are true carnivores and switching them to a vegan diet may prove  more complex.
i think the responsible and healthy choice means a vegan diet – assuming you don’t have a dog with cat-like stubbornness.
“with proper planning and guidance, using nutritionally-complete vegan dog and cat foods that meet the association of american feed control officials (aafco) dog and cat food nutrient profiless, which were determined in cooperation with the u.s. center for veterinary medicine (cvm), your dog and cat friends can lead happier, healthier lives.”
cats are just like lions and tigers – they are carnivores and need meat.
well, unless you let them  go to the store by themselves to pick out your own food, they are at the mercy  of your decisions no matter what you do.
the quick answers: as omnivores, dogs do not need meat.