on 19 aug 2011 at 9:07 am # ellen
not that i don’t like dogs, just  somebody elses dog.
cats are monarchists.
democrats, on the other hand, are snakes, locusts.
alphecca is a member of "the lunatic fringe of the us right" --guardian (uk) 6/26/06 even my cats have guns!
email me at: gunnut -at- alphecca -dot- com
on 19 aug 2011 at 1:39 pm # kalashnikat other way around, in my experience… i’d make the case that cats are democrats…expecting everything to be provided for them, including someone to clean up the litter pan after them…they don’t feel obligated to earn their keep by alerting to intruders or defending the home, they expect to be pampered and attended to by the hardworking homeowner.
cats are republicans, dogs are democrats home petsjeff on 19 aug 2011 05:18
this is obviously wrong.
on 19 aug 2011 at 11:34 am # rich dustydog - i know that fish will eat their young its just food to them.
dogs are conservatives - they believe in family, charity,  trust, hard work.
for nine-years alphecca has been an occasional blog of opinions by a politically independent gun nut living in vermont.
once they get to be a few weeks old they are safe from the alpha male.
probably why i prefer cats to dogs.
many republican voters, and even a republican politician once  in while, are true conservatives.
they’re more interested in welfare and drugs  (cat chow and catnip) than in work (catching mice).
alpha male jack russel terriers will kill just born puppies as they tend to view them as rats or other such things that they hunt and kill, not to eat just to kill.
your opinions about my opinions are welcome in the comments and, as always, thanks so much for stopping by.
on 19 aug 2011 at 8:50 am # jim probably why i prefer cats to dogs.
am cats are republicans, dogs are democrats an opinion piece from politico that’s actually amusing.
on 19 aug 2011 at 1:39 pm # kalashnikat other way around, in my experience… i’d make the case that cats are democrats…expecting everything  to be provided for them, including someone to clean up the litter pan after  them…they don’t feel obligated to earn their keep by alerting to  intruders or defending the home, they expect to be pampered and attended to by  the hardworking homeowner.
website what color is an orange?
dogs are conservatives - they believe in family, charity, trust, hard work.
many republican voters, and even a republican politician once in while, are true conservatives.
alpha male jack russel terriers will kill just born puppies as they tend to  view them as rats or other such things that they hunt and kill, not to eat just  to kill.
i’m trying to  think of an animal that will eat its own young - do any snakes or fish do that?
5 responses to “cats are republicans, dogs are democrats” on 19 aug 2011 at 8:50 am # jim
comments rss name (required) mail (hidden) (required)
not that i don’t like dogs, just somebody elses dog.
cats are republicans, dogs are democrats an opinion piece from politico that’s actually amusing.
they’re more interested in welfare and drugs (cat chow and catnip) than in work (catching mice).
i’m trying to think of an animal that will eat its own young - do any snakes or fish do that?
on 19 aug 2011 at 9:45 am # dustydog how dare you!