so it's hard  to make a claim for the superiority of cat versus dog or vice versa.
after an initial stage of being a religious symbol and appreciated for their predatory behaviors that kept rodents out of food stores, cats went through a dark period of being associated with witches and witchcraft that has, unfortunately, never completely left them.
more accurately,  dogs are more likely to be motivated by social rewards and punishers.
these differences in social structure lead us to believe, as reflected in the comment from a poll participant that dogs are “eager to please”.
dogs – who’s liked more? posted in human-animal  bond, just for fun a recent associated press poll reveals that more people like dogs than like  cats.
consider the breeds with  reputations for being aloof – such as basenjis and akitas, and compare  that with many orange tabby male cats, who also have reputations for being  extremely sociable – our late, great buffett being one.
the survey also found  that 60% of adult said they liked both cats and dogs.
only 2% said they disliked dogs  “a lot”, but 15% feel that way about cats.
looking at the domestication history of the two species, the latest  thinking is that dogs were for the most part wanted for companionship (less  likely as a cooperative hunting partner as had been previously thought).
the survey also found that 60% of adult said they liked both cats and dogs.
after ten straight hours of copyediting, good luck getting your cat to go out in the yard with you and chase a frisbee, to blow off some steam.
the people surveyed explained their opinions with comments such as dogs are more loyal, cats only care about themselves, dogs want to please their owners, and cats are “1,000 times” smarter than dogs.
the people surveyed explained their opinions with comments such as dogs are  more loyal, cats only care about themselves, dogs want to please their owners,  and cats are “1,000 times” smarter than dogs.
required fields are marked * name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
we can more easily relate to the appeasement/submissive behaviors of dogs for example (even though we sometimes mistakenly assign “guilt” and other human motivations to them) and the more family like structure of a group of wolves than we can the more solitary life of many cats.
only 2% said they disliked dogs “a lot”, but 15% feel that way about cats.
as  a general rule, dogs will respond more to petting and verbal praise; angry  voices and threatening gestures than do cats.
what’s  unfortunate about this survey is that the data from non-pet owners  weren’t reported separately.
in a survey of just under 2000 people, 59% of who were pet owners (mostly of dogs or cats) 74% said they liked dogs “a lot” but only 41% said the same thing about cats.
this is a misleading conclusion.
want to know more about the details and results of this survey and see the results from more pet owner surveys about pet safety, pets in families and more?
looking at the domestication history of the two species, the latest thinking is that dogs were for the most part wanted for companionship (less likely as a cooperative hunting partner as had been previously thought).
but even this generalization may not bear up under scrutiny.
mind you, the cat will stay by your side the whole time you’re at your desk, displaying her beauty and otherwise implicitly urging you on.
and when it comes to “intelligence”, or the question of who is  smarter, it all depends on the methods used to measure it.
cat lovers shouldn’t be too discouraged.
and when it comes to “intelligence”, or the question of who is smarter, it all depends on the methods used to measure it.
these differences in social structure lead us to believe, as reflected in  the comment from a poll participant that dogs are “eager to  please”.
then become a member of ourbehavior education network ( www.behavioreducationnetwork.com) which makes scientific education about pet behavior quickly and easily accessible to both pet professionals and pet lovers.
as a general rule, dogs will respond more to petting and verbal praise; angry voices and threatening gestures than do cats.
what’s unfortunate about this survey is that the data from non-pet owners weren’t reported separately.
second, there is no doubt that the social organization and communicative behaviors of dogs are much more similar to ours than are those of cats.
website suzanne hetts is a fan of animal behavior associates, inc. 4994 s. independence way littleton co 80123 303-932-9095 info@animalbehaviorassociates.com
what might be some reasons for this difference between our perceptions of dogs versus cats?
if the catholics and protestants in northern ireland can give it a rest, then so can american dog and cat owners.
what might be some reasons for this difference between our perceptions of  dogs versus cats?
so it's hard to make a claim for the superiority of cat versus dog or vice versa.
we can more easily relate to the appeasement/submissive behaviors of dogs for  example (even though we sometimes mistakenly assign “guilt” and  other human motivations to them) and the more family like structure of a group  of wolves than we can the more solitary life of many cats.
in a survey of just under 2000 people, 59% of who were pet owners  (mostly of dogs or cats) 74% said they liked dogs “a lot” but only  41% said the same thing about cats.
then become a member of ourbehavior education network ( www.behavioreducationnetwork.com) which makes scientific education about pet  behavior quickly and easily accessible to both pet professionals and pet  lovers.
as a cat lover who once trained a mongrel from a dog pound thoroughly enough for her to pass the akc “companion dog” obedience test, i would like it very much if the internecine “dog versus cat” war would cease.
i prefer cats, but enjoy the occasional company of well-behaved dogs.
after an initial stage of being a religious symbol and appreciated for their  predatory behaviors that kept rodents out of food stores, cats went through a  dark period of being associated with witches and witchcraft that has,  unfortunately, never completely left them.
there are many possibilities.
a recent associated press poll reveals that more people like dogs than like cats.
to borrow from that disgusting movie “pulp fiction,” one can love the beatles, and like elvis.
second, there is no doubt that the social organization and communicative  behaviors of dogs are much more similar to ours than are those of cats.
your email address will not be published.
want to know more about the details and results of this survey and see the  results from more pet owner surveys about pet safety, pets in families and  more?
consider the breeds with reputations for being aloof – such as basenjis and akitas, and compare that with many orange tabby male cats, who also have reputations for being extremely sociable – our late, great buffett being one.
but even this  generalization may not bear up under scrutiny.
more accurately, dogs are more likely to be motivated by social rewards and punishers.