data source: 2010 firstline team trends study the complete package: do  you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
—dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
(visitdvm360.com/catsvsdogs to read colleagues’ reasons  for why that is.)
“even diseases  with the same name will behave differently in dogs and cats,” he says.
news medical newsphoto galleriesspecial reportsthe dvm360 five medicine internal medicinedermatologybehaviordentistryparasitologysurgeryimage quizzes interactive casesclinical videos businessfinancespersonnelclient relationsformsleadershiprevenuemarket datahospital designbizquizzes team working with clientsworking with the teamworking with doctorsworking on yourself audio and videoformsvideo
and you might not always have the option.
license - del.icio.us - digg - reddit - facebook cats or dogs: what's your preference?
aug 1, 2010 firstline conventional wisdom holds that when it comes to the veterinary business, it’s a dog’s world.
cats may be  gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cast your vote: cats  vs. dogs dvm360.com/catsvsdogs do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
the lowdown on which species veterinarians and veterinary team members prefer to work with, why—and if it matters.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs data source: 2010 veterinary economics state of the industry study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
meaning that the majority of veterinarians and their staff prefer to work with  dogs over cats.
not according to dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp, a san antonio-based  feline practitioner.
but avoid being  pigeonholed in that role or labeled as a dog hater or cat hater.
you can see the shift.
data source: 2010 firstline team trends study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
“you need to work with the species that you feel  most comfortable with,” he says.
not according to dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp, a san antonio-based feline practitioner.
“when i graduated from texas a&m in 1972, most of my classmates came  from a rural background where cats were barn creatures and largely disposable.
doctors prefer to  work with...
centerproductscommunity newstop headlinesmarket trendsassociation newspoliticsregulatory
and you might not always  have the option.
they were  more positive toward cats, probably because they had urban backgrounds and grew  up with cats in their households.
doctors prefer to work with...
just ask the expert: why does this bearded collie have pu/pd?
so go ahead and stake your claim as the dog whisperer or the go-to cat guru at your practice if you prefer working with one species over the other.
my colleagues couldn’t justify spending money on a cat because they could  get a dozen more, and many took that attitude in practice.
related links cats aren't getting the care they deserve america's 5  most wanted dogs fur, feathers, or snouts: treat them all dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups most popular articles 15 time-savers for the whole team top 10 ways to  make your patients hate you 7 morale boosters to pump up your  practice the 5 most difficult veterinary clients more articles
source: firstline, 8/1/2010 click here
my colleagues couldn’t justify spending money on a cat because they could get a dozen more, and many took that attitude in practice.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cast your vote: cats vs. dogs dvm360.com/catsvsdogs the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
is bias a bad thing?
related links cats aren't getting the care they deserve america's 5 most wanted dogs fur, feathers, or snouts: treat them all dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups most popular articles highest-rated cartoon:
doing so will not only make your own  work more enjoyable, it will also better serve your clients and patients.
doing so will not only make your own work more enjoyable, it will also better serve your clients and patients.
canine and feline practice varies significantly, dr. norsworthy says, from  restraint methods to understanding and treating disease.
but over time, a new generation of veterinarians came into the profession.
just because you prefer to work with one species over another right now doesn’t mean you always will or that you dislike the other species.
firstline - search: - dvm360.com - veterinary sites e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise contact us team center featuring information from: - technicians - working with clients - forms - client service for techs - marketing for techs - client communication for techs - client education for techs - client conflict - building the bond - money matters - working with team members - team building - team conflict - team communication - working with patients - patient care - patient welfare - working on yourself - career development for techs - skill builders - continuing education - working efficiently - forms - how-to tips - front office - back office advertisement clinical faqs just ask the expert: should housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
now there are more than  300.”
water fountain 15 time-savers for the whole team top 10 ways to make your patients hate you 7 morale boosters to pump up your practice the 5 most difficult veterinary clients more articles pearls of practice share your tried-and-true tips install a "no cell phone" rule in the exam room spread heartworm awareness with client games spin to win: make dental care fun use bins to store your patients' lost items more articles advertisement hot topics on dvm360 fidopharm readies for heartworm preventive launch next week through wal-mart, sam's club rising pet ownership will boost veterinary services market through 2016, study says follow dvm360 on twitter and facebook more articles advertisement dvm360.comdvm newsmagazineveterinary medicineveterinary economicsfirstlineipad appsubscribece
doctors  prefer to work with...
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cats may be beginning to gain ground
but over  time, a new generation of veterinarians came into the profession.
why does this duck have a foamy eye?
just ask the expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?
and if true, what does it mean for your clients and patients?
blogscartoonshow-to tips the cvc group washington, d.c.kansas city san diegocvc datesloyalty programproceedings exhibitorsinfo packete-mail alerts home | subscribe/renew | contact us | advanstar communications | disclaimer | meeting calendar | site map |
but how accurate is that belief?
cats may be gaining ground cast  your vote: cats vs. dogs data source: 2010 veterinary  economics state of the industry study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
(visitdvm360.com/catsvsdogs to read colleagues’ reasons for why that is.)
plus, clients will appreciate your devotion.
reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited.
license cats or dogs: what's your  preference?
meaning that the majority of veterinarians and their staff prefer to work with dogs over cats.
site index | all content | privacy policy | terms of use | linking and rss policy © 2012
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs is bias a bad thing?
cats or dogs: what's your preference? -
just because  you prefer to work with one species over another right now doesn’t mean  you always will or that you dislike the other species.
“when i graduated from texas a&m in 1972, most of my classmates came from a rural background where cats were barn creatures and largely disposable.
e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar  bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners  associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise  contact us team center featuring information from: technicians just ask the expert: should  housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
they were more positive toward cats, probably because they had urban backgrounds and grew up with cats in their households.
“you need to work with the species that you feel most comfortable with,” he says.
please send any technical comments or questions to our webmaster.
when you focus on one species, you develop a better set of skills for treating  that group.
now there are more than 300.”
when i graduated, there were three feline-only practices in the country.
when you focus on one species, you develop a better set of skills for treating that group.
canine and feline practice varies significantly, dr. norsworthy says, from restraint methods to understanding and treating disease.
but avoid being pigeonholed in that role or labeled as a dog hater or cat hater.
more articles email| print| share | save|
advanstar communications, inc.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote:  cats vs. dogs cats may be beginning to gain ground
so go ahead  and stake your claim as the dog whisperer or the go-to cat guru at your  practice if you prefer working with one species over the other.
when i graduated,  there were three feline-only practices in the country.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs are you team fluffy or team fido?
and if true, what does it  mean for your clients and patients?
more  articles | save|
aug 1,  2010 firstline conventional wisdom holds that  when it comes to the veterinary business, it’s a dog’s world.
the complete package: do you prefer to  work with dogs or cats in your practice?
the lowdown on which species veterinarians and veterinary team  members prefer to work with, why—and if it matters.
just ask the  expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask  the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?
“even diseases with the same name will behave differently in dogs and cats,” he says.