give your dog and cat reasons to like each other.
in addition, your cat should not have to pass or dodge your dog to get to food and water bowls or litter pans.
introduce your cat to your dog when your dog is tired, resting, or sleeping.
* use a front-clip body harness or head halter when introducing your dog to your cat, and make sure to have your dog on a leash.
introduce your cat to your dog when your dog is tired, resting, or  sleeping.
cats love kindness and positive reinforcement and are very amenable to behavior modification too.
knowing how to prevent problems and t... keyword search:  dogs and cats can live together, alana stevenson, animal scent is important,  banishment in training, dogs and cats together, helpful guidelines, helpful  suggestions, pet rewards, pet training, positive reinforcement for pets,  restrain your dog, training your dog the humane way get innerself updates
reward your dog any time he looks away from your cat.
living with more than  one dog can be a rewarding experience.
some dogs need training to be around kitties.
feeling accepted seems to feature so highly in our lives.
when you ask someone a personal question, do you sit back and… slow down!
natural therapies all have their place in the… general world predictions (2012 - 2032) by diana cooper.
if your dog cannot relax, teach your dog to  back away, or temporarily remove your dog from the room.
this is unnecessary and not fair to either animal — especially your kitty.
reward your cat for being friendly to your dog or for ignoring him.
if you have a dog who is shy, fearful, or timid and a kitty who is  territorial, confident, or aggressive, reverse some of these suggestions.
train your dog using positive  reinforcement when your cat is in the room.
interrupt and prevent your kitty from being aggressive to your dog, and reward  your dog for showing calm, confident behavior around your cat.
scent is very important to animals.
her website is www.alanastevenson.com.
prevent your dog from chasing your cat by immediately interrupting your  dog and redirecting him to a more appropriate behavior, such as coming to you,  chewing on a toy, or lying down.
this establishes a  positive association between them and gives them a reason to like each other.
when it dries, pet your animals.
teach your dog polite manners.
reward your dog for ignoring your cat, and if possible, for lying down  and relaxing.
she is a  professional member of the animal behavior society, association of animal  behavior professionals, association of pet dog trainers, and the international  association of animal massage and bodywork.
your cat should not be relegated to the basement  or bedroom.
if your dog barks at your cat, remove him from the room.
if you frequently wear a perfume, cologne, or lotion, rub it on your skin.
when your dog is calm and mild-mannered around your cat, your cat will be relaxed around your dog.
joomla template created with artisteer.
if your dog still cannot be trusted around your cat after you have followed the above suggestions, seek the help of a qualified humane dog trainer or animal behaviorist.
treat and feed your kitty when your dog is nearby.
in addition, your cat should not have to pass or dodge your dog to get to  food and water bowls or litter pans.
bring him back  in and reward him for being calm, friendly, and gentle, or for ignoring your  cat.
unfortunately, when people introduce dogs to cats, the usual scenario is  that the dog chases the cat, and the cat ends up hiding in the basement or  closet or under the bed.
if your dog and kitty smell similar to you and to each other, they may bond more quickly.
her articles on humane training and  behavior modification have appeared inamerican dog, nova, dog magazine,  and the uk-basedk9 magazine.
do not bring your cat over to your dog or force or push an interaction.
these add vertical territory for your cat and will make your kitty feel safer  around your dog.
do not bring your  cat over to your dog or force or push an interaction.
in an astonishing running of his mouth, has rick… getting the right note we've all had moments when someone was rude and we didn't know how to respond… you are a miracle!
the deepest mystery, and perhaps the one for which… natural therapies for a dog with arthritis by shawn messonnier, dvm.
prevent any negative interactions or  altercations from occurring, and manage the environment so that your dog can be  rewarded for showing friendly, nonthreatening behaviors.
now - chris hayes - up - john stewart daily show - others - bill moyers - peace - wars - 9-11 and post 9-11 - book reviews - related - historical - documents - famous speeches - founding fathers - community - shop at innerself - daily inspiration - innerself news - how to help innerself - advertising - article submissions - email subscriptions - shop amazon - author pages - innerself newsletters - login - contact us - search you are here: home living leisure and creativity pets & you dogs & cats can live together dogs & cats can live together written by alana stevenson | | it can take time for dogs and cats who have never met to acclimate to each other, but many dogs and cats can coexist peacefully and happily together, and great friendships can develop between them.
let your dog and cat get used to each other’s smells through a closed door.
it will prevent your dog from chasing your cat and will allow you to reward him for behaving gently around your kitty.
this time he's created a movie trailer for a movie… when badenov is good enough
the big picture - amy goodman democracy
do not introduce your dog to  your cat if your dog has not had any exercise.
if your dog cannot relax, teach your dog to back away, or temporarily remove your dog from the room.
author pages daily inspiration donations horoscope innerself login innerself news submissions copyright ©2012
your dog should not have access to litter boxes or to your cat’s  food.
treat and feed your  kitty when your dog is nearby.
living with more than one dog can be a rewarding experience.
let your dog and cat get used to each other’s smells through a  closed door.
this article was excerpted with permission from the book: training your dog the humane way: simple teaching tips for resolving problem behaviors and raising a happy dog by alana stevenson.
then allow your dog  back into the room and reward him for being calm, friendly and relaxed, and for  ignoring your cat.
alana helps people resolve behavioral problems in their dogs and cats humanely — without using aversive techniques, or pinch, choke, or shock collars.
invest in a few good cat trees or cat condos.
your dog may need to be fully managed or supervised around your kitty, or completely separated from your cat.
if your cat is afraid of your dog, feed them in separate rooms.
bring him back in and reward him for being calm, friendly, and gentle, or for ignoring your cat.
testimonials - personal growth - personal growth general - life purpose - dream interpretation - intuition - healthy - food & nutrition - general nutrition - healing diets - recipes - beverages - desserts - dips & dressings - entrees - general recipes - salads - soups - vegetarian & vegan - wheat-free - vegetarianism - disciplines - aromatherapy - ayurveda - chinese medicine - energy healing - flower essences - general disciplines - homeopathy - massage therapy - diseases & conditions - acne - addiction - aging - allergies - arthritis - asthma - cancer - depression - fatigue - general diseases - headaches & migraines - heart disease - high blood pressure - immune system - insomnia - menopause - mental health - pain - vision - attitudes & healing - environmental - faith & healing - fitness & exercise - general health - health research - health resources - health testimonials - herbs & supplements - men's health - self-healing - weight loss - women's health - book reviews health - guides - relationships - aloneness - alternative - children & youth - communication - communities - parenting - communication - education - indigos & etc - parenting attitudes - parenting general - sexuality - values - add and adhd - dating - divorce & separation - family - intimacy - marriage & commitment - relationship testimonials - relationships general - sexuality - alternative - sexual attitudes - sex education - general sexuality - guides - illness & disease -
these add vertical territory for your cat and will make your kitty feel safer around your dog.
if your dog  does not chase or pursue your cat, he should be given a fantastic reward.
this protects  your cat and makes him feel more confident.
you may also like  living with more than one dog... by alana stevenson.
this article was excerpted with permission from the book: training your dog the humane way: simple teaching tips for  resolving problem behaviors and raising a happy dog by  alana stevenson.
alana helps people resolve behavioral  problems in their dogs and cats humanely — without using aversive  techniques, or pinch, choke, or shock collars.
recipes relationships self-healing social & political spirituality body & bath books cards, calendars, etc gifts & such health & beauty home & garden jewelry & crystals music videos wellness tools how to help innerself advertising articles on innerself attitude shoppe
if  your cat is afraid of your dog, feed them in separate rooms.
keep the leash relaxed and  practice good leash skills.
click here for more info and/or to order this book.
if your dog does not chase or pursue your cat, he should be given a fantastic reward.
feed them extra-good  food and treats when they see each other.
if your dog has  just run a few miles or played ball in the park for an hour, he will be calmer,  less energetic, and more relaxed around your cat.
a forecast is the likely outcome based on the situation and… being real, being happy: letting go of the "perfect image" by nicola phoenix.
we… sprouting & dehydrating: seeds, nuts and sprouts by louisa l. williams, m.s., d.c., n.d. nuts have numerous enzyme inhibitors… whole child approach to successful parenting by dr. caron goode.
prevent your dog from chasing your cat by immediately interrupting your dog and redirecting him to a more appropriate behavior, such as coming to you, chewing on a toy, or lying down.
we… easy way, hard way: letting go of struggle by julia rogers hamrick.
feed them extra-good food and treats when they see each other.
starting from a good place *
innerself publications.
reward your dog any time he looks away from your  cat.
this way you can create a “communal” odor.
it is hard to stop hurrying mentally toward the next… how to heal a painful family relationship by mary hayes grieco.
* play with your dog quietly when your kitty is in the room.
below are some helpful guidelines and suggestions to follow to introduce a dog and cat to each other.
be sure to give your kitty plenty of attention scent is important to animals *
dogs love the company of other dogs.
then listen by joyce vissell.
in a wooden warehouse in this industrial suburb, the 20th… france seeks to cut pesticide use in half by tom philpott.
cats love kindness and  positive reinforcement and are very amenable to behavior modification too.
this is unnecessary and not fair to either animal  — especially your kitty.
if your dog still cannot be trusted around your cat after you have  followed the above suggestions, seek the help of a qualified humane dog trainer  or animal behaviorist.
this will give you more control.
your cat should not be relegated to the basement or bedroom.
while your dog is sleeping or resting, feed your cat treats on the cat condo or sofa, or pet and brush your kitty on your lap.
your dog may need to be fully managed or supervised  around your kitty, or completely separated from your cat.
keep the leash relaxed and practice good leash skills.
if you have a dog who is shy, fearful, or timid and a kitty who is territorial, confident, or aggressive, reverse some of these suggestions.
her articles on humane training and behavior modification have appeared inamerican dog, nova, dog magazine, and the uk-basedk9 magazine.
olive oil comes in many forms: regular, virgin, and extra virgin, and of course… immigration from mexico in fast retreat census figures show that fewer people are leaving and many are returning as a… innerself daily inspiration reading the daily inspiration has become a very important part of my day...
this will teach your dog how to behave and to listen to you when your cat is present.
reward your cat  for being friendly to your dog or for ignoring him.
* make sure your kitty has extra territory and places to go to feel safe and to get away from your dog.
about the author alana stevenson is a professional dog and cat behaviorist, humane dog  trainer, and animal massage therapist based in the boston area.
helpful guidelines & suggestions * designate a room or location in the house that is entirely your cat’s territory.
you are here: home living leisure and  creativity pets & you dogs & cats can live together dogs & cats can live together written by alana stevenson |  | it can take time for dogs and cats who have never met to acclimate to each  other, but many dogs and cats can coexist peacefully and happily together, and  great friendships can develop between them.
below are some helpful guidelines and suggestions to follow to  introduce a dog and cat to each other.
she is a professional member of the animal behavior society, association of animal behavior professionals, association of pet dog trainers, and the international association of animal massage and bodywork.
other dogs need strict management.
when you are not there to supervise, your dog and cat should be separated  until you know they will behave well with each other.
about the author alana stevenson is a professional dog and cat behaviorist, humane dog trainer, and animal massage therapist based in the boston area.
teach your dog that he is not allowed in this area.
it didn’t take long for manuel garcía murillo, a bricklayer… modern-day noah's ark for books in print by david streitfeld.
do not introduce your dog to your cat if your dog has not had any exercise.
the only kind of action that works in easy world is… james cameron & national geographic: 7 miles under the sea national geographic explorer-in-residence and filmmaker james cameron has… protesters occupy state capitol in sacramento - 72
if your kitty is less likely to  run, your dog will be less likely to chase.
prevent any negative interactions or altercations from occurring, and manage the environment so that your dog can be rewarded for showing friendly, nonthreatening behaviors.
some dogs are very gentle with kitties and actually prefer the company of cats to that of other dogs.
this protects your cat and makes him feel more confident.
* use a front-clip body harness or head halter when introducing your dog to  your cat, and make sure to have your dog on a leash.
if your dog  and kitty smell similar to you and to each other, they may bond more quickly.
the only kind of action that works in easy world is… how to listen: ask...
when your dog is calm and mild-mannered around  your cat, your cat will be relaxed around your dog.
when you are not there to supervise, your dog and cat should be separated until you know they will behave well with each other.
reward your dog for showing calm behavior.
our relationships with parents, children, siblings, and… getting rid of road rage: start where you are by ashley davis bush, lcsw.
over in france, a farmer has successfully sued monsanto for… is your olive oil really a virgin?
train your dog using positive reinforcement when your cat is in the room.
reward your dog for ignoring your cat, and if possible, for lying down and relaxing.
reprinted with permission of the publisher, new world library.
unfortunately, when people introduce dogs to cats, the usual scenario is that the dog chases the cat, and the cat ends up hiding in the basement or closet or under the bed.
if you frequently wear a perfume, cologne, or lotion, rub it on your  skin.
in 2006, the hpv vaccine gardasil was introduced to a public generally unaware… volunteers save their town from disaster by suzanne daley.
this is a good time to provide your dog with a chew toy, treat  ball, or other food-dispensing toy.
helpful guidelines & suggestions * designate a room or location in the house that is entirely your  cat’s territory.
you may also like living with more than one dog... by alana stevenson.
if we knew that our children were our planetary and… the people grow restless with the absurd behavior of angry white men a common thread in recent events is the increased use of the power of the… easy way, hard way: letting go of struggle by julia rogers hamrick.
interrupt and prevent your kitty from being aggressive to your dog, and reward your dog for showing calm, confident behavior around your cat.
just for men - just for women - sex & religion - tantric - book reviews relationships - friendship - spirituality - meditation - awareness - beginner meditation - breathing - meditation general - love & compassion - other methods - releasing the past - specific meditations - book reviews meditation - angels - death & dying - general spirituality - inspiration - life after death - metaphysics - native american - prayer - religions & beliefs - buddhism - jesus & christianity - religions general - spiritualitytestimonials - social & political - activism - elections - environment - general - reforms - trends - commentators - thom hartmann
then allow your dog back into the room and reward him for being calm, friendly and relaxed, and for ignoring your cat.
arrested the rally, which was supported by uc berkeley administrators and the uc student… the hpv vaccine: one less girl? or one more death?
innerself.com new attitudes - new possibilities - home - living - finance and careers - career management - general finance - personal finance - prosperity - success - leisure and creativity - creativity - fiction - general leisure - humor - general humor - swami beyondananda - funny after all - pets & you - film reviews - documentary - science & technology - home and garden - did you know - living general - self-help - healthy - relationships - spirituality - social and political - self-help - astrology - astrology signs - all signs - aries - taurus - gemini - cancer - leo - virgo - libra - scorpio - sagittarius - capricorn - aquarius - pisces - beginner - chinese astrology - eastern astrology - eclipses - general astrology - health - horoscope - houses - moon/lunar - parenting astrology - planets - psychological - relationships - retrogrades - spiritual astrology - transits - behavior modification - attitudes - attitudes general - gratitude - attitudes transformed - anger management - fear and worry - perfectionism - counseling - creating realities - general behavior - life changes - mindfulness - performance - self-help - testimonials behavior - book reviews
knowing how to prevent problems and t... keyword search: dogs and cats can live together, alana stevenson, animal scent is important, banishment in training, dogs and cats together, helpful guidelines, helpful suggestions, pet rewards, pet training, positive reinforcement for pets, restrain your dog, training your dog the humane way get innerself updates your email: first name: enter the text as it appears on the image select lists: daily inspiration weekly newsletter translate (opens in new page)
in case you haven't been seeing any humor in the current political ads, here's… santorum shows why voters in 2006 turned him out by 18 points duh, what was i thinking?
while your dog is sleeping or resting, feed your cat treats on the  cat condo or sofa, or pet and brush your kitty on your lap.
javascript is required to use this free translator, website translator select languageenglisharabicchinese (simplified)dutchfrenchgermanhindiitalianjapanesekoreannorwegianportuguese russianspanishswedish - funny after all - latest - did you know are you sick of ‘highly paid’ teachers?
* make sure your kitty has extra territory and places to go to feel safe  and to get away from your dog.
some  dogs need training to be around kitties.
teachers’ hefty salaries are driving up taxes, and they only work 9 or10 months… jimmy kimmel's: "movie: the movie" jimmy kimmel dit it again!
if your kitty is less likely to run, your dog will be less likely to chase.
please share this article...
this way you can create a  “communal” odor.
it will prevent your dog from chasing your cat and will allow you to  reward him for behaving gently around your kitty.
feed your cat and dog at the same time so they can see each other.
this establishes a positive association between them and gives them a reason to like each other.
rewards & positive reinforcement *
exercise your dog before introducing him to your cat.
more articles by this author.
www.newworldlibrary.com.
latest newsletters natural therapies for a dog with arthritis by shawn messonnier, dvm.
look at the people in other cars in front of you,… article topics attitude shoppe community quick favorites behavior changes dream interpretation finance and careers fitness & exercise feng shui food and nutrition happiness and self-help health and healing horoscope and astrology intuition and awareness leisure and creativity meditation parenting pets and you prosperity and success
this will give you more  control.
if your dog has just run a few miles or played ball in the park for an hour, he will be calmer, less energetic, and more relaxed around your cat.
a reader click to subscribe.
* always place your kitty on higher surfaces than your dog.
some dogs are very gentle with  kitties and actually prefer the company of cats to that of other dogs.
this will teach your dog how to  behave and to listen to you when your cat is present.
restraints & banishment *
beat time by slowing down by wendy lustbader, msw.
this is a good time to provide your dog with a chew toy, treat ball, or other food-dispensing toy.
the mysticism and mystery of life by dennis merritt jones.
your dog should not have access to litter boxes or to your cat’s food.