by providing solid research on how substantial numbers of tourists are negatively affected by such suffering, we can gain the support of the travel industry to use their global economic and political clout to make lasting and sustainable changes for these animals at international tourist destinations.”
we just completed the first project with the animal rights coalition (arc) in minneapolis, which showed that diners in the twin cities overwhelmingly oppose force-feeding geese and ducks to produce foie gras.
to be able to help another small group this year, we need to raise at least $2,300 for the grassroots research fund by july 1st.
sincerely, che green ps: do you prefer to donate without using a credit card?
did you find this research helpful in your work for animals?
after learning about how foie gras is produced, nearly half (45%) of  respondents said they would avoid dining at restaurants that serve foie gras.
the first project to be completed under hrc’s grassroots research  fund was in partnership with the animal rights coalition in minneapolis,  minnesota.
we receive numerous emails  daily from concerned tourists who have had a heartbreaking experience with a  stray animal while on vacation.
to be  able to help another small group this year, we need to raise at least $2,300  for the grassroots research fund by july 1st.
the first project to be completed under hrc’s grassroots research fund was in partnership with the animal rights coalition in minneapolis, minnesota.
here’s a summary: get the details from our blog and see the full report on hrc’s humanespot.org.
see below for more about these organizations and pro bono projects.
thank you for helping hrc help grassroots animal advocates be more effective!
hrc happily accepts donations via check as well as contributions of stock and bequests.
candi’s mission is to save the lives of stray cats and dogs in the caribbean and mexico through spay, neuter, adoption and educational programs.
foie gras is made from the enlarged livers of force-fed ducks and geese and is considered by many to be one of the cruelest foods currently on the market.
answer: they’re both getting a little more protection thanks to  hrc’s grassroots research fund.
the group’s “forego foie gras” campaign seeks to end the sale and production of foie gras in the twin cities area of minneapolis/st. paul.
candi’s focused approach and excellent application made them an ideal fit  for the grassroots research fund.
we provide free research services to two small animal organizations each  year, more if we have the funds (donate now!).
small animal organizations have the same needs as larger groups, including  access to research to improve their messages and programs.
the group’s “forego foie gras” campaign seeks to  end the sale and production of foie gras in the twin cities area of  minneapolis/st. paul.
share/print | what do geese and stray dogs have in common?
nearly half (44%) of respondents  indicated that they had never heard of foie gras.
stay tuned for the results of our work with candi.
the  twin cities want to forego foie gras
we provide free research services to two small animal organizations each year, more if we have the funds (donate now!).
hrc is excited to announce that we will be partnering with cats and dogs international (candi) to evaluate the influence that stray and suffering animals have on tourists.
submitted by  carol l. glasser on mar 20, 2012 companion animals | farmed animals | general  animal protection did you receive hrc's newsletter today?
we are also very excited to announce the latest recipient: candi –  cats and dogs international, which works with the travel industry to reduce  animal suffering in tourist destinations.
» more information about formatting options please support nonprofit research for animals
we are also very excited to announce the latest recipient: candi – cats and dogs international, which works with the travel industry to reduce animal suffering in tourist destinations.
but most small groups don’t have the funds for research, which is why hrc created our grassroots research fund.
what do geese and stray dogs have in common?
most twin cities residents are unfamiliar with foie gras, indicating a  need for education about foie gras production.
see below for more about these  organizations and pro bono projects.
animal tracker launching soon humanespot.org's most popular (and important) items of 2010 spotlight on hrc's independent research hrc’s free research primer series humanespot.org: a little something for every animal advocate post new comment e-mail  the content of this field is  kept private and will not be shown publicly.
get the details from our blog and see the full report on hrc’s  humanespot.org.
small animal organizations have the same needs as larger groups, including access to research to improve their messages and programs.
candi’s mission is to save the lives of stray cats and dogs in the  caribbean and mexico through spay, neuter, adoption and educational programs.
hrc will work with them to evaluate the perceptions and opinions of tourists who have traveled in areas where stray animals are common.
the final survey is representative of adults in the minneapolis and st. paul metropolitan areas and it finds an overwhelming lack of support for foie gras as a food item.
according to darci galati, president and founder of candi: “we are thrilled and grateful that the humane research  council has selected our project for this grant.
candi selected as next pro  bono project hrc is excited to announce that we will be partnering with cats and dogs  international (candi) to evaluate the influence that stray and suffering  animals have on tourists.
to increase their effectiveness, they sought to understand knowledge of and  attitudes toward foie gras among twin cities diners.
email this blog entry year four of hrc's
if you didn't receive the newsletter, make sure you are registered user of  humanespot.org.
please contact us to discuss options.
hrc was excited to help a well-organized, focused and driven campaign by creating and administering the twin cities dining survey, which covered knowledge, attitudes, and the general dining habits of twin cities residents.
by providing solid research on how substantial  numbers of tourists are negatively affected by such suffering, we can gain the  support of the travel industry to use their global economic and political clout  to make lasting and sustainable changes for these animals at international  tourist destinations.”
we just completed the first  project with the animal rights coalition (arc) in minneapolis, which showed  that diners in the twin cities overwhelmingly oppose force-feeding geese and  ducks to produce foie gras.
read below to see how andplease make a  tax-free donation to the fund today!
another 31% of respondents said that they would avoid doing so under certain  circumstances.
candi works to bring tourism businesses together with local animal welfare groups to implement programs that humanely address the issue of cat and dog overpopulation in destination communities.
hrc happily  accepts donations via check as well as contributions of stock and bequests.
according to darci galati, president and founder of candi: “we are thrilled and grateful that the humane research council has selected our project for this grant.
if so, please consider a donation to the humane research council to help us with the costs of maintaining, expanding, and improving humanespot.org.
candi works to bring tourism businesses together with  local animal welfare groups to implement programs that humanely address the  issue of cat and dog overpopulation in destination communities.
thank you for  helping hrc help grassroots animal advocates be more effective!
please make a donation of $15, $25, $50, or even $100 today!
to increase their effectiveness, they sought to understand knowledge of and attitudes toward foie gras among twin cities diners.
hrc will work with them to evaluate the  perceptions and opinions of tourists who have traveled in areas where stray  animals are common.
though most of our resources are free to everyone, registered users get additional free benefits, such as full access to our research database and the ability to download hrc reports.
hrc was excited to help a  well-organized, focused and driven campaign by creating and administering the  twin cities dining survey, which covered knowledge, attitudes, and the general  dining habits of twin cities residents.
your donation is both tax-deductible and greatly appreciated.
but most small  groups don’t have the funds for research, which is why hrc created our  grassroots research fund.
if you didn't receive the newsletter, make sure you are registered user of humanespot.org.
arc is already using this research to save animals.
read below to see how andplease make a tax-free donation to the fund today!
candi’s focused approach and excellent application made them an ideal fit for the grassroots research fund.
the final survey is representative of  adults in the minneapolis and st. paul metropolitan areas and it finds an  overwhelming lack of support for foie gras as a food item.
though most of our resources are free to everyone, registered  users get additional free benefits, such as full access to our research  database and the ability to download hrc reports.
hrc needs your help to work with more small animal groups in 2012!
answer: they’re both getting a little more protection thanks to hrc’s grassroots research fund.
foie gras is made from the enlarged livers of force-fed  ducks and geese and is considered by many to be one of the cruelest foods  currently on the market.
if you missed it, here it is.
did you receive hrc's newsletter today?
so what did we find?
we receive numerous emails daily from concerned tourists who have had a heartbreaking experience with a stray animal while on vacation.
here’s a summary: three-quarters (74%) of twin cities residents support a ban on foie gras  production in the state of minnesota.