some people are interested in a very specific breed of dog, cat, puppy or kitten and they think the only way to find that specific breed is to buy a dog for sale or buy a cat for sale from a puppy breeder or a kitten breeder.
once  that is is completed, we do a home visit.
we like to do or own home visits  and therefore prefer to adopt to those within 2 hrs of nyc...............
dog adoption and cat adoption  saves lives.
we tend to  specialize in special needs dogs.
if we  don't have the right dog for you, we will help you find it
we started off doing  rescue and moved into training.
we get to know our dogs very well and take great pride in matching the right dog with the right family.
yet animal shelters are filled with dogs and cats  who must find homes.
contact us, or contact another local humane society, animal shelter or spca.
if we do not  respond, please write back it is never intentional.
what is the difference between adopting a dog,  adopting a cat, adopting a kitten or adopting a puppy versus getting dogs for  sale, cats for sale, puppies for sale or kittens for sale from a dog breeder or  a cat breeder?
our adoption  process  there is an application to fill out.
some people are interested in a very  specific breed of dog, cat, puppy or kitten and they think the only way to find  that specific breed is to buy a dog for sale or buy a cat for sale from a puppy  breeder or a kitten breeder.
our adoption process there is an application to fill out.
we started with deaf dogs and now work with  blind dogs and also blind deaf dogs.
all dogs are fully vaccinated, altered,  micro-chipped and heartworm tested.
there is also an adoption contract to  sign.
when someone is breeding puppies or breeding kittens, they are creating new dogs and cats who need homes.
all dogs are fully vaccinated, altered, micro-chipped and heartworm tested.
fees range from $200.00 -$250.00 (but  we do make special considerations)
meetings are by appointment only.
it would be ideal if the dog could remain in your home until a foster or  placement is found, otherwise we require a financial contribution to cover  boarding and medical costs.
fosters, volunteers, sponsors and  contributions welcome helps us help those who are really in need come meet  our pets  pets can be seen on the internet, and at a kennel in brooklyn, and  sometimes at a kennel in pa.
we encourage you to  take your time before adopting.
it would be ideal if the dog could remain in your home until a foster or placement is found, otherwise we require a financial contribution to cover boarding and medical costs.
adopt a dog or adopt a cat and you'll have a friend for life!
so rather than buying a dog or puppy for sale from a dog  breeder or buying a cat or kitten for sale from a cat breeder, we encourage  people to adopt a dog, adopt a cat, adopt a puppy or adopt a kitten at their  local animal shelter, spca, humane society or pet rescue group.
we usually respond to inquiries within a couple days.
so rather than buying a dog or puppy for sale from a dog breeder or buying a cat or kitten for sale from a cat breeder, we encourage people to adopt a dog, adopt a cat, adopt a puppy or adopt a kitten at their local animal shelter, spca, humane society or pet rescue group.
support adoption and rescue.
references are required.
once that is is completed, we do a home visit.
fees range from $200.00 -$250.00
we love seniors too http://www.animalalliancenyc.org/newsletter/2010-07/blinddeaf.htm
fosters, volunteers, sponsors and contributions welcome helps us help those who are really in needcome meet our pets pets can be seen on the internet, and at a kennel in brooklyn, and sometimes at a kennel in pa.
several meetings, fostering.
(but we do make special considerations)
why go to a dog breeder, cat breeder or pet  store to buy a dog or buy a cat when you can adopt?
when someone is breeding puppies or breeding kittens, they are  creating new dogs and cats who need homes.
yet animal shelters are filled with dogs and cats who must find homes.
dog adoption and cat adoption saves lives.
our main objective is to  help keep your dog in your home through training and management.
(a better dog, training and consulting, apdt#  62321, harriet is a certified trainer www.ccpdt.org)
what is the difference between adopting a dog, adopting a cat, adopting a kitten or adopting a puppy versus getting dogs for sale, cats for sale, puppies for sale or kittens for sale from a dog breeder or a cat breeder?
we get quite  attached to our adoptees and encourage adopters to keep us posted on their new  pet dog adoption and cat adoption saves lives.
but there are always special cases red hook dog rescue  about  our rescue group  red hook dog rescue is not a shelter.
adopt a dog or adopt a cat and  you'll have a friend for life!
we serve the following cities, towns, and/or counties: new york  city, all 5 boroughs, parts of pa, nj, ct
we get to know our dogs very well and take great pride in matching the  right dog with the right family.
we know this is not always possible, so we can help you re-home your dog.
red hook dog rescue click here to see our pets or click here to  see all local dogs,click here to see all local cats, click here to see all  local other pets to find another local animal shelter, humane society,  spca, dog rescue or cat rescueclick here red hook dog rescue brooklyn, ny 11231 hszucker@mac.com