some cats prefer to scratch horizontally and some vertically.
- find new games to play with your cat such as hiding food in new and different areas, so your cat knows to search for it.
this can keep your dog busy and out of trouble.
environmental enrichment is a great way to prevent problems and is an important  part of caring for your pet.
see ourresources page for more  information.
some would  also benefit from agility training.
please mention any behavioral concerns at your next exam.
client education / pet medical information :  environmental enrichment processing ....
basic training can help alleviate your dog's boredom and improve your relation with him/her.
this will give your dog something exciting several hours after you have left for the day.
increase - wellness plans - zoonotic diseaseas - new page 186 - appointments - current clients - new clients - hospital policies - forms - rx refill - resources - international pet travel - flying with your pet - veterinary nutrition center - about us - our doctors - our staff - services - privacy policy - aaha accreditation - hours - computer system - links - contact us - client feedback - emergencies - change of address - adopt a pet - laser surgery - pet news - other features - patient/client surveys - employment - pet stories, humor, and videos - buried in treasure - catholic dogs go to heaven - dog owners... warning!
- toys that allow you to hide some of your dog's food inside, making your dog work for his meal.
they serve two different and important purposes.
they also prefer different materials: cardboard, carpet, fabric, wood, or rope.
ideas for cats: have exercise play sessions every single day.
please mention any behavioral  concerns at your next exam.
like cats, dogs often appreciate music or some other  type of sound.
avenue seattle, wa 98122 (206)322-5444 email: reception@broadwayvh.com broadway veterinary hospital client education / pet medical information : environmental enrichment processing ....
basic training can help  alleviate your dog's boredom and improve your relation with him/her.
rotate your dog's toys so that s/he does not become bored  with it.
- make sure your cat has places to scratch.
(please adjust your dog's meals accordingly so that your dog is not over-fed.)
- be sure that your dog has both toys to play with and items to chew on.
toys that allow you to hide some of your dog's food inside, making your  dog work for his meal.
- like cats, dogs often appreciate music or some other type of sound.
ideas for dogs: different breeds of dogs need different amounts of excercise and mental stimulation.
this is important for all cats and dogs, but especially for cats and dogs who are indoor-only and pets that are left alone while you are work.
a toilet paper tube some dried rice or beans in a film container a few kibble inside a plastic easter egg a toy or a bit of cardboard attached to the end of an old fishing pool  (just be sure there is no hook!)
indoor-only cats  can become bored or lazy.
some would also benefit from agility training.
cat toys do not have to be expensive.
find new games to play with your cat such as hiding food  in new and different areas, so your cat knows to search for it.
environmental enrichment for cats and dogs environmental  enrichment consists of ways to make sure that your pet's needs are met.
- you can also take some of your dog's canned food and put it in a toy, such as a kong toy, and then freeze it.
a very thorough and interesting web site.
- cat toys do not have to be expensive.
indoor-only cats can become bored or lazy.
environmental enrichment resources for cats: ohio state university's indoor cat initiative explains the importance of  environmental enrichment, cat's needs, problem solving and more.
environmental enrichment resources for cats: - ohio state university's indoor cat initiative explains the importance of environmental enrichment, cat's needs, problem solving and more.
broadway veterinary hospital, located in the heart of seattle, is a well-established veterinary practice providing complete veterinary care: routine exams, vaccines, dentals, and laser surgery.
- consider having someone come by to walk your dog during the middle of the day.
- critter chatter provides more environmental enrichment ideas, including some easy to make toys.
- be careful choosing toy's for your dog and please remember that no toy is indestructible.
a very  thorough and interesting web site.
this is  important for all cats and dogs, but especially for cats and dogs who are  indoor-only and pets that are left alone while you are work.
some cat favorites are: - paper bags with the end rolled up, so that cats can get inside - a crumpled up piece of paper - a toilet paper tube - some dried rice or beans in a film container - a few kibble inside a plastic easter egg - a toy or a bit of cardboard attached to the end of an old fishing pool (just be sure there is no hook!)
- leave the radio on or the tv on a nature channel, or a repeatingcatnip video for your cat to watch.
leave the radio on or the tv on a nature channel, or a  repeatingcatnip video for your cat to watch.
206.322.5444 - home - order products online - client education / pet medical information - asthma/respiration problems - cardiovascular testing - dental home care - dentistry with anesthesia - diabetes (cats) - diabetes (dogs) - diet/nutrition - dogs with drug sensitivities - ear disease - causes of ear disease - evaluation of the patient with ear disease - treating the patient with ear disease - anesthetized ear flushing - end-of-life care and grief & loss - environmental enrichment - fecal sample, how to collect - fecal tests - felv/fiv - flea control - heartworm - home cooking - homeagain microchips - household hazards - hyperthyroidism (cats) - important news about treating hyperthyroid cats - inappropriate urination recommendations - kidney failure - cats - kidney failure - dogs - kidney insufficiency - cats - kidney insufficiency - dogs - laboratory assessment descriptions - liver disease - cats - medicating pets - non-anesthetic dental cleanings - overweight pets - oxalate bladder stones/crystals (dogs) - pets and immune-compromised people - puppy behavior - primary socialization period - optimal socialization and fear socialization - juvenile socialization period - protective aggressive social period - bite inhibition in puppies - chewing prevention - earned petting for puppies - housetraining - jumping prevention - reconcile - for separation anxiety in dogs - senior care - stress and anxiety - struvite crystals (cats) - urine sample: how to collect - vaccines - videos - water consumption,
also, vertical scratching posts need to be tall enough and sturdy enough for your cat to stretch out completely and not knock it over.
this will allow your cat  to "hunt" for his/her food.
- dogs vs. cats - molly - single black female - videos - where do cats sleep?
environmental enrichment is a great way to prevent problems and is an important part of caring for your pet.
this will allow your cat to "hunt" for his/her food.
also, vertical scratching  posts need to be tall enough and sturdy enough for your cat to stretch out  completely and not knock it over.
ideas for cats: - have exercise play sessions every single day.
- leave different cat toys out on different days, so there are new objects for your cat to play with.
some cat favorites  are: paper bags with the end rolled up, so that cats can get inside a crumpled up piece of paper
if your cat or dog is destructive, please remember that there may be an underlying medical reason.
some cats  prefer to scratch horizontally and some vertically.
make sure your cat has places to scratch.
serving downtown seattle, capitol hill, eastlake, and westlake and more.
critter chatter provides more environmental enrichment ideas, including  some easy to make toys.
dogs left alone can become bored and destructive.
- let your cats have shelves or a cat tree to climb upward.
they also prefer different  materials: cardboard, carpet, fabric, wood, or rope.
you can also take some of your dog's canned food and put it in a toy, such  as a kong toy, and then freeze it.
let your cats have shelves or a cat tree to climb upward.
if your cat or dog is destructive, please remember that  there may be an underlying medical reason.
(please  adjust your dog's meals accordingly so that your dog is not over-fed.)
- why dogs hate halloween - photo album - spread the word - testimonials - site map - search the site - online pharmacy - broadway veterinary hospital 1824 12th
they serve two different and important  purposes.
environmental enrichment for cats and dogs environmental enrichment consists of ways to make sure that your pet's needs are met.
leave different cat toys out on different days, so there  are new objects for your cat to play with.
ideas for dogs: different breeds of dogs need  different amounts of excercise and mental stimulation.
toys such as laser lights can satisfy your cat's natural instinct to chase and hunt.
- rotate your dog's toys so that s/he does not become bored with it.
see ourresources page for more information.
be careful choosing toy's for your dog and please remember that no toy is  indestructible.
be sure that your dog has both toys to play with and items to chew on.
your pet's well-being is our goal!
consider having someone come by to walk your dog during the middle of the  day.
this will give your dog something exciting  several hours after you have left for the day.
try dividing up the food that your cat normally eats during the day  and hiding it on little plates throughout your home.
toys such  as laser lights can satisfy your cat's natural instinct to chase and hunt.
- try dividing up the food that your cat normally eats during the day and hiding it on little plates throughout your home.