dogs are tougher nuts to crack, mostly because breeds vary widely in size,  vocal range and heart rate.
they can learn to recognize a sequence of notes, but if you transpose the notes to a different key, so that the sequence uses the same relative notes but the key is different, they can't recognize the relationships between the notes anymore.
by  contrast, they calmed down and became unusually social in response to a  "tamarin ballad," which incorporatedhappy monkey tones and a slower  tempo.
with this  general rule in mind, snowdon has worked with cellist and composer david teie  to compose music that is tailored to suitthem.
dogs really do understand us best against the conventional wisdom that music is a uniquely human phenomenon,  ongoing research shows that animals actually do have the capacity for  music.
to animals, human music falls into that grating, unrecognizable category.
what music do pets prefer?
a tunepitched too high  or low sounds grating or ungraspable, and music too fast or slow is  unrecognizable as such.
can dogs read our minds?
dogs are tougher nuts to crack, mostly because breeds vary widely in size, vocal range and heart rate.
the song modeled on excited monkey  tones and a fast tempo made the tamarins visibly agitated and active.
lifes little mysteries, a techmedianetwork company.
"we find that cats prefer to listen to the music composed in their  frequency range and tempo rather than human music.
"our own research has shown that dogs certainly behave differently in response to different types of music, e.g., showing behaviors more suggestive of relaxation in response to classical music and behaviors more suggestive of agitation in response to heavy metal music," wells wrote in an email.
"we can recognize that a sequence of notes is the same whether it's  in the key of f or a flat," he said.
corbis many pet owners leave their home radios playing all day for the listening  pleasure of their dogs and cats.
" more from life's little mysteries the 6 craziest animal experiments do animals know right from wrong?
with vocal ranges and heart rates very different from ours, they simply aren't  wired to enjoy songs that are tailored for our ears.
station choices vary.
the songs sound shrill and unpleasant to us, but  they seem to be music to the monkeys' ears.
"we have some work-in-progress where we've transposed music and put it in the frequency range for cat vocalizations, and have used their resting heart rate, which is faster than ours," he told life's little mysteries.
lifes little mysteries, a  techmedianetwork company.
according to snowdon, they lack an important musical ability  that we possess: relative pitch.
"so, it is possible that they might be responsive to music in our frequency range.
the number-one nonfiction media company.
"people assume that if they like mozart, their dog will like  mozart.
click to enlarge this image.
this material may not be  published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
[dogs play the piano in new video] indeed, some dogs do appear to respond emotionally to human music.
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
my prediction is that a big dog might be more responsive to human music than a smaller dog such as a chihuahua," snowdon said.
but no matter how well composers perfect their dog, cat and monkey songs, the animals will probably never appreciate their species-specific music quite as much ashumans appreciate ours.
dogs, humans think, act alike
if they like rock music, they say their dog prefers rock.
with this general rule in mind, snowdon has worked with cellist and composer david teie to compose music that is tailored to suitthem.
"people assume that if they like mozart, their dog will like mozart.
"we have a very human tendency to project onto our pets and assume that they will like what we like," said charles snowdon, an authority on the musical preferences of animals.
however, large dogs such as labradors or mastiffs have vocal ranges that are quite similar to those of adult male humans.
next comments ( ) our sites video shop stay connected corporate image credits corbis copyright © 2012 discovery communications, llc.
enlarge rather than liking classical or rock animals march to the beat of a  different drum altogether.
leaving on classical music or soothing music for your pets might not be  best for them.
according to snowdon, they lack an important musical ability that we possess: relative pitch.
tags: animals, cats, dogs, humans, life tweet
tue mar 20, 2012 12:24 pm et content provided by natalie wolchover,  life's little mysteries ( ) comments | leave a comment tweet the gist animals like species-specific music that is designed using the pitches,  tones and tempos that are familiar to them.
new clues point to 'yes' why do we love music?copyright 2012
they can learn to  recognize a sequence of notes, but if you transpose the notes to a different  key, so that the sequence uses the same relative notes but the key is  different, they can't recognize the relationships between the notes  anymore."
but rather than liking classical or rock, snowdon, an animal psychologist at the university of wisconsin-madison, has discovered that animals march to the beat of a different drum altogether.
with vocal ranges and heart rates very different from ours, they simply aren't wired to enjoy songs that are tailored for our ears.
a tunepitched too high or low sounds grating or ungraspable, and music too fast or slow is unrecognizable as such.
but no matter how  well composers perfect their dog, cat and monkey songs, the animals will  probably never appreciate their species-specific music quite as much ashumans  appreciate ours.
my prediction is that a big dog might be more  responsive to human music than a smaller dog such as a chihuahua," snowdon  said.
considering the great demand for new ways to please our pets, more  progress is likely to be made in the field of animal music.
to animals, human music falls into a grating, unrecognizable category.
the songs sound shrill and unpleasant to us, but they seem to be music to the monkeys' ears.
" on the basis of their results, teie has started selling cat songs online  (at $1.99 per song) through a company called "music for cats."
"we find that cats prefer to listen to the music composed in their frequency range and tempo rather than human music."
humans like music that falls within our acoustic and vocal range, uses tones we understand, and progresses at a tempo similar to that of our heartbeats.
studies show that animals generally respond to human music with a total lack of interest.
snowdon and teie have moved on to composing music for cats, and studying how they respond to it.
with no pun intended, music is all about scale:
"we can recognize that a sequence of notes is the same whether it's in the key of f or a flat," he said.
but rather than liking classical or rock, snowdon, an animal  psychologist at the university of wisconsin-madison, has discovered  that animals march to the beat of a different drum altogether.
humans like music that  falls within our acoustic and vocal range, uses tones we understand, and  progresses at a tempo similar to that of our heartbeats.
considering the great demand for new ways to please our pets, more progress is likely to be made in the field of animal music.
" he added, "to that extent, we understand music in a different way than animals do.
"so, it is possible that they might be responsive to music in our  frequency range.
by contrast, they calmed down and became unusually social in response to a "tamarin ballad," which incorporatedhappy monkey tones and a slower tempo.
"we have some work-in-progress where we've transposed music and put  it in the frequency range for cat vocalizations, and have used their resting  heart rate, which is faster than ours," he told life's little mysteries.
dogs really do understand us best against the conventional wisdom that music is a uniquely human phenomenon, ongoing research shows that animals actually do have the capacity for music.
"we have a very  human tendency to project onto our pets and assume that they will like what we  like," said charles snowdon, an authority on the musical preferences of  animals.
"i have found that animals have very good absolute pitch, but they don't have relative pitch.
research led by deborah wells, a psychologist at queen's university belfast,  shows that dogs can discern between human music of different genres.
back in 2009, the researchers composed two songs for tamarins  — monkeys with vocalizations three octaves higher than our own and  heart rates twice as fast.
"our  own research has shown that dogs certainly behave differently in response to  different types of music, e.g., showing behaviors more suggestive of relaxation  in response to classical music and behaviors more suggestive of agitation in  response to heavy metal music," wells wrote in an email.
studies show that animals  generally respond to human music with a total lack of interest.
back in 2009, the researchers composed two songs for tamarins — monkeys with vocalizations three octaves higher than our own and heart rates twice as fast.
however, large dogs such as labradors or mastiffs  have vocal ranges that are quite similar to those of adult male  humans.
he added, "to that extent, we understand music in a different way  than animals do.
"i have found that animals have  very good absolute pitch, but they don't have relative pitch.
tags: animals, cats, dogs, humans, life next story: was trump sons' zimbabwe hunt legit?
rather than liking classical or rock animals march to the beat of a different drum altogether.
the song modeled on excited monkey tones and a fast tempo made the tamarins visibly agitated and active.
on the basis of their results, teie has started selling cat songs online (at $1.99 per song) through a company called "music for cats."
new clues point to 'yes' why do we love music?
they enjoy  what he calls "species-specific music": tunes specially designed  using the pitches, tones and tempos that are familiar to their particular  species.
snowdon and teie have moved on to composing music for cats, and studying  how they respond to it.
discovery news > animal news  >
you might want to think twice before leaving on that classical music for  your pet when you leave the house.
corbis many pet owners leave their home radios playing all day for the listening pleasure of their dogs and cats.
research led by deborah wells, a psychologist at queen's university belfast, shows that dogs can discern between human music of different genres.
they enjoy what he calls "species-specific music": tunes specially designed using the pitches, tones and tempos that are familiar to their particular species.