eventually, most rabbits and cats get used to each other.
that means, hang out with them in a room where  you can intervene if necessary, but don't intervene unless absolutely  necessary.
make sure that the wire is small enough that felix  can't stick his foot through it.
if  daphne runs, then the cat's instincts tell him something very different than  the laid-back, confrontation-avoiding stance he generally takes to social  situations.
there are also animals who seem to prefer the companionship of species other than their own.
it's much better to go too slowly  and succeed than to push it and stress daphne or have to scold felix.
it's a  start, anyway.
creating a place where cats and rabbits can live together peaceably is a satisfying endeavor.
what seems an unlikely combination, given the predator-prey  context that first comes to mind, is in fact a common and often rewarding  match.
in this or any  situation where the cat chases, the initial acquaintance should take place with  daphne safely in her cage.
a cat who lives with a house rabbit  might still stalk and chase a rabbit he met outdoors.
daphne takes charge, bossing felix, chasing him and generally throwing her weight around.
at our foster home we rescue both cats and  rabbits.
cats play only one game, and it's called hunting.
your veterinarian  can show you how to do this.
when you feel ready to move on, the next step is to give daphne and felix  supervised access to each other.
don't put her in the position of having to get used to new territory, new humans, and new cat all at once.
in an earlier issue we described some of the  friendships that have developed between these two.
all that adorable  behavior with the catnip mouse and the feather-at-the-end-of-a-string is  basically stalk, capture, and deliver the fatal bite.
it usually teaches the cat (a) wait till the humans are away and then torment the rabbit to your heart's content or (b) rabbit=scolding, which is not a good way to begin a friendship.
when you feel ready to move on, the next step is to give daphne and felix supervised access to each other.
amy shapiro a cat and a rabbit really can be friends.
daphne takes charge, bossing felix, chasing him and  generally throwing her weight around.
we need to  figure out who's who in the social hierarchy."
it's generally a good idea to confine a new animal, whether cat or rabbit, to a small area at first, either a cage or a single room.
arrival in a new home is more than enough stress for a rabbit.
a mild swat from an untrimmed claw can give your  bunny an undetected scratch that may later blossom into an abscess.
the second is that even if daphne has a feline friend, she  could still be terrorized by an unfamiliar cat.
we need to figure out who's who in the social hierarchy."
if you find you're resorting to the water-pistol frequently, that means you've moved ahead too soon.
fundamentally social or pack animals such as rabbits, dogs, and humans are much more concerned with hierarchy-with who's in charge, who's top dog-than animals who are programmed to live on their own.
the key is to remove that stereotype from your mind and, more  importantly, from the environment.
that means, hang out with them in a room where you can intervene if necessary, but don't intervene unless absolutely necessary.
basic instinct with variation
try not to let him know that  it's you doing the squirting, or he will associate it with you instead of with  the behavior.
if he's  rambunctious, squirt him with water a few times.
many rabbits who lack the social  skills necessary for living with another rabbit do much better with a feline  companion.
but what happens if the rabbit does run from the  cat?
the key is to remove that stereotype from your mind and, more importantly, from the environment.
i believe this is because,  at a very basic level, rabbits are group animals and cats are solitary.
felix, on the other hand, is thinking, "hmm.
domestication has modified these instincts in the cat to the point that most domestic cats prefer to live with at least one feline companion.
actually, any cat who interacts  with a rabbit, regardless of how friendly they are, should have his claws kept  trimmed.
fundamentally social or pack animals such as  rabbits, dogs, and humans are much more concerned with hierarchy-with who's in  charge, who's top dog-than animals who are programmed to live on their own.
if you're introducing a new rabbit to a resident cat, you may need to give the rabbit time to establish a sense of territory in your home before she takes on felix.
listen to what  they tell you about their level of stress, when they're ready for changes,  whether they're lonely, and so on.
arrival in a new home is more than  enough stress for a rabbit.
when daphne is in her cage, the two have a chance to get used to each other's smell, sounds, movements, etc.
now we offer ideas on  introducing cats and rabbits in ways that minimize stress for all concerned.
it's generally a good idea to confine a new animal, whether cat or  rabbit, to a small area at first, either a cage or a single room.
little bunny, big cat
go back to the cage phase.
use your sixth sense
scolding  is the least effective method of feline education.
if felix is  mostly respectful and curious, let him sniff and investigate.
by far the most important element you can contribute to this  process is your intuition.
cat, non-plussed, backs off.
this is by far the most common scenario.
now we offer ideas on introducing cats and rabbits in ways that minimize stress for all concerned.
the cat may even run from the rabbit.
it's a start, anyway.
it's just a matter of time and, in some cases, supervision.
in fact, he might even pursue his own  rabbit-friend if they encountered each other outdoors.
i believe this is because, at a very basic level, rabbits are group animals and cats are solitary.
daphne's instincts tell her, "here's someone in my territory.
change is stressful for rabbits as it is for humans.
a cage that's large enough for the  rabbit to do some dashing is ideal, as felix will be able to observe rabbit  aerobics and become accustomed to it.
why look for trouble?"
over the years we have had the opportunity to observe many cat/rabbit  introductions.
this is the  information that will allow you to shape the general guidelines given here to  suit your situation.
if you're introducing a new rabbit to a resident cat, you may need to give  the rabbit time to establish a sense of territory in your home before she takes  on felix.
and of course  there is a great deal of individual variation within species, from the human  hermit to the gregarious cat.
let them set the timetable.
house rabbit society is a nonprofit rescue and  education group.
many people report a total reversal of the expected roles between  house-rabbit and house-cat.
we welcome your  feedback and appreciate your donations.
give them a chance to work things out in their own way.
it usually teaches the cat  (a) wait till the humans are away and then torment the rabbit to your heart's  content or (b) rabbit=scolding, which is not a good way to begin a friendship.
a large furry creature who isn't running away from me.
clip off the curved, sharp tip about once a month.
if felix is mostly respectful and curious, let him sniff and investigate.
creating a place where cats and rabbits can live together peaceably is a  satisfying endeavor.
change is  stressful for rabbits as it is for humans.
this phase may take days, weeks, or even months, depending on the animals' personalities.
the environmental cues  would set the instinct in motion.
when daphne is in her cage, the two have a chance to get used to each  other's smell, sounds, movements, etc.
don't put her in the position of having to get used  to new territory, new humans, and new cat all at once.
wait till she's confident and comfortable.
go back to the  cage phase.
in an earlier issue we described some of the friendships that have developed between these two.
rabbits tend to be much more  confrontational in social situations than are cats.
once daphne feels she's asserted herself to her satisfaction, she and felix can  become roommates, friends, or soulmates.
the water should come as an unpleasant surprise, or, more technically, an environmental reprimand.
this phase may take days, weeks, or even months, depending on the  animals' personalities.
rabbits tend to be much more confrontational in social situations than are cats.
scolding is the least effective method of feline education.
the water should come as an unpleasant surprise, or, more  technically, an environmental reprimand.
domestication has modified these instincts in the cat to the point that most  domestic cats prefer to live with at least one feline companion.
wait till she's  confident and comfortable.
many rabbits who lack the social skills necessary for living with another rabbit do much better with a feline companion.
if he's rambunctious, squirt him with water a few times.
and of course there is a great deal of individual variation within species, from the human hermit to the gregarious cat.
a cage that's large enough for the rabbit to do some dashing is ideal, as felix will be able to observe rabbit aerobics and become accustomed to it.
get to know your own cat and rabbit.
it's much better to go too slowly and succeed than to push it and stress daphne or have to scold felix.
there are two lessons  here.
it makes you think, if this predator can snuggle with this  prey animal, maybe there's hope for a compassionate world, after all.
felix, on the other hand,  is thinking, "hmm.
it's just  a matter of time and, in some cases, supervision.
probably the most  difficult cat/rabbit introduction is between a shy and/or small rabbit and an  adolescent cat whose claws haven't been trimmed recently.
what seems an unlikely combination, given the predator-prey context that first comes to mind, is in fact a common and often rewarding match.
there are also animals who seem to prefer the  companionship of species other than their own.
here's where environmental manipulation (the human's job) comes in.
rabbit charges up to cat.
many people report a total reversal of the expected roles between house-rabbit and house-cat.
it makes you think, if this predator can snuggle with this prey animal, maybe there's hope for a compassionate world, after all.
cat and  rabbit meet, indoors.
these two guys require no human intervention.
if you find you're resorting to the  water-pistol frequently, that means you've moved ahead too soon.
also give daphne a hiding place within the  cage, such as a cardboard box (this is a good general policy for all rabbits,  especially shy ones, even in catless homes).
the first is to make sure you set up a situation where felix is unlikely  to feel predatory.
most rabbits will chase only till they  feel they've made their point.
try not to let him know that it's you doing the squirting, or he will associate it with you instead of with the behavior.