not according to dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp, a san antonio-based feline practitioner.
doing so will not only make your own work more enjoyable, it will also better serve your clients and patients.
data source: 2010 firstline team trends study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
the lowdown on which species veterinarians and veterinary team members prefer to work with, why—and if it matters.
source: firstline, 8/1/2010 click here
firstline - search: - dvm360.com - veterinary sites e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise contact us team center featuring information from: - technicians - working with clients - forms - client service for techs - marketing for techs - client communication for techs - client education for techs - client conflict - building the bond - money matters - working with team members - team building - team conflict - team communication - working with patients - patient care - patient welfare - working on yourself - career development for techs - skill builders - continuing education - working efficiently - forms - how-to tips - front office - back office advertisement clinical faqs just ask the expert: should housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs is bias a bad thing?
e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar  bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners  associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise  contact us team center featuring information from: technicians just ask the expert: should  housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
they were  more positive toward cats, probably because they had urban backgrounds and grew  up with cats in their households.
related links cats aren't getting the care they deserve america's 5  most wanted dogs fur, feathers, or snouts: treat them all dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups most popular articles 15 time-savers for the whole team top 10 ways to  make your patients hate you 7 morale boosters to pump up your  practice the 5 most difficult veterinary clients more articles
doing so will not only make your own  work more enjoyable, it will also better serve your clients and patients.
the lowdown on which species veterinarians and veterinary team  members prefer to work with, why—and if it matters.
plus, clients will appreciate your devotion.
cats or dogs: what's your preference? -
(visitdvm360.com/catsvsdogs to read colleagues’ reasons  for why that is.)
data source: 2010 firstline team trends study the complete package: do  you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
doctors prefer to work with...
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs are you team fluffy or team fido?
when i graduated, there were three feline-only practices in the country.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs data source: 2010 veterinary economics state of the industry study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
more  articles | save|
—dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
cats may be  gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cast your vote: cats  vs. dogs dvm360.com/catsvsdogs do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
more articles email| print| share | save|
please send any technical comments or questions to our webmaster.
you can see the shift.
now there are more than 300.”
advanstar communications, inc.
and you might not always  have the option.
(visitdvm360.com/catsvsdogs to read colleagues’ reasons for why that is.)
“you need to work with the species that you feel  most comfortable with,” he says.
news medical newsphoto galleriesspecial reportsthe dvm360 five medicine internal medicinedermatologybehaviordentistryparasitologysurgeryimage quizzes interactive casesclinical videos businessfinancespersonnelclient relationsformsleadershiprevenuemarket datahospital designbizquizzes team working with clientsworking with the teamworking with doctorsworking on yourself audio and videoformsvideo
my colleagues couldn’t justify spending money on a cat because they could  get a dozen more, and many took that attitude in practice.
license cats or dogs: what's your  preference?
doctors prefer to  work with...
so go ahead and stake your claim as the dog whisperer or the go-to cat guru at your practice if you prefer working with one species over the other.
is bias a bad thing?
and you might not always have the option.
reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited.
aug 1, 2010 firstline conventional wisdom holds that when it comes to the veterinary business, it’s a dog’s world.
so go ahead  and stake your claim as the dog whisperer or the go-to cat guru at your  practice if you prefer working with one species over the other.
meaning that the majority of veterinarians and their staff prefer to work with dogs over cats.
just because you prefer to work with one species over another right now doesn’t mean you always will or that you dislike the other species.
when i graduated,  there were three feline-only practices in the country.
when you focus on one species, you develop a better set of skills for treating  that group.
just ask the  expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask  the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?
my colleagues couldn’t justify spending money on a cat because they could get a dozen more, and many took that attitude in practice.
meaning that the majority of veterinarians and their staff prefer to work with  dogs over cats.
the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
now there are more than  300.”
why does this duck have a foamy eye?
canine and feline practice varies significantly, dr. norsworthy says, from  restraint methods to understanding and treating disease.
but over  time, a new generation of veterinarians came into the profession.
but over time, a new generation of veterinarians came into the profession.
“even diseases  with the same name will behave differently in dogs and cats,” he says.
just ask the expert: why does this bearded collie have pu/pd?
and if true, what does it  mean for your clients and patients?
“when i graduated from texas a&m in 1972, most of my classmates came from a rural background where cats were barn creatures and largely disposable.
not according to dr. gary norsworthy, dabvp, a san antonio-based  feline practitioner.
site index | all content | privacy policy | terms of use | linking and rss policy © 2012
but avoid being pigeonholed in that role or labeled as a dog hater or cat hater.
just ask the expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?
just because  you prefer to work with one species over another right now doesn’t mean  you always will or that you dislike the other species.
but how accurate is that belief?
“even diseases with the same name will behave differently in dogs and cats,” he says.
they were more positive toward cats, probably because they had urban backgrounds and grew up with cats in their households.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cast your vote: cats vs. dogs dvm360.com/catsvsdogs the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
related links cats aren't getting the care they deserve america's 5 most wanted dogs fur, feathers, or snouts: treat them all dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups most popular articles highest-rated cartoon:
centerproductscommunity newstop headlinesmarket trendsassociation newspoliticsregulatory
and if true, what does it mean for your clients and patients?
water fountain 15 time-savers for the whole team top 10 ways to make your patients hate you 7 morale boosters to pump up your practice the 5 most difficult veterinary clients more articles pearls of practice share your tried-and-true tips install a "no cell phone" rule in the exam room spread heartworm awareness with client games spin to win: make dental care fun use bins to store your patients' lost items more articles advertisement hot topics on dvm360 fidopharm readies for heartworm preventive launch next week through wal-mart, sam's club rising pet ownership will boost veterinary services market through 2016, study says follow dvm360 on twitter and facebook more articles advertisement dvm360.comdvm newsmagazineveterinary medicineveterinary economicsfirstlineipad appsubscribece
aug 1,  2010 firstline conventional wisdom holds that  when it comes to the veterinary business, it’s a dog’s world.
doctors  prefer to work with...
blogscartoonshow-to tips the cvc group washington, d.c.kansas city san diegocvc datesloyalty programproceedings exhibitorsinfo packete-mail alerts home | subscribe/renew | contact us | advanstar communications | disclaimer | meeting calendar | site map |
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote: cats vs. dogs cats may be beginning to gain ground
“when i graduated from texas a&m in 1972, most of my classmates came  from a rural background where cats were barn creatures and largely disposable.
cats may be gaining ground cast your vote:  cats vs. dogs cats may be beginning to gain ground
“you need to work with the species that you feel most comfortable with,” he says.
but avoid being  pigeonholed in that role or labeled as a dog hater or cat hater.
canine and feline practice varies significantly, dr. norsworthy says, from restraint methods to understanding and treating disease.
cats may be gaining ground cast  your vote: cats vs. dogs data source: 2010 veterinary  economics state of the industry study the complete package: do you prefer to work with dogs or cats in your practice?
license - del.icio.us - digg - reddit - facebook cats or dogs: what's your preference?
when you focus on one species, you develop a better set of skills for treating that group.
the complete package: do you prefer to  work with dogs or cats in your practice?