see our list below, visit amazon.com  ordogwise, all things dog for those hard-to-find dog books!
next article: john fisher on canine behavior:
until you're sure the dog will remember his training, don't leave them  together unsupervised!
dog  owner's guide related articles this is article 5 of 24 in the ask the dog trainer topic.
breeds created specifically for killing other animals most terriers, for example, were intended to kill rats have very high prey drives.
a dog's prey drive his instinct to chase and catch is triggered by movement.
the basics herding hiking and camping hunting and retrieving interactive toys kennels and kenneling dog law multiple pets mysteries not available nail and foot care naming a dog natural health care products natural health and nutrition pet sitting and doggie daycare problem solving and prevention puppies sanitation search and rescue schutzhund and guard dogs service and therapy dogs shelter dogs show leads and collars showing and conformation show and travel equipment sled dogs stain and odor control training tools & equipment tracking traveling with dogs tricks veterinary texts warm weather gear
with the dog on lead and in a sit/stay position, have your friend play with the cat and encourage her to run about.
some dogs learn quickly, others may take weeks to become trustworthy around  cats.
this is article 8 of 22 in the canine behavior topic.
once again,  get a friend to help you.
although  we think of the greyhound as a racing dog, it was originally bred for hunting,  using its great speed to chase down hares and other fast creatures.
something startled the cat and she took off  running.
but in motion, she became something  completely different and exciting.
consequently, it has a high prey drive and is inclined to chase cats.
as soon as he is sitting calmly again, praise him sincerely.
is there anything i need to do to get ready?
in the border collie, a herding breed, the instinct to chase  and catch animals has been modified to chase and gather them together.
q: i want to adopt a retired racing greyhound but i've heard they chase cats.
praise your dog  for sitting calmly, correct him if he tries to chase.
amazon's  general dog's bestseller list amazon's breed dog's bestseller list amazon's health dog's bestseller list amazon's training dog's bestseller  list dog owner's guide, in association with amazon.com, recommends  these books for more information on . . .
throw a stuffed toy for a puppy and watch his prey drive in action  as he chases it, catches it, then shakes it to “kill” it.
something startled the cat and she took off running.
if he's allowed to chase her, even once,  he'll want to try it again and you'll have to start your training over from the  beginning.
things that quickly move past or away from him like  balls, children playing, joggers, bicyclists, speeding cars and running cats,  get an immediate reaction from your dog because nature programmed him to chase  moving creatures.
drug sniffing and arson detection dogs  have high prey drives that have been redirected toward objects - these dogs are  taught that illegal drugs and fire accelerants are “prey.”
just as you taught your dog to sit quietly when the cat is in the room, you can also teach him to ignore the cat when she's running or playing.
sometimes the dog was crated with  the cat free in the room, at other times, the cat was crated while the dog was  free.
using a friend  or family member to help you, set up several short daily training sessions.
although we think of the greyhound as a racing dog, it was originally bred for hunting, using its great speed to chase down hares and other fast creatures.
release the dog from his sit/stay and  let him walk around the room with the cat present.
breeds and  individual dogs vary in the intensity of their prey drives.
if your dog continues to  stay quietly at your side, wonderful!
making peace between dogs and cats
there are several effective ways to train a dog with a high prey drive to live peacefully with cats or other small pets.
the dog was allowed to investigate the cat but not to harass or bark at  it.
next article: the first six months: you're never  too young to learn previous article: obedience training: off to school: the importance of obedience training related articles: table of contents  for "your new puppy" only: this topic's table of contents site topic and article lists: site topic list: quick list of topics site  table of contents: all dog owner's guide articles, listed by topic books of interest looking for unusual dog books not easily available anywhere else?
ask the dog trainer
so did the dog hot on her tail!
using a friend or family member to help you, set up several short daily training sessions.
next article: more on dog crates:
prey  drive can also be modified by training.
amazon's general dog's bestseller list amazon's breed dog's bestseller list amazon's health dog's bestseller list amazon's training dog's bestseller list dog owner's guide, in association with amazon.com, recommends these books for more information on . . .
i prefer to teach these dogs that cats are off limits altogether and are not to be disturbed.
as your dog becomes more reliable, he may be allowed to investigate the cat's play or even join in the game as long as he remembers his manners and how to respond to your command to leave it!
by decreasing the  effects of some and enhancing the effects of others, we've been able to develop  a wide variety of different breeds of dogs, each meant to serve a different  purpose or perform a certain function.
breeds and individual dogs vary in the intensity of their prey drives.
next article: the first six months: you're never too young to learn previous article: obedience training: off to school: the importance of obedience training related articles: table of contents for "your new puppy" only: this topic's table of contents site topic and article lists: site topic list: quick list of topics site table of contents: all dog owner's guide articles, listed by topic looking for unusual dog books not easily available anywhere else?browse these categories advanced behavior texts agility and flyball anatomy animal communication arthritis and joint care behavior blind and deaf dogs behavior/body language breeding bereavement bait bags canine freestyle careers with animals chew and stuffed toys children's books children and dogs choosing a dog clicker training collars and leads competitive obedience dental care stories about dogs ear care encyclopedias behavior/evolution eye care food and treats gait genetics general reference general training gift books gift certificates grooming grooming supplies human/animal bond health -
training, health, nutrition and more. . . .
with the dog on lead and in a sit/stay position, have  your friend play with the cat and encourage her to run about.
q: i want to adopt a retired racing greyhound but i've  heard they chase cats.
a dog's prey drive — his instinct to chase and catch — is  triggered by movement.
owning a dog calls for common sense and adaptability:
if he tries to lunge at the cat, though, give him a stern, fierce-sounding no!
although dogs have been domesticated for thousands of years, they still act upon the instincts nature gave them.
along with a short, sharp jerk on the lead and put him back in the sit-stay position.
with the dog wearing a training collar and leash, put him on a sit/stay beside  you.
by giving the dog extra attention and even  special treats when the cat (or baby) is in the room, the dog soon learns that  having the cat around means very good things are going to happen to him!
i prefer to teach these dogs  that cats are off limits altogether and are not to be disturbed.
in other breeds, the prey drive has been altered to suit an entirely  different purpose.
can i teach them to get along together?
if he tries to lunge  at the cat, though, give him a stern, fierce-sounding “no! leave it!”
some dogs take longer to train than others and the difference is usually due to the dog's level of "prey drive".
people, pooches and problems job michael evans/hardcover/1991 dog behavior : an owner's guide to a happy healthy pet (owner's guide to  a happy healthy pet) dr. ian dunbar/hardcover/1998 think dog : an owner's guide to canine psychology john fisher  /paperback/1995
when your dog is able to sit calmly even when the cat is right next to him, you're ready to proceed to the next step.
he wouldn't stop when i told  him to.
when your dog is able to sit calmly even when the cat is right next to him,  you're ready to proceed to the next step.
if you, your organization or business would like to reprint our articles in a newsletter or distribute them free of charge as an educational handout please see our reprint policyhome topics index newest bookstore reprints privacy about this is article 5 of 24 in the ask the dog trainer topic.
your dog will  probably be very curious and even excited at seeing the cat, but insist that he  remain in the sit/stay position.
you may print or download this material for non-commercial personal or school educational use.
looking for more information about  making peace between dogs and cats, ask the dog trainer, canine behavior,  manners & training and your new puppy ?
your supervision at this point is critical - to be effective, you must be able to correct the dog each and every time he even thinks about going after the cat.
the dog was allowed to investigate the cat but not to harass or bark at it.
until you're sure the dog will remember his training, don't leave them together unsupervised!
next article: jean donaldson seminar: cutting edge dog training previous article:
a dog's instinct to chase and catch something is called his “prey  drive.”
there are no books for this topic.
with the dog wearing a training collar and leash, put him on a sit/stay beside you.
dog crate q  & a's previous article: bringing bowser
canine behavior dogs behaving badly : an a-to-z guide to understanding and curing  behavioral problems in dogs dr. nicholas h. dodman /hardcover/1999 mother knows best : the natural way to train your dog carol lea  benjamin, stephen lennard/hardcover/1985 don't shoot the dog : the new art of teaching and training karen  pryor/paperback/1985 psychological dog training : behavior conditioning with respect and trust c.w. meisterfeld /paperback/1991
but in motion, she became something completely different and exciting.
as long as your cat was sitting still or just going about her  business, your dog learned to ignore her.
along with a short, sharp jerk on the lead and put him back in the sit-stay  position.
if you, your organization or  business would like to reprint our articles in a newsletter or distribute them  free of charge as an educational handout please see our reprint policy home topics index newest bookstore reprints privacy about related articles related books have you seen the rest of  the dog owner's guide articles onask the dog trainer, canine behavior, manners  & training and your new puppy?
surviving your dog's adolescence : a positive training program carol lea benjamin (photographer), stephen lennard/hardcover/1993 the new better behavior in dogs : a guide to solving all your dog problems william e. campbell/paperback/1999 dog behavior and training : veterinary advice for owners lowell  ackerman /hardcover/1996
continue  bringing the cat closer, a few feet at a time, repeating the corrections as  needed and making sure to praise the dog when he sits quietly and ignores the  cat.
his ancient instinct to chase called to him  and he obeyed without thinking.
command to help introduce her cats and dogs.
tricks i taught my master dr. robert m. andrysco /paperback/1995
his ancient instinct to chase called to him and he obeyed without thinking.
a: yes, most dogs can be taught to tolerate cats if their owners are willing to be patient and consistent.
things that quickly move past or away from him like balls, children playing, joggers, bicyclists, speeding cars and running cats, get an immediate reaction from your dog because nature programmed him to chase moving creatures.
what did i do wrong with my training?
have patience — depending on the intensity of your dog, you might  only be able to gain a few feet each session.
for more on this subject see  "fighting furry furies?" vicki degruy [dog owner's guide: dogs and cats together  (www.canismajor.com/dog/dogscats.html)] is a part of the dog owner's guide  internet website and is copyright 2011by canis major publications.
q: i'm bringing home a new puppy soon.
although dogs have been domesticated for thousands of years,  they still act upon the instincts nature gave them.
in other breeds, the prey drive has been altered to suit an entirely different purpose.
the  basics herding hiking and camping hunting and retrieving interactive toys  kennels and kenneling dog law multiple pets mysteries not available nail and  foot care naming a dog natural health care products natural health and nutrition pet sitting and doggie daycare problem solving and prevention puppies sanitation search and rescue schutzhund and guard dogs service and therapy dogs shelter  dogs show leads and collars showing and conformation show and travel equipment  sled dogs stain and odor control training tools & equipment tracking  traveling with dogs tricks veterinary texts warm weather gear wondering what dog books are selling at amazon?
drug sniffing and arson detection dogs have high prey drives that have been redirected toward objects - these dogs are taught that illegal drugs and fire accelerants are prey.
i don't want anything to happen to my cat!
praise your dog for sitting calmly.
your supervision at this point is critical - to be  effective, you must be able to correct the dog each and every time he even  thinks about going after the cat.
a siberian husky owner combined a dog crate with the leave it!
if your dog continues to stay quietly at your side, wonderful!
dog crate q & a's previous article: bringing bowser home: q: i'm bringing home a new puppy soon.
once again, get a friend to help you.
your dog will probably be very curious and even excited at seeing the cat, but insist that he remain in the sit/stay position.
another owner uses a technique that's often practiced to help dogs adjust to a new baby in the household.
although we don't have any books specifically about this article perhaps the following books will be of interest.
browse these categories    advanced behavior texts agility and  flyball anatomy animal communication arthritis and joint care behavior blind  and deaf dogs behavior/body language breeding bereavement bait bags canine  freestyle careers with animals chew and stuffed toys children's books children  and dogs choosing a dog clicker training collars and leads competitive obedience dental care stories about dogs ear care encyclopedias behavior/evolution eye  care food and treats gait genetics general reference general training gift books gift certificates grooming grooming supplies human/animal bond health -
there are several effective ways to train a dog with a high prey drive to  live peacefully with cats or other small pets.
leave his lead on so you can  easily catch him and give the necessary correction if he gives any sign of  wanting to chase the cat.
you just need to do a little more work.
praise your dog for sitting calmly, correct him if he tries to chase.
breeds created  specifically for killing other animals — most terriers, for example, were  intended to kill rats — have very high prey drives.
through generations of  selective breeding, people have modified these instincts.
another owner uses a technique that's often practiced to help dogs adjust  to a new baby in the household.
as your dog becomes more  reliable, he may be allowed to investigate the cat's play or even join in the  game as long as he remembers his manners and how to respond to your command to  “leave it!”
canine communications: woofs, howls, whines and whimpers compose communication, canine style related articles: table of contents for "canine behavior" only: this topic's table of contents this is article 16 of 75 in the manners & training topic.
have your friend bring the cat a few steps closer.
wondering what dog books are selling at amazon?
if he's allowed to chase her, even once, he'll want to try it again and you'll have to start your training over from the beginning.
nature designed canines to be predators — to chase and catch smaller  animals for food.
related articles: table of contents  for "ask the dog trainer" only: this topic's table of contents this is article 8 of 22 in the canine behavior topic.
a siberian husky owner combined a dog crate with the “leave it!”
next article: jean donaldson seminar: cutting  edge dog training previous article: owning  a dog calls for common sense and adaptability:
although we don't have any books specifically about this article perhaps  the following books will be of interest.
this is article 16 of 75 in the manners & training topic.
by decreasing the effects of some and enhancing the effects of others, we've been able to develop a wide variety of different breeds of dogs, each meant to serve a different purpose or perform a certain function.
some dogs learn quickly, others may take weeks to become trustworthy around cats.
don't miss the rest of our articles.
nature designed canines to be predators to chase and catch smaller animals for food.
a dog's instinct to chase and catch something is called his prey drive.
some dogs take longer to train  than others and the difference is usually due to the dog's level of "prey  drive".
can i teach  them to get along together?
for more on this subject see "fighting furry furies?" [dog owner's guide: dogs and cats together (www.canismajor.com/dog/dogscats.html)] is a part of the dog owner's guide internet website and is copyright 2011by canis major publications.
defining common sense dog ownership related articles: table of contents for "manners & training" only: this topic's table of contents
through generations of selective breeding, people have modified these instincts.
defining common sense dog  ownership related articles: table of contents  for "manners & training" only: this topic's table of contents
release the dog from his sit/stay and let him walk around the room with the cat present.
throw a stuffed toy for a puppy and watch his prey drive in action as he chases it, catches it, then shakes it to kill it.
this is article 16 of 18 in the your new puppy topic.
uncle matty's guide to doggy problems matthew margolis/vhs tape/1998 aspca complete dog training manual bruce fogle, roger a.  caras/hardcover/1994 play training your dog
all other rights reserved.
a: yes, most dogs can be taught to tolerate cats if their  owners are willing to be patient and consistent.
related articles: table of contents for "ask the dog trainer" only: this topic's table of contents
in the border collie, a herding breed, the instinct to chase and catch animals has been modified to chase and gather them together.
you may  print or download this material for non-commercial personal or school  educational use.
is there anything i need to do to  get ready?
[dog owner's guide: dogs and cats together  (www.canismajor.com/dog/dogscats.html)] home topics index newest bookstore reprints privacy about making peace between dogs and cats is coexistence possible?
previous article: canine  communications: woofs, howls, whines and whimpers compose communication, canine  style related articles: table of contents  for "canine behavior" only: this topic's table of contents
leave his lead on so you can easily catch him and give the necessary correction if he gives any sign of wanting to chase the cat.
by giving the dog extra attention and even special treats when the cat (or baby) is in the room, the dog soon learns that having the cat around means very good things are going to happen to him!q: i've been following your advice and it was working pretty well until the other day.
just as you taught your dog to sit quietly when the cat is in the room, you  can also teach him to ignore the cat when she's running or playing.
have patience depending on the intensity of your dog, you might only be able to gain a few feet each session.
so did the dog — hot on her tail!
prey drive can also be modified by training.
next article: john fisher on canine behavior: why does fido...?
have your friend hold the cat on the other side of the room.
sometimes the dog was crated with the cat free in the room, at other times, the cat was crated while the dog was free.
q: i've been following your advice and it was working  pretty well until the other day.
he wouldn't stop when i told him to.
continue bringing the cat closer, a few feet at a time, repeating the corrections as needed and making sure to praise the dog when he sits quietly and ignores the cat.
as long as your cat was sitting still or just going about her business, your dog learned to ignore her.