i like the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
i have never liked a person who hated  cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats  the most, they're so funny.
which do you  prefer, and why?
dogs are fun because they're great activity partners.
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the future.
which do you prefer, and why?
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary  pet proclivity?
i would not want a roommate or  partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
would you consider a roommate or partner who had a contrary pet proclivity?
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet  dogs are my friend.
livejournal remember me forgot your password?
raining cats or dogs?
it's great to curl up  with a cat and read a book.
it's great to curl up with a cat and read a book.
i think that i like the quirky personality of cats the most, they're so funny.
dogs are fun because they're great activity  partners.
life contines in the wasteland previous entry | next entry writer's block: raining cats or dogs?
i like  the comfort cats bring along with their independence.
- - open id - google - mail.ru - vkontakte create an account you are viewing secretive_cat's journal idyllic garbage - recent entries - archive - friends - user info - memories life contines in the wasteland previous entry | next entry writer's block:
- mar. 5th, 2010 at 8:20 am do you have a decided preference between cats and dogs?
my favorite dogs are whippets.
tags: - leave a comment - add to memories - share - link profile - secretive_cat - secretive latest month march 2011 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 view all archives tags view my tags page - army service - bad joke - books - corny joke - intel - intjforum - mandatory social service - pc dreams - sadness - strange news - thoughts - wepc - writer's block powered by livejournal.com designed by tiffany chow
i can see myself with six cats and a dog in the  future.
i don't like dogs that bark incessantly or drool, but calm and quiet dogs are my friend.
i would not want a roommate or partner that dislikes cats or dogs.
first question listed was submitted by antagonists.
(follow-up questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
(follow-up  questions, if any, may have been added by livejournal.)
i prefer cats,but i like dogs.
i have never liked a person who hated cats(i rarely meet people who hate dogs).