my thanks to all the contributors both in articles and comments for adding interest to this site through personal experience and insights.
i have not seen the original research document so the conclusions as written up in newspapers may not be completely accurate.
it  is interesting to speculate nonetheless.
if, as stated, socialisation creates larger brains  over millions of years, surely the lion must have the biggest brain of all the  cats as it is the only cat that lives in groups except for feral cats who have  adapted to this social way of life when there is a food source that feeds the  group.
written material by  michael broad and helmi flick's photos are copyright protected - please respect  it.
the wild cat has to use its brain more than adomestic cat.
this is what makes it more intelligent and the wildcat  hybrids are more intelligent than the wholly domestic cat breeds and moggies.
i  would suspect that the wild cat is as intelligent as the wild dog and in any  case we have to mention the lion.
if that  happened things would dramatically speed up.
of course the dog should also become more intelligent but the dog takes commands unthinkingly.
it is interesting to speculate nonetheless.
it is also worth  making the point that there is a fairly wide spectrum of intelligence between  the cat breeds.
it is said that cats have less sophisticated brains than dogs.
if that happened things would dramatically speed up.
pure problem solving is not the only kind.
perhaps this attitude will develop into a more questioning approach from the cat and that too will speed up the development of the cat's brain.
we don't hear of dogsforetelling the death of a hospital patient and then comforting the patient, for example.
in millions of  years time, it is quite possible to imagine human and cat finding a common  language and communicating in a more complete and accurate way.
written material by michael broad and helmi flick's photos are copyright protected - please respect it.
the human is the most intelligent animal on the planet.
however, i have seen nothing to support the notion that the lion is more intelligent than the solitary tiger.
did the study compare the brains of wild cat to wild dog or domestic cat and  dog?
for me, the study raises some questions
i am not sure if the study measured intelligence in a complete way and went beyond brain size and problem solving abilities.
i am  not sure if the study measured intelligence in a complete way and went beyond  brain size and problem solving abilities.
there would seem to be a difference.
join in and write your own page!
this article is a bit of gossip about the conclusions of  this study - my instant and biased thoughts, no more.
the domestic cat is adaptable and now lives with and  interacts with his or her human companion.
the domestic cat thinks about it and then does what he or she wants to do.
perhaps this  attitude will develop into a more questioning approach from the cat and that  too will speed up the development of the cat's brain.
one last interesting point, research indicates thatintelligent people prefer domestic cats to dogs.
the social interaction between dogs over  millions of years created this difference.
by michael (london, uk) princess is intelligent - photo by hélène villeneuve (flickr)
it socialises with other lions.
the human is the most intelligent  animal on the planet.
what i am saying in defence of the cat is that the study may have got things wrong and even if it is right the cat will catch up in time!
a million years  of interaction with intelligent people will do the cat no harm in respect of  brain size, i say.
one last interesting point, research  indicates thatintelligent people prefer domestic cats to dogs.
this article is a bit of gossip about the conclusions of this study - my instant and biased thoughts, no more.
indeed the general view is that thetiger fights smarter than the lion.
surely with millions of years of socialisation between  cat and human the cat will become more intelligent.
the research was carried out by scientists at the university of oxford.
however, i have seen nothing to support the notion that the lion is more  intelligent than the solitary tiger.
a million years of interaction with intelligent people will do the cat no harm in respect of brain size, i say.
if, as stated, socialisation creates larger brains over millions of years, surely the lion must have the biggest brain of all the cats as it is the only cat that lives in groups except for feral cats who have adapted to this social way of life when there is a food source that feeds the group.
they also say that members of the dog family are  good at problem solving - better than cats.
did the study compare the brains of wild cat to wild dog or domestic cat and dog?
cat brains are smaller than dog brains because cats are solitary  animals and dogs are social animals.
i have not seen the original  research document so the conclusions as written up in newspapers may not be  completely accurate.
indeed the general view is that thetiger  fights smarter than the lion.
cat brains are smaller than dog brains because cats are solitary animals and dogs are social animals.
in millions of years time, it is quite possible to imagine human and cat finding a common language and communicating in a more complete and accurate way.
the study begs  some questions.
it is also worth making the point that there is a fairly wide spectrum of intelligence between the cat breeds.
this is what makes it more intelligent and the wildcat hybrids are more intelligent than the wholly domestic cat breeds and moggies.
i would suspect that the wild cat is as intelligent as the wild dog and in any case we have to mention the lion.
they also say that members of the dog family are good at problem solving - better than cats.
simply click here to return tocat intelligence.
the lion lives in prides.
surely with millions of years of socialisation between cat and human the cat will become more intelligent.
we know that there are different types of intelligence.
but i suspect that the original research document addresses some of these.
it is said that cats have  less sophisticated brains than dogs.
it  socialises with other lions.
what i  am saying in defence of the cat is that the study may have got things wrong and  even if it is right the cat will catch up in time!
my thanks to all the contributors both in articles and comments for adding  interest to this site through personal experience and insights.
there is also the intriguing  possibility that even if the research is accurate things will change over the  next millions of years.
the research was carried out by scientists  at the university of oxford.
of course the dog should also  become more intelligent but the dog takes commands unthinkingly.
the more active wildcat hybrids are known to be more  intelligent than the passive, relatively uninquisitivepersians, for example.
the study begs some questions.
the domestic cat is adaptable and now lives with and interacts with his or her human companion.
cat brains are smaller than dog brains - discuss!
pure  problem solving is not the only kind.
simply click  here to return tocat intelligence.
the domestic  cat thinks about it and then does what he or she wants to do.
the social interaction between dogs over millions of years created this difference.
there is also the intriguing possibility that even if the research is accurate things will change over the next millions of years.
the more active wildcat hybrids are known to be more intelligent than the passive, relatively uninquisitivepersians, for example.
the wild cat has to use its brain  more than adomestic cat.
subscribe to this site the cats the maps cat info some fun admin cat brains are smaller than dog brains - discuss!
to cat intelligence click here to read or post comments.
we don't hear of dogsforetelling the  death of a hospital patient and then comforting the patient, for example.