some may be  sickly.
each pure breed of dog has its own particular hereditary problems, some minor, some impairing, and some possibly fatal.
the basic disposition and temperament of your dog will not be changed by  removing his or her reproductive capability.
sincere breeders will be a bit hesitant to sell you a puppy until they know more about you, what you are looking for in a dog, and what life style you have in mind for your dog.
disclaimer - the golden retriever club is able to refer to breeders who have or are expecting litters of puppies.
acquired  problems such as a narrow birth canal from previous injury, transmissible  venereal tumour, anaemia, any disease or infection of the reproductive organs,  concurrent diseases of other organ systems, or any contagious diseases are all  reasons not to be bred.
the breeder should: ·          belong to a  golden retriever club which are located in nsw, vic, qld, s.a., w.a. and  tasmania.
failure to screen for hereditary problems before breeding often results in the doubling up of unfavourable genes, and the results are distressing for the buyer and dog alike.
have the time to devote to this project?
the physical  characteristics of the golden retriever are described fully in the breed  standard, “appendix b”.
other people prefer a dog that is out of its puppyhood and has already been civilized.
sincere breeders will be a bit hesitant to sell you a puppy until  they know more about you,  what you are looking for in a dog, and what  “life style” you have in mind for your dog.
the very best choice.
the chances are that the parents were not tested for hereditary defects, that the puppies had little, if any, veterinary care, and that they were not given the proper socialisation and the tlc that is needed to raise a healthy litter of golden retriever puppies.
it is suspected that there may well be some hereditary disposition to such conditions, so even though surgery may correct some of these problems, there is some question whether dogs affected with any of these conditions should be considered for breeding.
any shyness or  aggressiveness on her part is indicative of a poor temperament, and the puppies  might inherit these undesirable traits.
if you just want a watchdog, you should not get a golden retriever.
the coat, which is  one of the hallmarks of the breed, is a “double coat” with a thick,  weather proof top coat, and a dense, soft undercoat.
by four (4) weeks of  age a golden litter of eight is active, dirty, noisy and potentially  destructive.
the reason for this requirement is that it means that the breeder is not breeding in a vacuum.
the golden retriever club of nsw inc has members whose  interest in the breed has led them to develop the potential of the golden in  each of these areas.
have patience and never buy on impulse ....
·         a breeder who  will sell a puppy under eight (8) weeks of age, as early separation from the  dam and litter mates can be very detrimental both psychologically and  physically.
the breeder should explain the different categories of registration and how to register the puppy in your name.
·          be able to show  you a clean environment, healthy, well socialised puppies, and a dam with a  good temperament.
its purpose is to help you determine if the golden retriever is the right breed for you, and if it is, how to select one.
·          even if you do  not want a competition animal, you deserve a pet that is the end result of a  carefully planned litter, a puppy which received the same care as a potential  champion.
it is as hard to do well as it is easy to do.
if you would like to find out if the club currently has any litters listed please contact: jacquie dixon (secretary) - 9621 7341 or email hobsonvale@optusnet.com.au please note that this service voluntarily i have other commitments.
serious hobby breeder the very best choice.
you may be able to sell three (3) or  four (4) puppies out of a litter of ten (10).
signs of hip dysplasia found on x-ray include shallow sockets, irregular shape of the femoral heads, looseness of the joint, and degenerative joint disease or osteoarthritis.
a spayed bitch cannot be accidentally bred, and will not be subject to the uterine infections that can affect older, intact females.
neutering a male before one (1) year of age will not only help to alleviate these problems, but will eliminate the risk of testicular cancer, and lower the risk of prostate cancer.
· signs of neglect, such as lack of water, pans of uneaten food, and dirty conditions.
it will reward you with eternal love and gratitude.
think twice about paying a deposit if the breeder has not satisfied you on all  the issues raised above.
soundness your dog/bitch should be tested free of certain genetic defects, as should  the proposed mate.
breeding is not for beginners.
nsw flag the golden retriever club of nsw inc. strongly recommends that you purchase a puppy from a current member of a state golden retriever club.
if the dog has been loved and well cared for,  he/she will continue to give love and devotion to his/her new owners because a properly raised golden loves and needs people.
edit our secretary can be contacted for details of members who may have listed with the club that they have puppies available.
remember, you are choosing a companion for the next 10  to 15 years.
if you aren't prepared to go through the trials and training a baby puppy,  an older puppy, or even a mature dog, can be a good alternative, especially in  households in which the family pet may have to spend much of the day  unsupervised.
if you are thinking of using your male at stud, you are no less  responsible for the quality of the litter than the owner of the brood  bitch.
however, the dysplastic dog will usually develop  arthritis in later life.
very few litters have more than a few real show prospects in them, but a pet quality puppy from a well bred litter has all the potential for maturing into a sturdy, healthy golden of proper size, appearance and temperament.
the reason for this requirement is that this sort of participation indicates depth of involvement in the breed.
the dogs needs you are anthropomorphising.
don't be afraid to confront the breeder with these requirements.
breeding your golden retriever
illness or death of the dam or puppies can be expensive,  emotional .....
what are you looking for in a golden retriever?
the case for spaying and neutering
other people prefer a dog that is out of its puppyhood and  has already been “civilized”.
the only accurate means of determining the condition of the hip joint is  by x-ray examination.
hip dysplasia can sometimes be diagnosed by x‑ray between six (6) and twelve (12) months of age, but this is not entirely reliable, and dogs intended for breeding should be x-rayed when fully mature in order to select for sound hips.
if you are thinking of using your male at stud, you are no less responsible for the quality of the litter than the owner of the brood bitch.
coats should be clean and thick; eyes, nose and ears  free of discharge or irritation, and the puppies should not be pot
an x‑ray does not always show how your dog feels, as  many dysplastic goldens are completely unaware that they have a problem.
a combination of all  the above.
can you afford to pay the stud fee, inoculations and veterinary care for the bitch and puppies, as well as other expenses.
whatever your objective, you, as the dog owner, will be responsible for the care and training that will enable your golden to fulfill its potential.
ask how many dogs are put down monthly, and how many put down in the last month were golden retrievers.
fifteen (15) to  eighteen (18) months of age is considered to be minimum age for  accurate x-ray determination of desirable conformation.
serious hobby breeder
if there is any question, the dog is certainly not to be recommended for breeding.
pregnancy not only contributes nothing to a bitch's health, but  sometimes causes problems.
goldens also work as “pets as therapy”, appear in many  commercials and advertisements, and are one of the preferred breeds of  veterinarians.
signs of the disease can vary widely from slight irregularities of gait, to crippling lameness.
a male neutered before he learns to lift his leg, probably will not do so  later, and will not “mark” his territory.
choosing a golden retriever
until you can satisfy the requirements that the serious hobby breeder should meet, (see the section of this booklet entitled choosing a reputable breeder), you will be doing the breed an injustice if you have a litter of puppies.
· even if you do not want a competition animal, you deserve a pet that is the end result of a carefully planned litter, a puppy which received the same care as a potential champion.
· give you a period of time in which to allow you to have the puppy examined by a veterinarian to determine its state of health, so that both of you are assured as to the condition of the puppy at the time of sale.
roll a ball or other toy  to see if it has the instinct to watch, chase, carry and possibly even return  to you with the ball.
however, any dog can fall victim to a wide range of acquired  problems, just as humans can.
whatever your objective, you, as the dog owner, will be responsible for  the care and training that will enable your golden to fulfill its potential.
the true enthusiast does  not expect to make a profit.
can you afford to refund the purchase price on a puppy  that proves to be unsound or unsuitable?
goldens and other breeds of retrievers often seem to have high pain thresholds, and do not show signs of pain when other breeds might be very uncomfortable.
if you find yourself with a negative response to any of these requirements, think twice and discuss the situation with someone else.
it would help us  get back our investment you may find that the rate of return is very low.
moderate and regular  exercise, control of weight, and perhaps anti-inflammatory drugs are helpful in  the older dog.
backyard breeder also a poor choice.
they'll  cheerfully be available for advice whenever needed, and can ease your way over  many rough spots.
if you are fortunate, and more than one good litter is  available at the same time in your area, you can compare puppies, pedigrees and  parents.
they should be sturdy in build, with straight legs.
poor quality puppies are produced by people who breed their pets just to have litter, or by profit seekers who give little thought to quality, looks or temperament in the puppies they produce.
unequivocally, your choice should be from the ranks of the serious  hobby breeder.
cataract by definition is any opacity within the lens of the eye.
·         provide you with  a record of the dates and types of vaccinations, microchipping documentation  and worming medication, a copy of a three (3) to five (5) generation pedigree,  and ankc registration papers.
a golden retriever bitch should  be watchful and patient with her puppies, and should be happy to show them to  you.
the chances are that the parents were not tested for  hereditary defects, that the puppies had little, if any, veterinary care, and  that they were not given the proper socialisation and the tlc that is needed to  raise a healthy litter of golden retriever puppies.
many goldens with hip dysplasia will show no outward signs  at all, until perhaps seven (7) or eight (8) years of age  when muscle tone decreases and arthritis and wear and tear on the joint becomes  more noticeable.
see if the puppy  exhibits the type of personality you would want to live with.
how does one recognise the serious hobby breeder?
a good hunting dog a good obedience worker
if you do not hear from me within a day or two please call back (preferably in the evenings).
the following, while not all inclusive, are some of the more common hereditary problems that may be encountered in goldens.
the build is sturdy and muscular, but neither  massive like a newfoundland, nor refined like a setter.
it is an interesting fact that poor quality puppies  from pet shops and backyard breeders are often sold for the same price, and  sometimes even more, than those purchased from the serious hobby breeder.
goldens are very adaptable, and a golden of any age with a  good temperament can become a member of the family in a very short time.
a combination of all the above.
you need a warm, quiet, secure area, easily cleaned, to properly confine  and care for a litter of eight (8) fast growing puppies while they  are with their mother, and a similar larger area for use after weaning.
you should expect to pay $950 upwards most are approx $1,000.00 for a sound, healthy, properly raised puppy from good parentage with ankc (rnswcc) registration papers, vaccination certificate, microchipped and including copies of the parents clear eye certificates, hip and elbow scoring certificates and heart certificates.
in short, it has to learn the routine it will be  following and what is expected of it.
·          be able to show  you proof that both the sire and dam of the litter have had their eyes examined  by a ophthalmologist within the last twelve (12) months, have had their hips  and elbows x-rayed and scored and have their hearts examined by an experienced  specialist veterinarian.
a good family pet a good hunting dog a good obedience worker
the vast majority of dogs of all breeds (as well as mixed breeds) can live, long healthy lives if given proper care and routine veterinary attention.
·         a breeder who  lets you handle a very young puppy, as there is a real risk of transmitting  disease before they are vaccinated.
can you  afford to feed and provide veterinary care  for 2 or 3 four (4) month old puppies that  didn’t sell?
you should avoid: · shy, whimpering, tearful puppies.
be sure that the breeder knows you want the puppy for a particular purpose  other than just a companion (such as a show prospect, obedience dog or hunting  dog), and have the breeder help with the selection of the puppy.
problems of aggressiveness which males of other breeds may exhibit, rarely occur in the golden.
dogs severely  affected by this condition may not survive puppyhood, or, if they survive early  life, may suddenly collapse and die prematurely.
pet shop or dealer the worst possible choice.
have  patience and never buy on impulse ....
many reputable breeders sell their “pet quality” puppies with  the agreement that the animal will be spayed or neutered.
what if the bitch dies, or cannot raise the puppies?
nevertheless, when purchasing puppy, it is important to ensure that the parents have been screened by x-ray for elbow dysplasia.
dogs are and is putting his/her breeding program on the line.
time to go to the veterinarian for check ups, inoculations, or with a sick dam or puppy.
there are also non‑hereditary cataracts which sometimes  occur, and examination by a veterinary ophthalmologist is necessary to  determine if the cataract is or is not of concern from a genetic  standpoint.
there are also other eye defects, such as retinal  dysplasia, that prevent consideration of a dog as a breeding animal.
by four (4) weeks of age a golden litter of eight is active, dirty, noisy and potentially destructive.
usually these dogs are house broken, know many commands, and have formed  many behaviour patterns.
don' t be  impulsive anddo ask questions.
any shyness or aggressiveness on her part is indicative of a poor temperament, and the puppies might inherit these undesirable traits.
you need a warm, quiet, secure area, easily cleaned, to properly confine and care for a litter of eight (8) fast growing puppies while they are with their mother, and a similar larger area for use after weaning.
it is as hard to do well as  it is easy to do.
dogs severely affected by this condition may not survive puppyhood, or, if they survive early life, may suddenly collapse and die prematurely.
the golden retriever club of nsw inc has members whose interest in the breed has led them to develop the potential of the golden in each of these areas.
· puppies with dull coats, crusty or running eyes, signs of diarrhoea, rashes or sores on their abdomen.
signs of hip dysplasia found on x-ray include shallow  sockets, irregular shape of the femoral heads, looseness of the joint, and  degenerative joint disease or osteoarthritis.
they should feel firm and muscular, and be squirmy and active at first when picked up, but willing to relax and accept being held and cuddled for a short time.
it is recommended that a  bitch be spayed before her first season, usually at 7-9 months.
the golden retriever is no exception and unfortunately, the problems  multiply with indiscriminate breeding.
sedation will be needed to restrain the dog so that a diagnostic film can be made, as positioning of the hips is of great importance.
considering the older dog
4.         a show dog.
they are merchandise to be sold for a high profit.
however, the dysplastic dog will usually develop arthritis in later life.
when choosing a  puppy it is important for you to know that its parents have been screened by a  specialist veterinary practitioner for hereditary heart conditions.
they should be sturdy in build, with straight  legs.
this breeder  is exposed to other points of view, learns more about the breed and modern  breeding practices, and is kept up to date on australian national canine  council rules and regulations.
a few families of goldens carry genes for  progressive retinal atrophy (pra) which is progressive deterioration of the  light receptive area (retina) of the eye, and may result in complete blindness  at a fairly young age.
a golden retriever bitch should be watchful and patient with her puppies, and should be happy to show them to you.
have the facilities  for whelping and raising
among these are panosteitis,  osteochondritis dissecans, luxated patella, and other problems.
it would help  fulfill
each pure breed of dog has its own  particular hereditary problems, some minor, some impairing, and some possibly  fatal.
hip dysplasia the term hip dysplasia means poor development in the formation of the hip  joint, and describes a developmental disease in young dogs of many  breeds.
all inoculations should be up to date, and the  animal should be free of both internal and external parasites.
read and re-read the section of this booklet on hereditary problems.
many of these indiscriminately bred puppies have health problems, poor temperaments, and or breed disqualifications.
the degree of hereditability is moderate in nature, meaning  that the formation of the hip joints can also be modified by environmental  factors such as poor nutrition, excessively rapid growth, and
the head is broad, with well  proportioned, well set on ears, and a kind expression.
can you afford to refund the purchase price on a puppy that proves to be unsound or unsuitable?
many dedicated breeders will ask that the dog be returned to them, or placed with new owners who meet their approval if for any reason you are unable to keep the dog.
also most  goldens love to get wet.
good litters seldom go begging, and it is not uncommon for a choice  litter to be completely spoken for by the time the puppies are  eight (8) weeks of age, and ready to go to their new homes.
even if the dog has had some obedience training, attending class is an  excellent way of brushing up on its training and will help you to understand  its responses and personality more completely.
examination of breeding stock should be done annually,  until at least eight (8) years of age and preferably longer, as  hereditary eye problems can develop at varying ages.
be sure that the breeder knows you want the puppy for a particular purpose other than just a companion (such as a show prospect, obedience dog or hunting dog), and have the breeder help with the selection of the puppy.
there is also the possibility that the bitch will be an unsatisfactory mother, necessitating much more work on your part.
eye disease hereditary cataracts are a common hereditary eye problem in the golden retriever.
if there is water on your property your golden will be wet, and possibly muddy, a frustrating amount of the time.
at times puppies may not be available and much of the information that will be provided is contained in this booklet or on thewebsite below.
sex temperamentally, there is very little difference between the male and female golden retriever.
care of the pregnant bitch, and properly raising and socialising puppies is  work for a responsible adult.
sedation will be needed to restrain the dog so that  a diagnostic film can be made, as positioning of the hips is of great  importance.
our hope is that this booklet will help you understand the golden retriever, and decide if this is the breed for you.
the dysplastic dog should not be used for breeding, but may well lead a  long, happy, useful life.
it's physical characteristics and its willing, adaptable, trainable nature make  it suitable for many purposes.
1.          pet shop or dealer the worst possible choice.
showing dogs provides the competition which encourages breeders to produce  better dogs.
provide you with written instructions on feeding, training and care.
“pretty, friendly and smart” is not nearly enough.
if you are a fastidious housekeeper (or live with one), you shouldn't get  a golden.
it would help us get back our investment you may find that the rate of return is very low.
signs of the disease can vary widely  from slight irregularities of gait, to crippling lameness.
the breeder should: · belong to a golden retriever club which are located in nsw, vic, qld, s.a., w.a. and tasmania.
the backyard breeder is not aware of breed problems, and usually doesn't care.
it’s much easier to find the “puppy  farm” or “backyard” breeder, who knows and cares little about  the welfare of the breed, than it is to find a reputable breeders.
it would be  educational for the children so would a litter of mice.
they are proud of their dogs and are happy to share their enthusiasm.
the high profit is the result of little thought being  given to the breeding or the care of the puppies.
neutered males will not be stressed and upset by the scent of bitches in season, and are less tempted to wander or be distracted from their work.
almost all golden puppies are appealing, but you need to look for more  than “cuteness".
shyness, aggressiveness, gunshyness, lack of retrieving ability or trainability, and hyperactivity are all reasons not to breed, regardless of other qualities.
the breeder should also be willing to answer your questions about any other possible hereditary problems.
although it may be confused at  first and cause a few problems, patience, consistency and reassurance
only breeders who hip & elbow score, eye & heart test both parents are included in this process.
and while raising a litter will not only not make an improvement in the dams temperament, it will also probably result in a litter of unsatisfactory puppies who will be imprinted by their unstable dam.
you may be asked to put a deposit of $100.00 or more on the  puppy of your choice if the puppies are not yet eight (8) weeks  old.
if you rescue a mistreated or abandoned golden retriever through a golden  retriever club rescue service or a humane society, and give it your  affection.
·          puppies with  dull coats, crusty or running eyes, signs of diarrhoea, rashes or sores on  their abdomen.
give the dog a month or so to settle into its new environment, and gain confidence in its new owners before beginning formal obedience training.
careful selection now will save heartache and money later.
can you afford to pay the stud fee, inoculations and veterinary care for  the bitch and puppies, as well as other expenses.
the golden retriever club of nsw inc, and other interstate breed club members can supply you with a list of conscientious breeders who either have, or about to have puppies.
bitches do not whelp at your convenience, and the children are often in school, or in bed at the time of delivery.
there are three (3) options open to you in choosing this person.
all inoculations should be up to date, and the animal should be free of both internal and external parasites.
signs of hip dysplasia cannot be detected in the newborn puppy, but  usually appear in the rapid growth period between four (4) and  nine (9) months of age.
roll a ball or other toy to see if it has the instinct to watch, chase, carry and possibly even return to you with the ball.
basic grooming for a golden should take no more than 20 to 30 minutes a week.
entropion  and ectropion is the turning in or turning out of the eyelids.
when someone is involved in dogs for the  enjoyment of each individual animal, for participating in any of the many  aspects of “dog sports”, and for the challenge of producing the  finest animals possible, the result is superior.
a returned puppy is a traumatic experience for all concerned, so the breeder who is always willing to accept a puppy back will try to make certain that a golden retriever is the breed for you.
the golden retriever is a natural dog needing no surgical alterations to ears or tails, and no exotic grooming (as opposed to some terriers, poodles, etc.).
as with any quantitative trait, hip joint conformation can range from good to bad, with all shades in between.
care of the pregnant bitch, and properly raising and socialising puppies is work for a responsible adult.
it is important that all family members meet the dog before its adoption, and agree that this is the dog they want.
there is also the possibility that the bitch will be an  unsatisfactory mother, necessitating much more work on your part.
the neutered male will not develop testicle cancer, and the risk of prostate  cancer is lowered.
to  buy and prepare food, feed and clean up four (4) to  five (5) times daily.
a predominate colour of either white or setter red, or white markings on the  head, feet or chest, are not desirable, but will have no affect on the  dog’s usefulness for work or companionship.
if you want a one man dog, prefer cats to dogs, or aren’t home much,  you shouldn't get a golden retriever.
they should feel firm and muscular, and be squirmy and active at  first when picked up, but willing to relax and accept being held and cuddled  for a short time.
the vast majority of dogs of all breeds (as well as mixed breeds) can  live, long healthy lives if given proper care and routine veterinary  attention.
once you have found a breeder you trust, its time to think about a puppy  again.
you might have to wait weeks, or even months, for the right litter to be whelped, and it can be well worth the wait.
there are featherings of longer hair on the backs of the legs, on the front of the neck and chest, and on the tail.
both are excellent with children, and both make excellent companions.
good litters seldom go begging, and it is not uncommon for a choice litter to be completely spoken for by the time the puppies are eight (8) weeks of age, and ready to go to their new homes.
an experienced,  knowledgeable exhibitor/breeder can assist in the evaluation of your dog’s  adherence to the breed standard.
puppies at  seven (7) to eight (8) weeks of age should be willing to  explore their environment, and although a little cautious at first, they should  investigate new objects and be fairly self assured.
the club recommends that prospective buyers thoroughly discuss these details with the breeder.
an x‑ray does not always show how your dog feels, as many dysplastic goldens are completely unaware that they have a problem.
·          give you a  period of time in which to allow you to have the puppy examined by a  veterinarian to determine its state of health, so that both of you are assured  as to the condition of the puppy at the time of sale.
the golden has a normal canine structure without distortions of leg, jaw or tail.
heart conditions: sub-aortic stenosis like humans, dogs can and do suffer from heart problems.
have the time to  devote to this project?
· make it clear that his/her responsibility continues long after you have taken your puppy home and in fact as long as the dog is alive.
while the instinct for procreation is  strong, the dog has no conscious knowledge of what it is missing, no regrets  and no guilt feelings.
have the money to  put into the project?
it is an interesting fact that poor quality puppies from pet shops and backyard breeders are often sold for the same price, and sometimes even more, than those purchased from the serious hobby breeder.
· be able to give you references; names of people who have purchased puppies in the past, names of other breeders, name of the veterinarian who provides care for the breeders dogs.
the head is broad, with well proportioned, well set on ears, and a kind expression.
it is  suspected that there may well be some hereditary disposition to such  conditions, so even though surgery may correct some of these problems, there is  some question whether dogs affected with any of these conditions should be  considered for breeding.
don' t be impulsive anddo ask questions.
x-rays should be submitted for scoring by the australian veterinary  association or other australian canine scoring schemes.
think twice about paying a deposit if the breeder has not satisfied you on all the issues raised above.
the breeder should  explain the different categories of registration and how to register the puppy  in your name.
it is your right, and you can rest assured that the dedicated breeder will respond positively and with pride.
since it is almost  impossible for you to know what the puppy you are buying will grow to be  physically and emotionally, you must put your faith in the person from whom you  are purchasing your puppy.
the reason for this requirement is that  it means that the breeder is not breeding in a vacuum.
also most goldens love to get wet.
unsound hip joints are a common problem in the larger breeds, and  hip dysplasia can be a serious problem in any dog.
sex related behaviour such as mounting and marking may be exhibited by  some male goldens, particularly if other males are present, or if the male has  been used at stud.
some puppies are slower to develop the retrieving instinct than others, but you should not consider a puppy which does not show some interest in or awareness of a moving object.
the temperament should be steady, adaptable and kind.
the reason for this requirement is that this sort of  participation indicates depth of involvement in the breed.
the adult coat may range in colour from a  cream to dark gold, and the darker golden can have a lighter feathering.
the degree of hereditability is moderate in nature, meaning that the formation of the hip joints can also be modified by environmental factors such as poor nutrition, excessively rapid growth, and certain traumas during the growth period of the skeleton.
its much easier to find the puppy farm or backyard breeder, who knows and cares little about the welfare of the breed, than it is to find a reputable breeders.
most breeders register puppies on the  ankc’s limit register unless you, as the new owner have negotiated the  purchase of the puppy for exhibition and/or breeding.
no animal whose temperament needs improving should be  bred in the first place, since temperament is most often the result of  hereditary factors.
stud fee,  veterinary fees, advertising, and the daily care and feeding of a litter is  very expensive.
x-rays should be submitted for scoring by the australian veterinary association or other australian canine scoring schemes.
usually this breeder knows little about the breed standard or history of the breed, and still less about care.
hip dysplasia can sometimes be diagnosed by x‑ray between  six (6) and twelve (12) months of age, but this is not  entirely reliable, and dogs intended for breeding should be x-rayed when fully  mature in order to select for sound hips.
presented below is a list of requirements the breeder should meet before you consider purchasing a puppy.
you should expect to pay $950 upwards most are approx $1,000.00 for a  sound, healthy, properly raised puppy from good parentage with ankc (rnswcc)
an experienced, knowledgeable exhibitor/breeder can assist in the evaluation of your dogs adherence to the breed standard.
if there is any question, the dog is certainly not to be  recommended for breeding.
it is important that  all family members meet the dog before its adoption, and agree that this is the  dog they want.
a spayed bitch cannot be accidentally bred,  and will not be subject to the uterine infections that can affect older, intact  females.
distichiasis involves eyelashes rubbing on, and irritating, the eye.
during the acute phase of the disease, your veterinarian may suggest rest and supportive care.
it would help fulfill
hip dysplasia the term hip dysplasia means poor development in the formation of the hip joint, and describes a developmental disease in young dogs of many breeds.
as a consequence, puppies sold through such outlets are  likely to be poorly bred and raised.
have the facilities for whelping
most veterinarians like to do the spaying or neutering at a fairly young age (approximately six (6) months).
if a problem should  arise, it can then be quickly resolved.
the litter is probably not registered with the royal nsw canine council, so you have no guarantee that the puppy you are thinking of buying is even a purebred golden retriever.
if a problem should arise, it can then be quickly resolved.
click here to refresh/reload to make sure you are viewing the latest page.
usually these dogs are house broken, know many commands, and have formed many behaviour patterns.
considerations for the stud dog owner
there are also non‑hereditary cataracts which sometimes occur, and examination by a veterinary ophthalmologist is necessary to determine if the cataract is or is not of concern from a genetic standpoint.
the dysplastic dog should not be used for breeding, but may well lead a long, happy, useful life.
other orthopaedic problems including elbow dysplasia there a number of orthopeadic problems besides hip dysplasia which may also occur in the growing dog.
if you aren't prepared to go through the trials and training a baby puppy, an older puppy, or even a mature dog, can be a good alternative, especially in households in which the family pet may have to spend much of the day unsupervised.
temperament your dog/bitch must be absolutely sound and stable, with a personality and disposition appropriate for the breed.
the breeder should also be willing to answer  your questions about any other possible hereditary problems.
golden puppies are born much lighter in colour than their final adult colour.
choosing a reputable breeder is very important.
time to take or send a bitch for breeding, sit up for hours during whelping, and hand raise the litter if the bitch is unable to.
before you start looking at litters of puppies, take time to learn about the breed.
what if the bitch has problems which necessitate a caesarean section?
it is best to acquire the dog when the household member with primary responsibility for the dogs care and training will be at home full time for the first few days.
of  particular concern in the golden retriever is sub-aortic stenosis (sas), a  condition basically caused by a faulty valve in the aorta.
you want a sound, healthy representative of the breed.
·          provide you with  written instructions on feeding, training and care.
the breeder who competes wants to prove how good his/her dogs are and is putting his/her breeding program on the line.
time for all the paper work required, including typing accurate pedigrees, health records, care instructions, records of sale, and so on.
the serious and dedicated hobby breeder regards his/her dogs as even more than a hobby.
although it may be confused at first and cause a few problems, patience, consistency and reassurance are the key words.
see if the puppy exhibits the type of personality you would want to live with.
these breeders  acknowledge responsibility for each and every puppy produced, and stand behind  every dog they have bred.
our hope is that this booklet will help you understand the golden  retriever, and decide if this is the breed for you.
a poorly bred 6 week old puppy selling for $400 to $600 is no bargain!
don't be afraid to confront the breeder  with these requirements.
the high profit is the result of little thought being given to the breeding or the care of the puppies.
they'll cheerfully be available for advice whenever needed, and can ease your way over many rough spots.
the ear colour is the best indicator of the colour of a puppy’s  future adult coat.
the mature male golden is ideally 22 to 24 inches at the shoulder, and weighs 32 to 37 kgs.
the neutered male will not develop testicle cancer, and the risk of prostate cancer is lowered.
what if the puppies die?
the mature male golden is ideally 22 to 24 inches at the shoulder, and  weighs 32 to 37 kgs.    bitches, 20 to 22 inches, and weight 27  to 32 kgs.
benefits of spaying include not having to worry about accidental breeding,  the stress and inconvenience of confining the bitch in season, risky  “mismating shots” and unwanted puppies.
neutered males will not be stressed and upset by the scent of bitches in  season, and are less tempted to wander or be distracted from their work.
examination of breeding stock should be done annually, until at least eight (8) years of age and preferably longer, as hereditary eye problems can develop at varying ages.
what if the puppies  die?
eyelid and eyelash problems also occur in the breed, some with an  hereditary basis, others are sometimes due to other factors.
the golden  retriever club of nsw inc, and other interstate breed club members can supply  you with a list of conscientious breeders who either have, or about to have  puppies.
very few  litters have more than a few real “show prospects” in them, but a  “pet quality” puppy from a well bred litter has all the potential for  maturing into a sturdy, healthy golden of proper size, appearance and  temperament.
learn as much as possible about his/her habits, daily  routine, likes and dislikes, diet and past history.
when someone is involved in dogs for the enjoyment of each individual animal, for participating in any of the many aspects of dog sports, and for the challenge of producing the finest animals possible, the result is superior.
golden puppies are born much lighter in colour than their final adult  colour.
bitches do not whelp at your convenience,  and the children are often in school, or in bed at the time of delivery.
“cataract” by definition is any opacity within the  lens of the eye.
the heart should have been examined by a specialist veterinary practitioner and certified free of any abnormality.
while the instinct for procreation is strong, the dog has no conscious knowledge of what it is missing, no regrets and no guilt feelings.
it will improve the bitches temperament if she is bred you are wrong.
breed type and  quality your dog/bitch must be structurally and functionally sound, with  conformation characteristics appropriate for the breed.
the spayed bitch will not develop uterine infections or tumours of the reproductive system as many older, unspayed bitches may do.
that it is the result of excess food and insufficient exercise.
surgery may be needed to correct these problems, and while it is a fairly  simple procedure, such dogs should not be bred with.
if your breeder meets all these requirements, you are in good hands.
choosing a reputable breeder
what is a golden retriever
time to individually socialise each puppy daily.
hip dysplasia is an inherited defect with a polygenic (many genes) mode of  inheritance.
and while raising a litter will not only not make an  improvement in the dam’s temperament, it will also probably result in a  litter of unsatisfactory puppies who will be imprinted by their unstable  dam.
having puppies would be fun it is also very time consuming and demanding.
registration papers, vaccination certificate, microchipped and including copies  of the parents clear eye certificates, hip and elbow scoring certificates and  heart certificates.
time to answer phone calls, talk with prospective buyers, and answer the same questions over and over again.
benefits of spaying include not having to worry about accidental breeding, the stress and inconvenience of confining the bitch in season, risky mismating shots and unwanted puppies.
· a breeder who will sell a puppy under eight (8) weeks of age, as early separation from the dam and litter mates can be very detrimental both psychologically and physically.
try to find out all that you can about the older dog that you are considering, so that you can determine if his/her temperament is compatible with yours.
the backyard breeders only goal is to produce puppies, and when the fun is over, sell them quickly.
you may be asked to put a deposit of $100.00 or more on the puppy of your choice if the puppies are not yet eight (8) weeks old.
attend dog shows, obedience trials or field trials, golden  retriever club of nsw inc meetings (held monthly, on the first tuesday, at  7.30pm) and talk with and question golden owners.
they have the best interests of the puppy at heart, to say nothing of yours.
provide you with a record of the dates and types of vaccinations, microchipping documentation and worming medication, a copy of a three (3) to five (5) generation pedigree, and ankc registration papers.
the examination  should be conducted by a veterinary ophthalmologist, who has the special  equipment and training needed to properly examine the dog’s eyes.
it's physical characteristics and its willing, adaptable, trainable nature make it suitable for many purposes.
most breeders register puppies on the ankcs limit register unless you, as the new owner have negotiated the purchase of the puppy for exhibition and/or breeding.
consider your motives if you think that: 1.
moderate and regular exercise, control of weight, and perhaps anti-inflammatory drugs are helpful in the older dog.
perhaps the bold, brash puppy that never stops getting into things would be too much for you, and the more easy going fellow whos agreeable and a bit more receptive to your guidance would be a better choice.
acquired problems such as a narrow birth canal from previous injury, transmissible venereal tumour, anaemia, any disease or infection of the reproductive organs, concurrent diseases of other organ systems, or any contagious diseases are all reasons not to be bred.
shyness, aggressiveness,  gunshyness, lack of retrieving ability or trainability, and hyperactivity are  all reasons not to breed, regardless of other qualities.
there are goldens that fit each description, and some that fit all of the descriptions.
a predominate colour of either white or setter red, or white markings on the head, feet or chest, are not desirable, but will have no affect on the dogs usefulness for work or companionship.
the physical characteristics of the golden retriever are described fully in the breed standard, appendix b. choosing a golden retriever
at this point in time sas is regarded as an hereditary condition.
if the breeder offers you several puppies to choose from, take each of the puppies you are considering away from the rest of its litter mates, and observe its reactions to the environment and to you.
since there is no responsible reason not to spay a bitch unless she was bought specifically for showing or breeding, the oestrus cycle in the female need not be a consideration.
it is against the rnsw canine councils and the clubs codes of ethics to sell puppies to pet shops or dealers.
pregnancy not only contributes nothing to a bitch's health, but sometimes causes problems.
there is no question that the golden is a versatile and  remarkable breed.
hip dysplasia is an inherited defect with a polygenic (many genes) mode of inheritance.
the breeder who competes wants to prove how good his/her
if you are a fastidious housekeeper (or live with one), you shouldn't get a golden.
they have the best  interests of the puppy at heart, to say nothing of yours.
neutering a male can make  him more tolerant of other males, but neither neutering or spaying him will by  itself turn your golden into an obese, lazy animal ......
eyes should be examined annually and be free of hereditary cataracts, central  progressive retinal atrophy, and any eye anomaly.
of particular concern in the golden retriever is sub-aortic stenosis (sas), a condition basically caused by a faulty valve in the aorta.
certain traumas  during the growth period of the skeleton.
the golden has a normal canine structure without distortions  of leg, jaw or tail.
this  breeder is not relying on just a pedigree to indicate quality.
there are  featherings of longer hair on the backs of the legs, on the front of the neck  and chest, and on the tail.
at least one type of hereditary cataract appears at an  early age in affected goldens, and while these may or may not interfere with  the dog’s vision, some do progress into severe or total loss of  sight.
even worse, perhaps the breeding occurred just to make money.
dark pigment around the  eyes, a black nose and foot pads are preferable, although this might not be  important to you in a dog that is to be a companion only.
that it is the result  of excess food and insufficient exercise.
improvement or even apparent disappearance of lameness can occur as the dog matures, as a result of the joint stabilising, inflammation subsiding, and muscular strengthening.
before you start looking at litters of puppies, take time to learn about  the breed.
there are also other eye defects, such as retinal dysplasia, that prevent consideration of a dog as a breeding animal.
among these are panosteitis, osteochondritis dissecans, luxated patella, and other problems.
some puppies are slower to develop the retrieving  instinct than others, but you should not consider a puppy which does not show  some interest in or awareness of a moving object.
if there is water on your property your golden  will be wet, and possibly muddy, a frustrating amount of the time.
give the dog a month or so to settle into its new environment, and gain  confidence in its new owners before beginning formal obedience training.
this breeder is not relying on just a pedigree to indicate quality.
you have an obligation to thoroughly screen every owner that  inquires for stud service, and the bitch to be bred, the boarding and caring  for the bitch in your care, of effecting the mating, of supplying pedigrees,  photos and examination reports, and of keeping meticulous records.
coats should be clean and thick; eyes, nose and ears free of discharge or irritation, and the puppies should not be pot bellied.
many of these indiscriminately  bred puppies have health problems, poor temperaments, and or breed  disqualifications.
until you can satisfy the requirements that the  serious hobby breeder should meet, (see the section of this booklet entitled  “choosing a reputable breeder”), you will be doing the breed an  injustice if you have a litter of puppies.
this  is all done as circumstances dictate, and not at your convenience - the weekend  away you had planned may well be spent at home looking after a visiting bitch  instead.
there is no question that the golden is a versatile and remarkable breed.
presented below is a list of requirements the breeder should meet before  you consider purchasing a puppy.
attend dog shows, obedience trials or field trials, golden retriever club of nsw inc meetings (held monthly, on the first tuesday, at 7.30pm) and talk with and question golden owners.
temperament your dog/bitch must be absolutely sound and stable, with a personality and  disposition appropriate for the breed.
breed type and quality your dog/bitch must be structurally and functionally sound, with conformation characteristics appropriate for the breed.
perhaps the bold, brash puppy that never stops getting into things would  be too much for you, and the more easy going fellow who’s agreeable and a  bit more receptive to your guidance would be a better choice.
the dogs self confidence will return, and it will adapt readily to your routine.
you may be able to sell three (3) or four (4) puppies out of a litter of ten (10).
pet shops rely heavily on impulse buying.
the backyard breeder is not aware of breed problems, and usually  doesn't care.
published by the golden retriever club of nsw inc. this information is intended for prospective owners of golden retrievers.
both the pedigree and  registration document are provided by reputable breeders at no extra charge for  show and trial dogs.
the basic disposition and temperament of your dog will not be changed by removing his or her reproductive capability.
most veterinarians like to do the spaying or neutering at a fairly young  age (approximately six (6) months).
· be able to show you a clean environment, healthy, well socialised puppies, and a dam with a good temperament.
can you afford to feed and provide veterinary care for 2 or 3 four (4) month old puppies that didnt sell?
the serious and dedicated hobby breeder  regards his/her dogs as even more than a hobby.
· a breeder who lets you handle a very young puppy, as there is a real risk of transmitting disease before they are vaccinated.
it will improve the  bitches temperament if she is bred you are wrong.
when choosing a puppy it is important for you to know that its parents have been screened by a specialist veterinary practitioner for hereditary heart conditions.
the ear colour is the best indicator of the colour of a puppys future adult coat.
time must be taken to make clear to the dog where it is to sleep, relieve itself, where and when it will eat, and what it can and cannot do in the house.
since it is almost impossible for you to know what the puppy you are buying will grow to be physically and emotionally, you must put your faith in the person from whom you are purchasing your puppy.
you should avoid: ·          shy, whimpering,  tearful puppies.
they are proud of their  dogs and are happy to share their enthusiasm.
learn as much as possible about his/her habits, daily routine, likes and dislikes, diet and past history.
these dogs may well be of unknown background, and bring you a few more problems  than those with a more favourable history, but the rewards can be great.
· be able to show you proof that both the sire and dam of the litter have had their eyes examined by a ophthalmologist within the last twelve (12) months, have had their hips and elbows x-rayed and scored and have their hearts examined by an experienced specialist veterinarian.
this breeder will be as careful  and honest in selling you your pet puppy as in selling show stock.
fifteen (15) to eighteen (18) months of age is considered to be minimum age for accurate x-ray determination of desirable conformation.
often the veterinarian can recommend medication which will control the seizures, although medication is not always effective, and many dog owners are not always willing to try and live with this problem.
as with any quantitative trait,  hip joint conformation can range from good to bad, with all shades in between.
goldens also work as pets as therapy, appear in many commercials and advertisements, and are one of the preferred breeds of veterinarians.
and raising a litter properly?
even worse, perhaps the breeding occurred just to make  money.
never be hesitant to take a good natured older dog into your home.
nuclear sclerosis, the bluish haze of the eye seen in older dogs, is a normal part of the age related change in the lens of the eye and is not a problem.
sex temperamentally, there is very little difference between the male and  female golden retriever.
many goldens with hip dysplasia will show no outward signs at all, until perhaps seven (7) or eight (8) years of age when muscle tone decreases and arthritis and wear and tear on the joint becomes more noticeable.
improvement or even apparent disappearance of lameness can occur as the  dog matures, as a result of the joint stabilising, inflammation subsiding, and  muscular strengthening.
knowledge of the status of parents, grandparents, siblings, etc., with regard to genetic testing is also desirable.
the coat, which is one of the hallmarks of the breed, is a double coat with a thick, weather proof top coat, and a dense, soft undercoat.
if the sire is available, ask to see him too.
most goldens shed their coat throughout the year, and quite  profusely in the spring, in spite of diligent daily brushing.
never be hesitant to take  a good natured older dog into your home.
if at this point, you are still considering breeding your dog, visit the local dog pound.
in some cases,  there is no ascertainable cause other than perhaps some inherent factor  resulting in a low threshold to the stimuli setting off the seizures.
in short, it has to learn the routine it will be following and what is expected of it.
neither is harder to house train, and both are  equally intelligent and affectionate.
remember, you are choosing a companion for the next 10 to 15 years.
the golden retriever is no exception and unfortunately, the problems multiply with indiscriminate breeding.
many dedicated breeders will ask  that the dog be returned to them, or placed with new owners who meet their  approval if for any reason you are unable to keep the dog.
the golden retriever was developed in scotland and england in the late  19th century for the purpose of retrieving wild fowl on land or water.
at this point  in time sas is regarded as an hereditary condition.
there are goldens that fit each description, and some that fit all of the  descriptions.
·          signs of  neglect, such as lack of water, pans of uneaten food, and dirty conditions.
this can be very rewarding, but also time consuming and sometimes frustrating.
if you are fortunate, and more than one good litter is available at the same time in your area, you can compare puppies, pedigrees and parents.
time for all the paper work required, including typing accurate pedigrees,  health records, care instructions, records of sale, and so on.
hips and elbows should be properly x‑rayed and submitted for scoring.
there are three (3) options open to you in  choosing this person.
[back to top] if you find any broken links, or errors in this web site please contact the webmaster: mark hodges home  contents    links   puppies   reading   shows   greats   standard  contacts web by  dogwebs
most goldens shed their coat throughout the year, and quite profusely in the spring, in spite of diligent daily brushing.
this is all done as circumstances dictate, and not at your convenience - the weekend away you had planned may well be spent at home looking after a visiting bitch instead.
although its size and initial barking might deter an intruder, the typical golden is adaptable, friendly to everyone, gentle (although physically active), and committed to carry things around in its mouth ...... including the intruders flashlight.
·          be able to give  you references; names of people who have purchased puppies in the past, names  of other breeders, name of the veterinarian who provides care for the  breeder’s dogs.
this is not the way to choose an addition to your family.
although its size and initial barking might deter an intruder, the typical  golden is adaptable, friendly to everyone, gentle (although physically active),  and committed to carry things around in its mouth ...... including the  intruder’s flashlight.
they are merchandise to be sold for  a high profit.
if you rescue a mistreated or abandoned golden retriever through a golden retriever club rescue service or a humane society, and give it your affection.
time to individually  socialise each puppy daily.
the breeder who does not participate has no idea how good his/her dogs really are, and is deprived of the opportunity to share information and ideas with others.
ask how many dogs are put down monthly, and how many put  down in the last month were golden retrievers.
this booklet will discuss the pros and cons of both, and how to select a golden retriever of any age.
often the  veterinarian can recommend medication which will control the seizures, although  medication is not always effective, and many dog owners are not always willing  to try and live with this problem.
the breeder who  does not participate has no idea how good his/her dogs really are, and is  deprived of the opportunity to share information and ideas with others.
gums should be pink, not pale.
goldens and other breeds of retrievers often seem to have high pain  thresholds, and do not show signs of pain when other breeds might be very  uncomfortable.
other orthopaedic problems including elbow dysplasia there a number of orthopeadic problems besides hip dysplasia which may  also occur in the growing dog.
the litter is  probably not registered with the royal nsw canine council, so you have no  guarantee that the puppy you are thinking of buying is even a purebred golden  retriever.
consider your dogs quality is your dog or bitch truly an outstanding representative of the breed?
no animal whose temperament needs improving should be bred in the first place, since temperament is most often the result of hereditary factors.
basic grooming for a golden should take no more  than 20 to 30 minutes a week.
youll enjoy working together.
time must be taken to make clear to the dog where  it is to sleep, relieve itself, where and when it will eat, and what it can and  cannot do in the house.
a returned puppy is a traumatic experience for all concerned, so  the breeder who is always willing to accept a puppy back will try to make  certain that a golden retriever is the breed for you.
nuclear sclerosis, the “bluish haze” of the eye seen in older  dogs, is a normal part of the age related change in the lens of the eye and is  not a problem.
many reputable breeders sell their pet quality puppies with the agreement that the animal will be spayed or neutered.
these dogs may well be of unknown background, and bring you a few more problems than those with a more favourable history, but the rewards can be great.
the spayed bitch will  not develop uterine infections or tumours of the reproductive system as many  older, unspayed bitches may do.
it is your right, and you can rest assured that  the dedicated breeder will respond positively and with pride.
these puppies  are usually sold with limited registration papers.
nevertheless, when purchasing puppy, it is important to ensure that the  parents have been screened by x-ray for elbow dysplasia.
reputable  breeders will take great pains to place puppies properly the first time  round.
this breeder will be as careful and honest in selling you your pet puppy as in selling show stock.
heart conditions:  sub-aortic stenosis like humans, dogs can and do suffer from heart problems.
you might have to wait weeks, or even  months, for the “right” litter to be whelped, and it can be well  worth the wait.
these puppies are usually sold with limited registration papers.
reputable breeders will take great pains to place puppies properly the first time round.
this breeder is exposed to other points of view, learns more about the breed and modern breeding practices, and is kept up to date on australian national canine council rules and regulations.
goldens are very people orientated,  and aren’t happy as kennel dogs.
even experienced breeders sometimes have difficulty selling puppies.
·          ask you what  kind of dogs you have had in the past, and what happened to them; whether or  not you have fenced yard; if the dog will be allowed to be a member of the  family.
sex related behaviour such as mounting and marking may be exhibited by some male goldens, particularly if other males are present, or if the male has been used at stud.
neutering a male can make him more tolerant of other males, but neither neutering or spaying him will by itself turn your golden into an obese, lazy animal ......
unequivocally, your choice should be from the ranks of the serious hobby breeder.
the heart should have  been examined by a specialist veterinary practitioner and certified free of any  abnormality.
the build is sturdy and muscular, but neither massive like a newfoundland, nor refined like a setter.
at least one type of hereditary cataract appears at an early age in affected goldens, and while these may or may not interfere with the dogs vision, some do progress into severe or total loss of sight.
there are many reasons for older dogs becoming available: §          breeders often  hold a puppy until it is old enough to determine its show or breeding potential; §         a brood bitch that  has been bred once or twice and is to be retired; §          circumstances  change and the breeder/owner is placing a much loved pet they have to part with; §          the dog has been  rescued from a dog pound or other similar situation.
puppies at seven (7) to eight (8) weeks of age should be willing to explore their environment, and although a little cautious at first, they should investigate new objects and be fairly self assured.
even if the dog has had some obedience training, attending class is an excellent way of brushing up on its training and will help you to understand its responses and personality more completely.
5.          health a breeding animal must be fully mature, in the prime of health, and in  lean muscular condition.
this booklet will discuss the  pros and cons of both, and how to select a golden retriever of any age.
have the money to put into the project?
epilepsy seizure disorders may arise from a variety of environmental factors  including viral infections, other diseases, and trauma.
the  casual breeder does not have annual eye examinations by a veterinary  ophthalmologist, and does not submit hip and elbow x‑rays for  scoring.
once you have found a breeder you trust, its time to think about a puppy again.
titles alone are no  guarantee of genetic value.
both are excellent with children,  and both make excellent companions.
unsound hip joints are a common problem in the larger breeds, and hip dysplasia can be a serious problem in any dog.
the golden retriever is a “natural” dog needing no surgical  alterations to ears or tails, and no exotic grooming (as opposed to some  terriers, poodles, etc.).
in some cases, there is no ascertainable cause other than perhaps some inherent factor resulting in a low threshold to the stimuli setting off the seizures.
surgery may be needed to correct these problems, and while it is a fairly simple procedure, such dogs should not be bred with.
failure to screen for hereditary  problems before breeding often results in the “doubling up” of  unfavourable genes, and the results are distressing for the buyer and dog  alike.
this is the person who owns a pet golden and  thinks it would be “fun” to have puppies, that it would be a great  experience for the children, or that the bitch should be bred once before she  is spayed.
there are many reasons for older dogs becoming available: § breeders often hold a puppy until it is old enough to determine its show or breeding potential; § a brood bitch that has been bred once or twice and is to be retired; § circumstances change and the breeder/owner is placing a much loved pet they have to part with; § the dog has been rescued from a dog pound or other similar situation.
an obedience competitor.
it is recommended that a bitch be spayed before her first season, usually at 7-9 months.
neutering a male before one (1) year of age  will not only help to alleviate these problems, but will eliminate the risk of  testicular cancer, and lower the risk of prostate cancer.
soundness your dog/bitch should be tested free of certain genetic defects, as should the proposed mate.
health a breeding animal must be fully mature, in the prime of health, and in lean muscular condition.
the casual breeder does not have annual eye examinations by a veterinary ophthalmologist, and does not submit hip and elbow x‑rays for scoring.
the golden retriever was developed in scotland and england in the late 19th century for the purpose of retrieving wild fowl on land or water.
· ask you what kind of dogs you have had in the past, and what happened to them; whether or not you have fenced yard; if the dog will be allowed to be a member of the family.
during the acute phase of the disease, your  veterinarian may suggest rest and supportive care.
goldens are very adaptable, and a golden of any age with a good temperament can become a member of the family in a very short time.
speak to the puppy  and see if it will follow you as you move away.
try to find out all that you can about the older dog that you are  considering, so that you can determine if his/her temperament is compatible  with yours.
the backyard breeder’s only goal is to produce  puppies, and when the “fun” is over, sell them quickly.
hips  and elbows should be properly x‑rayed and submitted for scoring.
the examination should be conducted by a veterinary ophthalmologist, who has the special equipment and training needed to properly examine the dogs eyes.
illness or death of the dam or puppies can be expensive, emotional .....
as a consequence, puppies sold through such outlets are likely to be poorly bred and raised.
titles alone are no guarantee of genetic value.
the breeder who competes in organised activities is known by  others, and has a reputation to uphold.
one  or perhaps two isolated seizures do not necessarily constitute a problem, but  dogs subject to recurring seizures should not be bred.
knowledge of the status of parents, grandparents,  siblings, etc., with regard to genetic testing is also desirable.
one or perhaps two isolated seizures do not necessarily constitute a problem, but dogs subject to recurring seizures should not be bred.
usually this breeder knows little about the “breed  standard” or history of the breed, and still less about care.
the adult coat may range in colour from a cream to dark gold, and the darker golden can have a lighter feathering.
hereditary problems
epilepsy seizure disorders may arise from a variety of environmental factors including viral infections, other diseases, and trauma.
white markings are not correct in a show or breeding animal, but do not affect the puppys potential to be a very loving, intelligent and special companion animal.
if the dog has been loved and well cared for, he/she will continue to give love and devotion to his/her new owners because a properly raised golden loves and needs people.
the breeder who competes in organised activities is known by others, and has a reputation to uphold.
·          make it clear  that his/her responsibility continues long after you have taken your puppy home  and in fact as long as the dog is alive.
time to answer phone calls, talk with  prospective buyers, and answer the same questions over and over again.
if the breeder offers you several puppies to choose from, take each of the  puppies you are considering away from the rest of its litter mates, and observe  its reactions to the environment and to you.
what if the bitch has  problems which necessitate a caesarean section?
entropion and ectropion is the turning in or turning out of the eyelids.
the dog’s self confidence will return, and it will adapt  readily to your routine.
this is the person who owns a pet golden and thinks it would be fun to have puppies, that it would be a great experience for the children, or that the bitch should be bred once before she is spayed.
spaying or neutering will remove the instinct and  the problems often associated with the desire to mate, such as wandering and  marking.
showing dogs provides the competition which encourages breeders to produce better dogs.
consider your resources raising a litter is a demanding project.
eyes should be examined annually and be free of hereditary cataracts, central progressive retinal atrophy, and any eye anomaly.
the temperament  should be steady, adaptable and kind.
you’ll enjoy working  together.
speak to the puppy and see if it will follow you as you move away.
most people prefer to get a young puppy and raise it themselves.
eyelid and eyelash problems also occur in the breed, some with an hereditary basis, others are sometimes due to other factors.
eye disease hereditary cataracts are a common hereditary eye problem in the golden  retriever.
both the pedigree and registration document are provided by reputable breeders at no extra charge for show and trial dogs.
so would a litter of mice.
however, the club makes no judgements about the parents and / or their features, including hereditary tests.
consider the current dog population
time to go to the veterinarian for check  ups, inoculations, or with a sick dam or puppy.
pedigree a four (4) or five (5) generation pedigree on the proposed litter should be read and interpreted by a person with extensive knowledge of the breed, and of the dogs involved.
goldens are very people orientated, and arent happy as kennel dogs.
· be involved in showing his/her dogs in the breed ring, the obedience ring, retrieving trials or in a combination of all three.
a few families of goldens carry genes for progressive retinal atrophy (pra) which is progressive deterioration of the light receptive area (retina) of the eye, and may result in complete blindness at a fairly young age.
all puppies are cute.
·          be involved in  showing his/her dogs in the breed ring, the obedience ring, retrieving trials  or in a combination of all three.
the only accurate means of determining the condition of the hip joint is by x-ray examination.
pretty, friendly and smart is not nearly enough.
time to take or send a bitch for breeding, sit up for hours during  whelping, and hand raise the litter if the bitch is unable to.
stud fee, veterinary fees, advertising, and the daily care and feeding of a litter is very expensive.
dark pigment around the eyes, a black nose and foot pads are preferable, although this might not be important to you in a dog that is to be a companion only.
neither is harder to house train, and both are equally intelligent and affectionate.
pedigree a four (4) or five (5) generation pedigree on the  proposed litter should be read and interpreted by a person with extensive  knowledge of the breed, and of the dogs involved.
if you find yourself with a negative response to any of these requirements,  think twice and discuss the situation with someone else.
[back to top] if you find any broken links, or errors in this web site please contact the webmaster: mark hodges home contents links puppies reading shows greats standard contacts web by dogwebs
while observing the puppies, observe the dam as well.
these breeders acknowledge responsibility for each and every puppy produced, and stand behind every dog they have bred.
however, any dog can fall victim to a wide range of acquired problems, just as humans can.
if you want a one man dog, prefer cats to dogs, or arent home much, you shouldn't get a golden retriever.
a male neutered before he learns to lift his leg, probably will not do so later, and will not mark his territory.
problems of aggressiveness which  males of other breeds may exhibit, rarely occur in the golden.
even  experienced breeders sometimes have difficulty selling puppies.
signs of hip dysplasia cannot be detected in the newborn puppy, but usually appear in the rapid growth period between four (4) and nine (9) months of age.
time to buy and prepare food, feed and clean up four (4) to five (5) times daily.
this can be very rewarding, but also time consuming and sometimes  frustrating.
it is against the rnsw canine  council’s and the club’s codes of ethics to sell puppies to pet shops  or dealers.
this is not the  way to choose an addition to your family.
poor  quality puppies are produced by people who breed their pets just to have  litter, or by profit seekers who give little thought to quality, looks or  temperament in the puppies they produce.
the following, while not all inclusive, are some of the more  common hereditary problems that may be encountered in goldens.
bitches, 20 to 22 inches, and weight 27 to 32 kgs.
it is best to acquire the dog when the household member with primary  responsibility for the dog’s care and training will be at home full time  for the first few days.
the true enthusiast does not expect to make a profit.
since there is  no responsible reason not to spay a bitch unless she was bought specifically  for showing or breeding, the oestrus cycle in the female need not be a  consideration.
almost all golden puppies are appealing, but you need to look for more than cuteness".
you have an obligation to thoroughly screen every owner that inquires for stud service, and the bitch to be bred, the boarding and caring for the bitch in your care, of effecting the mating, of supplying pedigrees, photos and examination reports, and of keeping meticulous records.
if at this point, you are still considering breeding your dog, visit the  local dog pound.
white markings  are not correct in a show or breeding animal, but do not affect the  puppy’s potential to be a very loving, intelligent and special companion  animal.
spaying or neutering will remove the instinct and the problems often associated with the desire to mate, such as wandering and marking.
it would be educational for the children
consider your dog’s quality is your dog or bitch truly an outstanding representative of the  breed?
the golden retriever you may be interested in a golden retriever for a variety of reasons: 1.
for this reason, the club will not recommend prospective puppy buyers to any particular breeder.