i just love black cats and don't understand why they tend to be the last ones adopted from shelters.
they like so many charitable organizations are always in need of funding to keep going, and i have entered them to win $1,000 in a giveaway sponsored by discount pet medication.net.
panther must have been a gorgeous girl if she looked like lizzie.
she would prefer a home without other cats and dogs,  but is very affectionate and will wrap her paws around your neck and give you a  hug when picked up.
- about us / contact - home page - links and awards - subscribe to feed - find a lost pet - natural pet food list pet physical therapy
subscribe free to daily feed posted by wildcatsthree   at9:58 am email
"thousands of years ago, cats were treated as royalty.
cat grooming do you need some cat grooming help?
she would prefer a home without other cats and dogs, but is very affectionate and will wrap her paws around your neck and give you a hug when picked up.
hopefully lizzie will find a new family of 2 leggers who aren't fickled and stoopid!!
if you have a minute, could you give them a vote over on my far right sidebar or byclicking here, or if you have a pet charity near and dear to you, you can also enter them in the drawing.
i only wish i could do more financially to help all the lost furry soles out there.
they routinely donate spaying and neutering services to humane ohio, an organization that provides pet care services to people who cannot afford vet care for their pets.
i too had an all black cat named "kitty" who lived to be 17 years old.
check out the kat groomer get 10% off your first order and mr chewy will donate $10 to pet charities use code wild7783 at checkout for your 10% discount topics - *introduction* (1) - adoption stories (24) - cat abuse (1) - cat allergies (6) - cat behavior problems (2) - cat breeds (1) - cat declawing (1) - cat diet (28) - cat flea control (3) - cat health (27) - cat litter (4) - cat parasites (1) - cat safety (15) - cat toys (1) - cat treats (2) - dog abuse (3) - dog allergies (9) - dog apparel (1) - dog behavior problem (10) - dog breeds (4) - dog diet (38) - dog digestive upset (1) - dog ear infections (2) - dog flea control (3) - dog grooming (1) - dog guide (2) - dog health (30) - dog housetraining (1) - dog parasites (1) - dog safety (28) - dog toys (2) - dog treats (3) - funny pet pictures (2) - humor (1) - our awards (32) - pet adoption (21) - pet charitable donations (4) - pet humor (5) - rosie's rescues (22) - sadness (6) helping pets in need - alley cat allies - aspca virtual pet behaviorist - find your new pet - stop puppy mills pet reference material - animal natural health center - canine health concern - healthy pet journal - healthy vet our fur family dog health visit these great blogs join the "along for the ride" blogging community here make money from your blog pet postcards banners and signs only natural pet store subscribe in a reader subscribe to the cat / dog log by email save a cat followers cereal for breakfast?
my girls are members of our family too and i could never do that.
august (9) july (10) june (12) may (12) april (10) march (14) february (7) january (3) december (8) november (9) september (7) august (14) july (12) june (9) may (9) april (11) march (11) february (12) january (13) december (14) november (16) october (13) september (15) august (16) july (12) june (14) may (12) april (13) march (16) february (27) january (30) december (25) november (20) october (15) september (5) august (17) template images by nikada.
"in a perfect world, every dog would have a home and every home would have a dog."
if you have a minute, could you give them a vote  over on my far right sidebar or byclicking here, or if you have a pet charity  near and dear to you, you can also enter them in the drawing.
if your dog has been injured, is overweight or  has arthritic joints, considerdog physical therapy pools.
natural pet food list pet physical therapy
if your dog has been injured, is overweight or has arthritic joints, considerdog physical therapy pools.
lizzie is spayed, up to date on shots, and housetrained.
sunday, march 6, 2011 rosie's rescue of the week - lizzie meet lizzie, a female black shorthair approximately 5 years old.
lizzie was left behind when her owners moved away, and is currently being cared for bymaumee valley save a pet in toledo, ohio.
lizzie was left behind when her owners moved away, and is currently being  cared for bymaumee valley save a pet in toledo, ohio.
thank you all for  your time and attention to this good cause.
disclosure policy i occassionally accept compensation from advertisers to write about their products.
subscribe free to daily feed posted by wildcatsthree at9:58 am email this blogthis!
then gidget and jackie came to live with us 11 years ago, followed by lola.
to read my full disclosure policy, please click here blog archive blog archive february (2) january (7) december (6) november (8) october (8) september (11)
i was sickened to read how she came to be at the shelter too-it didn't relly say if the family dropped her at the shelter or if they just abandoned her and she was found - hopefully the first one.
they  like so many charitable organizations are always in need of funding to keep  going, and i have entered them to win $1,000 in a giveaway sponsored by  discount pet medication.net.
- march 7, 2011 11:19 am - chris said... - hi catherine,
cats have never forgotten this."
- march 7, 2011 11:23 am - marg said... - oh lizzie, you are so darn pretty.
hugs madi and mom - march 6, 2011 3:37 pm - catherine said... - dear chris, the work you do is priceless...
- march 7, 2011 11:20
wish we had room at our inn here for you.
sunday, march 6, 2011 rosie's rescue of the week - lizzie meet lizzie, a female  black shorthair approximately 5 years old.
i hope she finds a loving furever home!
- march 6, 2011 10:34 pm - chris said... - hi madi and mom, yes, isn't lizzie a beautiful girl!
we sure hope you find a forever home really soon.
the cat / dog log all about pets,from natural diet and holistic pet care to behavior issues, rescue and adoption.
blessings, catherine - march 6, 2011 4:24 pm - beadedtail said... - lizzie is very beautiful and reminds me of my beloved kitty panther who i miss very much.
thank you all for your time and attention to this good cause.
am - chris and the wildcats said... - hi beaded tail, thanks for dropping by.
- march 7, 2011 3:48 pm post a comment newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom)
thank you for the birthday wishes...
and we hope you had a wonderful birthday.
oh my word i cannot imagine any situation that would make me leave madi behind.
they routinely donate  spaying and neutering services to humane ohio, an organization that provides  pet care services to people who cannot afford vet care for their pets.
for more information on adopting lizzie,click here.
lizzie is spayed, up to date on  shots, and housetrained.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: rosie's rescues 7 comments: - madi and mom said... - lizzie is beautiful...
she is a member of our family.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: rosie's rescues
how could anyone turn you down.