and just as my wife enjoys dabbing herself with a favorite perfume, sirloin enjoyed dousing himself with his favorite fur-pume - in this case, skunk.
at first i thought it was just one of his  toys, but then i walked out to investigate.
these dietary indiscretions might freak out some  people, but i've lived on a ranch my whole life, as has teresa, and we think of  them as kind of cute.
isn't this just the neatest thing i've ever brought home?"
sirloin, of course, didn't think the dead skunk stunk; to him it was just another sample of ken-nelle no. 5.
these dietary indiscretions might freak out some people, but i've lived on a ranch my whole life, as has teresa, and we think of them as kind of cute.
book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book knit dog book today's popular articles - agility dog makes brown during a show - why your cat kneads you featured video paw nation flickr gallery click
he jumped up and  gave me a wet kiss like a hormonally supercharged teenager.
once we got up to the barn, sirloin would be ready to top off his tummy tank with some canine haute cuisine, diving head first into a fresh pile of horse dung.
a nose that knows dogs not only have millions more scent receptors than humans do, they are also  polar opposites from us when it comes to choosing scents that attract rather  than repel.
why dogs prefer things that stink by paw nation staff ( subscribe to paw nation staff's posts) jan 19th 2012 @ 9:31am filed under: dogs, ask a vet, animal sites we love akeg, flickr by dr. marty becker, via vetstreet each morning, our dogs accompany us on our walk to the horse barn.
after thousands of years of evolution, dogs  continue to go boldly where no man (or woman) has gone before on the journey to  find the scent-sational.
black dog & leventhal, inc. knit dog
sites we love - peoplepets - petsugar - webvet - animal planet - moderncat - petfinder - vetstreet sponsored links also on aol pawnation.com search - quick links - dogs - cats - small pets - pet photos - ask a vet - pet of the day - product reviews - more on pets - animal nutrition - celebrities and pets - pet grooming - pet adoption - funny animal videos - pet health - pets news - more on lifestyle - food & recipes - home & garden - style & beauty - trade secrets - huffington post - healthy living - impact - parents - women - more on aol - coupons - games - jobs - television - - site map - staff - terms of use - privacy policy - trademarks - aol downloads - advertise with us - about our ads - contact us © 2012 aol inc.
after cleansing his palate, he would then flop on his back,  rolling fervently, as if he had a really bad itch and the horse apples were a  bed of nails.
wearing stinky stuff is like a designer label for pets.
ol' sirloin never understood why i didn't appreciate his skunky prize that long-ago day.
as i approached, sirloin abandoned  his snack and raced over to greet me, wiggling with delight.
after reading the story of sirloin and his rotting, maggot-filled skunk carcass, those undies don't seem so bad after all.
to create a live link, simply type the url (including http://) or email address and we will make it a live link for you.
teresa puts  on perfume to impress her friends; sirloin loved his barnyard bouquet and, in  much the same way, applied it to impress his friends, too.
only 3 do win a free  trip to new york city and meet "america's veterinarian" source of original article:why dogs prefer things that stink tags: dog behavior, stink
though this type of  greeting was routine, this time his breath was - shall we say? - revolting.
though experts aren't sure why dogs like to roll in  stinky stuff and eat rotten things, some believe that pets are marking  themselves with their most prized possessions, guaranteed to impress all their  two- and four-legged friends.
i knew the smell: skunk.
why  does my dog... eat poop?
let me tell you, it was enough to turn even the cast-iron stomach of this veteran veterinarian.
wearing stinky stuff is  like a designer label for pets.
is that what i think it is?
- #2 stargazr1-23-2012 @ 4:00pm - it's is instinct they have been doing it from time began it is for the hunt if they smell like an animal that is not a threat to the prey they are hunting it makes it easier to catch the prey add your comments current users e-mail: password new users name e-mail remember me e-mail me when someone replies to this comment
why does my dog... stare at me?
teresa puts on perfume to impress her friends; sirloin loved his barnyard bouquet and, in much the same way, applied it to impress his friends, too.
- reducing your carbon paw-print (discovery) sponsored links reader comments (page 1 of 1) - #1 krs1-20-2012 @ 10:23am - my son and his wife have a nine month old pit bull who sleeps in my bed.
though experts aren't sure why dogs like to roll in stinky stuff and eat rotten things, some believe that pets are marking themselves with their most prized possessions, guaranteed to impress all their two- and four-legged friends.
see more on vetstreet.com: * 3 tricks to calm a fearful dog *
here to upload your pics!
to us it's  disgusting - to them, it's divine.
though we like aromas that are fresh, floral and fragrant, our dogs prefer the dirty, dead and disgusting, or the rank, rancid and revolting.
a nose that knows dogs not only have millions more scent receptors than humans do, they are also polar opposites from us when it comes to choosing scents that attract rather than repel.
i frequently awaken to find the dog has carried their underpants into the bed to sleep with.
it was a rotten skunk carcass teeming with maggots.
early one morning, i glanced out the kitchen window and noticed sirloin gnawing on something black and furry.
and he certainly never understood why the  next thing i did was scrub him until only the memory of that stench remained.
the menu at our cafe mcmutts then, as now, featured dead mice, dead birds, assorted dung and the skeletal remains of various forest animals.
how your dog can help you from kissing first-date frogs sirloin retrieved his newest chew toy.
can't miss galleries http://xml.channel.aol.com/xmlpublisher/fetch.v2.xml?option=expand_relative_urls&dataurlnodes=uiconfig,feedconfig,localizationconfig,entry&id=996333&pid=996332&uts=1314120056 http://www.aolcdn.com/ke/media_gallery/v1/ke_media_gallery_wrapper.swf knit your own dog book
as i retreated in disgust, sirloin followed me, with a thought bubble above his head that seemed to read, "aren't ya proud of me, dad?
do any dogs need sweaters?
when you enter your name and email address, you'll be sent a link to confirm your comment, and a password.
after cleansing his palate, he would then flop on his back, rolling fervently, as if he had a really bad itch and the horse apples were a bed of nails.
while we would carry our cups of coffee, sirloin usually carried a toy, a piece of a tree or something dead in his mouth.
as i approached, sirloin abandoned his snack and raced over to greet me, wiggling with delight.
and he certainly never understood why the next thing i did was scrub him until only the memory of that stench remained.
or we did, until the day sirloin went too far in his  journey to smell hell.
aol family back to the top
it's like being a furry fabio with a big gold  chain and a shirt unbuttoned to below the rib cage.
as i retreated in disgust, sirloin followed me, with a thought  bubble above his head that seemed to read, "aren't ya proud of me, dad?
to us it's disgusting - to them, it's divine.
at first i thought it was just one of his toys, but then i walked out to investigate.
to leave another comment, just use that password.
let me  tell you, it was enough to turn even the cast-iron stomach of this veteran  veterinarian.
sirloin, of  course, didn't think the dead skunk stunk; to him it was just another sample of  ken-nelle no. 5.
though this type of greeting was routine, this time his breath was - shall we say? - revolting.
guess this is the dog's way of keeping us all together.
ol' sirloin never understood why i didn't appreciate  his skunky prize that long-ago day.
it's like being a furry fabio with a big gold chain and a shirt unbuttoned to below the rib cage.
early one morning, i glanced out the kitchen window and noticed sirloin  gnawing on something black and furry.
the menu at our cafe mcmutts then, as now,  featured dead mice, dead birds, assorted dung and the skeletal remains of  various forest animals.
once we got up to the barn, sirloin would be ready to top off his  tummy tank with some canine haute cuisine, diving head first into a fresh pile  of horse dung.
line breaks and paragraphs are automatically converted â no need to use  or  tags.
after thousands of years of evolution, dogs continue to go boldly where no man (or woman) has gone before on the journey to find the scent-sational.
skip to main content more sites you might like - mail - you might also likeshelterpop, parentdish, and - more pawnation.com search - games - horoscopes - kids - patch - stylelist - trade secrets rss - feedback - main - all categories - dogs - cats - pet health - pet news - pet product reviews - photo galleries - videos all categories - birds - cats - dogs - exotic pets - farm animals - fish - reptiles - small pets - animal nutrition - animal sites we love - ask a vet - ask the akc - celebrity pets - chew on this - cute pet of the day - funny animal pictures - funny animal videos -
he jumped up and gave me a wet kiss like a hormonally supercharged teenager.
how your dog  can help you from kissing first-date frogs sirloin retrieved his  newest chew toy.
this pocket-size dachshund may be even cuter than the real thing.
my wife  and i have shared our lives with many animals over our long and happy marriage,  and our walk always makes me think of the dogs no longer with us, like our  much-missed black labrador, sirloin.
yes, we loved this dog.
advertisement follow pawnation on twitter follow pawnation on facebook newsletter sign up for our e-mail newsletter so you'll always know what's happening on paw nation.
or we did, until the day sirloin went too far in his journey to smell hell.
my wife and i have shared our lives with many animals over our long and happy marriage, and our walk always makes me think of the dogs no longer with us, like our much-missed black labrador, sirloin.
while we would carry our cups of  coffee, sirloin usually carried a toy, a piece of a tree or something dead in  his mouth.
add your comments: add your comment please keep your comments relevant to this blog entry.
though we like aromas that are fresh, floral and fragrant, our dogs  prefer the dirty, dead and disgusting, or the rank, rancid and revolting.
(i has a hotdog) - cat guys or dog guys?
only 3 do win a free trip to new york city and meet "america's veterinarian" source of original article:why dogs prefer things that stink tags: dog behavior, stink share more cute stuff - lion love (daily squee) - this cat means business (i can has cheezburger) - zebra tan!
giveaways - hero pets - loss of a pet - pet adoption - pet clothes - pet grooming - pet health - pet horoscopes - pets news - pet product reviews - pet training - photo galleries - traveling with pets - i work with animals!
see more on  vetstreet.com: * 3 tricks to calm a fearful dog *
you can put up to 3 urls in your comments.
why does my dog...  stare at me?
by dr. marty becker, via vetstreet each morning, our dogs accompany us on our walk to the horse barn.
and  just as my wife enjoys dabbing herself with a favorite perfume, sirloin enjoyed  dousing himself with his favorite fur-pume - in this case, skunk.
why does my dog... eat poop?
why dogs prefer things that stink - by paw nation staff ( subscribe to paw nation staff's posts) - jan 19th 2012 @ 9:31am filed under: dogs, ask a vet, animal sites we love akeg, flickr
email addresses are never displayed, but they are required to confirm your comments.