read “get cats out of the shadows” and check out our feline health center for tips on educating your clients and giving patients—cats and dogs—the care they deserve.
sixty-eight percent of pet owners like both dogs and cats, while 26 percent like only dogs, and 3 percent like only cats.
considering that 20 percent of pet owners surveyed said they dislike cats at least a little, it could be evidence of a disturbing trend in feline healthcare: uneducated pet owners.
water fountain 15 time-savers for the whole team top 10 ways to make your patients hate you 7 morale boosters to pump up your practice the 5 most difficult veterinary clients more articles pearls of practice share your tried-and-true tips install a "no cell phone" rule in the exam room spread heartworm awareness with client games spin to win: make dental care fun use bins to store your patients' lost items more articles advertisement hot topics on dvm360 fidopharm readies for heartworm preventive launch next week through wal-mart, sam's club rising pet ownership will boost veterinary services market through 2016, study says follow dvm360 on twitter and facebook more articles advertisement dvm360.comdvm newsmagazineveterinary medicineveterinary economicsfirstlineipad appsubscribece
news medical newsphoto galleriesspecial reportsthe dvm360 five medicine internal medicinedermatologybehaviordentistryparasitologysurgeryimage quizzes interactive casesclinical videos businessfinancespersonnelclient relationsformsleadershiprevenuemarket datahospital designbizquizzes team working with clientsworking with the teamworking with doctorsworking on yourself audio and videoformsvideo
just ask the expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?
why does this duck have a foamy eye?
fake it more  cats, less care
dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups - firstline search: e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar  bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners  associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise  contact us team center featuring information from: advertisement just ask the expert: should  housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
related links client education: who's responsible?
dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups - firstline - search: - dvm360.com - veterinary sites e-mail alerts rss feeds calendar bookstore special roles team technicians managers owners associates students feline equine food animal exotics subscribe advertise contact us team center featuring information from: advertisement clinical faqs just ask the expert: should housemates be present during a pet's euthanasia?
reproduction in whole or in part is prohibited.
considering that 20  percent of pet owners surveyed said they dislike cats at least a little, it  could be evidence of a disturbing trend in feline healthcare: uneducated pet  owners.
site index | all content | privacy policy | terms of use | linking and rss policy © 2012
what do these numbers mean for your veterinary clinic?
blogscartoonshow-to tips the cvc group washington, d.c.kansas citysan diegocvc datesloyalty programproceedings exhibitorsinfo packete-mail alerts home | subscribe/renew | contact us | advanstar communications | disclaimer | meeting calendar | site map |
fake it more cats, less care most popular articles highest-rated cartoon:
the poll, conducted by the associated press and petside.com, found that 74 percent of all americans like dogs a lot, while just 41 percents like cats a lot.
centerproductscommunity newstop headlinesmarket trendsassociation newspoliticsregulatory
read “get cats out of the shadows” and check out our feline  health center for tips on educating your clients and giving patients—cats  and dogs—the care they deserve.
conversely, 2 percent of all survey respondents said they dislike dogs a lot, while 15 percent said they dislike cats a lot.
jan 7, 2010 firstline cat owners love their feline friends, but the results of a recent survey are clear: america is a dog country.
please send any technical comments or questions to our webmaster.
jan 7, 2010 firstline cat owners love their feline friends, but the results of a recent survey are  clear: america is a dog country.
the survey results don’t stop there.
just ask the expert: why does this bearded collie have pu/pd?
among pet owners specifically, those numbers  jump to 84 percent and 49 percent, respectively.
more articles email| print| share | save|
source: firstline, 1/7/2010 click here
seventy-four percent of the 1,166 respondents who identified themselves as pet owners have a dog, and 47 percent own a cat.
americans  prefer pups a new survey shows that dogs are the most loved animals in  america.
advanstar communications, inc.
the poll, conducted by the associated press  and petside.com, found that 74 percent of all americans like dogs a lot, while  just 41 percents like cats a lot.
sixty-eight percent of pet  owners like both dogs and cats, while 26 percent like only dogs, and 3 percent  like only cats.
seventy-four percent of the 1,166 respondents who identified  themselves as pet owners have a dog, and 47 percent own a cat.
related  links don't like my cat?
conversely, 2 percent of all  survey respondents said they dislike dogs a lot, while 15 percent said they  dislike cats a lot.
among pet owners specifically, those numbers jump to 84 percent and 49 percent, respectively.
more  articles dogs rule, cats drool:
license - del.icio.us - digg - reddit - facebook dogs rule, cats drool: americans prefer pups a new survey shows that dogs are the most loved animals in america.
just ask the  expert: when clients decline immunotherapy for atopy just ask  the expert: bartonellosis and feline gingivostomatitis: is there a relationship?