and yes, i have been scratched and bit before from cats, but usually just surface wounds.
that said, we had a party for my daughter this weekend and with loads of people  at our house our 12 year old cat was not happy.
right now, they are not old enough for this task, so it'll be a few years before cat(s).
mom took over feeding duties and she let them be lazy and just sit on their butts.
nsfw language quotequote eddie griffin is funny as hell!
quotequote originally posted by lord sam "el gato la douche" now that's funny.
anyhow, we have three dogs, a cat (outside mostly), two rats, a bird, and three horses.
getting old apparently sucks, even for animals.
and i know he well....
thanks,quote eric "eventually, socialists run out of other peoples' money."
quotequote originally posted by crankbait did anyone catch responding to this poll takes you to an ipod one in the listening lounge?
to be fair the first foster  cat did go back and ended up at a great home....
not to say mine don't climb on stuff, but they do it behind my back.
of course, i give them attention when they don't want it either.
right now, we have none.
my hand is now swollen up the size of a grapefruit and the infection is apparently spreading.
i like cats myself because of their independence.
a dog is always there and happy to see you/be around you.
but they also come over when they want attention.
i also do the same crap to my friends' pets and always come out fine, 8).
one that is deserving of the namecrippler or vadar.
best of all the house is now tipped to the male side.
she found the bird, and got suckered by the vet  with the cats.
it maybe just coincidence, but sometimes when you feel sad, your cat will just pop up and hop on your lap and look at you...
the bad stuff is usually from holding the cat and the cat got superspooked all of sudden.
hence why i lean more and more to having no pets these days.
heck, our previous cats, i had almost walking on their two back legs after about six months; i made them sit up, beg, for food.
(twain).quote have 2 dogs, a beagle (emmitt) and a pointer mix (boo).
i could snap or wave my fingers and she would come for pets.
i find cats can be trained.
i love my cats and prefer them  a touch over the dogs most because our dogs are nothing more then lap warmers.
any attempt to get her to change behaviors in any way is met with a total freakfest.
i would take cats over a dog simply because cats will use a litter box (wife scoops the crap everyday - no stinky), way easier to deal with when going on a vacation, they don't smell and don't tend to ruin a yard.
i am going to build an ark.
the second however decided to stay he is a cute kitten.
of course, i had her ever since she was born.
one declares so many things to be a crime that it becomes impossible to live without breaking laws.
quotequote my previous cat, freakles, she would be waiting at the front step for me to come home.
she was very possessive of me.
i vote for dog, although my wife's cat is pretty funny.
don't let your  daughter foster animals as then they never go back.
next time your kitty gets spooked, make sure to talk to him/her in calm voice and already have your hand out, but out of reach, so you kitty knows you're trying to help.
last edited by crippler; 10-26-2009 at 06:47 am.
mainly she's justthere.
typing or moving my hand hurts like  hell.
must be a glitch in the forum software.
"the whole time 'ya been talk'n i've been havin' me way with me sofa.
i didn't fall for that.
occasionally i see her if i'm sitting on the deck having a beer.
if you prefer other animals or none at all, please vote other and explain why.
i've never been into cats, but we have a cat (cleo) now that lives outside except on winter nights when she's in the basement.
the manly man in me though would love to have a badass doberman that would kill any intruder once one foot hits the floor.
i had a few dogs growing up.
i like both cats and dogs but right now only have cats because our backyard is  mostly pool and concrete and i am not home enough to properly care for a dog.
if  your cat is ever superfreaked, i've ran into this here and there, get a  blanket, and throw it over the cat, then pick him/her up.
he got scared and felt threatened and was hissing at one of the guests.
quotequote kids want a dog.
i didn't say it was a deep relationship.
quotequote our house, we have two cats and a cockatiel bird.
one, it's protects you from extremely aggressive cat behavior, and two, they calm down when they don't see anything.
thanked 457 times in 224 posts blog entries 9 we have three cats and two dogs...
yeah, that glitch happened to me when i responded as well.
my hand is now swollen up the size of a grapefruit  and the infection is apparently spreading.
don't let your daughter foster animals as then they never go back.
you just have to treat them like a toddler when they're scared, and you should do ok. quotequote
i love dogs and part of me wants one also, but having a dog seems a lot like having a kid.
we will have to lock him up from now on when we have  parties.
the only power any government has is the power to crack down on criminals.
i should probably be working on my thesis right now.
my wife tried to tell me, "i'll change it.
it just may want you to scratch an itch, but hell you dont know that.
i don't know what you did peench, but apparently you were way to aggressive with your cat, and probably why you got bit so hard.
her cat is a crotchety old male that hisses at me whenever i pick him up or move him from my side of the bed, and mine is a timid female that was stray and runs from everyone but me.
we will have to lock him up from now on when we have parties.
it hurt like a bizzoutch, but  that was only the beginning.
and i can annoy the hell out of my cats where they will  whine and hiss at me, take swings, try to bite and so on.
we have three cats and two dogs...
pff...if i have to deal with a dog, it's gonna be one that can totally maul somebody if need be.
to be fair the first foster cat did go back and ended up at a great home....
cats or dogs or both and why?
quotequote i voted cats because they are pretty much self sufficient and very low key for the most part.
(they didn't want them in a situation where they were biting.)
i grabbed him to prevent him  from biting a guest and he ended up biting me.
i also do the same crap to my friends' pets and always come out fine,  8).
my corals won't crap on my floors.
it was funny watching six cats come running for food from two blocks away, lol.
you cat drinks beer?!?
they  can and will entertain themselves.
they are fun, independent, and know when you need some comforting.
i am not a big fan of cats because they like to climb up as high as they can get, their hair gets everywhere, and the litter box really stinks, regardless of when it was last changed.
my wife now wants to have a cat or two.
a big thanks to twilight for the idea for poll question this week.
and yes, i have been scratched and bit before from cats, but usually just  surface wounds.
he was scared and didn't know what was going on.
but right now only have cats because our backyard is mostly pool and concrete and i am not home enough to properly care for a dog.
heck, i could do a dinner call, and her and all her siblings would come running, as long as they could here me; luckily i know how to be loud.
since im not 1 bit allergic to dogs though, ill get one when i have a big enough home for my beloved "argentina dogo".
the owner might like it, but others dont.
arg."quote - prophet the scottish pirate, jan 2012 forum rulesamazon.com widgets
typing or moving my hand hurts like hell.
(twain).quote did anyone catch responding to this poll takes you to an ipod one in the listening lounge?
don't like cats since i am allergic to them.
she's fine, i have no issues with her, but she's not very interactive.
the second however decided to  stay he is a cute kitten.
dont get me wrong i love dogs, but i lean more too cats.
i grabbed him to prevent him from biting a guest and he ended up biting me.
thatcher i would prefer neither, because i don't need the extra bs on top of dealing with kids, but we have 2 cats.
although im a bit allergic i like cats more.
.quote originally posted by quo
well, when there arent enough criminals, one makes them.
arg."quote - prophet the scottish pirate, jan 2012 originally posted by quo i've never been into clems, but we have a one (keezy) now that lives outside except on winter nights when he's in the basement.
i don't know what you did peench, but apparently you were way to  aggressive with your cat, and probably why you got bit so hard.
the bad stuff is usually from holding the cat and the cat got  superspooked all of sudden.
boo's developed into a great trail dog.
but i can't blame him.
and i can annoy the hell out of my cats where they will whine and hiss at me, take swings, try to bite and so on.
we have 2 cats that we each had before we met and even though we have lived together for over 3 years now, the cats are still "mine and hers".
thanked 644 times in 329 posts cats and/or dogs and why?
if it doesn't start getting better within the next couple of days i will have to go in for iv antibiotics.
they're all  pets mom somehow picked up.
of course, i tend to find you can greatly reduce the climbing thing if you stay on top of them about it right from the get go.
they're all pets mom somehow picked up.
it is better to keep your mouth shut and appear stupid than to open it and remove all doubt.
since i was young when i first got her, she would even play with my toys i left out during the day.
i love my cats and prefer them a touch over the dogs most because our dogs are nothing more then lap warmers.
quote 332 thanked 489 times in 392 posts our house, we have two cats and a cockatiel bird.
and before peench asks
in spite of that, i told my wife that i would allow a cat in our house, but i will not be the one to change the litter box; our daughters must do it.
getting old apparently  sucks, even for animals.
as has already been masterfully stated by quoseppie, cats are just kinda "there".
i like both cats and dogs
that said, we had a party for my daughter this weekend and with loads of people at our house our 12 year old cat was not happy.
" ayn rand i go both ways....sucks about your hand peench quotequote ] i like beer zoom, if you don't want a cat that climbs on everything, look for one that tends to be "four on the floor."
quotequote "theres no way to rule innocent men.
other than that, they were really good dogs and i would get that breed again, in a heartbeat.
my wife never has good luck with pets.
but i can't blame  him.
they always seem to need a ton of medical care ($$$$$) and that drives me nuts.
he got scared and felt  threatened and was hissing at one of the guests.
you just have to treat them like a toddler when  they're scared, and you should do ok.
but they still know i'm the alpha male, so they're usually not quite as aggressive to me as towards others.
but they also come over when they want  attention.
except for my reef tank of course.
he walks up, says "whodey", i scratch him on the back, he disappears.
they can and will entertain themselves.
mainly he's justthere.
:p quotequote we have 2 cats and 1 dog and i am definetly a dog person.
it hurt like a bizzoutch, but that was only the beginning.
any attempt to get him to change behaviors in any way is met with a total freakfest.
unfortunately, one of them didn't care too much for our kids, so we gave them back to the rescue organization, which quickly had them adopted out again.
occasionally i see him if i'm sitting on the deck having a beer.
one, it's protects  you from extremely aggressive cat behavior, and two, they calm down when they  don't see anything.
they were both rescue dogs, and we loved them.
if your cat is ever superfreaked, i've ran into this here and there, get a blanket, and throw it over the cat, then pick him/her up.
she really wants to get a dog also, but they are such a pain in the ass to take care of.
but they still know  i'm the alpha male, so they're usually not quite as aggressive to me as towards  others.
if you prefer other animals or  none at all, please vote other and explain why.
hopefully this swelling goes down soon.
she found the bird, and got suckered by the vet with the cats.
we see her go knock the crap out of other cats that would be within a 100 yards of me.
if it doesn't start getting better within the next couple of days i will  have to go in for iv antibiotics.
it just takes a bit more patience, and you cannot let up and have to be extremely consistent till they get it.
last edited by peench; 10-25-2009 at 08:21 pm.
my dog however is great, gotta love coming home to someone all fired up to see ya....and the dog does it too...
next time your  kitty gets spooked, make sure to talk to him/her in calm voice and already have  your hand out, but out of reach, so you kitty knows you're trying to help.
his nickname is "el gato la douche".
she walks up, says "meow", i scratch her on the back, she disappears.
my wife always asks if we can get a tiny ass dog.
prior to kids, we had 2 miniature pinschers.
which are not my responsibility of course.
then again, he's pretty annoying as well.
he's fine, i have no issues with him, but he's not very interactive.
dogs that always jump on you annoy me, so dogs need to be trained real well.