don't keep wet food opened for longer than 24 hours as it will go off  and cause upset tummies.
like all animals, your cat needs a diet that's properly balanced and contains all the required nutrients in correct quantities.
cow's milk isn't suitable for cats, as most cats lose the ability to digest lactose shortly after weaning.
happy cat christmas help - i've got a fussy cat!
is my cat overweight?
cat food temperature what plants can harm my cats?
place feeding bowls away from the litter tray and, if you  have two cats, keep the bowls a reasonable distance apart to avoid  confrontations or bullying.
some  cats prefer to be fed wet food in the morning, for example, but have dry food  left out during the day to snack on.
meat is the only major source of arachidonic acid, and cats lacking the  ability to synthesize niacin from protein.
these nutrients are water, protein, fats and oils, carbohydrate, minerals and vitamins.
you need javascript enabled to view it.
ensure you provide clean, fresh water in a large  metal or ceramic bowl.
if your cat spends most of his time indoors, for example, he may benefit from a special indoor formula, while less-active cats require less fat, so feeding a 'light' formula could help to avoid weight gain.
place feeding bowls away from the litter tray and, if you have two cats, keep the bowls a reasonable distance apart to avoid confrontations or bullying.
this helps to keep the kidneys healthy and reduce the  risk of urinary infections.
15 mar, 2012  text size you are here: home cat advice healthy cats how can i feed my cat  healthily?
if you have a question, emailthis email address is  being protected from spambots.
why is my cat scratching?
ask your own cat question!
how can i combat cat furballs?
we have 207 guests and no members online user name password remember me
meat is the only major source of arachidonic acid, and cats lacking the ability to synthesize niacin from protein.
remember - if you are seriously concerned about your cat’s health or behaviour, and especially if your cat is in distress, please take him or her along to your vet as soon as possible.
the choice of serving canned or dry, or a mixture of the two, is really a matter of personal preference between you and your cat.
dry food is convenient in that it will stay fresh all day, so it can be left out for your cat to eat whenever it wants.
if you have a question, emailthis email address is being protected from spambots.
caring for cats this winter cat food temperature does my cat have diabetes?
subscribe to your cat magazine - save money on the cover price and get free uk delivery!
any manufactured pet food should provide your cat with this basic nutritional balance.
how can i treat a cat with arthritis?
how can i feed my cat healthily?
cats need meat to survive!
dry food  must, however, be stored in a dry, clean environment.
with dry food, you can expect your cat to chew it more actively and take longer to eat; to drink more water; and to return regularly to the food rather than eating it all at once.
unlike many dogs, cats prefer to crunch on  their dry food and generally find it less attractive when soaked, so keep it  dry.
every month, your cat magazine has up to 20 pages of cat questions answered by our panel of experts.
dry food must, however, be stored in a dry, clean environment.
like all animals, your cat needs a diet that's properly balanced and  contains all the required nutrients in correct quantities.
and you will receive a personal reply plus your question may feature in the magazine.
this helps to keep the kidneys healthy and reduce the risk of urinary infections.
with dry food, you can expect your cat to chew it more actively and take  longer to eat; to drink more water; and to return regularly to the food rather  than eating it all at once.
what happens before surgery?
you can feed your cat on wet or dry food, or a combination of both.
warming up an opened can may take up to two hours from being taken  out of the fridge, microwaving canned foods for a short time is always an  option.
make sure fresh drinking water is always available for your cat, but don't  give cow's milk.
older cats may benefit from an adjustment to their diet, changing to foods that are more easily diet, changing to foods that are more easily digested.
recent  developments in pet nutrition mean there is now a wide range of commercially  produced cat foods designed to match more accurately your cat's specific needs.
pastuerised yoghurt doesn't  contain lactose, however, so this can be an alternative for some cats.
remember also that cats are confirmed meat eaters and cats will go blind,  suffer other debilitating conditions and ultimately die if fed on a vegetarian  diet.
what stresses out a cat?
it's always a good idea to feed on a surface that is easily cleaned, like a  tiled floor or a mat.
flower remedies to de-stress cats fresh water is a must for cats!
browse our bookshop visit our your cat bookshop (powered by amazon) for cat books recommended  by your cat magazine.
my cat's been poisoned - help!
serve the food at room temperature to ensure your cat can taste and smell it properly.
recent developments in pet nutrition mean there is now a wide range of commercially produced cat foods designed to match more accurately your cat's specific needs.
any  manufactured pet food should provide your cat with this basic nutritional  balance.
unlike many dogs, cats prefer to crunch on their dry food and generally find it less attractive when soaked, so keep it dry.
ensure you provide clean, fresh water in a large metal or ceramic bowl.
why does my cat need meat?
some cats prefer to be fed wet food in the morning, for example, but have dry food left out during the day to snack on.
older cats may benefit from an adjustment to their diet, changing to foods  that are more easily diet, changing to foods that are more easily digested.
serve the food at room temperature to ensure your cat can taste and smell  it properly.
remember also that cats are confirmed meat eaters and cats will go blind, suffer other debilitating conditions and ultimately die if fed on a vegetarian diet.
warming up an opened can may take up to two hours from being taken out of the fridge, microwaving canned foods for a short time is always an option.
with wet foods cats tend to eat more in one sitting rather than going back and forth, and will drink less.
make sure fresh drinking water is always available for your cat, but don't give cow's milk.
related articles help - i've got a fussy cat!
with wet foods cats tend  to eat more in one sitting rather than going back and forth, and will drink  less.
and you  will receive a personal reply plus your question may feature in the magazine.
can i feed my cat milk?
dry food is convenient in that it will stay fresh  all day, so it can be left out for your cat to eat whenever it wants.
remember - if you are seriously concerned about your cat’s health or  behaviour, and especially if your cat is in distress, please take him or her  along to your vet as soon as possible.
it's always a good idea to feed on a surface that is easily cleaned, like a tiled floor or a mat.
the choice of serving canned or dry, or a mixture of the two, is  really a matter of personal preference between you and your cat.
these nutrients are  water, protein, fats and oils, carbohydrate, minerals and vitamins.
if your cat spends most of his time indoors, for example, he may benefit from a  special indoor formula, while less-active cats require less fat, so feeding a  'light' formula could help to avoid weight gain.
don't keep wet food opened for longer than 24 hours as it will go off and cause upset tummies.
cow's milk isn't suitable for cats, as most cats lose the  ability to digest lactose shortly after weaning.
healthy cat articles: can i feed my cat milk?
subscribe to your cat magazine - save money on the cover price and get free  uk delivery!
fresh water is a must for cats!
every month, your cat magazine has up to 20 pages of cat questions answered  by our panel of experts.
how do i treat worms?
pastuerised yoghurt doesn't contain lactose, however, so this can be an alternative for some cats.
visit our your cat bookshop (powered by amazon) for cat books recommended by your cat magazine.