on some level, i find this a sad reflection on the nature of my relationships with humans, and i acknowledge that i'm simply more comfortable around animals than i am around people.
when most humans have "what can you do for me?"
but maybe there is more than a sliver of truth to the argument, as evidenced by the responses to a blog, "cat vs. spouse."
my trust in animals softens the harshness and disappointment that my interactions with humans occasionally bring.
i realized it was because he imbued all the animal characters with the aforementioned odious human qualities, which he apparently thought that we would find humorous.
rhetorical questions such as, "if you could only save a baby or a dog from a burning building, who would you choose?" come to mind.
mb commented: 3-12-2012 2:56 pm most often, i find  animals easier to be around than people (with the exception of my family).
it revealed an ugly world similar to the one james stewart saw in it's a wonderful life had he never been born.
see all articles > subscribe to feed cat vs. spouse: who's the better partner?
by signing up here and giving us your details, you are acknowledging that you've read and agreed to ourprivacy policy.
animals are often able to  forgive humans for unspeakable treatment.
animals  love to please and show unconditional love - sadly, this is not something we  would use to describe society today.
international sites: | peta asia-pacific | 亚洲善待动物组织 | peta latino |animal rahat navigation: home | features | tv | action center | blog | issues | living | community | shop | donate | interactive | media center | about petapeople for the ethical treatment of animals 501 front st., norfolk, va 23510 | 757-622-peta (7382) | fax: 757-622-0457 (fax) peta is a nonprofit, tax-exempt 501(c)(3) corporation.
the following article originally appeared on peta prime.
these types of questions  serve to obscure the real issue: that our societal treatment of animals is in  dire need of improvement.
his characterization of animals  behaving more like people violated my lofty beliefs.
see all articles >  subscribe
i realized it was because he imbued all the  animal characters with the aforementioned odious human qualities, which he  apparently thought that we would find humorous.
are our impressions of animals misplaced because our expectations of them are simply not as great?
give a gift pack - help a dog!
do we love animals more than humans?
they say people are evolving and becoming smarter and more  efficient, but it seems with all of the technology and new advancements, people  are also becoming more neglectful and heartless.
i agree  wholeheartedly.
in my view, animals are never deceitful, dishonest, manipulative, or malicious unless they are severely provoked or are in the wild, where darwinian influences matter.
ok, winston may try to convince me  that i forgot to feed him, but that doesn't count.
fortunately, having to choose between "the baby or the dog" seldom occurs in real life.
these types of questions serve to obscure the real issue: that our societal treatment of animals is in dire need of improvement.
i don't expect a birthday card each year from my dog,  winston, and i don't recall lilly, my cat, saying "thank you" for her  new toy.
a common argument levied against animal activists suggests that we prefer animals to people.
but maybe there is more than a sliver of truth to  the argument, as evidenced by the responses to a blog, "cat vs.  spouse."
i suggest quite the opposite.
that is the way of a whole human being.
in my view, animals are never deceitful, dishonest,  manipulative, or malicious unless they are severely provoked or are in the  wild, where darwinian influences matter.
i can't imagine that animals would  ever take up hunting humans simply to entertain themselves, yet hunting  remains a popular "sport" among humans.
i believe that animals are devoid of all of the malevolence that people inflict on each other.
katherine commented: 3-13-2012 6:49 pm is there any  author information to go with this article?
i can't imagine that animals would ever take up hunting humans simply to entertain themselves, yet hunting remains a popular "sport" among humans.
it would be my version of survivor!
i believe that animals are devoid of all of the malevolence that people  inflict on each other.
it revealed an ugly world  similar to the one james stewart saw in it's a wonderful life had he never been born.
people have on numerous occasions caused me to feel disappointment and betrayal.
i don't expect a birthday card each year from my dog, winston, and i don't recall lilly, my cat, saying "thank you" for her new toy.
however,  i'd need someone to talk to.
i can seldom recall feeling let  down in a similar manner by an animal.
each of us could easily recite the myriad reasons that our animal companions hold such a special place in our hearts.
it is my  hope in my daily work as an animal doctor that i honor that trust and express  my gratitude to them for their enrichment of the world in which those of us  blessed to know animals live.
i'd probably be  healthier than with humans and not havve to hear the ten people complain about  being on an island.
all  animals deserve respect, unfortunately i am starting to feel that not all  humans deserve respect.
i think i'd choose the ten dogs.
to feed shopping give a gift pack - help a chicken!
its well written and gets across her thoughts wonderfully.
rhetorical  questions such as, "if you could only save a baby or a dog from a burning  building, who would you choose?" come to mind.
i recall feeling livid years ago after seeing one of eddie murphy's dr. doolittlemovies.
sep commented: 3-13-2012 9:11 pm i don't know who i'd  choose i love animals and especially "my" companion animals.
animals are often able to forgive humans for unspeakable treatment.
my trust in animals softens the harshness and  disappointment that my interactions with humans occasionally bring.
although i don't use the word "faith" often, perhaps my feelings  regarding the inherent goodness of the spirit of animals are akin to the faith  that others may have in a deity or higher power.
maybe we simply expect more from people than we do from animals.
they are forgetting about what  life is all about: respecting all living things.
that is the  way of a whole human being.
" —abraham lincoln recent comments angellove commented: 3-14-2012 8:59 am i love this  article.
i believe this knowing that my theory can never be disproved.
whether it be in a place that  kills animals for food, or a home where an animal is invited to live.
i suspect that if i had to choose between spending the next  year on an island with either 10 random humans or an equal number of dogs and  cats, i'd be looking for dog and cat food.
i believe this knowing that my  theory can never be disproved.
his characterization of animals behaving more like people violated my lofty beliefs.
although i don't use the word "faith" often, perhaps my feelings regarding the inherent goodness of the spirit of animals are akin to the faith that others may have in a deity or higher power.
it is my hope in my daily work as an animal doctor that i honor that trust and express my gratitude to them for their enrichment of the world in which those of us blessed to know animals live.
maybe we simply expect more from people  than we do from animals.
"i am in favor of animal rights as well as human rights.
i suspect that if i had to choose between spending the next year on an island with either 10 random humans or an equal number of dogs and cats, i'd be looking for dog and cat food.
are our impressions of animals misplaced because our expectations of  them are simply not as great?
fortunately, having to choose between "the baby or the dog"  seldom occurs in real life.
love at first spot the abcs of cruelty-free flea control people who shouldn't get dogs does your pooch buckle up?
i can seldom recall feeling let down in a similar manner by an animal.
in conferring animals with the best of intentions, i take a leap of faith.
a common argument levied  against animal activists suggests that we prefer animals to people.
share the following article originally appeared on peta prime.
on some level, i find this a sad reflection on the nature of my  relationships with humans, and i acknowledge that i'm simply more comfortable  around animals than i am around people.
the  biggest difference to me is that animals exude a "what can i do for  you?"
people have on numerous occasions  caused me to feel disappointment and betrayal.
ok, winston may try to convince me that i forgot to feed him, but that doesn't count.
general info: contact | contest terms and conditions | disclaimer | privacy policy | texting terms and conditions | terms of use |
report website abuse site tools: accessibility | site map | subscribe to e-news | copyright © 2012 peta | read our full policy.
each of us could easily recite the myriad reasons that our animal  companions hold such a special place in our hearts.