9/10/2008 how many is too many cats?
when introducing a new cat to the family, keep him/her in a large crate until he/she is familiar and comfortable with the other cats and vice versa.
i often have many customers call who i like to refer to as "collectors" who think that they're doing a charitable cause by rescuing many cats and housing them.
- at 7:02 am, anonymous said... - i am also one of those people that have too many cats.
if you can help me olease do - at 3:53 pm, anonymous said... - i agree with you.
cats take up to a month, personality depending, to decided whether they are compatible or not.
there are of course ways to make  an ideal living situation for multiple cats: make sure that each cat  has their own specific room or place to retreat from the other's.
owning more than one cat when one can barely afford one seems in my opinion both financially and emotionally irresponsible.
although, admirable financially, emotionally and socially, it is best to leave the care to the shelters rather than taking the responsibility on your own.
i know that all that will happen is they will end up putting that cat to sleep,so to me that is like signing their death warrent.
i did cover the financial cost in monday's blog stated that throughout the course of a cats lifetime it will cost $10,000 in vet bills and care.
if you can help me olease do - at 7:02 am, anonymous said... - i am also one of those people that have too many cats.
if you want  to do your part, most shelters welcome donations in the form of volunteer,  money and or toys or foods.
- pickles the cat visited my house - tripsy for dog liver kidney disease testimonial - tripsy for cat liver disease failure testimonial - es clear for cat cancer testimonial - respiratory aid for cat allergies - 1 & 2 day air service reminder - milk thistle for dog liver disease testimonials - poem: may i go now?
wish that i had some place to take most of these cats.
the smell from accidental urination, you can kiss dinner parties and  get togethers with human friends good-bye.
because our shelters are full and the government seems to think the stray animal population is not their problem, indivduals that are caring and good try to do it on their own.
i realize that most need to go to a place where they can be happy and run,however there is just no place around here.
some say 2 some say 4 and other's have their home entirely filled with feline friends.
cats prefer to be independent and have a hard enough time adjusting  to another new cat in the household, let alone more than 1.
luv sheila & freedom
archives - september 2006 - october 2006 - november 2006 - december 2006 - january 2007 - february 2007 - march 2007 - april 2007 - may 2007 - june 2007 - july 2007 - august 2007 - september 2007 - october 2007 - november 2007 - december 2007 - january 2008 - february 2008 - march 2008 - april 2008 - may 2008 - june 2008 - july 2008 - august 2008 - september 2008 - october 2008 - november 2008 - december 2008 - january 2009 - february 2009 - march 2009 - april 2009 - may 2009 - june 2009 - july 2009 - august 2009 - september 2009 - november 2009 - december 2009 - january 2010 - february 2010 - march 2010 our favorites - give a dog a bone - smile like a dog
many people have multiple pets not by choice, but by circumstance.
there is no shelter that will take cats now,and thank goodness that our apl is overcrouded and will not take them.
i  to have a soft heart as well, however, hear so many customers on pensions  trying to rescue cats when they can't even take care of themselves.
it's the nature of the beast.
i to have a soft heart as well, however, hear so many customers on pensions trying to rescue cats when they can't even take care of themselves.
shelters are so over populated that they are turning people away...then what?!
i do have around 20 cats now!
we've all heard about the old lady with too many cats, however, how  many cats are too many?
owning more than one cat when one can barely  afford one seems in my opinion both financially and emotionally irresponsible.
most,since i cannot afford the vet bills have not even seen a vet,i don't want the cats to go to a shelter and then be put to sleep!
i really wish that there was a place i could take these cats where they could run.
i did cover the financial cost in  monday's blog stated that throughout the course of a cats lifetime it will cost  $10,000 in vet bills and care.
in addition to the large vet bills, it will take more than an hour to  clean up.
how many animals can i bring home.
most places also won't take a cat unless it has had it shots.
anyway,i know that i have too many pets(21 cats in all indoors)and
cats take up to  a month, personality depending, to decided whether they are compatible or not.
having another  cat makes up the difference in love whenever one cat(s) decides to indulge in  his/her independence.
although,  admirable financially, emotionally and socially, it is best to leave the care  to the shelters rather than taking the responsibility on your own.
some say 2 some say 4 and other's have their home  entirely filled with feline friends.
i often have many customers  call who i like to refer to as "collectors" who think that they're  doing a charitable cause by rescuing many cats and housing them.
if you want to do your part, most shelters welcome donations in the form of volunteer, money and or toys or foods.
yes...it would be wonderful if you found a stray and took it to the shelter and it got adoopted but as many of us know, it does not always work that way.
my husband brought most of these cats home from work,i only had 1 ten years ago when i got married.
multiple cats can often lead to anxiety amongst the pack leading to other  health issues that otherwise wouldn't present with a single or pair of cats.
it  is possible that more than 1 cat can coexist; however, cats are more likely to  have personality conflicts than dogs.
luv sheila & freedom posted by petwellbeing | 5 comments | 5 comments: - at 12:17 pm, anonymous said... - i find it interesting to read the comments people make about what to do with too many cats.
when  introducing a new cat to the family, keep him/her in a large crate until he/she  is familiar and comfortable with the other cats and vice versa.
if anyone is reading this and they know of somewhere that is safe and humane in ohio(cleveland) and not the apl either,they will kill your pet after 3 days,please let me know,though most places also are full now.
having another cat makes up the difference in love whenever one cat(s) decides to indulge in his/her independence.
it is possible that more than 1 cat can coexist; however, cats are more likely to have personality conflicts than dogs.
the rule of thumb according to some pet owners is that the affection and need of 1 dog is equivalent to 3 cats.
in addition to the large vet bills, it will take more than an hour to clean up.
the rule of thumb according to some pet owners  is that the affection and need of 1 dog is equivalent to 3 cats.
there's a reason why they refer  to girls as catty.
i can understand the need to have more than one cat  as companionship.
cats prefer to be independent and have a hard enough time adjusting to another new cat in the household, let alone more than 1.
i would be willing to be a million dollars that i do not have, that most people with 5 or more cats or dogs, did not intentionally go out and say..ummm...
i can understand the need to have more than one cat as companionship.
multiple cats can often lead to anxiety amongst the pack leading to other health issues that otherwise wouldn't present with a single or pair of cats.
for all those people who like to comment on a crazy cat lady...why don't you adopt one or 2 of her cats and she won't have as many!
my backyard is a pet cemetery now.
cats are independent and very self sufficient.
it's the nature of  the beast.
we've all heard about the old lady with too many cats, however, how many cats are too many?
there are of course ways to make an ideal living situation for multiple cats: make sure that each cat has their own specific room or place to retreat from the other's.
i have a household with many cats and the one cat outdoors just had 5 kitties on memorial day eve.
if you have a heart, you cannot dump the poor animal on the street and if no shelter will take it...you end up with another cat.
there's a reason why they refer to girls as catty.
post a comment << home subscribe in a feed reader lijit search menu - blog home page - about us - contact us - pet learning center - disclaimer petwellbeing store - petwellbeing.com - store - dog health supplies - cat health supplies top selling products - dog diarrhea - dog cushing's disease - dog milk thistle - cat hyperthyroidism - cat kidney problems - cat cancer previous posts - a dog's bite can cost you - the real cost of raising a dog or cat.
the smell from accidental urination, you can kiss dinner parties and get togethers with human friends good-bye.
think of a house full of cats as a reality show full of  girls, there's a lot of drama amongst the pack.
think of a house full of cats as a reality show full of girls, there's a lot of drama amongst the pack.