i know that there are people who do not like dogs, and some say they prefer cats.
it was my father's dog that i first knew; he was an irish setter called rambler, and he was a fantastic dog.
it was an elderly priest i once knew, who spelt all this out to me, and i also  remember how he added that it was easier for dogs than it is for us, because  whereas a dog lives in the presence of his god, and can demonstrate his love  and his dependence directly, we cannot see our god, and can only make contact  with him through prayer.
but i suppose people speak out of their own experience.
of course they do sometimes misbehave –  or should it be called 'trespassing'?- but they are sorry and ask forgiveness,  with no attempt at justification, and certainly no questioning, or resentment.
and as for cats, we come across lions and leopards in the bible, but no word about cats, even though i believe they were actually worshipped in egypt.
i think it was through him that i learned  to love dogs, and it was with great joy that i first got my own spaniel, for my  eleventh birthday.
in the march copy of “the net”, we had an account of “a  day in the life of a parish dog”, and it was this that started me  thinking of how much we owe to the animals that share our lives, and whether we  appreciate them as gifts from god.
but they are still a  delight, and to be fully accepted and trusted by a cat is really a lasting joy.
they were used as guard dogs, and, of course to help with the flocks, but they were basically regarded as unclean, and there is certainly no biblical record of dogs as pets.
after all, they have to be quite self-absorbed, with all that responsibility to keep themselves clean, and safe ,too, wherever possible.
you could say that we are to dogs, as god is to us, and they give us a picture of faithfulness, and obedience, which we might well see as an example of how we ourselves ought to be, in our relationship with god.
they are often very affectionate, and give us  companionship as well, but whereas a dog is believer in us, i think a cat  – not an atheist, for sure, but perhaps bit of an agnostic.
i feel sure that anyone who has known a dog with a good temperament, which  has been properly brought up, will have come to appreciate just what  companionship and affection that dog can offer us, in our own lives.
i know that there are people who do not like dogs, and some say they prefer  cats.
create an account search the bible, see how the bible is changing lives and find out  about the bible dogs and cats written by christine canti wednesday, 09 july 2008 21:09
and as  for cats, we come across lions and leopards in the bible, but no word about  cats, even though i believe they were actually worshipped in egypt.
but they are still a delight, and to be fully accepted and trusted by a cat is really a lasting joy.
it was an elderly priest i once knew, who spelt all this out to me, and i also remember how he added that it was easier for dogs than it is for us, because whereas a dog lives in the presence of his god, and can demonstrate his love and his dependence directly, we cannot see our god, and can only make contact with him through prayer.
we always had a cat as well; they were always called dinah, and i was quite fond of them too, but it was nothing personal, like it was with rambler.
username password remember me search the bible, see how the bible is changing lives and find out about the bible
forgot your username?
i think it was through him that i learned to love dogs, and it was with great joy that i first got my own spaniel, for my eleventh birthday.
if you want to comment on this site please click here | privacy | sitemap | maintained by blackdown hostsif you want to comment on this site please click here | privacy | sitemap | maintained by blackdown hosts
perhaps the  whole idea of keeping pets began later, in anglo-saxon times, when the long  dark winter nights kept people at home by the fire.
for myself, i enjoy both, and i do not believe you can make comparisons  between them.
dogs get a somewhat negative mention in the bible.
perhaps the whole idea of keeping pets began later, in anglo-saxon times, when the long dark winter nights kept people at home by the fire.
for myself, i enjoy both, and i do not believe you can make comparisons between them.
so let's never forget to thank god for his wisdom, in giving us animals to  live with us, to be our trusted and trusting friends, with the capacity, also,  to have some way of communicating with us, and sharing much of our lives.
you could say that we are  to dogs, as god is to us, and they give us a picture of faithfulness, and  obedience, which we might well see as an example of how we ourselves ought to  be, in our relationship with god.
after all,  they have to be quite self-absorbed, with all that responsibility to keep  themselves clean, and safe ,too, wherever possible.
so let's never forget to thank god for his wisdom, in giving us animals to live with us, to be our trusted and trusting friends, with the capacity, also, to have some way of communicating with us, and sharing much of our lives.
of course they do sometimes misbehave – or should it be called 'trespassing'?- but they are sorry and ask forgiveness, with no attempt at justification, and certainly no questioning, or resentment.
it was my father's dog that i first knew; he was an irish setter called  rambler, and he was a fantastic dog.
they were used as guard  dogs, and, of course to help with the flocks, but they were basically regarded  as unclean, and there is certainly no biblical record of dogs as pets.
in the march copy of “the net”, we had an account of “a day in the life of a parish dog”, and it was this that started me thinking of how much we owe to the animals that share our lives, and whether we appreciate them as gifts from god.
there is quite a lot we can learn from our dogs.
they are often very affectionate, and give us companionship as well, but whereas a dog is believer in us, i think a cat – not an atheist, for sure, but perhaps bit of an agnostic.
if you want to comment on this site please click here | privacy |  sitemap | maintained by blackdown hosts
we always had a cat as well; they were always called dinah,  and i was quite fond of them too, but it was nothing personal, like it was with  rambler.
i feel sure that anyone who has known a dog with a good temperament, which has been properly brought up, will have come to appreciate just what companionship and affection that dog can offer us, in our own lives.