it may not be  the most attractive mulch for your particular bed, but cats prefer to poop in  loose dirt.
i already mentioned chicken wire in this context onpage 1.
you simply situate the device so that it faces toward the garden.
hi-tech approaches to keeping cats out of gardens don't stop with the motion-activated sprinklers mentioned on page 1.
but you'd need to be very meticulous  about it.
well, cat poop differs in one very important respect from, say,  cow manure: the former is the product of a carnivore, not an herbivore.
it's inaudible to humans but unbearable for cats.
how to keep cats out of your garden: no "pussyfooting around" 7.
"but," you may protest, "the manure of barnyard animals is often used by gardeners.
theoretically, you could heat the pile up enough to kill any pathogens in the cat poop.
a motion sensor detects the intruder's presence, and cat stop then gives off its high-frequency sound, scaring off the cat.
not  all cats go nuts over catnip plants, but those whodo may come to view  their "catnip patch" as their own private sanctuary.
well, cat poop differs in one very important respect from, say, cow manure: the former is the product of a carnivore, not an herbivore.
if your neighbor's cat is using your garden as a toilet, how do you know the cat's poop doesn't contain parasites passed on by its prey?
but  at least you'll know where it is.
you can also keep cats out of  gardens using ultrasound.
installation is  easy.
but the need for cat repellents goes beyond mere  inconvenience.
better still, make a sandbox just for cats and keep it in close proximity to the catnip plants.
as in landscaping with dogs, sometimes the path of least resistance provides the best solution to your problem.
if your  neighbor's cat is using your garden as a toilet, how do you know the cat's poop  doesn't contain parasites passed on by its prey?
but the need for cat repellents goes beyond mere inconvenience.
ultimately, this is an issue of proper sanitation in the yard.
nor is composting cat poop recommended, unless you're an expert in the science ofhow to make compost.
they'd  rather be "pussyfooting around" where the digging's easier on their  paws.
pest control (continued from page 1)
another mulch-related idea is to use stone mulch.
but you'd need to be very meticulous about it.
for most people, composting cat poop wouldn't be worth the risk.
how to keep cats out of your garden: hi-tech to the rescue, again hi-tech approaches to keeping cats out of gardens don't stop with the  motion-activated sprinklers mentioned on page 1.
nor is composting cat poop recommended, unless you're an expert in the  science ofhow to make compost.
strike a compromise with your cat by planting a separate bed ofcatnip plants, in another part of the yard.
how to keep cats out of your garden: striking a compromise as in landscaping with dogs, sometimes the path of least resistance  provides the best solution to your problem.
installation is easy.
after all, it's not for nothing we have the expression,  "pussyfooting around."
so in mulching the problem bed, include something on which the refined paws of cats will fear to tread, such as sharp-edged pine cones.
i already mentioned chicken wire in this  context onpage 1.
and what if icompost it  first?"
a part of the new york times company.
not all cats go nuts over catnip plants, but those whodo may come to view their "catnip patch" as their own private sanctuary.
better still, make a sandbox just for cats and keep it in close  proximity to the catnip plants.
sure, you'll have to clean up the cat poop afterwards.
they'd rather be "pussyfooting around" where the digging's easier on their paws.
the case for cat repellents: why you should keep cats out of  gardens the concern over how to keep cats out of gardens is readily understandable  and has nothing to do with whether or not one likes cats.
after  all, it stinks to be working away cheerfully in the garden, only to end up  stepping in cat poop!
theoretically, you could heat the pile up enough  to kill any pathogens in the cat poop.
still "thinking like a cat" to figure out how to keep cats out  of gardens, let's consider something else cats are fussy about: the texture of  what they step on.
a  motion sensor detects the intruder's presence, and cat stop then gives off its  high-frequency sound, scaring off the cat.
ultrasound devices such as cat stop operate on a high  frequency.
cats don't like to walk on bristly material.
but at least you'll know where it is.
discuss in my forum by david beaulieu, about.com guidesee more about: still "thinking like a cat" to figure out how to keep cats out of gardens, let's consider something else cats are fussy about: the texture of what they step on.
the concern over how to keep cats out of gardens is readily understandable and has nothing to do with whether or not one likes cats.
cat poop can harbor pathogens harmful to humans.
so in mulching the  problem bed, include something on which the refined paws of cats will fear to  tread, such as sharp-edged pine cones.
you can also keep cats out of gardens using ultrasound.
after all, it stinks to be working away cheerfully in the garden, only to end up stepping in cat poop!
cats usually won't bother with an area mulched in stone.
ultrasound devices such as cat stop operate on a high frequency.
strike a compromise with your cat  by planting a separate bed ofcatnip plants, in another part of the yard.
nor does it matter that much whether the cats in question are your own or someone else's.
nor does it matter  that much whether the cats in question are your own or someone else's.
"but," you may protest, "the manure of barnyard animals is  often used by gardeners.
and what if icompost it first?"
david beaulieu landscaping guide ©2012 about.com.
it may not be the most attractive mulch for your particular bed, but cats prefer to poop in loose dirt.
how is cat poop different?
ultimately,  this is an issue of proper sanitation in the yard.
chances are that the sandbox will serve as a magnet for cat poop.
chances are that the sandbox will serve as a  magnet for cat poop.
cat poop in the compost?
after all, it's not for nothing we have the expression, "pussyfooting around."