but don't take my word for it, judge for yourself.
common traits among nike shoes related to design are that  they are: flashy consistently endorsed by professionals and are constantly upgrading technology for example, in the last line of nike shoes (the nadal air series), the  apparel featured strong contrasting colors, small dots for breathability and  lunarlite technology (will be explained in the comfort section).
â with more than 700 patents on new sports equipment and shoes before his death in 1959, adidas was able to maintain its number one spot until just recently, with nike in first place.
from the shots of the bottom  of the shoes, it is easy to see the circular pattern at the point of the ball  of the toe.
as an owner of a pair of courtballistec nike shoes, i can vouch for this stiffness.
the reason that i believe adidas to be the better shoe is because, from the  perspective of a competitive player, while bold colors and new shoe technology  are great, they don't win matches.
bios - nike the current leading supplier of all shoes and apparel, nike was founded in 1964 under the name blue ribbon sports.
nike only have 32 in market crl 18 months ago mbt shoes
(masai barefoot technology) was born in 1996 when we discovered that natural instability has some amazing health benefits.
see all 11 photos the age long battle over the past 60 years, the struggle for the number one tennis shoe has  raged between two industrial giants, nike and adidas.
â producing its first innovative  and original design in 1974, called the waffle trainer, the company soon  thereafter took the sport apparel industry by storm.
aside from these two traits, nike shoes, as opposed to that of adidas, have a much more comfortable interior.
the reason that i believe adidas to be the better shoe is because, from the perspective of a competitive player, while bold colors and new shoe technology are great, they don't win matches.
â today known as cleats, this  innovation soon became world renowned for its impressive traction and  durability.
from the shots of the bottom of the shoes, it is easy to see the circular pattern at the point of the ball of the toe.
adidas  men's barricade v tennis shoe amazon price: $120.00 adidas men's cc feather iii tennis shoe,punjab/silver/yellow,6.5 m amazon price: $99.95
also, in terms of shoe laces, nike shoe laces are actually very strong.
common traits among nike shoes related to design are that they are: for example, in the last line of nike shoes (the nadal air series), the apparel featured strong contrasting colors, small dots for breathability and lunarlite technology (will be explained in the comfort section).
the next section, comfort, is one of the more contested areas with adidas.
while some might argue that because nikes are lighter this makes movement much better, i have found that once the shoes wear out (which happens quite often), i slide around the court unable to control the valuable seconds of time i need to get to the next shot.
with slipper-likeness to the beginning of the  shoe, the foot feels much less constrained and overall more comfortable.
when i look to buy shoes, i specifically  target two things: endurance and traction.
â the purpose of this hub isâ notâ to persuade you toward either  brand, but to help make your own decision about which shoe is better.
as i mentioned before, i constantly go through tennis shoes because of my  regular tennis schedule.
(the longest these shoes have ever lasted is 2.5 weeks.)
we made this discovery by observing the wonderfully agile masai people walking barefoot on natural, uneven ground.
terms of use privacy policy (0.55 sec) hubpages sportsworking
so we set out to develop a new kind of footwear, one that would mimic walking on soft, uneven ground.
this addition to the shoe, a lighter and more reactive  foam, allows for greater spring in the step while also allowing for greater  impact force when stepping down.
when i look to buy shoes, i specifically target two things: endurance and traction.
because of the barricade's weight, i can easily maneuver around the court.
endurance: still, throughout my tennis career, i have continued to come back to  adidas's tennis shoes for one reason, and one reason alone: durability.
because of the barricade's weight, i  can easily maneuver around the court.
submit a comment members and guests sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account.
the  reason for this is partially because they are so light, and also because so  little rubber is used to support the ball area of the foot.
â today known as cleats, this innovation soon became world renowned for its impressive traction and durability.
while some might argue that because nikes  are lighter this makes movement much better, i have found that once the shoes  wear out (which happens quite often), i slide around the court unable to  control the valuable seconds of time i need to get to the next shot.
aside from these two traits, nike shoes, as opposed to that of adidas, have  a much more comfortable interior.
described as stiff and rigid, nike claims that their toe section is  stronger for better stability and traction on the court.
â eventually changed to nike in 1974, the reason for nike's great success in the shoe industry is due to its original designs and shoe soles.
the final category, comfort, tends to be a medium strength for the shoe.
the traits that will be examined in order to make deciding easier are: ·â â â â â â â â â â â
overall rating: 7.5/10
(the longest these shoes have ever lasted is  2.5 weeks.)
the next section, comfort, is one of the more contested  areas with adidas.
because of this, adidas can often feel heavy to the user, but with practice, this feeling goes away.
comment, rate or follow
in my experience, playing close to 1-2 hours everyday  (including sprinting, sliding and stopping), i have found that adidas tennis  shoes can last at minimum 2 weeks.
while not the same as the slipper-like feel of nike's tennis shoes, the soles of adidas shoes conform well to the shape of the foot very quickly, and don't put too much pressure on the toes.
the reason that these shoes last so long is due to  additional rubber on the shoe.
as you can see, based on the pictures to the right, the same design has lasted through 5 different series of adidas shoes.
what is important about the barricades  though, is that movement is an extreme emphasis.
another factor dealing with the comfort of the new nike line is that of lunarlite technology.
â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â comfort and ·â â â â
name: comment: read more hubs by the revelationist copyright © 2012 hubpages inc. and respective owners.
â some argue  that nike tennis shoes are the best, while others say that adidas are the  future of tennis shoes.
seeing these people in action made us realize that the human body is simply not designed to walk or stand on the hard, flat surfaces of modern society.
as a competitive tennis player, i constantly go through shoes every 2-3 weeks, and i have found that nike shoes tend to last me at most 2 weeks.
overall rating: 7.5/10 how did adidas win?
design, as mentioned above, is not a huge factor in the  adidas company.
one factor of the shoe that must be brought to attention is the weight of the barricade lines.
â producing its first innovative and original design in 1974, called the waffle trainer, the company soon thereafter took the sport apparel industry by storm.
as you can see, based on the pictures to the right, the same design has lasted  through 5 different series of adidas shoes.
while this might seem insignificant to any recreational player, all  competitive players know that this contributes greatly to a player's ability to  turn and push in any direction.
bios - nike the current leading supplier of all shoes and apparel, nike was founded in  1964 under the name blue ribbon sports.
endurance: still, throughout my tennis career, i have continued to come back to adidas's tennis shoes for one reason, and one reason alone: durability.
due to nike's strong shoe laces, i constantly find myself replacing all of my broken laces with nike string.
not found anywhere in the nike designs, this checks off as one of the few distinct and positive design traits.
holding, basically, the same design for the last 4 models of  the barricade shoe, it is easy to see why nike, with all of its color and  flair, is a much more attractive shoe.
â â â â â â â â â â â â durabilityâ bios - adidas founded in 1924 by adolf dassler (1900-1959), at the age of 20, invented the first pair of shoes with spikes.
nike vs. adidas - the definitive guide to tennis shoes 73
despite this fact, the small dots covering the exterior of the shoe do allow for greater movement and flexibility.
by the revelationistsee all 11 photos over the past 60 years, the struggle for the number one tennis shoe has raged between two industrial giants, nike and adidas.
while this might seem insignificant to any recreational player, all competitive players know that this contributes greatly to a player's ability to turn and push in any direction.
not found anywhere in the nike designs, this  checks off as one of the few distinct and positive design traits.
described as stiff and rigid, nike claims that their toe section is stronger for better stability and traction on the court.
design, as mentioned above, is not a huge factor in the adidas company.
holding, basically, the same design for the last 4 models of the barricade shoe, it is easy to see why nike, with all of its color and flair, is a much more attractive shoe.
as an owner of a pair  of courtballistec nike shoes, i can vouch for this stiffness.
another factor dealing with the comfort of the new nike line is that of  lunarlite technology.
due to nike's strong shoe laces, i constantly find myself  replacing all of my broken laces with nike string.
vote upvote downshareprintflagwas this hub ...?
in my experience, playing close to 1-2 hours everyday (including sprinting, sliding and stopping), i have found that adidas tennis shoes can last at minimum 2 weeks.
because of this monopoly on the sporting industry, nike has allowed itself  enough room to expand its design.
the factor of price: one final reason why adidas won out is because, typically, nike shoes are much more expensive.adidas men's barricade v tennis shoe do you think nikes are better, or adidas?
while not the same as the slipper-like feel of nike's tennis  shoes, the soles of adidas shoes conform well to the shape of the foot very  quickly, and don't put too much pressure on the toes.
the reason that these shoes last so long is due to additional rubber on the shoe.
â eventually changed to nike  in 1974, the reason for nike's great success in the shoe industry is due to its  original designs and shoe soles.
nike - just do it the powerhouse of athletic goods, nike holds range over everything from  shirts and shorts to watches and weights.
some argue that nike tennis shoes are the best, while others say that adidas are the future of tennis shoes.
the last trait of the nike shoes to be examined is that of endurance .
overall rating: 7/10 evolution of the adidas barricade tennis shoe adidas - impossible is nothing the constant theme that i have noticed throughout the history of adidas's  tennis shoe lines is the phrase, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
â with more than 700 patents on new sports equipment and  shoes before his death in 1959, adidas was able to maintain its number one spot  until just recently, with nike in first place.
the traits that will be examined in order to make deciding easier are: ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   style ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   comfort and ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   durabilityâ bios - adidas founded in 1924 by adolf dassler (1900-1959), at the age of 20, invented  the first pair of shoes with spikes.
because i prefer my shoes to be tied firmly and tight, i constantly am going  through shoe laces.
one factor of the shoe that must be brought to attention is the weight of  the barricade lines.
this addition to the shoe, a lighter and more reactive foam, allows for greater spring in the step while also allowing for greater impact force when stepping down.
adolph 19 months ago 6o years ???
the results have been dramatic and revolutionary.
this seems to be the only area that nike lacks in.
as a competitive tennis player, i constantly go through shoes every 2-3  weeks, and i have found that nike shoes tend to last me at most 2 weeks.
because of this, adidas can often feel heavy to  the user, but with practice, this feeling goes away.
the purpose of this hub isâ notâ to persuade you toward either brand, but to help make your own decision about which shoe is better.
because i prefer my shoes to be tied firmly and tight, i constantly am going through shoe laces.
mbts are now sold in more than 35 countries around the world and enthusiastic users testify that wearing mbts noticeably increase their well-being.mbt shoes sale?mbt outlet?mbt sneakers lexi is cool 4 weeks ago ello :)
the powerhouse of athletic goods, nike holds range over everything from shirts and shorts to watches and weights.
with slipper-likeness to the beginning of the shoe, the foot feels much less constrained and overall more comfortable.
the reason for this is partially because they are so light, and also because so little rubber is used to support the ball area of the foot.
overall rating: 7/10 the constant theme that i have noticed throughout the history of adidas's tennis shoe lines is the phrase, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
the final category, comfort, tends to be a medium strength  for the shoe.
the factor of price: one final reason why adidas won out is  because, typically, nike shoes are much more expensive.
other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.
what is important about the barricades though, is that movement is an extreme emphasis.
because of this monopoly on the sporting industry, nike has allowed itself enough room to expand its design.
despite this  fact, the small dots covering the exterior of the shoe do allow for greater  movement and flexibility.
and let me know what your opinion is!
as i mentioned before, i constantly go through tennis shoes because of my regular tennis schedule.