advanced this product is primarily used/worn for:??
eric berry: "i was shocked when i first held the cleat in my hand; it's lighter than anything i've ever felt.
its kinda hurts your ankle
1 answer are they durable?
this  question helpful.
subtotal: $0.00 thank you for visiting eastbay.com, if you need assistance shopping our site, please call 800-826-2205.click to skip to main content - sports shop all sports - baseball - cleats - cleat finder - clothing - equipment - accessories - bats - gloves - batting gloves - training aids - personalization - resource center - sale - basketball - shoes - shoe finder - clothing - equipment - accessories - training aids - resource center - sale - football - cleats - cleat finder - clothing - equipment - accessories - gloves - training aids - resource center - sale - running - shoes - shoe finder - clothing - equipment - accessories - training aids - resource center - sale - training - shoes - clothing - equipment - accessories - sparq - strength - sale - soccer - cleats - cleat finder - turf & indoor shoes - clothing - equipment - accessories - training aids - resource center - sale - volleyball - shoes - clothing - equipment - accessories - training aids - sale - track & field - track shoes/ spikes - shoe finder - clothing - equipment - sale - more sports - lacrosse - softball - cheer - walking - cross country - wrestling - shoes shop all shoes - men's shoes - baseball - basketball - boots - casual sneakers - cross country - fashion - football - jordan - lacrosse - running - sandals - - skate - softball - soccer - tennis - track & field - training - volleyball - walking - wide - wrestling - women's shoes - basketball - boots - casual sneakers - cheerleading - cross country - fashion - lacrosse - running - sandals - skate - - soccer - softball - tennis - track & field/ xc - training - volleyball - walking - wide - kids' shoes - baseball - basketball - boots - casual sneakers - cheerleading - fashion - football - jordan - running - - skate - soccer - softball - training - wrestling - sandals - big kids' shoes - little kids shoes - toddler shoes - clothing shop all clothing - men's clothing - baseball - basketball - fashion - football - jordan - lacrosse - running - skate - - soccer - sportswear - track & field/ xc - training - wrestling - women's
there's no way you can pick this cleat up and not feel the difference.
5 answers ( 5 questions??:??
uncomfortable for a short period of time..
kissimmee,fl i purchased this product for:??
good traction, lightweight, durable, comfortable cons:??
the construction of the nike zoom vapor carbon fly td may be slightly better  than, the mens adidas adizero 5-star and that is why they have the extra  weight.
5 / 5 very light, unexpectedly nice cleat posted may 6, 2011 chaboyer from??
the heel cup locks your foot in place as you take the defense for the ride of their lives.
good traction, lightweight, comfortable, well built share: 0points 0of 0voted this as helpful.
" view all reviews http://www.eastbay.com/catalog/productdetail.cfm?tid=7355-15111200360115000294485-0&model_nbr=157546&sku=259304&returntab=reviews http://www.eastbay.com/catalog/submitreview.cfm view all questions/answers __return__ cj spiller: adizero 5 star eric berry: adizero 5 star demarco murray: adizero 5
1 month, 2 weeks ago  by eddie21 0out of 0found this question helpful.
last year i felt like i had an advantage on the guy across from me when i saw guys wearing heavier cleats, this year, it's no contest.
1.800.826.2205 ...24/7 | help |
and they are comfortable but the only problem is when you first get them and make cut, jukes, break down, etc.
a tpu bottom frame reinforces the upper by providing an extra layer of durability, while the heavy-duty toe box offers added protection.
3 too light to be stopped: adidas adizero 5-star.
adidas adidas adizero 5-star - men's overall rating??
the athletic skill level of the person using this product is:??
a traxion® stud configuration provides extreme acceleration and multidirectional traction on a variety of surfaces.
4.7 / 5 very small very large very narrow very wide 3 out of 3(100%)
you could contact the manufacturer for the information or, contact us again when the item is in stock and we will get the fit information for you at that time.
i play wide out and i need to know witch cleat is the best for my position.
the heel cup locks your foot in place as you take the defense for the ride of their lives ... all the way to the house!
1 month ago  by norm1 0out of 0 found this answer helpful.
no, the smallest size that we will be stocking in the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is a size 8.5.
it's ridiculous how light it is, you won't find anything close."
i purchased this product:??
competitive this product is primarily used/worn for:??
but the only problem is the breakin in in horrible it hurts so bad its not even funny it took my 3 days to break them in but now its like my foot is moled to them.
product q&a ask your questions.
0out of 0found this question helpful.
the mens adidas adizero 5-star is recommended for a variety of surfaces.
0out of 0found this answer helpful.
all rights reserved about ssl certificates
it should be just fine for use on  natural grass.
both are great cleats.
but you'll get used to it...
both are a lightweight cleat.
1 month, 3 weeks ago  by norm1 0out of 0found
4 days ago  by norm1 0out of 0found  this answer helpful.
stud configuration provides extreme acceleration and multidirectional traction on a variety of surfaces.
1 answer will sizes under 8.5 be released?
product q&a 5 questions??|??
less than a month ago
the mens adidas adizero 5-star only weighs 6.9oz in a size 9.
the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is unfortunately out of stock until the middle of may so, we are unable to fit test the product for you at this time.
get connected - email - mobile - facebook - eastbay blog - live chat customer service - track an order - return policy - ordering help - contact us most popular - fielder's choice - close the gap - eastbay team services - final score - 'where athletes are' tour - wish list - shoe finder - eastbay events top searches - nike air max - nike huarache cleats - nike free run 3 - under armour - fielders gloves - jordan baseball cleats - kobe shoes - nike air force 1 always at eastbay - jordan shoes - adidas basketball shoes - puma shoes - nike shoes - nike shox - derrick rose shoes - nike+ shoes - sandals corporate sponsors | company information | employment opportunities | privacy policy | terms of use | sitemap | affiliates | © 2011 eastbay, inc.
-j- -k- -l- -m- -n- -0- -p- -q-
i knew when i joined adidas i'd have the best equipment and cleats, but the adizero 5 star blew me away.
this extreme speed cleat supplies you with lightweight strength and stability as you make your way through the game, fast!
1 answer 3 weeks, 3 days ago  by chadddyyyy  tulsa,ok 0out of 0found
the mens nike zoom vapor carbon fly td weighs  9.9oz in a size 9.
4 days ago by norm1 0points
we have had no customer feedback stating  that the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is anything less than a good durable shoe,  compared to other shoes in the same price range.
myself i purchased this product:??
share: 0points 0of 0voted this as helpful.
1  answer adidas 5 star vs nike zoom vapor carbon fly witch cleat is better ???
no, the smallest size that we will be  stocking in the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is a size 8.5.
posted march 25, 2011 rhs3 from??
less than a month ago the athletic skill level of the person using this product is:??
1 month, 3 weeks ago by risley mercer island, washington 0points 0out of 0found this question helpful.
the non-removable, molded pu insole cradles your foot in long-lasting comfort as you make play after play.
3 weeks, 3 days ago by chadddyyyy tulsa,ok 0points 0out of 0found this question helpful.
los angeles ca, i purchased this product:??
there is little to choose between the mens nike zoom vapor carbon fly td and, the mens adidas adizero 5-star.
participating in a sport very small very large very narrow very wide so these cleats are super light it like i have nothing on your feet
1 month ago by norm1 0points 0out of 0 found this answer helpful.
4.7 / 5 very small very large very narrow very wide 3 out of 3(100%) customers would recommend this product.
sprint frame construction on the outsole uses geometrical learning to offer the perfect balance between speed and stability.
" davon bess: "the adizero 5 star is like nothing i've ever seen or felt before.
both employ  the latest technologies in both design construction and, the materials used.
the mens adidas adizero 5-star only weighs 6.9oz in a size  9.
1 month, 3 weeks ago by norm1 0points 0out of 0found
- - - - - - description - sizing - reviews - product q&a - articles - videos read how the adidas adizero 5-star was designed!too light to be stopped: adidas adizero 5-star.
-z- - - timberland - ugg - under armour - vans - volcom - athlete resource center - home : adidas adizero 5-star - men's http://www.eastbay.com/catalog/addtocart.cfm?tid=7355-15111200360115000294485-0&submit=yes&supercat=home&cm=&id=0&mvp=&model_nbr=157546&xymessage=added recently viewed adidas adizero 5-star - men's $99.99 selected style: white/white/black | width - d - medium selected size:
comforatlble, i am size 11 but they are about a size too big, the blue ones i have are different in person, the blue is darker and and shiny!
1 month, 2 weeks ago  by norm1 0out of 0found
6.9 oz. adidas adidas adizero 5-star - men's overall rating??
welcome, guest, click here to log in or register.
the molded pu insole cradles your foot in long-lasting comfort as you make play after play.
1 month, 2 weeks ago by norm1 0points 0out of 0found
participating in a sport very small very large very narrow very wide this cleat is amazing im a high school wide out and this cleat is perfect.
1 month, 1 week ago by mrplaymaker7 kissimmee,fl 0points 0out of 0found this question helpful.
6 days ago by peters9 0points 0out of 0found this question helpful.
the mens nike zoom vapor carbon fly td weighs 9.9oz in a size 9.
3 weeks, 2 days ago  by norm1 0out of 0found this answer helpful.
1 month, 2 weeks ago by eddie21 0points 0out of 0found this question helpful.
participating in a sport very small very large these are really nice, and light!
5 / 5 this cleat is amazing!!!
3 weeks, 2 days ago by norm1 0points 0out of 0found this answer helpful.
1 answer how does the sizing go on these cleats?
it should be just fine for use on natural grass.
1 answer would the adidas adizero 5-star cleat be suitable and work well on natural grass?
1 answer adidas 5 star vs nike zoom vapor carbon fly witch cleat is better ???
this synthetic material, though lightweight, is extremely strong with the help of the internal tpu support bands.
star titus young: adizero 5 star stability: adizero 5 star traction adizero 5 star adidas adidas adizero 5-star - men's overall rating??
posted april 26, 2011 mrplaymaker7 from??
1  month, 3 weeks ago  by risley  mercer island, washington
summary of customer ratings & reviews adidas adidas adizero 5-star - men's overall rating??
the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is  unfortunately out of stock until the middle of may so, we are unable to fit  test the product for you at this time.
answers staff expert answer:??
it is really a matter of personal choice as to which one you prefer.
customers would recommend this product.
the upper uses a single layer of sprintskin.
my account | order status recently viewed items: 0
6.9 oz. cj spiller: "light!!!
sec - you cannot add any more of this product to your cart.
we have had no customer feedback stating that the mens adidas adizero 5-star, is anything less than a good durable shoe, compared to other shoes in the same price range.
this product is primarily used/worn for:??
canada i purchased this product for:??
none availability: - 08.5 - 09.0 - 09.5 - 10.0 - 10.5 - 11.0 - 11.5 - 12.0 - 12.5 - 13.0 - 13.5 - 14.0 - 15.0 - - product #: 259304 - price: $99.99 - qty: * excluded from discount ( see details) - - this item is available in: 0 hours 00 min 00
there's light and then there is the adidas adizero 5-star.
not only do they add strength, they increase stability and support for quick cuts, jukes and acceleration.
the construction of the nike zoom vapor carbon fly td may be slightly better than, the mens adidas adizero 5-star
both employ the latest technologies in both design construction and, the materials used.
6.9 oz. filter reviews by: pros cons - lightweight(3) - comfortable(2) - good traction(2) - durable(1) - well built(1) product reviews - break in is a b!tch.(1) - uncomfortable for a short period of time..(1)
i cant wait to use these!
4 / 5 i got these at the b2g adidas football camp
you could contact the manufacturer for  the information or, contact us again when the item is in stock and we will get  the fit information for you at that time.
and that is why they have the extra weight.
1  month, 1 week ago  by mrplaymaker7  kissimmee,fl 0out of 0found this question helpful.
the mens adidas adizero 5-star is  recommended for a variety of surfaces.
there is little to choose between the mens  nike zoom vapor carbon fly td and, the mens adidas adizero 5-star.
clothing - basketball - fashion - lacrosse - running - skate - soccer - - softball - sportswear - track & field/ xc - training - volleyball - kids' clothing - baseball - basketball - fashion - football - jordan - lacrosse - running - skate - - soccer - softball - sportswear - track & field/ xc - training - wrestling - big kids' clothing - toddler clothing - infant clothing - sports equipment - casual - casual shoes - boots - casual sneakers - fashion shoes - jordan shoes - sandals - skate shoes - casual clothing - hats - hoodies & sweatshirts - jackets - pants - shirts - shorts - sweaters & cardigans - accessories - fan gear - brands - top brands - adidas - adidas originals - akoo - asics - brooks - - coogi - dc shoes - demarini - eastbay - easton - - ecko unltd - hurley - jordan - k-swiss - lrg - - merrell - mizuno - new balance - new era - nike - - oakley - phiten - puma - quiksilver - reebok - - saucony - sparq - strength - supra - the north face shop all -a- -b-
-s- -t- -u- -v- -w- -x- -y-
so i strongly recommend you go buy these super light cleats.... pros:??
this question helpful.