this deal (worth over $400 million) takes the place of the previous 10-year reebok deal that was put in place in 2001.
tapie was at the time a famous specialist of rescuing bankrupt  companies, an expertise on which he built his fortune.
the company has been an  innovator in the area of footwear for the sport, with notable examples  including the 1979 release of thecopa mundial moulded boot used for matches on  firm dry pitches.
adidas has provided hockey equipment's and sponsors numerous players of germany, england, netherlands, australia and spain.
[edit] product adidas golf sells apparel, footwear, and accessories for men, women, and  youth.
the acquisition of reebok would also allow adidas to compete with nike worldwide as the number two athletic shoemaker in the world.[15] adidas has global corporate headquarters in germany, and many other business locations around the world such as portland or, hong kong, toronto, taiwan, england, japan, australia, and spain.
adidas tennis apparel contains the climacool technology found in other athletic jerseys and shoes.[19] in november 2009 world number 4 andy murray was confirmed as adidas's highest paid star with a 5 year contract reported to be worth $24.5m.[20] players sponsored by adidas can take advantage of the adidas player improvement program, where the company provides coaches, fitness trainers and sports psychologists to players in order to further their careers.
in 2005, adidas introduced the adidas 1, the first ever production shoe to  use amicroprocessor.
the company also endorsed kevin garnett until he opted out of  his contract in 2010.[27]
this section needs additional  citations for verification.
for the 2008 summer olympics in beijing, china, adidas spent  €70 million sponsoring the event, amid criticisms.[42] adidas has also been marketing in nascar, sponsoring big name drivers such  asdale earnhardt, jr. and tony stewart.
salomon sold its controlling  interest in taylormade and its other sports equipment companies to global giant  adidas ag.
in the 1990s, adidas signed world's iconic batsman sachin tendulkar of india and made shoes for him.[21]
this takeover was completed with partnership in january 2006[1] and meant that the company would have business sales closer to those of nike in north america.
[edit] company timeline
[edit] gymnastics since 2000, adidas has provided men's and women's gymnastics wear for team  usa, throughusa gymnastics.
this design featured a ribbed rubber structure for the upper leather of the shoe, used to accent the movement of the ball when struck; highly skilled players claimed they were able to curve the flight of the ball more easily when wearing this new contoured design.[citation needed] the predator also features the craig johnston-invented traxion sole.
the shoe requires a small, user-replaceable  battery that lasts for approximately 100 hours of running.
men's equipment includes footwear, shirts, shorts, pants, outerwear, base layer and eyewear.
while the feather is made for the "regular player",  and the response for the "club player", adidas targets the  "tournament player" with the 12.2 oz barricade tour model.[18]
in 1998, adidas sued the ncaa over their rules limiting the size and number  of commercial logos on team uniforms and apparel.
the company is the largest sportswear manufacturer in europe and the second biggest sportswear manufacturer in the world.[3] adidas was founded in 1948 by adolf dassler, following the split of gebrüder dassler schuhfabrik between him and his older brother rudolf.
it has been labelled a public relations disaster by leading new zealand pr firms and consumer advocate groups.
in february 1993, crédit lyonnais sold adidas to robert louis-dreyfus , a friend of bernard tapie for a much higher amount of money than what tapie  owed, 4.485 billion (€683.514 million) francs rather than  2.85 billion (€434.479 million).
adidas championship football [edit] sponsorship this section needs additional citations for verification.
the following year  they signed up fellow england playerian bell, pakistan opening batsman salman  butt and indian player ravindra jadeja.
dubbed by the company "the world's first intelligent shoe", it features a microprocessor capable of performing 5 million calculations per second that automatically adjusts the shoe's level of cushioning to suit its environment.
tbwa\chiat\day commissioned zane peach[37] to produce images for  2007 international ad campaign.
the pair started the venture in their mother's laundry,[6]:5 but, at the time, electricity supplies in the town were unreliable, and the brothers sometimes had to use pedal power from a stationary bicycle to run their equipment.[7] by the 1936 summer olympics, adi dassler drove from bavaria on one of the world's first motorways to the olympic village with a suitcase full of spikes and persuaded u.s.sprinter jesse owens to use them, the first sponsorship for an african american.
adidas are also the official match ball supplier to theheineken cup.
nike has contributed $1.5 million but adidas has not acted.
on 25 november 2005, adidas released a new version of the adidas 1 with an increased range of cushioning, allowing the shoe to become softer or firmer, and a new motor with 153 percent more torque.[citation needed] on 11 april 2006, adidas announced an 11-year deal to become the official nba apparel provider.
adidas also sponsors the argentine, japanese, mexican, scottish, spanish and colombian national football teams, among others.[39] adidas is very active at sponsoring top football clubs such as r.s.c. anderlecht, wisła kraków, rapid vienna, real madrid, aberdeen f.c., ac milan, dynamo kyiv, metalist, partizan belgrade, chelsea, palmeiras, fluminense, bayern munich, rosenborg bk, west bromwich albion, stoke city f.c., lyon, marseille, afc ajax, schalke 04, galatasaray, benfica, river plate, los angeles galaxy, new york red bulls, beşiktaş, fenerbahçe, gaziantepspor, uanl tigres, panathinaikos, south melbourne fc, ifk göteborg ,zamalek sc, al-ahly, al-hilal, ahli jeddah, ahly benghazi, madina tripoli, tahaddy benghazi, caracas fc, universidad de chile, los millonarios, beitar jerusalem f.c., albirex niigata, atlético nacional, c.d. guadalajara and liverpool adidas is the apparel partner of the collingwood football club and the essendon football club in the australian football league.
now the range includes pellara, incurza, libro and m-blaster.
adidas withdrew the suit, and the two groups established guidelines as to what three-stripe designs would be considered uses of the adidas trademark.
adidas also sponsors and produces apparel for the rugby league club gold coast titans in the australian national rugby league (nrl) competition.
in 2008, adidas made their move into english cricket market by sponsoring  english batting starkevin pietersen after the cancellation of his lifetime deal  withwoodworm, when they ran into financial difficulties.[22]
adidas is a key sponsor and supplier to the national basketball association (nba).
beeston hockey club [34] and east grinstead hockey club.[35] [edit] accessories adidas also designs and makes sandals, watches, eyewear, bags, baseball caps , andsocks.
he also hired madonna for promotion.
they will make nba, nbdl, and wnba jerseys and products as well as team-coloured versions of the "superstar" basketball shoe.
adidas remain a major company in the supply of team kits for international  football teams.
the jabulani was  widely blamed for the low numbers of long range goals or even remotely accurate  attempts in the opening stage of the tournament.[citation needed] as well as the aforementioned predator boot, adidas also manufacture the f50  andadipure range of football boots.
starting in 2009, adidas gymnastics wear has been available  worldwide throughgk elite sportswear.[30] [edit] skateboarding adidas sb (skateboarding) are shoes made specifically for skateboarding.
it received much criticism from players, managers and pundits for  being too hard to control.[citation needed] the lighter and more  aerodynamic ball led to many shots and passes being over hit.
it created a new bat, 'adidas masterblaster elite', personalized for him.
the company also endorsed kevin garnett until he opted out of his contract in 2010.[27]
this campaign was developed by 180/tbwa based in amsterdam but also with significant work being done by tbwa/chiat/day in san francisco – particularly for its basketball campaign "believe in five".
adidas are the main sponsor and kit supplier of the highly successful new zealand nationalrugby team, the all blacks.
hary had worn adidas before and asked adolf for payment, but adidas rejected this request.
[edit] field hockey adidas has provided hockey equipment's and sponsors numerous players of  germany, england, netherlands, australia and spain.
when he returned from fighting inworld war i, rudolf received a  management position at aporcelain factory, and later in a leather wholesale  business innuremberg.
[edit] marketing adidas, like other sports brands, is believed to engender high consumer  brand loyalty.
the team consists of:  mark gonzales, dennis busenitz, tim o'connor, silas baxter-neal, pete eldridge,  benny fairfax, lucas puig, nester judkins,lem villemin,vince del valle and jake  brown.
daley thompson's olympic challengesony playstation: adidas power soccer commodore 64, zx spectrum, amstrad cpc:
he was the object of several lawsuits, notably related tomatch fixing at the football club.
in july 1924, his brother rudolf returned to herzogenaurach to join his  younger brother's business, which becamegebrüder dassler schuhfabrik (dassler brothers shoe factory) and prospered.
in cincinnati, at the atp tennis tournament in mason, they have also  sponsored theball-boy and ball-girl uniforms.
carlsbad is also the headquarters of one of its primary competitors,callaway golf company.
the court ruled that despite the simplicity of the mark,fitness world 's use was infringing because the public could establish a link between that use and adidas's mark.[12]
adidas endorsed kobe bryant with the adidas equipment kb8 as his first signature shoe until  july 2002.[26]
they are also the main sponsors of the indiancricketers sachin tendulkar and virender sehwag and english cricketer kevin pietersen.
after leaving school,  their son,rudolf "rudi" dassler, joined his father at the shoe  factory.
business  boomed and the dasslers were selling 200,000 pairs of shoes each year before  world war ii.[8] [edit] company split both brothers joined the nazi party, but rudolf was slightly closer to the  party than adolf.
during 1997, he served 6 months of an 18-month prison sentence inla santé prison in paris.
mainly sold in the u.s., adidas  makes lots of assets from these countries and is expanding to more oversea  countries.
the jabulani  ball was designed and developed byloughborough university in conjunction with  chelsea fc.
they are most famous for their late  1960s iconic superstar and pro model shoes, affectionately known as  "shelltoes" for their stylized hard rubber toe box.[citation needed ] these were made very popular in the 1980s hip hop streetwear scene  alongside adidas's stripe-sided polyester suits.[citation needed] adidas is also the current outfitter of all 30 franchises in the national  basketball association (replacing the reebok brand after the merger) and  sponsors numerous players past and present likekareem abdul-jabbar and tracy  mcgrady, as well as dwight howard, chauncey billups, derrick rose, brandon  knight, eric gordon, michael beasley, josh smith and tim duncan.
carlsbad is  also the headquarters of one of its primary competitors,callaway golf company.
hary hoped to cash in from both, but adi was so enraged he banned the olympic champion.[8] after a period of trouble following the death of adolf dassler's son horst dassler in 1987, the company was bought in 1989 by french industrialist bernard tapie, for ₣1.6 billion (now €243.9 million), which tapie borrowed.
many of the shoes adidas previously made were redesigned for skateboarding.
the team consists of: mark gonzales, dennis busenitz, tim o'connor, silas baxter-neal, pete eldridge, benny fairfax, lucas puig, nester judkins,lem villemin,vince del valle and jake brown.
the study found consumers did not exhibit unduly high loyalty towards such brands.
the  town of herzogenaurach was divided on the issue, leading to the nickname  "the town of bent necks"—people looked down to see which shoes  strangers wore.[11] even the town's two football clubs were divided: asv  herzogenaurach club supported adidas, while 1 fc herzogenaurach endorsed  rudolf's footwear.[7] when handymen were called to rudolf's home, they would  deliberately wear adidas shoes.
the jabulani ball was designed and developed byloughborough university in conjunction with chelsea fc.
in 2005, adidas introduced the adidas 1, the first ever production shoe to use amicroprocessor.
in 2003, adidas filed a lawsuit in a british court challenging fitness  world trading's use of a two-stripe motif similar to adidas's three stripes.
now  the range includes pellara, incurza, libro and m-blaster.
thompson's olympic challengesony playstation:
during 1997, he  served 6 months of an 18-month prison sentence inla santé prison in  paris.
at the 1960 summer olympics puma paid german sprinter armin hary to wear  pumas in the 100 metre sprint final.
letters from around the world landed on the brothers' desks, and the  trainers of other national teams were all interested in their shoes.
adidas also uses kangaroo leather to make their more expensive shoes.[16][17] one of the main focuses of adidas is football kit and associated equipment.
mark king was named president of the company he had begun his career  with in 1981 as a sales representative after a short stint as vice president of  sales and marketing at callaway golf ball co. in 1998.
four years later, at the 1952 summer olympics, 1500 metres runner josy barthel of luxembourg won puma's first olympic gold inhelsinki, finland.
in 1997, adidas ag acquired the salomon group who specialized in ski wear, and its official corporate name was changed to adidas-salomon ag because with this acquisition adidas also acquired the taylormade golf company andmaxfli, which allowed them to compete with nike golf.
they also sponsorreading hockey club,[33]
adidas currently manufactures several running shoes, including the adistar salvation 3, the adistar ride 3 (the replacement for the adistar cushion 6), the supernova sequence 4 (the replacement for the supernova control 10), and the supernova glide 3, among others.
brand loyalty towards adidas,nike, inc., puma ag and several  other sportswear brands was examined in a recent study.[36]
at the 1960 summer olympics puma paid german sprinter armin hary to wear pumas in the 100 metre sprint final.
tendulkar still wears adidas shoes while  playing matches.
adidas and major league soccer (mls) announced a 8-year sponsorship  agreement in august 2010 that will continue to make adidas the official  athletic sponsor and licensed product supplier for the league, and to work  together to expand the developmental league for mls through 2018.[40] adidas also sponsors events such as the london marathon and adidas sundown  marathon in singapore.[41]
the court ruled that despite the simplicity of the mark,fitness world 's  use was infringing because the public could establish a link between that use  and adidas's mark.[12] in september 2004, top english fashion designer stella mccartney launched a  joint-venture line with adidas, establishing a long-term partnership with the  corporation.
in 1992, unable to pay the loan interest, tapie mandated the crédit  lyonnais bank to sell adidas, and the bank subsequently converted the  outstanding debt owed intoequity of the enterprise, which was unusual as per  the prevalent french banking practice.
in addition, their performance apparel is widely used by runners.
in february 1993, crédit lyonnais sold adidas to robert louis-dreyfus , a friend of bernard tapie for a much higher amount of money than what tapie owed, 4.485 billion (€683.514 million) francs rather than 2.85 billion (€434.479 million).
the company has been an innovator in the area of footwear for the sport, with notable examples including the 1979 release of thecopa mundial moulded boot used for matches on firm dry pitches.
in the indian premier league (ipl), adidas are the official apparel sponsor  for the teamsmumbai indians, delhi daredevils and pune warriors india.[24][25] [edit] basketball adidas has been a longtime basketball shoe manufacturer and is one of the  leading basketball brands in the world.
in 1997, adidas ag acquired the salomon group who specialized in ski wear,  and its official corporate name was changed to adidas-salomon ag because with  this acquisition adidas also acquired the taylormade golf company andmaxfli,  which allowed them to compete with nike golf.
he sent, fromchristchurch, new zealand, a shoe sales  representative to germany and met adolf dassler's descendants (amelia randall  dassler and bella beck dassler) and was sent back with a few items to promote  the company there.
he was also the  president ofolympique de marseille, a team tapie had owned until 1993.
men's equipment includes footwear, shirts, shorts, pants, outerwear,  base layer and eyewear.
they are the current kit and  ball supplier to the new zealandall blacks, irish munster rugby, the  argentinian pumas, and the south african stormers and western province rugby  union teams among others.
in 2008, adidas made their move into english cricket market by sponsoring english batting starkevin pietersen after the cancellation of his lifetime deal withwoodworm, when they ran into financial difficulties.[22] the following year they signed up fellow england playerian bell, pakistan opening batsman salman butt and indian player ravindra jadeja.
[edit] game advertisement the brand is featured in several games.
in 1997, adidas ag acquired the salomon group who specialized in alpine ski  wear, and its official corporate name was changed to adidas-salomon ag because  with this acquisition adidas also acquired the taylormade golf company andmaxfli , which allowed them to compete with nike golf.
please help improve this article by adding  citations toreliable sources.
adidas championship football adidas is a major domestic (within germany) and international sports and eventssponsor.
tapie decided to move production offshore to asia.
adidas golf usa had thirty employees to relocate.
from 1997 to 2008, adidas sponsored new york yankees.[31] in japan, adidas is the official apparel sponsor for the teams yomiuri  giants[32] and waseda university.
[edit] baseball adidas has also provided baseball equipments and sponsors numerous players  ofmajor league baseball and nippon professional baseball in japan.
adidas also provides apparel and  equipment for all teams inmajor league soccer.
women's equipment includes footwear, shirts, shorts,  skirts, pants, outerwear, base layers, and eyewear.
in july 1924, his brother rudolf returned to herzogenaurach to join his younger brother's business, which becamegebrüder dassler schuhfabrik (dassler brothers shoe factory) and prospered.
he was the object of several  lawsuits, notably related tomatch fixing at the football club.
adidas are the main sponsor and kit supplier of the highly successful new  zealand nationalrugby team, the all blacks.
this line is a sports performance collection for women called "adidas by stella mccartney",[13] and it has been critically acclaimed.[14] also in 2005, on 3 may, adidas told the public that they sold their partner companysalomon group for €485m to amer sports of finland.
in 2006, adidas gymnastics leotards for women and  adidas men's comp shirts, gymnastics pants and gymnastics shorts have been  available in the usa, with seasonal leotards offered for spring, summer, fall  and holidays.
[edit] post—tapie era an adidas casual shoe, with the  company's distinctivethree parallel bars
adidas signed  withcricket south africa in 2011 and the uniforms worn by south african cricket  team during and after the cricket world cup 2011 will be manufactured by the  german giant.[23] australia cricket team were previously sponsored by adidas  till late 2011.
after leaving school, their son,rudolf "rudi" dassler, joined his father at the shoe factory.
they also sponsorreading  hockey club,[33]
unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
starting in 2009, adidas gymnastics wear has been available worldwide throughgk elite sportswear.[30] adidas sb (skateboarding) are shoes made specifically for skateboarding.
as with the majority of prolific brand-based transnationals, adidas's business practises/ethics and commitment to worker welfare have been scrutinised and often criticised.[43][44] unhappy with the local price of the adidas replica all blacks jersey, new zealand-basedall blacks fans have asked for price cuts and begun purchasing the jersey from overseas vendors after it was revealed that the local price of $nz220 was more than twice the price offered on some websites.[45] adidas has responded by enforcing cross-border agreements to stop overseas retailers from selling to new zealand residents.
gilbert arenas was an adidas endorser until 2010.[28]
since 2000, adidas has provided men's and women's gymnastics wear for team usa, throughusa gymnastics.
following owens's haul of four gold medals, his success cemented the good reputation of dassler shoes among the world's most famous sportsmen.
adidas golf sells apparel, footwear, and accessories for men, women, and youth.
in 1994, combined with fifa youth group, sos children's villages became the  main beneficiary.
in 2003, adidas filed a lawsuit in a british court challenging fitness world trading's use of a two-stripe motif similar to adidas's three stripes.
in 1998, adidas golf usa moved its business operations from tualatin,  oregon, to thecarlsbad, california headquarters of taylormade golf, acquired by  adidas-salomon.
in 1992, unable to pay the loan interest, tapie mandated the crédit lyonnais bank to sell adidas, and the bank subsequently converted the outstanding debt owed intoequity of the enterprise, which was unusual as per the prevalent french banking practice.
it created a new bat, 'adidas masterblaster elite', personalized for  him.
[edit] corporate information
in the indian premier league (ipl), adidas are the official apparel sponsor for the teamsmumbai indians, delhi daredevils and pune warriors india.[24][25] adidas has been a longtime basketball shoe manufacturer and is one of the leading basketball brands in the world.
the study found  consumers did not exhibit unduly high loyalty towards such brands.
in 1998, adidas sued the ncaa over their rules limiting the size and number of commercial logos on team uniforms and apparel.
this takeover was completed with partnership in january 2006[1] and  meant that the company would have business sales closer to those of nike in  north america.
youth equipment includes both boys and girls footwear, apparel, and eyewear.
the adidas group is one of the global leaders in the sporting goods industry offering a wide range of products around the three core segments of adidas, reebok, and taylormade-adidas golf.
[edit] golf adidas golf is part of adidas, a german-based sports apparel manufacturer  and part of the adidas group, which consists ofreebok sportswear company,  taylormade-adidas golf company, and rockport.
adidas also provides apparel and equipment for all teams inmajor league soccer.
a campaign has been initiated byunited students against sweatshops calling for universities to cut contracts with adidas.[50]
this deal (worth over $400 million) takes the place of the previous  10-year reebok deal that was put in place in 2001.
fifa, the world governing body of football, commissioned specially designed footballs for use in its ownworld cup tournaments to favour more attacking play.
youth equipment includes  both boys and girls footwear, apparel, and eyewear.
the brand is featured in several games.
as of august 9, 2011, rebel sport has decided not to stock the adidas rugby union jumper.[46] adidas has been criticized for operating sweatshops, particularly in indonesia.
the largest new zealand sportswear retailerrebel sport has stated it is angry and is considering selling the all blacks jerseys to the general public below cost.
during the mid to late 1990s, adidas divided the brand into three main  groups with each a separate focus:adidas performance was designed to  maintain their devotion to the athlete;adidas originals was designed to  focus on fashion and life-style; andstyle essentials, with the main  group within this one beingy-3. "impossible is nothing" is the current mainstream marketing slogan for adidas.
tendulkar still wears adidas shoes while playing matches.
while the feather is made for the "regular player", and the response for the "club player", adidas targets the "tournament player" with the 12.2 oz barricade tour model.[18]
rudolf later establishedpuma, which was the early rival of adidas.
adidas also are the kit supplier to  thelos pumas, the eagles, the irish professional rugby union team, munster rugby  and the french professionalrugby union club, stade français.
registered in 1949, adidas is currently based inherzogenaurach, germany, along with puma.
adidas ag is a sports apparel manufacturer and parent company of the adidas group, which consists of thereebok sportswear company, taylormade-adidas golf company (includingashworth), and rockport.
during the war, a growing rift between the pair reached a breaking point after an allied bomb attack in 1943, when adi and his wife climbed into a bomb shelter that rudolf and his family were already in: "the dirty bastards are back again", adi said, referring to the allied war planes, but rudolf was convinced his brother meant him and his family.[9] after rudolf was later picked up by american soldiers and accused of being a member of thewaffen ss, he was convinced that his brother had turned him in.[7] the brothers split up in 1947,[10] with puma and adidas entered a fierce and bitter rivalry after the split.
adidas is the longstanding kit provider to the germany national football  team, a sponsorship that began in 1954 and is contracted to continue until at  least 2018.
adidas also sponsors the argentine, japanese, mexican, scottish,  spanish and colombian national football teams, among others.[39] adidas is very active at sponsoring top football clubs such as r.s.c.  anderlecht, wisła kraków, rapid vienna, real madrid, aberdeen f.c.,  ac milan, dynamo kyiv, metalist, partizan belgrade, chelsea, palmeiras,  fluminense, bayern munich, rosenborg bk, west bromwich albion, stoke city f.c.,  lyon, marseille, afc ajax, schalke 04, galatasaray, benfica, river plate, los  angeles galaxy, new york red bulls, beşiktaş, fenerbahçe,  gaziantepspor, uanl tigres, panathinaikos, south melbourne fc, ifk göteborg ,zamalek sc, al-ahly, al-hilal, ahli jeddah, ahly benghazi, madina tripoli,  tahaddy benghazi, caracas fc, universidad de chile, los millonarios, beitar  jerusalem f.c., albirex niigata, atlético nacional, c.d. guadalajara and  liverpool adidas is the apparel partner of the collingwood football club and the  essendon football club in the australian football league.
adidas power soccer commodore 64,  zx spectrum, amstrad cpc:
in cricket, the company are the main and kit sponsors sponsors of the  successfulengland cricket team and the south african cricket team .
the german won gold in  pumas, but then laced up adidas for the medals ceremony, to the shock of the  two dassler brothers.
following owens's haul of four gold medals, his success  cemented the good reputation of dassler shoes among the world's most famous  sportsmen.
after a period of trouble following the death of adolf dassler's son horst  dassler in 1987, the company was bought in 1989 by french industrialist
adidas manufactures uniforms for the england cricket team.
dubbed by the company "the world's first intelligent  shoe", it features a microprocessor capable of performing 5 million  calculations per second that automatically adjusts the shoe's level of  cushioning to suit its environment.
this line is a sports performance collection for women called  "adidas by stella mccartney",[13] and it has been critically  acclaimed.[14] also in 2005, on 3 may, adidas told the public that they sold their partner  companysalomon group for €485m to amer sports of finland.
adidas also uses kangaroo leather to make their more  expensive shoes.[16][17] [edit] football one of the main focuses of adidas is football kit and associated equipment.
in the 1990s, adidas signed world's iconic batsman sachin tendulkar of  india and made shoes for him.[21]
adidas skateboarding also has a skateboarding team.
in cricket, the company are the main and kit sponsors sponsors of the successfulengland cricket team and the south african cricket team .
having made cricket footwear for many  years, the company finally entered the field of bat manufacture in 2008.
during the last number of years, the group has increased its  marketing and sponsorshipbudget.[38]
when he returned from fighting inworld war i, rudolf received a management position at aporcelain factory, and later in a leather wholesale business innuremberg.
the acquisition of reebok would also allow adidas to compete with nike worldwide as the number two athletic shoemaker in the world.[15] adidas has global corporate headquarters in germany, and many other  business locations around the world such as portland or, hong kong, toronto,  taiwan, england, japan, australia, and spain.
[ citation needed] tapie filed for personal bankruptcy in 1994.
he also hired madonna  for promotion.
2,686 workers were laid off and are owed $3 million in severance pay and benefits.
besides sports footwear, the company also produces other products such as bags, shirts, watches, eyewear, and other sports- and clothing-related goods.
adidas remain a major company in the supply of team kits for international football teams.
the program includes legendary coaches such asdarren cahill and sven groeneveld.
adidas has sponsored tennis players and recently introduced a new line of  tennisracquets.
in november 2008, ashworth (clothing) became a wholly owned subsidiary of  taylormade-adidas golf, complementary to the synthetic performance fabrics of  adidas golf.
tbwa\chiat\day commissioned zane peach[37] to produce images for 2007 international ad campaign.
they are  also the main sponsors of the indiancricketers sachin tendulkar and virender  sehwag and english cricketer kevin pietersen.
now they also sponsor thesouth korea national cricket team.
[edit] cricket indian cricketer sachin tendulkar, batting with  his personalized adidas bat.
fifa, the world governing body of football, commissioned specially designed  footballs for use in its ownworld cup tournaments to favour more attacking  play.
the program  includes legendary coaches such asdarren cahill and sven groeneveld.
both brothers joined the nazi party, but rudolf was slightly closer to the party than adolf.
in 1948, the first football match after world war ii, several members of the west german national football team wore puma boots, including the scorer of west germany's first post-war goal,herbert burdenski.
adidas endorsed kobe bryant with the adidas equipment kb8 as his first signature shoe until july 2002.[26]
rudolf would tell them to go to the basement  and pick out a pair of free pumas.[7] the two brothers never reconciled, and  although both are buried in the same cemetery, they are spaced apart as far as  possible.
adidas also are the kit supplier to thelos pumas, the eagles, the irish professional rugby union team, munster rugby and the french professionalrugby union club, stade français.
rudolf would tell them to go to the basement and pick out a pair of free pumas.[7] the two brothers never reconciled, and although both are buried in the same cemetery, they are spaced apart as far as possible.
it holds the accolade of the best selling boot of all time.
for the 2008 summer olympics in beijing, china, adidas spent €70 million sponsoring the event, amid criticisms.[42] adidas has also been marketing in nascar, sponsoring big name drivers such asdale earnhardt, jr. and tony stewart.
adidas golf sells and manufactures adidas-brand golf apparel, footwear, and  accessories.
they are the current kit and ball supplier to the new zealandall blacks, irish munster rugby, the argentinian pumas, and the south african stormers and western province rugby union teams among others.
in 1997, adidas ag acquired the salomon group who specialized in alpine ski wear, and its official corporate name was changed to adidas-salomon ag because with this acquisition adidas also acquired the taylormade golf company andmaxfli , which allowed them to compete with nike golf.
salomon sold its controlling interest in taylormade and its other sports equipment companies to global giant adidas ag.
during the mid to late 1990s, adidas divided the brand into three main groups with each a separate focus:adidas performance was designed to maintain their devotion to the athlete;adidas originals was designed to focus on fashion and life-style; andstyle essentials, with the main group within this one beingy-3. "impossible is nothing" is the current mainstream marketing slogan for adidas.
workplace standards that adidas' policy upholds include the freedom for workers to take part in collective bargaining and a non-retaliation policy towards workers who express concerns.[48]
adidas, like other sports brands, is believed to engender high consumer brand loyalty.
adidas withdrew the suit, and  the two groups established guidelines as to what three-stripe designs would be  considered uses of the adidas trademark.
the pair started the  venture in their mother's laundry,[6]:5 but, at the time, electricity supplies  in the town were unreliable, and the brothers sometimes had to use pedal power  from a stationary bicycle to run their equipment.[7] by the 1936 summer olympics, adi dassler drove from bavaria on one of the  world's first motorways to the olympic village with a suitcase full of spikes  and persuaded u.s.sprinter jesse owens to use them, the first sponsorship for  an african american.
adidas also sponsors and produces apparel for the rugby league club gold  coast titans in the australian national rugby league (nrl) competition.
this design  featured a ribbed rubber structure for the upper leather of the shoe, used to  accent the movement of the ball when struck; highly skilled players claimed  they were able to curve the flight of the ball more easily when wearing this  new contoured design.[citation needed] the predator also features the  craig johnston-invented traxion sole.
four years later, at the  1952 summer olympics, 1500 metres runner josy barthel of luxembourg won puma's  first olympic gold inhelsinki, finland.
the adidas group is one of the  global leaders in the sporting goods industry offering a wide range of products  around the three core segments of adidas, reebok, and taylormade-adidas golf.
the company recently unveiled a new nba  game jersey to be worn by all nba players in games beginning in the  2010–2011 season.
in the 1980s, adidas sponsored rap group run-d.m.c., a breakthrough idea.
in august 2005,  adidas declared its intention to buy british rivalreebok for $3.8 billion  (us$).
letters from around the world landed on the brothers' desks, and the trainers of other national teams were all interested in their shoes.
although it is popularly claimed that  the name is anacronym for all day i dream about sport, that phrase is a  backronym; the name is actually a portmanteau formed from "adi" (a  nickname for adolf) and "das" (from "dassler").[1] [edit] early years and rivalry with puma puma and adidas entered a fierce and bitter rivalry after the split.
bernard  tapie, for ₣1.6 billion (now €243.9 million), which tapie  borrowed.
during the last number of years, the group has increased its marketing and sponsorshipbudget.[38]
in 1994, combined with fifa youth group, sos children's villages became the main beneficiary.
the soft-ground equivalent was named world cup and it too remains on the market, timeless and iconic.
adidas also makes referee kits that are used in international competition  and by many countries and leagues in the world.
adolf "adi" dassler started to produce his own sports shoes in  his mother's wash kitchen inherzogenaurach, bavaria after his return from world  war i.
thestate-owned bank had tried to get  tapie out of dire financial straits as a personal favour to tapie, it is  reported, because tapie wasminister of urban affairs (ministre de la ville) in  the french government at the time.
as well, adidas has a branded range of male and female deodorants, perfumes, aftershave and lotions.
they are sponsors of the indian  premier league teams delhi daredevils and mumbai indians.
in 1999, taylormade and adidasgolf usa, were merged into a new company—called taylormade-adidas golf—with world headquarters in carlsbad.
robert louis-dreyfus became the new ceo of the company.
during the war, a growing rift between the pair reached a  breaking point after an allied bomb attack in 1943, when adi and his wife  climbed into a bomb shelter that rudolf and his family were already in:  "the dirty bastards are back again", adi said, referring to the  allied war planes, but rudolf was convinced his brother meant him and his  family.[9] after rudolf was later picked up by american soldiers and accused of  being a member of thewaffen ss, he was convinced that his brother had turned  him in.[7] the brothers split up in 1947,[10] with rudi forming a new firm that he called ruda – from ru dolfdassler, later rebranded puma, and adi forming a company formally registered as adidas ag from adi dassler on 18 august 1949.
currently the sponsored cricketers include sachin tendulkar, virender sehwag ,suresh raina, lasith malinga, dwayne bravo and kieron pollard.
at the panarub factory injava, 33 workers were fired after striking for better pay in 2005.[49] pt kizone is another indonesian factory where adidas has received criticism over treatment of workers.
adidas currently manufactures several running shoes, including the adistar  salvation 3, the adistar ride 3 (the replacement for the adistar cushion 6),  the supernova sequence 4 (the replacement for the supernova control 10), and  the supernova glide 3, among others.
the balls supplied for the2006 world cup, the teamgeist, were  particular noteworthy for their ability to travel further than previous types  when struck, leading to longer range goal strikes that were intended to  increase the number of goals scored.[citation needed] goalkeepers were  believed to be less comfortable with the design, claiming it would move  significantly and unpredictably in flight.[citation needed] adidas also introduced another new ball for the 2010 world cup.
on 25 november 2005,  adidas released a new version of the adidas 1 with an increased range of  cushioning, allowing the shoe to become softer or firmer, and a new motor with  153 percent more torque.[citation needed] on 11 april 2006, adidas announced an 11-year deal to become the official  nba apparel provider.
in cincinnati, at the atp tennis tournament in mason, they have also sponsored theball-boy and ball-girl uniforms.
adidas and major league soccer (mls) announced a 8-year sponsorship agreement in august 2010 that will continue to make adidas the official athletic sponsor and licensed product supplier for the league, and to work together to expand the developmental league for mls through 2018.[40] adidas also sponsors events such as the london marathon and adidas sundown marathon in singapore.[41]
adidas is the longstanding kit provider to the germany national football team, a sponsorship that began in 1954 and is contracted to continue until at least 2018.
a pair of adidas samba football trainers.
the soft-ground equivalent was named world cup and it too remains on the  market, timeless and iconic.
he sent, fromchristchurch, new zealand, a shoe sales representative to germany and met adolf dassler's descendants (amelia randall dassler and bella beck dassler) and was sent back with a few items to promote the company there.
adidas are also the official match ball supplier to  theheineken cup.
the company revenue for 2010 was listed at € 11.99 billion.[2] christoph von wilhelm dassler was a worker in a shoe factory, while his wife pauline ran a small laundry in thebavarian town of herzogenaurach, 20 km (12.4 mi) from the city ofnuremberg.
main article: list of adidas sponsorships adidas is a major domestic (within germany) and international sports and  eventssponsor.
adidas make rugby balls and other rugby gear.
please help improve this article by adding citations to  reliable sources.
the german won gold in pumas, but then laced up adidas for the medals ceremony, to the shock of the two dassler brothers.
[edit] corporate history [edit] gebrüder dassler schuhfabrik christoph von wilhelm dassler was a worker in a shoe factory, while his  wife pauline ran a small laundry in thebavarian town of herzogenaurach,  20 km (12.4 mi) from the city ofnuremberg.
they are sponsors of the indian premier league teams delhi daredevils and mumbai indians.
[edit] tennis professional tennis player andy murray.
in 1998, adidas golf usa moved its business operations from tualatin, oregon, to thecarlsbad, california headquarters of taylormade golf, acquired by adidas-salomon.
some of the most famous football teams are  currently sponsored by adidas.[citation needed] adidas became renowned for advancing the predator boot design developed by  ex-liverpool and australian international playercraig johnston.
in 1948, the first football match after world war ii, several members of the west german national football team wore puma boots, including the scorer of  west germany's first post-war goal,herbert burdenski.
from 1997 to 2008, adidas sponsored new york yankees.[31] in japan, adidas is the official apparel sponsor for the teams yomiuri giants[32] and waseda university.
the balls supplied for the2006 world cup, the teamgeist, were particular noteworthy for their ability to travel further than previous types when struck, leading to longer range goal strikes that were intended to increase the number of goals scored.[citation needed] goalkeepers were believed to be less comfortable with the design, claiming it would move significantly and unpredictably in flight.[citation needed] adidas also introduced another new ball for the 2010 world cup.
in november 2008, ashworth (clothing) became a wholly owned subsidiary of taylormade-adidas golf, complementary to the synthetic performance fabrics of adidas golf.
[edit] rugby all blacks rugby jersey
adidas tennis apparel  contains the climacool technology found in other athletic jerseys and shoes.[19] in november 2009 world number 4 andy murray was confirmed as adidas's  highest paid star with a 5 year contract reported to be worth $24.5m.[20]
mainly sold in the u.s., adidas makes lots of assets from these countries and is expanding to more oversea countries.
adidas signed withcricket south africa in 2011 and the uniforms worn by south african cricket team during and after the cricket world cup 2011 will be manufactured by the german giant.[23] australia cricket team were previously sponsored by adidas till late 2011.
in september 2004, top english fashion designer stella mccartney launched a joint-venture line with adidas, establishing a long-term partnership with the corporation.
since 2008, adidas has sponsored the cricket bat used bysachin tendulkar.
adidas golf is part of adidas, a german-based sports apparel manufacturer and part of the adidas group, which consists ofreebok sportswear company, taylormade-adidas golf company, and rockport.
business boomed and the dasslers were selling 200,000 pairs of shoes each year before world war ii.[8]
the jabulani was widely blamed for the low numbers of long range goals or even remotely accurate attempts in the opening stage of the tournament.[citation needed] as well as the aforementioned predator boot, adidas also manufacture the f50 andadipure range of football boots.
mark king was named president of the company he had begun his career with in 1981 as a sales representative after a short stint as vice president of sales and marketing at callaway golf ball co. in 1998.
hary hoped to cash in from both, but adi was so enraged  he banned the olympic champion.[8] [edit] the tapie affair
adidas  sponsors the following professional players with mainly clothing apparel and  footwear:ana ivanović, andy murray, maria kirilenko, caroline wozniacki,  justine henin, jo-wilfried tsonga, daniela hantuchová, alicia molik,  fernando verdasco, gilles simon, fernando gonzález, flavia pennetta,  laura robson, melanie oudin, and sorana cîrstea.
having made cricket footwear for many years, the company finally entered the field of bat manufacture in 2008.
between 2006 and 2007, adidas rejected many of its suppliers that supported unions for subcontractors with less reputable labor rights records.[47 ] by subcontracting work to different suppliers, it is more difficult for adidas to ensure company labor standards are enforced.
the company's clothing and shoe designs typically feature three parallel bars, and the same motif is incorporated into adidas's current official logo.
adidas fresh impact – limited edition as well, adidas has a branded range of male and female deodorants, perfumes, aftershave and lotions.
tapie was at the time a famous specialist of rescuing bankrupt companies, an expertise on which he built his fortune.
in practice, however, many of adidas' suppliers have not upheld these standards.
adidas sponsors the following professional players with mainly clothing apparel and footwear:ana ivanović, andy murray, maria kirilenko, caroline wozniacki, justine henin, jo-wilfried tsonga, daniela hantuchová, alicia molik, fernando verdasco, gilles simon, fernando gonzález, flavia pennetta, laura robson, melanie oudin, and sorana cîrstea.
the "three stripes" were bought from the finnish sport companykarhu sports in 1951.[4][5]
adidas also makes referee kits that are used in international competition and by many countries and leagues in the world.
[edit] products [edit] running a pair of adidas response cushion 18 running trainers.
gilbert arenas was an adidas endorser until 2010.[28] [edit] lacrosse in 2007, adidas announced the future production of lacrosse equipment, and  will sponsor the adidas national lacrosse classic in july 2008 for the top 600  high school underclassmen lacrosse players in the united states.[29]
in 2006, adidas gymnastics leotards for women and adidas men's comp shirts, gymnastics pants and gymnastics shorts have been available in the usa, with seasonal leotards offered for spring, summer, fall and holidays.
beeston hockey club [34] and east grinstead hockey club.[35] adidas also designs and makes sandals, watches, eyewear, bags, baseball caps , andsocks.
they are most famous for their late 1960s iconic superstar and pro model shoes, affectionately known as "shelltoes" for their stylized hard rubber toe box.[citation needed ] these were made very popular in the 1980s hip hop streetwear scene alongside adidas's stripe-sided polyester suits.[citation needed] adidas is also the current outfitter of all 30 franchises in the national basketball association (replacing the reebok brand after the merger) and sponsors numerous players past and present likekareem abdul-jabbar and tracy mcgrady, as well as dwight howard, chauncey billups, derrick rose, brandon knight, eric gordon, michael beasley, josh smith and tim duncan.
they produced products for adidas as well asnike and the dallas cowboys until they closed recently in january 2011.
adidas golf sells and manufactures adidas-brand golf apparel, footwear, and accessories.
it received much criticism from players, managers and pundits for being too hard to control.[citation needed] the lighter and more aerodynamic ball led to many shots and passes being over hit.
in 2007, adidas announced the future production of lacrosse equipment, and will sponsor the adidas national lacrosse classic in july 2008 for the top 600 high school underclassmen lacrosse players in the united states.[29] adidas make rugby balls and other rugby gear.
players sponsored by adidas can take advantage of the adidas player  improvement program, where the company provides coaches, fitness trainers and  sports psychologists to players in order to further their careers.
this campaign was developed by 180/tbwa based in amsterdam  but also with significant work being done by tbwa/chiat/day in san francisco  – particularly for its basketball campaign "believe in  five".
he was also the president ofolympique de marseille, a team tapie had owned until 1993.
thestate-owned bank had tried to get tapie out of dire financial straits as a personal favour to tapie, it is reported, because tapie wasminister of urban affairs (ministre de la ville) in the french government at the time.
in august 2005, adidas declared its intention to buy british rivalreebok for $3.8 billion (us$).
in 1999, taylormade and adidasgolf usa, were merged into a new  company—called taylormade-adidas golf—with world headquarters in  carlsbad.
women's equipment includes footwear, shirts, shorts, skirts, pants, outerwear, base layers, and eyewear.
now they also sponsor thesouth korea national cricket team.
adolf "adi" dassler started to produce his own sports shoes in his mother's wash kitchen inherzogenaurach, bavaria after his return from world war i.
the company recently unveiled a new nba game jersey to be worn by all nba players in games beginning in the 2010–2011 season.
in addition, their performance apparel is  widely used by runners.
since 2008, adidas has sponsored the cricket bat used bysachin  tendulkar.
they will make nba, nbdl, and wnba jerseys and products  as well as team-coloured versions of the "superstar" basketball shoe.
adidas has sponsored tennis players and recently introduced a new line of tennisracquets.
hary had worn adidas before and asked  adolf for payment, but adidas rejected this request.
the shoe requires a small, user-replaceable battery that lasts for approximately 100 hours of running.
brand loyalty towards adidas,nike, inc., puma ag and several other sportswear brands was examined in a recent study.[36]
some of the most famous football teams are currently sponsored by adidas.[citation needed] adidas became renowned for advancing the predator boot design developed by ex-liverpool and australian international playercraig johnston.
the town of herzogenaurach was divided on the issue, leading to the nickname "the town of bent necks"—people looked down to see which shoes strangers wore.[11] even the town's two football clubs were divided: asv herzogenaurach club supported adidas, while 1 fc herzogenaurach endorsed rudolf's footwear.[7] when handymen were called to rudolf's home, they would deliberately wear adidas shoes.
adidas has also provided baseball equipments and sponsors numerous players ofmajor league baseball and nippon professional baseball in japan.