nike's strategy has been to (1) deny that sweatshops exist, (2) except when one is found to be unequivocally real, where upon nike (a) cancels its contract if it is a weakling, (b) moves the factory production to an undisclosed new location, or (c) reengineers its practices if it is of moderate power, or (c) ignores it, while stating publicly that reform takes time, and nike will hang in there until libratory change for the workforce happens.
boje, d. m. (1995) "stories of the storytelling organization: a  postmodern analysis of disney as "tamara-land."
new york: russel sage foundation.
and wtp is also a will to truth (tsz, pp.
first, to focus on nine types of global networks in which leadership takes place.
"there may appear to be little common ground linking concerns about china trade policy, student activism, university athletics, and sweatshop labor.
level 5 -the government enacts laws that oversee the certification  and re-certification of monitoring programs to meet minimum standards for  workers rights and environmental accountability.
the political economy of child  labor and its impacts on international business  business economics;  washington; jul 2000; s l bachman;  volume:  35 issue:  3   page:  30-41.
sociology of sport  journal, 12 (4).
smith advocated local accountability, moral reasoning, and a limit to bigness of business.
it  is owned by taiwan's pou chen corp., the world's largest shoe manufacturer.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:  http://nikebiz.com/labor/trancript1.shtml nike (2000d)
issue:  627,  page:  8) (2) distribution webs of outlets (from niketown to footlocker) -
marx hypothesized that piece-wage is paid such that it becomes the average wage, thereby negating any incentive for independence, self-control, or liberty.
the machiavellian princes have their own strategies and tactics fore resisting nike's corporate power (carty, 1999).
why do they have to punish me this way?
but with the new arrangements made possible by the global economy -- highly mobile transnational capital, computer-coordinated production schedules, and free trade policies (sweat gear web site).
" on the one hand piece-wage allows the capitalist to make a contract for so  much per piece with the head laborer--in manufactures with the chief of some  group, in mines with the extract of the coal, in the factory with the actual  machine-worker--at a price for which the head laborer himself undertakes the  enlisting and payment of his assistant workpeople (p. 554).
one could argue that knight's wtp is mechanistic, about  amassing quantities of money and market share by the mechanistic chaining of  more and more asian subcontract factories to distribution chains worldwide.
a postmodern organization analysis of double logic.
boje, d. m. & wolfe, t.(1989) "transorganizational development:  contributions to theory and practice."
what are the  reassurances that nike and other u.s. companies such as gap, toys `r' us,  wal-mart, and payless can give to  american consumers that their goods  aren't produced under sweatshop conditions?
source: press for change nike which pays 58 cents per day to its laborers in indonesia (the ecologist; nov 2000; volume: 30 issue: 8, page: 12).
so i asked the union to resolve the problem.
do it nike coalition portland, oregon, usa),  bruce gould (chairperson labor rights task force, nicaragua solidarity  committee chicago, usa), tim connor (coordinator nikewatch campaign, sydney,  australia), annie delaney (textile, clothing and footwear union of australia  (tcfua)
workers were paid so little, and so often fined for  infractions, such as taking too long in the toilet, that at the end of a month  they often owed the company money.
level 3 - the government facilitates forums and research into the  myriad of codes between such entities as apparel partnership, universities,  fair labor association, workers rights consortium, collegiate apparel, sa8000,  and other organizations with codes.
the factory also improved safety and food in company dorms, which house 13,000 workers...
for more on spectacle,see guy debord's work.
the cognitive-developmental approach to socialization.
nike is the lightning rod for a  postmodern network of resistors to its leadership.
the government encourages corporations to establish codes of conduct as it did in the case of the apparel partnership following public outcry over the apparel industry practices in indonesia in 1991, kathy lee and sweatshops in 1996, and the rise in campus protests over apparel monitoring in the last five years.
the wtp is a will to overcome the small people, "they are the superman's greatest danger" (tsz, p. 287).
located at www.dogeatdogfilms.com  -michael
x = transactional; y = will to serve; z = polyphonic) - intellectual/ reform (x = transformational; y = will to serve; z = polyphonic) - opinion (x = transactional; y = will to power; z = polyphonic) - revolutionary (x = transformational; y = will to power; z = polyphonic)
in practice, the quotas in the apparel industry are adjusted to keep  the piece-wage to a bare minimum and working conditions such as rest periods  and subcontractors avoid training in more efficient production methods, unless  external controls are enforced.
cheap women's labor is the attractor to the tranational corporate investment that is integral to globalization.
labor unions are organizing exploited apparel workers of other countries, and of the united states.
ballinger, jeff 16 september, 2000 nike: american dream on ri sweat from jakarta news.
the french adjusted rigid taylor principles to allow for continuous improvements in work designs and such postmodern notions as "work autonomy spaces" (p. 434).
what nike wants is power, not the empowerment of women, as suggested in the  recent paramount film.
x - dimension - as an overview, james macgregor burns (1978) based his classic study of leadership on kohlberg's levels of moral thinking to differentiate between transactional and transformational leadership (dimension x).
management then split the factory into two groups.
the resistance that for phil knight and nike must be continually overcome is the herds of journalists, intellectuals, and activists who trade web information and concoct sensational expos stories about nike sovereignty.
in my multi-dimensional view, there are three critical dimensions to nike's transorganizational leadership.
harvard business  review, january-february, 1993, p. 1223.
even under the programs set up by  nike and mattel, they are free to sell their goods in the u.s. if it turns out  they were made under abusive conditions.
nike ceo phil knight to address national press club  speech to focus on asian manufacturing issues."
in the postmodern era, the  public worships heroes of consumption, not production.
this is the gist of our attempt to prove that living wage payment and healthy working conditions combined with scientific work processes makes economic sense.
we would like nike to let us academics into the factory gates to conduct some action research experiments.
sweatshops, which all of us thought were a thing of the  past, are back again.
but, the  shell game is for the monitors to figure out if all 700 factory locations are  up to such high standards.
the nike corporation camouflages its sweatshops in spectacles of sports  gladiators, whose symbolic swoosh is purchased in heroic worship by admiring  consumers.
multi-skilling, for example, is seen as a way to enhance worker's  negotiating position.
all across the country, a process of educating and mobilizing consumers in response to abuses by employers in the apparel industry is going on.
for a listing of academic work on nike corporation, please consult academics studying nike web site.
i told her that i only talked about wages.
as kirkeby (2000: 232) argues it is the right of power to narrate events, to declare them romantic, tragic, comedic, or ironic, and then of course make them all into a romantic narratives that fits the bureaucratic pension for monophonic (single voiced) influence.
the urban community mission in jakarta worked with  workers to survey 3,500 workers from 11 different nike contract factories.
finally, some members (but not all) will want to be  selected to actually travel to collect field data.
if a journalist or activist finds child labor, force overtime, unsafe conditions, nike will demand that the subcontractor clean it up.
also see nikeworkers web site for good list of links david m. boje is a professor of management in the management department at new mexico state university.
beneath the coliseum, the spectacle  gladiator sports heroes, is the dirty "sweat" work of feudalistic  capitalism, invisible to the postmodern spectacle late capitalism.
web paper, december 29.
this is the gist of  our attempt to prove that living wage payment and healthy working conditions  combined with scientific work processes makes economic sense.
meanwhile nike corporate in speeches and websites claims that its strategic game is transparent (transparency 101), for all the world to see.
nietzsche's notebooks were written between 1883 and 1888.
in march 1996, she was promoted to section leader of sewing line no: 15.
378-397, sept. boje, d. m., white, j. & wolfe, t. (1994)
""i was told f would have to wear nike clothes and drop the issue or resign."
in business research yearbook: global business perspectives, vol.
retrieved  august 30th from the world wide web: http://nikebiz.com/labor/reports/nr_1.shtml
there have been very few studies of the distribution contracting of nike (carty, 1999).
nike is a $9 billion supply and distribution chain  subcontracting and marketing 200 million pairs of sports shoes a  year.
and so is the superman, the will to power of  nietzsche.
but luckily for lehigh, some  of his seminal business insight for the company that became nike has gone into  a class that professor karen collins had designed for incoming freshman in  lehigh's college of business and economics at the bethlehem, penn. school.
interviews and field studies would best be conducted by multi-lingual researchers in order to minimize translation difficulties.
you probably  heard the news story that phil knight canceled his endowment to the university  of oregon.
this is not a totalizing consensus seeking  strategy; it is one where parties know what side of the bargaining table they  sit on.
nike claims "cultural relativism," -  china and other  developing countries are at a stage the u.s. was at 100 years ago and  therefore, nike is not to blame.
journal of business &  entrepreneurship.
nike is a superman leader, extending its power from cultural transformation through celebrity and star power to the factories and sweatshops of the third world nations.
yet, for machiavelli's strategic advice to prince, the types of power burns finds amoral, and therefore outside his definition of leadership, is still, i think, very much in evidence today.
the protests forced more  than fifty universities and colleges to capitulate to students' demands and  join the worker rights consortium (wrc) workers rights consortium (wrc) and james keady, a student turned  activist,  spend their free time promoting a new nike image,  with  young girls spending 12 to 14 hours a day in 100-degree heat, six days a week,  on an nike assembly line in asia gluing sports shoes while they breathe toxic  toluene fumes and earn about a dollar  a day.
there is a new survey of wages in indonesia conducted between 10 september  and 18 october 1999.
bissell, trim (national coordinator campaign for labor rights), francesco  gesualdi (coordinator centro nuovo modello di sviluppo vecchiano ,italy),  esther de haan (clean clothes campaign amsterdam, netherlands), pamela curr  (coordinator fairwear campaign melbourne, australia), kristina bjurling (fair  trade centerstockholm, sweden), neil kearney (general secretary international  textile, garment and leather workers' federation brussels, belgium), liz  copeland (coordinator justice.
networks of activists and academic intellectuals are traveling to asia to spot the shell game.
on the other hand, the postmodernists  see a drift between what taylorism was in taylor's day, and what it is now, in  france (and elsewhere).
unpublished dissertation, sociology department, the university of new mexico.
besides, all of the unions have to affiliate with the all  china federation of trade unions (acftu).
sociology of sport journal, 13(4): 366-397.
burns and bass seem to accept a  linear progress model of leaderly power and authority that suggests that  transaction and transformation are beyond the feudalistic form.
"nike corporation, nike women and narrative moral  dilemmas."
translated by walter  kaufmann and r. j. hollingdale.
(standing up to the swoosh - bureaucratic (x = transactional; y = will to serve; z = monophonic) -
here's a nifty thing to just do: nike allows web  surfers to customize this sneaker online, selecting style, colors and lace  types, even stamping the shoes with a personal id code.
"in time-wages the labor is measured by its immediate duration, in piece-wages by the quantity of products in which the labor has embodied itself during a given time" (1867: 553).
the philosophy of moral  development: essays on moral development (volume i).
the feminist majority joined the national organization for women and other women's organizations in deploring nike's use of overseas sweatshops which exploit women workers, paying them as little as 20 cents per hour or $1.60 a day in vietnam - hardly enough to eat on, let alone pay rent, clothing, health care and more.
"   this is facilitated by threatening workers who talk to monitors in suits or  anyone who looks like a journalist or activist.
the next part of the essay looks at the nine types of network leadership  that nike participates in.
burns looked at modal thinking (the means over ends reasoning) in the early stages of development and held these leaders to be "transactional."
academy of management review,  22(2) 429-452.
for example, such a course could include examples of how nike is a  writer of ghettoized race, questionable labor practices (bissell et. al, 2000),  and gender portrayals (cole, 1996, 1997; cole & hribar, 1995), and for its  economic development and ecology rhetoric (boje, 1998d, 1998g, 1999b) and  global postmodern consumerism culture (carty, 1999).
meanwhile nike corporate in  speeches and websites claims that its strategic game is transparent  (transparency 101), for all the world to see.
investors & customers 8.
smith  advocated local accountability, moral reasoning, and a limit to bigness of  business.
yet, nike has its heels dug in and will not  be paying living wages, even though it pays tiger woods $100 million in  endorsement contracts.
because i was a section leader, i am too  ashamed to carry a bucket of water and so i asked a friend to take the bucket  up for me.
and consumers continue to purchase products even when they are made aware of sweatshop conditions.
kohlberg, l. (1969) stage and sequence:
"as a coach, i would've had to wear the equipment shoes, socks, t--  shirts, sweats, everything."
labor unions are organizing exploited apparel workers of other  countries, and of the united states.
what nike is learning, presumably, is that  a growing percentage of shoppers take account of a company's conduct and  reputation when deciding whether to buy its products.
"strategy retold: toward a narrative view of strategic discourse."
moore made the video out-takes  available after he saw a misleading posting of selected clips on the nike  website earlier this week.
ny: w.w. norton & company, inc. 1947 edition.
in either case, wtp is "an insatiable desire  to manifest power" and "the exercise of power, as a creative  drive" and one that "can manifest itself only against  resistances" (wtp, 619, 656).
the factory also improved  safety and food in company dorms, which house 13,000 workers...
that  means sticking with the factory to sort out the abuses, sending the  child-workers to school and paying them while they're there.
no  sweat?" october 15, 2000  by paul kenyon full text version.
on nov. 28, a second notice went up stating that  starting on dec. 10, all workers would be required to pay cash for dinner  rather than just have money subtracted from their paychecks as before, say liu  and pang.
"four voices of leadership" web document, december 10.boje, d. m. (2000d)
the audit studies are being faked (consider this wal-mart audit by price waterhouse coopers): chun si then took drastic steps, apparently in an effort to pass the final audit upon which its contract depended.
the first, with about 200 workers, was assigned to work on the fixed-up second floor, while the remaining 700 or so worked on the fourth floor, leaving the other floors largely vacant.
the nike corporation camouflages its sweatshops in spectacles of sports gladiators, whose symbolic swoosh is purchased in heroic worship by admiring consumers.
do it nike coalition portland, oregon, usa), bruce gould (chairperson labor rights task force, nicaragua solidarity committee chicago, usa), tim connor (coordinator nikewatch campaign, sydney, australia), annie delaney (textile, clothing and footwear union of australia (tcfua)
and breakdown of cost of a cap is retail price = $19.95 university  makes $1.50 or more worker makes 8 it is the task of each subgroup to decide upon the most valid, reliable and  credible methodologies to address their respective research question and our  overall objectives.
san francisco: harper and  row.
yet, the name, sweatshop, goes back to the late 1800s, and refers to the technique of "sweating" as much profit as possible out of each worker.
the usda has "locked campuses nationwide with protests against sweatshop conditions in the collegiate apparel industry, occupying buildings on more than a dozen campuses.
that is to move from what is called "extreme taylorism" managing work processes with central control and high division of labor, to what taylor had originally described, a system of work which is productive for employers and prosperous for employees.
fifth, the french  variation of taylorism is based on a conflict-engagement approach in which  employers and employees actively consider social power and diversity and the  dangers of hegemony.
research in organizational change &  development, vol. 8: 181-242.
however, the superman or superwoman  leader is more transformational than transactional  (for more on this  topic please seetransformational leadership, charismatic leadership, and the  theatrics of leadership study guides).
nietzsche, like marx, say them as the future of great social  movements and revolutions.
for example, such a course could include examples of how nike is a writer of ghettoized race, questionable labor practices (bissell et. al, 2000), and gender portrayals (cole, 1996, 1997; cole & hribar, 1995), and for its economic development and ecology rhetoric (boje, 1998d, 1998g, 1999b) and global postmodern consumerism culture (carty, 1999).
kohlberg, l. a (1966) cognitive-developmental analysis of childrens  sex-role concepts and attitudes.
new is nike roadrunner or wile e. coyote?
there are facts about  subcontractor factory life, that do not make it into the press releases about  tiger woods.
the  resistance that for phil knight and nike must be continually overcome is the  herds of journalists, intellectuals, and activists who trade web information  and concoct sensational expos stories about nike sovereignty.
i don’t want them to punish me by
our proposal to the nike corporation and its subcontractors is to  experiment and scientifically compare alternative work design, work conditions,  and wage-incentive schemes.
in march 1996, she was promoted to section leader of sewing  line no: 15.
bureaucrat pretending to be the prince; prince who has become engulfed by  bureaucratic counter measures executive leader w/ 4 choices?
roberts, dexter & bernstein, aaron "a life of fines and beatings," business week, october 2, 2000 pp.
for example, nike was a key  protest target in the wto protest of seattle last year.
what postmodern philosophers have to contribute to  knowledge researchers paper presented to informs (institute for operations  research and management sciences) conference, seattle, wa, october 1998.
in terms of will to power, nike has disclosed the  locations of forty-one of its factories in eleven countries around the world,  the rest are secret.
paul surlis associate professor emeritus of moral  theology and social ethics (letters to the editor  - the chronicle of  higher education; washington; oct 27, 2000;
in addition we are proposing action research experiments that would implement and test various wage-payment schemes in a sample of factories across nations.
public protest around the world, on college campuses, in factories, and in the streets of various nations has been a main reason that government has become involved in how global enterprises have begun to behave with more conscience and ethics.
so tiger woods is the  current spotlight hero of nike, have supplanted the retired michael jordan.
national labor committee report, " made in china," human rights for workers - november 2000 issue covers  sweatshops in china also see breakdown of cost of pair of nike sneakers
the schools have made agreements, over the past two years or so, with either the white house-backed fair labor association (fla) or the student-backed worker rights consortium (wrc), the two organizations competing for anti-sweatshop commitments from colleges and universities.
in 1997 alone, nike spent $978 million on marketing and advertising its corporate image and logo.
nike's strategy  has been to (1) deny that sweatshops exist, (2) except when one is found to be  unequivocally real, where upon nike (a) cancels its contract if it is a  weakling, (b) moves the factory production to an undisclosed new location, or  (c) reengineers its practices if it is of moderate power, or (c) ignores it,  while stating publicly that reform takes time, and nike will hang in there  until libratory change for the workforce happens.
at  nike's urging, nikomas set a higher wage scale for senior workers and  ousted managers who had yelled abuses at workers.
one of the central issues is what is the role of government in sweatshop monitoring?
level 3 - the government facilitates forums and research into the myriad of codes between such entities as apparel partnership, universities, fair labor association, workers rights consortium, collegiate apparel, sa8000, and other organizations with codes.
she polled the class about which  company they'd rather learn about, and the nearly unanimous vote was for nike.
the department of labor estimates that there are over  700 sweatshops in the u.s. "free-market advocates correctly  point out that low wages are appropriate to untrained, unskilled workers and  that many of the sweatshop conditions are no more than what naturally occur in  the lowest-paid strata of employment" (sweatshops: look for the ins  label  ideas on liberty; irvington-on-hudson; jul 2000; wendy mcelroy;  volume:  50 issue:  7  page:  29-32) others look  at the appropriateness of child labor.
the olympic living wage project - the olympic living wage project,  sponsored by press for change, and done in collaboration with the nicaraguan  solidarity committee,nikewatch, and  call to action usa, is an international  human rights project focusing on the lives of sweatshop workers in nikes  indonesian shoe factories.
"the workers shall live one day as the bourgeois do now - butabove them, distinguished by their freedom from wants, the higher caste: that is to say poorer and simpler, but in possession of power" (wtp, 764).
guards regularly punched and hit workers for various offenses.
123-128 article that looks  at a 3-month business week investigation of the auditing practices of pwc for  wal-mart (kathie lee gifford handbags), timberland, new balance, and nike.
figure one, therefore is an effort to resituate the discussion  of transactional and transformational leadership by adding a second, vertical  dimension.
one answer to nike's moral leadership dilemmas would be  to conduct action research experiments that would convince executives and  factory owners and managers that feudalistic sweatshop practices are less  profitable and less efficient than more modern and even postmodern ones.
the swoosh goddess is a vampire: nike's environmental  accounting storytelling pp.
it represents a step forward in establishing stakeholder dialogue and getting beyond expose research projects, or nave consulting reports, that do not detail methodology nor go beyond the report to actually implement meaningful change.
the implementation will be according to action research methods.
"storytelling and the collective dynamics of transorganizational networking" october 7th web paper.
essays on moral development, vol. ii, the psychology  of moral development.
all across the country, a process of  educating and mobilizing consumers in response to abuses by employers in the  apparel industry is going on.
nike is resisted by a growing movement to make consumers aware of sweatshop practices of global corporations such as gap, wal-mart, reebok, adidas, nike and others.
french workers are not disempowered from their knowledge and know-how (besson, 2000: 425).
an inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations; other copies suggs, welch (2000) "abandoning major sponsorship deal, nike plays hardball over sweatshops" the chronicle of higher education; washington; may 12, 2000; volume: 46 issue: 36: a53-a54 taylor, frederick winslow (1911)
they must even upon most occasions be somewhat  more; otherwise it would be impossible for him to bring up a family, and the  race of such workmen could not last beyond the first generation (smith, 1776,  chapter viii of the wages of labor).
the transactional leader approaches followers with an eye to exchanging one thing for another: jobs for votes, or subsidies for campaign contributions.
i dont want them to punish me by making do menial works, switching me to different jobs.
one  of the overlooked authors of management communication discourse are  multinational corporations (mncs) such as monsanto, disney, mcdonalds, wal-mart  and others whose annual reports, press releases, advertising, and sponsored  research and consultant reports becomes the stuff on which others' discourses  rests.
but the people the company staffed the line were not experienced  sewers and they were trainees.
y - from the will to server to the nietzschean will to power.
this is done through the establishment of an agency for apparel monitoring of worker rights and environmental accountability.
after the term paper, it so happened "st. john's was then negotiating with nike over a multimillion dollar sponsorship deal, and for keady, what had been an intellectual issue suddenly became all too practical.
we believe that paying a living wage will result  in higher profits to both nike and its subcontractors.
in short, the contemporary transaction/ transformation duality restricts leadership moral uses of power, to the will to serve others.
more recently, he is  founding editor oftamara:
when we ask those that say there is a union what the union does, they say they organize picnics, karaoke singing contests, a monthly birthday party, but they never try to help solve labor disputes or stand with the workers.
table one: six levels of government involvement on global enterprise monitoring level 1 -
the wtp for nietzsche has something to do with the will to initiate and implement a goal as well as the more macro construct of darwin's theory of natural section, the power to transform the inherited advantages from generation to generation (wtp #362).
could taylorism in france be assimilated into the asian subcontract apparel system?
for the third year, collins will use nike as the model for a class of some  260 freshmen taking her introduction to business course.
"   finally, after interviewing luen thai workers, the thai labour campaign found  that "...they felt that the questionnaires were guiding them and tried to  encourage them to conduct activities at the community level.
it is the wtp of the robber barons at the dawn  of the industrial age, renewed in this postmodern global economy.
the implementation will be  according to action research methods.
this way a sample  of existing subcontract firms can be compared with the experimental  options.
transgovernment network 5.
nike provides course materials, access to nike executives, and financial incentives that make student or faculty-critique of nike at st. john's problematic.
- santa and sweatshops wall street journal; new york, n.y.; dec 22, 2000, a14.
in addition we are  proposing action research experiments that would implement and test various  wage-payment schemes in a sample of factories across nations.
so i filed a  complaint with the union and asked the union resolve the conflict.
management and worker, as well as customer and supplier have voice in the postmodern version.
finally, some members (but not all) will want to be selected to actually travel to collect field data.
the more mechanistic form is an expression of  the calculability of the world in formulas of motion, cause, and effect,  attraction and repulsion, as well as the separation of deed from doer (wtp  #624-627, 631).
networks of activists and academic intellectuals are traveling to asia to  spot the shell game.
("oregon withholds dues to worker-rights group"
" anita roddick argues that instead of pulling out nike should stay and face its responsibilities - "somehow, we have to persuade these retailers and the media on the rare occasions when they publicise the issue - that the right response is to take responsibility.
what did karl marx, frederick taylor, and adam smith have in common?
the machiavellian princes have  their own strategies and tactics fore resisting nike's corporate power (carty,  1999).
nike axes 'sweatshop' after bbc investigation marketing; london; oct 19, 2000; tania mason; page: 5
workers  signed new labor contracts with yecheng, whose name went up outside the fourth  floor.
what was revolutionary about taylor's scientific management, was the observation that rest and refreshment are necessary to quality and sustained work.
illinois: university of chicago press.
we propose to embark upon action research initiative that brings various stakeholders (researchers, workers, corporate executives, managers, subcontractor mangers, governmental and non-governmental organizations) together to implement change.
monitoring is left to the voluntary action of  the global enterprise, its subcontractors, labor unions, workers, and  non-governmental organizations.
essays on moral development, vol. ii, the psychology of moral development.
by the post-war years they were pushed to the brink of extinction.
center for  cultural values and ethics.
could taylorism in france be assimilated into the asian subcontract  apparel system?
revolutionary (x = transformational; y = will to power; z = polyphonic)
the  process of capitalist production.
on the one hand, it is an approach with strong links to braverman's (1976)labor and monopoly capital project and marx's (1867) critique of sweatshops and piece-wages.
(5) education (programs to change student perceptions of nike) - one of the overlooked authors of management communication discourse are multinational corporations (mncs) such as monsanto, disney, mcdonalds, wal-mart and others whose annual reports, press releases, advertising, and sponsored research and consultant reports becomes the stuff on which others' discourses rests.
"in england this system is characteristically called the "sweating  system.
basic research while important is not sufficient.
nike awards a $2,000 prize for the best plan.
however, shareholder vote down initiatives voiced by protesters.
links on this issue: there is a september, 2000 critique of the global alliance methodology and findings availablehttp://www.cleanclothes.org/companies/nike00-09-15.htm
center for cultural values and ethics.
paul surlis associate professor emeritus of moral theology and social ethics (letters to the editor -
weber's charismatic leaderly authority, but never seem to read the part about  the routinization of charisma, or see how bureaucratic transaction and heroic  charisma interact with the third category of authority, the traditional  feudalistic enactment of the sultan and chief.
taylor concludes, "the writer  has great sympathy with those who are over-worked, but on the whole a greater  sympathy for those who areunder paid" (p. 18).
v. biberman,  j. & alkhafaji, a (eds.).
boje, d. m. (1995) "stories of the storytelling organization: a postmodern analysis of disney as "tamara-land."
part iii - one possible answer how might nike transform its supply chain of feudalistic sweatshops into french taylorism?
knight executes his strategies in an orchestrated campaign where the "means" are subordinated to a "will."
super (x = transformational; y = will to power; z = monophonic) government (x = transactional; y = will to serve; z = polyphonic) intellectual/ reform (x = transformational; y = will to serve; z =  polyphonic) opinion (x = transactional; y = will to power; z = polyphonic)
a "transformational leader," on the other hand, "recognizes and exploits an existing need or demand of a potential follower... (and) looks for potential motives in followers, seeks to satisfy higher needs, and engages the full person of the follower" (p. 4).
"it was a natural fit."
(summary of the business week article).
the hong kong christian industrial committee has been working for  the rights of workers since 1967.
"if child labor is a necessary evil of industrialization, then a nation should be judged on how quickly it passes through this phase."
the chronicle of higher education; washington; oct 27, 2000; volume: 47 issue: 9, page: b4)
cole, cheryl l. and amy hribar (1995) "celebrity feminism: nike style (post-fordism, transcendence, and consumer power)."
taylor was able to convince sweatshop owners and their subcontractors that this hypothesis had scientific validity.
it is controlled by the communist party and the government, so the  workers have no right to independent organizing.
the  (blue) boxes in the lower potion of the figure on the monophonic narrative  types, whereas, the upper (orange) ones represents the polyphonic  ones.
posted august 21st, retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/story/stry_lehigh.shtml#story nike (2000b)
heroic/ charismatic leader t r a n s f o m a t i o n a l bureaucrat pretending to be the prince; prince who has become engulfed by bureaucratic counter measures executive leader w/ 4 choices?
miserable pay (for years, nike  contractors even fought for exemptions from indonesia's paltry minimum wages)  appalled him.
and therefore a study of self-monitoring, pwc, fla and other  monitoring systems is needed.
the government monitors everything from barbershops,  beauticians, and chiropractors.
the sports  gladiators can continue to sell swoosh apparel, and workers can move up a notch  on the food chain.
it is our proposal to test taylor's option in the apparel industry.
any bets on how long  until you can pick your own sweatshop worker online?
in a special edition of journal of  organizational change management, dominique besson and slimane haddadj  (2000) review post-taylor approaches.
apparel manufacture too often equates to sweatshop work that  is based on modes of production and piece-wages that appears feudal in contrast  to the kinds of factories that are recently attaining iso9000, iso14000, and  sa8000 certification.
the village voice; new york; oct 10, 2000; andrew hsiao; vol.
"nike has pledged to pull out of the factory it uses in cambodia and the gap has suspended orders there, following sunday's bbc panorama program, which uncovered the use of child labor by both companies...
b september 13, 2000.
"according to one of the local papers, there are at least  50,000 fingers cut off in industrial accidents every year in china"  (source).
"i was just looking for a good paper topic.
we would like to conduct research that  would implement and test experiments in alternative pay schemes.
the nike storytelling machine (boje 1991, 1995) is a narrative web spanning the 1st world thirst for heroic sports worship and the 3rd world supply chain of sweat labor, as well as the global distribution transaction economy of distributors (niketown, footlocker, and university campus apparel stores).
nike is out of time - showcase symposium for academy of management meetings - august, 2000 in toronto.
figure two adds a third dimension to what was displayed in  figure one.
sub title:  progress is slow in the drive for better conditions
i took another  day off the monday.
the protests forced more than fifty universities and colleges to capitulate to students' demands and join the worker rights consortium (wrc) workers rights consortium (wrc) and james keady, a student turned activist, spend their free time promoting a new nike image, with young girls spending 12 to 14 hours a day in 100-degree heat, six days a week, on an nike assembly line in asia gluing sports shoes while they breathe toxic toluene fumes and earn about a dollar a day.
signs  of the times asiaweek; hong kong; oct 9, 2000; "nike pulled out of the  june textiles sweatshop factory in cambodia after discovering it used child  labor.
so i filed a complaint with the union and asked the union resolve the conflict.
this is no small feat of leadership given the hundreds of web  activists, university intellectuals, and skeptical journalists who find nike's  claims that sweatshops do not exist hard to swallow.
video version; bbc panorama - global exchange excerpts another video transcript excerpts
they interview and observe nike subcontract factories, and returning to the 1st world with stories of sweaty practices.
there is no power without resistance , and female (and some male)
heroic leader who leaves the group to find self; superman who becomes  puppet of group 2.
what do nike factory workers look like?
though nike describes the global alliance as part of nike's overall monitoring  program this initiative is clearly not investigating issues of basic workers  rights."
- the government takes no formal role in apparel monitoring  forums, legislation or research.
links on this issue: there is a september, 2000 critique of the global alliance methodology and  findings availablehttp://www.cleanclothes.org/companies/nike00-09-15.htm    the new study was conducted by junya yimprasert of the thai labour  campaign and looks into the situation at luen thai and w ga fails to report is  how workplace conditions have been defined.
the proprietor of stock is properly a citizen of the world, and is not necessarily attached to any particular country (wn, 2: 848).smith argued for the primacy of agrarian capitalism over industrial capitalism.
we heard that they also told their taiwanese partner, yue yuen, "no matter, help them to organize."
using the nike corporation as a case example, these range from (1) supply chains of third world factories, (2) distribution webs of outlets (from niketown to footlocker), (3) postmodern cultural icons (woods, jordan, and stars like gibson & hunt), (4) transgovernment relations (among 1st & 3rd world governments applying more or less legal codes), (5) education (programs to change student perceptions of nike), (6)
acftu is the only union allowed  in china.
the proprietor of land is necessarily a citizen of the particular country  in which his estate lies.
second, the wage contract is considered an essential way in which workers negotiate with management in order to adjust work conditions, skill levels, wages, and the authority system.
the global economy has evolved from  production to consumption capitalism, but feudalistic sweatshops is apparently  here to stay.
"catch me if you can?"
in early november, management gave a facelift to the two attached five-story factory buildings, painting walls, cleaning workshops, even putting high-quality toilet paper in the dank bathrooms, according to liu and pang yinguang (also not his real name), another worker employed there at the time whom business week interviewed in mid-september.
including the voice of the workers, while essential, must also be done with great care.
religious congregations throughout the united states are involved..
basic research while important is not  sufficient.
some day  they made me cut threads, some day they made me do pressing (?) and continued  to move me around from one job to another.
"emerging post-industrial, postmodern  trends and the implications for social change: a case-study of nike  corporation.
all do recognize weber's charismatic leaderly authority, but never seem to read the part about the routinization of charisma, or see how bureaucratic transaction and heroic charisma interact with the third category of authority, the traditional feudalistic enactment of the sultan and chief.
"there existed, and there  still exists today, a coded social dialog between workers, union officials,  organizers and the hierarchical management" (p. 434).
superman - i do not think we can capture and define phil knight's  leadership qualities and behaviors in the typical duality of transaction and  transformational categories (see figure one).
in part ii, i follow this up with specific recommendations to nike corporation.
but their experiments do suggest that  not every factory has to be a sweatshop to make the global economy work"  (a world of sweatshops  business week; new york; november 6, 2000; aaron  bernstein, with michael shari in jakarta, and elisabeth malkin in guatemala  city; edition:  industrial/technology edition  issue:  3706,page: 84-86).
he criticized, among other things, the group's  approach to monitoring apparel factories (the chronicle of higher education,  may 5, 2000)."
but are french workers more "empowered" compared to asian workers?
taylorian modernity  brought about by postmodern organizers?"journal of organizational change  management.
this is a dickensian tale.
two  months later she was demoted and punished by the company.
wal-mart director of corporate  compliance denise fenton says its auditors, pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc)  and cal safety compliance corp., had inspected chun si five times in 1999 and  found that the factory didn't pay the legal overtime rate and had required  excessive work hours.
what is the relationship between fair labor association (fla) and  workers rights consortium (wrc)?
the transaction/ transformational leadership theorists reject the wtp bas being too immoral, merely a brutish self-indulgent or tyrannical power wielding that is immoral.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_espn.shtml smith, adam (1759)
"four voices of leadership" web document,  december 10.
(3) postmodern cultural icons (woods, jordan, and stars like gibson  & hunt) -
asian sweatshops deplored october 28, 1997 washington dc --  the feminist majority joined the national organization for women and other  women's organizations in deploring nike's use of overseas sweatshops which  exploit women workers, paying them as little as 20 cents per hour or $1.60 a  day in vietnam - hardly enough to eat on, let alone pay rent, clothing, health  care and more.
but, the writing  opportunities are corporately financed, staged, and otherwise controlled.
i took another day off the monday.
may 12, 1998 phil knight announced revolutionarily labor initiativesafter release of the ernst and young report.
figure two: leader in three dimensions
"nike's founder and chairman, philip h. knight, said  in april that he would give no more money to oregon, his alma mater, because it  was joining the worker rights consortium, an anti-sweatshop group backed mainly  by students and labor groups.
nike awards a  $2,000 prize for the best plan.
"nike spokesman todd mckean  says inbbc interview, "unfortunately we've found on occasion in different places isolated instances (of child labor) which i would say this is  isolated.
this is the y dimension of monophonic to polyphonic narrative.
for example, nike was a key protest target in the wto protest of seattle last year.
this study group will focus on the monitoring efforts of fla and  wrc by sampling colleges and universities with and without fla and/or wrc  agreements.
there has  been a good deal of consulting (i.e. global alliance, fair labor association,  and price waterhouse coopers) and non-governmental organization (ngo) report  and media writing, but limited academic empirical study (see appendix b).
posted august 21st, retrieved august 30th from the world  wide web:http://nikebiz.com/story/stry_lehigh.shtml#story nike (2000b)
and therefore a study of self-monitoring, pwc, fla and other monitoring systems is needed.
then there are roughly a thousand expatriates who travel the globe to insure that subcontractors adhere to product quality and labor standards.
we have four research subgroups organized  as follows 1.
so they wash their hands and shift responsibility to the chinese government.
for complete interview, see the case of miss lap nguyen)/ nike no longer employs child labor, after the life magazine expos of  children making nike and reebok soccer balls (see pakistan).
i am interested in the tamara (boje, 1995) of storytelling behaviors of transorganizational leadership (boje, 1999a).
"as a coach, i would've had to wear the equipment shoes, socks, t-- shirts, sweats, everything."
to me the princely leader is concerned about the means of power, and  will sacrifice ends over means.
he serves on the editorial board of academy of management review, management digest, organization,journal of management inquiry, m@n@gement, organization studies, ej-rot,emergence: a journal of complexity issues in organizations and management communication quarterly .
"take nikomas gemilang, a sprawling, 50-building minicity near jakarta that employs 22,500 workers making shoes for nike and adidas.
i - towards a network theory of leadership
boje, d. m. ( 1999b)
an inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth  of nations; other copies suggs, welch (2000) "abandoning major sponsorship deal, nike plays  hardball over sweatshops"  the chronicle of higher education;  washington; may 12, 2000;
irra sessions are in fairmont hotel in new orleans.
in the first year of her program, collins used a large american automaker as the model, but student interest was low.
the assumption of the subcontractor is that since the alternative to work is starvation or more rigorous demands of agriculture, those workers have ample incentive to produce.
carty, victoria (july, 1999)
he has published numerous articles in management communication quarterly, administrative science quarterly, academy of management journal, and other top management journals.
it is a wtp to keep from falling into the disordered chaos of the democratic impulse or the humanitarian impulse to pay living wages to 600,000 workers.
- hero - within nike
in m.l. hoffman & l.w. hoffman, eds., review of child development research, vol.
there is no power without resistance , and female (and some male) workers are providing the resistance to nike corporate power and subcontractor practices.
in  r. w. woodman & b. passmore (eds.)
i propose to look at three dimensions of leadership in the athletic apparel industry that includes networks of designers, marketers, subcontractors, workers, celebrities, distributors, customers, investors, intellectuals, journals, governments, and protestors.
academy of management  journal.
in practice, the quotas in the apparel industry are adjusted to keep the piece-wage to a bare minimum and working conditions such as rest periods and subcontractors avoid training in more efficient production methods, unless external controls are enforced.
nike's cover story is getting fiddled with more and more  holes, with each revelatory story.
the schools have made agreements,  over the past two years or so, with either the white house-backed fair labor  association (fla) or the student-backed  worker rights consortium (wrc), the  two organizations competing for anti-sweatshop commitments from colleges and  universities.
nike generated about $9  billion in sales in 2000, making it the market leader.
sociology of sport journal, 12 (4).
culbert, samuel a., james max elden, will mcwhinney, warren schmidt & bob tannenbaum (1972) "trans-organizational praxis: a search beyond organizational development,"international associations, xxiv (10, october).
cities: boston,  new york city, atlanta, miami, chicago, denver, los angeles, san francisco,  portland, seattle (source nike).
that is thai and korean conglomerates own many of the 700 factories, and to minimize the power of nike on their actions, they also subcontract to reebok, adidas, fila, puma, and numerous other apparel marketers.
roberts, dexter & bernstein, aaron "a life of fines and  beatings," business week, october 2, 2000 pp.
these codes vary according to corporate or  non-corporate control and the inclusion or exclusion of areas such as living  wage, right of workers to associate, enforcement of local national laws.
the absurdity of it is  that keady's sufferings were self imposed: the result of his having volunteered  to live for a month on the typical wages-about $1.20 a day-of an indonesian  factory worker sewing shoes for nike. "
burns, more than bass, disqualifies leaders who wield power, including those with a strong "will to power" as well as tyrants and dictators who use power in what burns and bass see as amoral.
volume: 46 issue:  36: a53-a54 taylor, frederick winslow (1911)
it is this sense of the will to power that i read in the texts and behavior of phillip knight.
any profit gained by overwork and snatching time for mealtimes and rest  breaks and from paying the least possible bare subsistence wage and over-work  in unhealthy and unpleasant situations was meager compared to the output of the  high productivity enterprise.
"according to one of the local papers, there are at least 50,000 fingers cut off in industrial accidents every year in china" (source).
bissell, trim (national coordinator campaign for labor rights), francesco gesualdi (coordinator centro nuovo modello di sviluppo vecchiano ,italy), esther de haan (clean clothes campaign amsterdam, netherlands), pamela curr (coordinator fairwear campaign melbourne, australia), kristina bjurling (fair trade centerstockholm, sweden), neil kearney (general secretary international textile, garment and leather workers' federation brussels, belgium), liz copeland (coordinator justice.
yet, from time to time, nike subcontractors do employ child labor.
the purpose of the action  research is to develop interdisciplinary work and dialogue that will address a  set of action research questions that is of growing concern to academics, the  general public, and the nike corporation.
"nike response to student monitor report."
women's groups urge nike to put its money where its mouth is: low wages for women workers in southeast asian sweatshops deplored october 28, 1997 washington dc --
because i was a section leader, i am too ashamed to carry a bucket of water and so i asked a friend to take the bucket up for me.
nike produces and distributes its official nike story of sports  endorsements, postindustrial supply chain management, and global distribution  using postmodern culture manipulation.
boje, david m. & whetten, david a. (1981)
the doctor said that i have fever of 37 degree c..
cheap women's labor is the attractor to the  tranational corporate investment that is integral to globalization.
wal-mart director of corporate compliance denise fenton says its auditors, pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc) and cal safety compliance corp., had inspected chun si five times in 1999 and found that the factory didn't pay the legal overtime rate and had required excessive work hours.
according to the main report at http://www.cleanclothes.org/companies/nike00-09-15-1.htm "in the global alliance study selected workers were asked to answer multiple choice questions.
"standing up to  the swoosh" - the village voice; new york; oct 10, 2000; andrew hsiao;  volume: 45 issue:  40 page: 41-43 in sum, the nike supply and distribution network  is a spectacle museum of sports heroes doing celebratory work that shields  consumers and the press from the feudalistic sweatshop world of 700 korean and  thai subcontractors, lords and tyrants over some 600,000 asians (mostly young  women between 16 and 22 years of age).
miserable pay (for years, nike contractors even fought for exemptions from indonesia's paltry minimum wages) appalled him.
keady decided to go to indonesia and see if he could live on the nike wages?
v. biberman, j. & alkhafaji, a (eds.).boje, d. m. (1998b)
making do menial works, switching me to different jobs.
nike will bring in its accomplices, the fla, ga or pwc to verify that there is no sweatshop.
we hypothesize the implementation in apparel factories in southeast asia is the reverse to the taylorian philosophy itself, and even a return to the feudalistic factory conditions and piece-wage compensation schemes of the 1800s.
in terms of the dimensions of figure two, nike's leadership in the 700 subcontractor supply chain of factories is (x = transactional; y = will to power; & z = monophonic).
taylor (1911: 14-18) argued that it is possible to have prosperity for both owners and workers and the diminution of poverty and the alleviation of human suffering.
this described the global subcontracting production and distribution network of nike corporation.
for the third year, collins will use nike as the model for a class of some 260 freshmen taking her introduction to business course.
kirkeby, ole fogh (2000) management philosophy: a radical-normative  perspective.
this study group will look at definitions of sweatshops and measure said variables in a sample of subcontract factories.
smith did favor the landowners over the merchants and manufacturers.
"whileno company suggests that its auditing systems are perfect, most say they catch major abuses and either force suppliers to fix them or yank production."
that  is, factory locations that rival the best factory conditions anywhere.
our proposal to the nike corporation and its subcontractors is to experiment and scientifically compare alternative work design, work conditions, and wage-incentive schemes.
kohlberg, l. (1984).
the first dimension i call "x" the transactional to transformational moral ground of traditional leadership study.
however, the superman or superwoman leader is more transformational than transactional (for more on this topic please seetransformational leadership, charismatic leadership, and the theatrics of leadership study guides).
but, then there are the 600,000 factory subcontract workers (mostly women between 16 and 22) who do the cutting, gluing and sewing.
our purpose can be summarized to promote dialogue that leads to basic, applied, participatory, as well as action research efforts that lead to change.
that is to move from what is called "extreme  taylorism" managing work processes with central control and high division  of labor, to what taylor had originally described, a system of work which is  productive for employers and prosperous for employees.
in 1998, even nike chief executive phil knight conceded  that "the nike product has become synonymous with slave wages, forced  overtime, and arbitrary abuse."
and they fined them up to $1 for infractions such as  taking too long in the bathroom
the implication is that "auditing systems can miss serious problems -- and that self-policing allows companies to avoid painful public relations about them."
once a thriving tradition at the turn of the century,  sweatshops saw their numbers dwindle in the face of relentless encroachment by  labor organization and social legislation.
the global supply chain is ridiculed in expos stories of spotting the  sweatshop under the shell.
boje, david m. (2000a) "are new mexico state garments made in sweatshops?"
fourth, taylorism, in its french manifestation, is part of a plurality of perspectives.
"statement by nike regarding espn's 'made in vietnam: the american sneaker controversy'."
"in time-wages  the labor is measured by its immediate duration, in piece-wages by the quantity  of products in which the labor has embodied itself during a given time"  (1867: 553).
so i put my hands on my head.
the  village voice; new york; oct 10, 2000; andrew hsiao; vol.
that is, an effort that involves workers,  managers, and other stakeholders, including the study groups we list below in  the design of the experiments we are proposing.
the department of labor estimates that there are over 700 sweatshops in the u.s. "free-market advocates correctly point out that low wages are appropriate to untrained, unskilled workers and that many of the sweatshop conditions are no more than what naturally occur in the lowest-paid strata of employment" (sweatshops: look for the ins label ideas on liberty; irvington-on-hudson; jul 2000; wendy mcelroy; volume: 50 issue: 7 page: 29-32)
wsj says "multinationals such as nike will tell you the living wage is  unworkable" (wsj october 6, 2000, a22).
"nike corporate writing of academic, business, and cultural practices."
these roles are played by the korean and thai factory owners who subcontract to nike corporation, in endless rounds of bargaining.
retrieved august 29th from  the world wide web: http://www.caa.org.au/campaigns/nike/letter_15_march_2000.html boje, david m., (1979a) centrality in interorganizational networks.
st john's university students' first-hand inspections conditions of some subcontract factories (nike, 2000b).
keady decided he couldn't " he was given the choice resign or wear the swoosh.
we believe that nike can deep six the sweatshop practices in favor  of some french taylorist ones.
what about the influence of wage rates?
the cognitive-developmental approach to  socialization.
the global supply chain is ridiculed in expos stories of spotting the sweatshop under the shell.
bernstein, aaron with michael shari in jakarta, and elisabeth malkin " a world of sweatshops" business week, new york; november 6, 2000, is. 3706; industrial/technology edition; pg. 84-86.
nike (2000a) " lehigh university teams up with nike for intro to  business class."
burns and bass seem to accept a linear progress model of leaderly power and authority that suggests that transaction and transformation are beyond the feudalistic form.
the  swoosh is everywhere.
source: press for change nike which pays 58 cents per day to its laborers in indonesia (the  ecologist; nov 2000; volume: 30 issue: 8, page: 12).
on the one hand, it is an approach with strong links to  braverman's (1976)labor and monopoly capital project and marx's (1867)  critique of sweatshops and piece-wages.
one answer to nike's moral leadership dilemmas would be to conduct action research experiments that would convince executives and factory owners and managers that feudalistic sweatshop practices are less profitable and less efficient than more modern and even postmodern ones.
undercover investigators filmed children sewing shirts for just a few  cents a day.
women's  stories of asian factory life journal of organizational change  management.
but, then there are the  600,000 factory subcontract workers (mostly women between 16 and 22) who do the  cutting, gluing and sewing.
then there are roughly a thousand  expatriates who travel the globe to insure that subcontractors adhere to  product quality and labor standards.
for nietzsche the world revolves around the inventor of new social and cultural values (tsz, p. 52).
there were times they make me mop the  floor on the second floor.
for the purposes of the global alliance study, "workplace conditions" does not include several major topics of concern to thai garment and footwear workers, such as issues relating to wages, hours of work, freedom of association and collective bargaining.
nike produces and distributes its official nike story of sports endorsements, postindustrial supply chain management, and global distribution using postmodern culture manipulation.
when i came back on tuesday, the personnel manager tran said that section leader cannot take sick day, and demoted me to become a sewer.
the manager assured me that she understood the situation.
in early november, management gave a facelift  to the two attached five-story factory buildings, painting walls, cleaning  workshops, even putting high-quality toilet paper in the dank bathrooms,  according to liu and pang yinguang (also not his real name), another worker  employed there at the time whom business week interviewed in mid-september.
that is, with piece-wages, the incentive is for the capitalist to parasitically "sub-let" labor by using the services of middlemen (subcontractors).
this study group will look at definitions of  sweatshops and measure said variables in a sample of subcontract factories.
each study team will make a  specific set of recommendations on methodology and to improve the situation for  nike and its works.
for  example, nike (2000b, c, d) sponsored 16 students from st. john's university to  study code of conduct compliance auditing practices of price waterhouse coopers  and visit "some" nike factories.
why dont they recognize my past contribution to the company?
he has published numerous articles in management  communication quarterly, administrative science quarterly, academy of  management journal, and other top management journals.
despite the militaristic and subservient photos, there is worker  resistance.
the reports are posted to nike's  (2000b) corporate web site along with a transcript of a conference call (nike,  2000c) and nike's (e.g. 1998, 2000d) response to issues raised.
as soon as she questioned me, she asked me to leave.
the contracts are worth  big bucks.
with full cooperation  and support from nike, students get a firsthand look at how the global athletic  company does business, including marketing, finance and global responsibility  issues.
once you know this, it is actually rather easy to spot the accomplices.
supply chains shell game 2.
wsj says "multinationals such as nike will tell you the living wage is unworkable" (wsj october 6, 2000, a22).
but those on the second floor now received the local minimum wage of $55 a month and no longer had to do mandatory overtime.
in these transactions, the subcontracting factory owners (who are mostly korean and thai) are left little bargaining room to extend more than poverty wages to their workers.
this is not a totalizing consensus seeking strategy; it is one where parties know what side of the bargaining table they sit on.
besides, all of the unions have to affiliate with the all china federation of trade unions (acftu).
that is, with piece-wages, the incentive is for the capitalist to parasitically  "sub-let" labor by using the services of middlemen (subcontractors).
third, instead of management total control over the system of work, employees can avoid such productive despotism by co-control over work processes.
the irony is that feudalistic sweatshop factory work so prevalent at the dawn of the industrial revolution is once again the motor of the postmodern knowledge and service revolution.
second, the wage contract is considered an essential way  in which workers negotiate with management in order to adjust work conditions,  skill levels, wages, and the authority system.
in short, both taylor and marx held out solutions to sweatshops' "slow sacrifice of humanity" (marx, 1867: 244).
nike axes 'sweatshop' after bbc investigation   marketing; london; oct 19, 2000; tania mason; page: 5
contemporary leader theory does not mention "sweatshops," is too politely bureaucratic, preferring transactional and routinized transformational leaderly study to that of the less moral supermen and machiavellian princes.
french taylorism is a mid range solution  between trade unionism and feudalistic sweatshops.
ny: l. w. schmidt; 1967 edition, ny: international publishers.
" protesters are everywhere, "marching down fifth avenue to the rockefeller christmas tree to protest nike, gap, kohl's and disney; or, up in cambridge, walking through the harvard administration building singing carols like "away in a sweatshop."
(press here) for on line copy.
adam smith did not favor sweatshops.
with full cooperation and support from nike, students get a firsthand look at how the global athletic company does business, including marketing, finance and global responsibility issues.
the new footage shows the ceo justifying the use of  14-year-old labor in his overseas factories.
and consumers continue to purchase  products even when they are made aware of sweatshop conditions.
the purpose, in my view, of the nike storytelling organization is to keep  the supply web as secretive as possible, while parading a few flagship  locations as indicative of all 700 factory locations.
most of the  nike workers who we have asked whether or not they have a trade union in their  factory don't know.
in the compound, workers were  punched and hit for by guards for talking back to managers or just for walking  too fast.
so they wash their hands and shift responsibility  to the chinese government.
there is a new survey of wages in indonesia conducted between 10 september and
"standing up to the swoosh" - the village voice; new york; oct 10, 2000; andrew hsiao; volume: 45 issue: 40 page: 41-43 in sum, the nike supply and distribution network is a spectacle museum of sports heroes doing celebratory work that shields consumers and the press from the feudalistic sweatshop world of 700 korean and thai subcontractors, lords and tyrants over some 600,000 asians (mostly young women between 16 and 22 years of age).
but the people the company staffed the line were not experienced sewers and they were trainees.
specifically we propose to work with a sample of factories (the size and location will be determined with nike and stakeholder input).
few, if any, leadership theorists have noted the transactional  aspects of weber's (1947) model of the three leaderly authorities.
"there may appear to be little common ground linking concerns  about china trade policy, student activism, university athletics, and sweatshop  labor.
instead, they got worse.
nike says a "sweatshop"  can not be defined.
(8) workers (in beaverton, oregon, expatriates, and 3rd world mostly  young females - nike has several types of workers.
different countries throughout the world including asia and europe have implemented taylorism quite differently.
heroic (x = transformational; y =
it is a primitive form of affect, "encroachment of one power upon another power" (wtp #668, 689).
45  academic scholars have organized into four study groups and made a proposal to  put the question of sweatshops versus modern factory methods to an empirical  test (boje et al, 2000).
workers on the fourth floor, including liu and pang, were still laboring under the old egregious conditions--illegally low pay, 14-hour days, exorbitant fees for meals--and still making the same kathie lee handbags.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web: retrieved august 30th from  the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_uniterep.shtml nike (2000f)
the audit studies are being faked  (consider this wal-mart audit by price waterhouse coopers): chun si  then took drastic steps, apparently in an effort to pass the final audit upon  which its contract depended.
in a special edition of journal of organizational change management, dominique besson and slimane haddadj (2000) review post-taylor approaches.
also see nikeworkers web site  for  good list of links david m. boje is a professor of management in the management department at  new mexico state university.
references barry, david, boje, david m. landrum, nancy, jeanne logsdon & wood, donna, oakes, leslie, wells, don & greenberg, josh and tucker, amanda (2000) "nike and time" an all academy of management showcase symposium at the august toronto meeting.
in marx's day, the "children's employment commission: and other agencies intervened to change working and employment practices.
the  question is, do off-the-tour factories operate in ways that violate nike's code  of conduct and are just not being reported in the fla, global alliance, and  price waterhouse coopers studies (bissell et al, 2000).
the storytelling machine has an easier task since supply chains are  already complex and hard to decipher: for example, if factory a cannot complete an order of 10,000, they might  give 4,000 to factory b, where the conditions are worse.
knight exercises his will, despite postmodern coalitions of resistance (wet artists, intrusive journalists, campus protest, wto protest, and niketown protest, and shareholder meeting protests).
includes dusty kidd (director of global labor practices), amandatucker (nike  compliance and monitoring programs), simon pestridge (labor practices manager),
we propose to embark upon  action research initiative that brings various stakeholders (researchers,  workers, corporate executives, managers, subcontractor mangers, governmental  and non-governmental organizations) together to implement change.
for marx, piece-wage was a special form of time-wage.
during  the time while waiting for the union’s action, they make me do very menial  work.
whereas we once worshiped the heroes of production, we now  celebrate heroes of consumption.
the workers questioned why they, the workers, have to do community development while their working conditions were not improved."
for now, governments in the 1st and 3rd world let nike hire its own monitors.
will to serve; z = monophonic)
by contrast, french taylorists implemented what besson (2000) describes a more postmodern approach.
but are french workers  more "empowered" compared to asian workers?
david boje's past academic work on nike  corporation is listed next.
and just like the feminists at the turn of the century  fought sweatshops, it's incumbent on us to do the same."
this would mean establishing research grants for university research into such issues as the viability and effectiveness of codes of conduct, what is a sweatshop, how to measure living wages, and the relationship between the university and organizations such as fair labor association, workers rights consortium, and collegiate apparel who offer alternative and different monitoring standards and programs.
"the message in nike's women's empowerment ads are strong," said feminist majority president, eleanor smeal, "but there's a disconnect between that message and the way nike pays and treats its workers, especially its women workers.
after the term paper, it so happened "st. john's was  then negotiating with nike over a multimillion dollar sponsorship deal, and for  keady, what had been an intellectual issue suddenly became all too practical.
moore's world wide web  site transcripts from his interview with knight.
for any other voice to speak would be an act of  bureaucratic espionage; certainly for the secretary to speak would be  unthinkable rebellion.
by  lynda yanz, maquila solidarity network, july 1999. (4) transgovernment relations (among 1st & 3rd world governments  applying more or less legal codes)- will world governments regulate nike's  global sweatshop supply chain?
"i  didn't know that this. would lead to any sort of activism," he says.
in the compound, workers were punched and hit for by guards for talking back to managers or just for walking too fast.
the purpose, in my view, of the nike storytelling organization is to keep the supply web as secretive as possible, while parading a few flagship locations as indicative of all 700 factory locations.
what nike wants is power, not the empowerment of women, as suggested in the recent paramount film.
if everybody washes their hands of the whole problem, we won't get anywhere" (diary, new statesman; london; oct 16, 2000; anita roddick; volume: 13 issue: 627, page: 8) (2) distribution webs of outlets (from niketown to footlocker) -
sixth, my own observations of french taylorism is that  working conditions, including good food, rest breaks, and those long french  vacations make quite a difference.
first, the workers in beaverton, oregon who work on a campus like facility, receive top benefits, and time off for recreation and sports.
after having gone through a series of punishments, she realized that she cannot take it any more and she eventually quit working for sam yang in may 1998.
eighty to ninety percent of the workers in these sweatshops of vietnam, indonesia, and china are women...
nietzsche's notebooks (1967) on will to power (wtp) were written from1883 to 1888.
"the workers shall live one day as the bourgeois do  now - butabove them, distinguished by their freedom from wants, the higher caste: that is to say poorer and simpler, but in possession of  power" (wtp, 764).
the 700 subcontractors in the supply chain are not all created equal.
for example, going back to taylor (1911), his innovation in pay schemes was to introduce the idea of differential piece-rate systems.
in the development of sex differences, edited  by e.e. maccoby, stanford, ca: stanford university press.
sweatshops exist in the u.s. too - a  "garment enforcement report" (apriljune 1999) from the u.s. labor  department reported that 205 sweatshop investigations resulted in the discovery  of 109 violations."
"   "willing" for nietzsche (wtp #668) is not "desiring,"  striving," "demanding": "it is distinguished from these by  the affect of commanding."
first, instead of implementing flexible work rules, the french prefer to  keep those rules more rigid, in order to give employees confidence in the work  design.
barry and elmes (1997) look at monophonic and polyphonic  aspects of leadership strategy.
but they also say, "it is very sensitive.
wtp had a mechanistic (wtp 618) and organic one (wtp).
st john's university students' first-hand inspections conditions of some  subcontract factories (nike, 2000b).
but our purpose is not to assess phil knight, it is to look at the nine types of network relationships in which knight's leadership is engaged.
nietzsche's  notebooks were written between 1883 and 1888.
the french adjusted rigid taylor principles to allow for continuous  improvements in work designs and such postmodern notions as "work autonomy  spaces" (p. 434).
see cruel treatment working for nike in indonesia  urban community  mission survey report, december 1999
taylor  was able to convince sweatshop owners and their subcontractors that this  hypothesis had scientific validity.
and nike's ceo phil knight has been playing nietzschean superman, and as the chronicle of higher education put it "unleashed a full-court press against the worker rights consortium late last month, and athletics departments across the country may find themselves wilting under the pressure" (suggs, 2000).
a corporate sense of ethics and social accountability  that is independent of government action has been a second  rationale.
in  addition, they will propose and conduct action research experiments that test  what we described in our review as forms of french taylorism.
z narrative dimension - from monophonic (single voiced)  to polyphonic (many voices).
widespread gains in the workplace are unlikely until workers can organize unions, or a system emerges to punish violators of international codes.
"it was a  natural fit."
the first four are more monophonic than the last four (on  z narrative dimension).
(5) education (programs to change student perceptions of nike) -
in his series of  experiments he demonstrated that workers when performing a carefully calibrated  and planned task, would increase their effort when wages increased by 60 per  cent (p. 74).
we believe this is an attainable objective for the nike corporation,  its subcontractors, and global workforce.
a postmodern  organization analysis of double logic.
our proposed experiment stands as alternative to increased levels of governmental regulation of industry working conditions.
each study team will make a specific set of recommendations on methodology and to improve the situation for nike and its works.
this is done through the establishment of an agency for apparel  monitoring of worker rights and environmental accountability.
in  marx's day, the "children's employment commission: and other agencies  intervened to change working and employment practices.
(press here for survey results).
in bureaucratic leadership, for example, there is mostly monologue; other voices are there on the stage but forbidden to speak, or they can only be whispered, their words unhearable, drowned out by the one official narrator who is authorized to take center-stage and speak and speak some more.
does nike pay a living wage?
source - chinese rights, u.s. wrongs: interviews with wei jingsheng and  alice kwan  multinational monitor; washington; may 2000; anonymous;   volume:  21 issue:  5 page: 19-23 what happens when activists become the heroes?
(9) postmodern network of resistors to the leadership of nike in the  global stage of postmodern capitalism - knowingly or not, many of us wear  garments made in sweatshops.
at the end of the semester, when the business plans are done, an  independent judging group from anderson consulting reviews the plans and  selects a winner.
part iii - one possible answer how might nike transform its supply chain of feudalistic sweatshops  into french taylorism?
the survey results allege that sweatshop and abusive management practices are widespread review the survey in preparation for your response.
superman/ superwoman leader will to power figure one: the x & y leader dimensions burns' transformational leader can be an intellectual,  reform, revolutionary, or (charismatic) hero.
in addition, they will propose and conduct action research experiments that test what we described in our review as forms of french taylorism.
in the nike supply chain shell game, subcontractors will move a sweatshop from location to location.
why not try french taylorization as a  possible improvement over "extreme" forms of taylorization now in use  in the apparel industry in third world nations?
though nike describes the global alliance as part of nike's overall monitoring program this initiative is clearly not investigating issues of basic workers rights."
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:  http://nikebiz.com/environ/learn.shtml and  http://www.nikebiz.com/environ/ate.shtml nike (2000g) "
prince leader prince who gains power but does not know how to handle it; superman who becomes prince; superwoman who resists prince 4.
the first four are more monophonic than the last four (on z narrative dimension).
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_kn_speech.shtml nike (2000h)
i will suggest that phil knight is part machiavellian prince, part nietzschean superman and part weberian charismatic hero as well as bureaucratic executive.
"piece-work has, therefore, a tendency, while raising the individual wages above the average, to lower this average itself" for the workforce.
over-branding - the over-branding of sports celebrities and swooshes onto  every conceivable body and life space surface has reached saturation level.
abstract in this essay i look behind the mask of "free" global trade presented by nike corporate leadership.
a new sign went up in the cafeteria used by workers on  all floors explaining that the factory was a wal-mart supplier and should live  up to certain labor standards.
in this way, their priorities were suggested for them."
when a recent cross-country "nike truth tour" organized by students protested the firing of a worker at a nike subcontractor in honduras, the employer was forced to rehire her" (globalization from below the nation; new york; dec 4, 2000; jeremy brecher; tim costello; brendan smith; volume: 271issue: 18: 19-22).
from feudalistic sweatshops to french taylorism -
out of the birth of tragic sweatshop conditions of exploitation and terror, is born the will to resist corporate power by the women tending the cutting, gluing, and sewing machines.
burns and bass restrict leadership to the bureaucratic transactional and heroic/ charismatic approaches (cells 1 and 3) to a will to serve others.
what postmodern philosophers have to contribute to knowledge researchers paper presented to informs (institute for operations research and management sciences) conference, seattle, wa, october 1998.
he is  editor of thejournal of organizational change management.
wtp had a mechanistic (wtp  618) and organic one (wtp).
the combination of the three dimensions (x, y, & z) provides eight types of leadership.
and "nike's sales  plummeted after it was singled out as a sweatshop culprit" (source http://www.wslc.org/reports/latest.htm ).
nike's $750 million dollar advertising budget for writing and the sponsored apologist writing has spawned reactionary and resistance writing (bissell et al, 2000), but that is not what makes its way into the business college classroom.
according to the main report at http://www.cleanclothes.org/companies/nike00-09-15-1.htm  "in the  global alliance study selected workers were asked to answer multiple choice  questions.
san francisco, ca: harper & row.
they must even upon most occasions be somewhat more; otherwise it would be impossible for him to bring up a family, and the race of such workmen could not last beyond the first generation (smith, 1776, chapter viii of the wages of labor).
yet, from time to  time, nike subcontractors do employ child labor.
nike's cover story is getting fiddled with more and more holes, with each revelatory story.
the project sets out what it takes to live on indonesian wages at a nike factory seehttp://www.nikewages.org/addressing.html 3.
meanwhile, activists and journalists and a few academics hunt the asian world for factory locations like treasure hunters search for sunken ships.
philip knight is the superman, who has ordered nike to terminate promotion  contracts with brown, michigan, and his own alma mater, the university of  oregon, withdrawing a pledge of $30 million for a sports stadium.
taylorian modernity brought about by postmodern organizers?"journal of organizational change management.
the issue is to rethink labor and environmental monitoring practices, within a larger context that compels a reframing of the institutions and ethics of development and globalization.
boston: houghton-mifflin.
in the past few years, nike has told us that they would like to keep their promise and respect the right to organize in china.
in international business and ecology  research yearbook.
the business week study found pwc audits missed most of the more serious abuses: chun si management confiscated all id papers of its workers, an illegal practice that left a worker a "virtual captive" of the factory.
a recent bbc panorama expos report filmed nike and gap child labor in a cambodian sweatshop (seebbc, panorama web site - "gap
boje, david m. and 45 academic scholars (2000) " global manufacturing  and taylorism practices of nike corporation and its subcontractors"  drafted september 16, 2000 and submitted to nike corporation to obtain  permission to enter samples of factories (no money is requested).
the workers  questioned why they, the workers, have to do community development while their  working conditions were not improved."
a wicked introduction to the unbroken circle conference: international business & ecology boje, d. m. 1998.
and this will to power is for nietzsche an exceptional quality of the  superman leader that i see in philip knight, superior in will, knowledge  riches, and influence to the korean and thai princes and to the sweaty workers,  at least for now (wtp #804, 866, 960).
45 issue: 40, page:  41-43).
what is interesting about these competitors, is the way the follow the market leader.
beneath the coliseum where this spectacle plays on its global  stage in tv and every ad imaginable, there are the beating hearts of 600,000  sweatshop workers (mostly young women).
june textiles co in phnom penh, which produces clothes for both brands.
moore's world wide web site transcripts from his interview with knight.
our proposed  experiment stands as alternative to increased levels of governmental regulation  of industry working conditions.
it is a question that merits scientific study.
and piece-wages, from his point of view, afforded the "source of reductions of wages and capitalistic cheating" of workers (p. 553).
this is defined here, as feudalistic sweatshop practice.
critics are skeptical of nike-arranged factory tours to only 32 of over 600 locations.
for taylor, the solution to feudalistic sweatshop factories was to convince employee and employer, that through scientific experimentation, work conditions and work processes could be redesigned so that workers toiled few hours, with more rest breaks, and at higher pay, while the firm enjoyed the fruits of sharp increases in production.
(ann kaplan,  feminist criticism and tv) just 10% of nike's annual $978 million a year advertising budget  would lift nike's subcontracted workers' wages to a livable level.
so i went to the nurse to take the rest of day off.
``when we saw the wal-mart statement,  we felt very excited and happy because we thought that now there was a  possibility to improve our conditions,'' says liu.
more recently, he is founding editor oftamara: the journal of critical postmodern organization science.
in its organic form, nietzsche describes it a s a will to life.
behind this mask, i see the nietzschean superman, with a will to power that is not talked about in contemporary leadership theory.
mechanistic wtp is more transactional, where as the organic one  is more about transformation.
that is, an effort that involves workers, managers, and other stakeholders, including the study groups we list below in the design of the experiments we are proposing.
mit professor, dara o'rourke, said in a report to be issued today that inspectors from the firm, pricewaterhousecoopers, had a pro- management bias, did not uncover the use of carcinogenic chemicals and failed to recognize that some employees were forced to work 80-hour weeks (greenhouse, ny times, september 28, 2000).
in a proposal to nike corporation, boje et al (2000) have  outlined the risks of escalation of governments mandating nike and  subcontractor reforms.
first, the workers in  beaverton, oregon who work on a campus like facility, receive top benefits, and  time off for recreation and sports.
it is owned by taiwan's pou chen corp., the world's largest shoe manufacturer.
these  roles are played by the korean and thai factory owners who subcontract to nike  corporation, in endless rounds of bargaining.
``if we had left the  factory then, we wouldn't have had even enough money for a bus ticket home,''  he says.
the mechanistic wtp includes the idea of "every specify body strives to becomes master over all space and to extend its force (-its will to power:) and to thrust back all that resists its extension" (wtp #636).
members of the top three teams are each awarded a share of  nike stock and are honored at a daylong event in new york city.
with up to 80% of workers already skipping breakfast to save money,  the upper-floor employees were aghast, says liu.
bass sees the transactional leader as either opinion leader, group leader, party, legislative, or executive leader.
retrieved august 29th from the world wide web: http://www.caa.org.au/campaigns/nike/letter_15_march_2000.html boje, david m., (1979a) centrality in interorganizational networks.
a corporate sense of ethics and social accountability that is independent of government action has been a second rationale.
for more  on spectacle,see guy debord's work.
"the well-known campaign against nike, for example, has forced the company to promise significant changes in its employment practices, though few have yet been realized.
the will to power is specifically excluded from transaction and transformational leader theory by both burns and bass.
"willing" for nietzsche (wtp #668) is not "desiring," striving," "demanding": "it is distinguished from these by the affect of commanding."
45 academic scholars have organized into four study groups and made a proposal to put the question of sweatshops versus modern factory methods to an empirical test (boje et al, 2000).the purpose of the action research is to develop interdisciplinary work and dialogue that will address a set of action research questions that is of growing concern to academics, the general public, and the nike corporation.
kirkeby, ole fogh (2000) management philosophy: a radical-normative perspective.
knight executes his strategies in an orchestrated campaign where the  "means" are subordinated to a "will.
mostly, the  trade union is composed of the management only and workers have no say in  it.
a new sign went up in the cafeteria used by workers on all floors explaining that the factory was a wal-mart supplier and should live up to certain labor standards.
ny: vintage books (a division of random house).
san francisco: harper and row.
for example, ms. nguyen thi lap, a worker for the nike subcontractor, sam yang in cu chi, hcmc vietnam started working for nike in october 1995.
after the interview, the manager (bak) called me up and asked me what i told the reporter.
the purpose of this essay is to explore the kinds of leadership enacted in nike-beaverton, its subcontractors, and distribution chain.
paramount pictures presents "what women want," a  film by nancy myers, starring mel gibson, helen hunt, marisa tomei, lauren
and so is the superman, the will to power of nietzsche.
to do this requires we look to a third (y) dimension of network leadership, the narrative voice.
phil knight's leader styles as an illustration, we can look just at phil knight's leadership style in terms of the dimensions and categories of figure one.
department of kinesiology, women's studies program,  unit for criticism and interpretive theory, university of illinois at  urbana-champaign, louise freer hall, 906 south goodwin avenue, urbana, il 61801  (press here) for web paper.
stop by a niketown in the cities listed below  between now and december 14th, to receive a pair of complimentary advance  screening tickets, while supplies last.
but their experiments do suggest that not every factory has to be a sweatshop to make the global economy work" (a world of sweatshops business week; new york; november 6, 2000; aaron bernstein, with michael shari in jakarta, and elisabeth malkin in guatemala city; edition: industrial/technology edition issue: 3706,page: 84-86).
any bets on how long until you can pick your own sweatshop worker online?
nike's  corporate strategy is to enroll universities in their fair labor association  (fla), while campus radicals hold non-violent protests until the administration  and faculty vote in the workers rights consortium (wrc).
extending the 3 leader dimensions to nike's nine types of network relationships
here are excerpts from the interview: when i became sick, i went to the clinic.
sixth, my own observations of french taylorism is that working conditions, including good food, rest breaks, and those long french vacations make quite a difference.
"his head was throbbing from a headache, and he felt so faint from hunger that the 6-4 former soccer pro was having trouble "lifting a water bottle to my mouth without it shaking violently."
few, if any, leadership theorists have noted the transactional aspects of weber's (1947) model of the three leaderly authorities.
french taylorism - defined -
"reebok, nike, liz claiborne, and mattel--have finally begun  enforcing their codes in the past year or two" (bernstein, 2000:  86).
but those on the second  floor now received the local minimum wage of $55 a month and no longer had to  do mandatory overtime.
(see the  case of miss lap nguyen).
as kirkeby  (2000: 232) argues it is the right of power to narrate events, to declare them  romantic, tragic, comedic, or ironic, and then of course make them all   into a romantic narratives that fits the bureaucratic pension for monophonic  (single voiced) influence.
i just want my job as a sewer.
culbert, samuel a., james max elden, will mcwhinney, warren schmidt &  bob tannenbaum (1972) "trans-organizational praxis: a search beyond  organizational development,"international associations, xxiv (10,  october).
``when we saw the wal-mart statement, we felt very excited and happy because we thought that now there was a possibility to improve our conditions,'' says liu.
instead of taking an anti-taylorism approach, besson (2000) argues that the post-war configurations of taylorism in france have not adopted the deskilling system that braverman points out.
edited by w. kaufmann.
ny: l. w. schmidt;  1967 edition, ny: international publishers.
and this will to power is for nietzsche an exceptional quality of the superman leader that i see in philip knight, superior in will, knowledge riches, and influence to the korean and thai princes and to the sweaty workers, at least for now (wtp #804, 866, 960).
retrieved august 30th
during the time while waiting for the unions action, they make me do very menial work.
recent books include  managing in the postmodern world (1993, 2000) with bob dennehy; and postmodern  management and organizational theory (1996), with robert gephart and tojo  thatchenkery, narrative research methods for communication studies (sage,  2000), andspectacles and festivals: ahimsa approaches to production and  consumption (hampton press, ca, 2001 use id=guest and pass=guest).
june textiles co in phnom penh, which produces  clothes for both brands.
the swoosh goddess is a vampire: nike's environmental accounting storytelling pp.
mostly, the trade union is composed of the management only and workers have no say in it.
see cruel treatment working for nike in indonesia urban community mission survey report, december 1999
it is controlled by the communist party and the government, so the workers have no right to independent organizing.
there have been very few studies of the distribution contracting of nike  (carty, 1999).
liu says there was even a phone number workers  could call with problems: 1-800-wm-ethic.
it is not  allowed and we don't want to do anything to violate the law, we can't do  anything.
and nike's ceo phil knight  has been playing nietzschean superman, and as the chronicle of higher education  put it "unleashed a full-court press against the worker rights consortium  late last month, and athletics departments across the country may find  themselves wilting under the pressure" (suggs, 2000).
amos tuck's post-sweat nike spin pp 618-623.
once you know this, it is actually rather easy to spot the  accomplices.
shells are a neat concept as they hide the "sweatshop" -- like the pea, something desired by labor organizers, student activists, and academic rebels..
in terms of the dimensions of figure two, nike's leadership in the 700  subcontractor supply chain of factories is (x = transactional; y = will to  power; & z = monophonic).
keady learned about nike's now notorious history of child labor lin 1996, eight-year-olds were found making nike soccer balls in pakistan wretched working conditions (in 1997, overworked vietnamese women were found to have been exposed to toxic chemicals at 177 times legal levels) (see 1997 leak of ernst and young nike audit report - greenhouse).
in the first year of her program, collins used a large american automaker  as the model, but student interest was low.
nike is resisted by a growing movement to make  consumers aware of sweatshop practices of global corporations such as gap,  wal-mart, reebok, adidas, nike and others.
besson, dominique (2000) "france in the 1950s:
"the change agent as revolutionary: activist  interventions into inter organizational networks,"  transorganizational development session of the academy of management meetings,  atlanta, georgia, august.
take three shells and label them "global alliance," "fair labor association" and "price waterhouse coopers."
when i came back on tuesday,  the personnel  manager tran said that section leader cannot take sick day, and demoted me to  become a sewer.
heroic leader who leaves the group to find self; superman who becomes puppet of group 2.
it represents a step forward in establishing  stakeholder dialogue and getting beyond expose research projects, or nave  consulting reports, that do not detail methodology nor go beyond the report to  actually implement meaningful change.
the  survey results allege that sweatshop and abusive management practices are  widespread review the survey in preparation for your response.
to download entire dara o'rourke report using adobe seehttp://web.mit.edu/dorourke/www/pdf/pwc.pdf "based on recent visits to asia, companies such as reebok, nike, liz claiborne, and mattel have finally begun enforcing their codes...
the swoosh is everywhere.
- nike & gap - cambodia vietnam nike - dara o'rourke photo nike vietnam - oregonian photo
beneath the coliseum, the spectacle gladiator sports heroes, is the dirty "sweat" work of feudalistic capitalism, invisible to the postmodern spectacle late capitalism.
mit professor, dara o'rourke, said in a report to be issued today  that inspectors from the firm, pricewaterhousecoopers, had a pro- management  bias, did not uncover the use of carcinogenic chemicals and failed to recognize  that some employees were forced to work 80-hour weeks (greenhouse, ny times,  september 28, 2000).
by lynda yanz, maquila solidarity network, july 1999. (4) transgovernment relations (among 1st & 3rd world governments applying more or less legal codes)- will world governments regulate nike's global sweatshop supply chain?
for any other voice to speak would be an act of bureaucratic espionage; certainly for the secretary to speak would be unthinkable rebellion.
workers are providing the resistance to nike corporate power and subcontractor  practices.
nike is very clever.
that is thai and  korean conglomerates own many of the 700 factories, and to minimize the power  of nike on their actions, they also subcontract to reebok, adidas, fila, puma,  and numerous other apparel marketers.
wile coyote meets the road runnerpaper presentation to the sun break conference, chaos and complexity, chaired by janice black, las cruces, nm, february at new mexico state university.
to do  this requires we look to a third (y) dimension of network leadership, the  narrative voice.
the doctor said  that i have fever of 37 degree c..  on the  sunday the 29th while  working overtime, i was working very hard and being sick at the same time, so i  got a really bad headache.
the government encourages corporations to establish codes  of conduct as it did in the case of the apparel partnership following public  outcry over the apparel industry practices in indonesia in 1991, kathy lee and  sweatshops in 1996, and the rise in campus protests over apparel monitoring in  the last five years.
"the consultant's  dilemma: a multiple frame analysis of a public housing community."
"nike's founder and chairman, philip h. knight, said in april that he would give no more money to oregon, his alma mater, because it was joining the worker rights consortium, an anti-sweatshop group backed mainly by students and labor groups.
"effects of  organizational strategies & constraints on centrality and attributions of  influence in interorganizational networks," administrative science  quarterly, 26, pp.
what follows is an interview with alice kwan, a researcher with the hong kong christian industrial committee (hkcic), where she monitors labor conditions in south china, with a particular focus on the garment and footwear industries.
the transformational leader "recognizes and exploits an existing need or demand of a potential follower... (and) looks for potential motives in followers, seeks to satisfy higher needs, and engages the full person of the follower" (burns, 1978: 4).
this link between postmodern culture and  postindustrial supply chain has been brilliantly treated by victoria carty  (1999).
even under the programs set up by nike and mattel, they are free to sell their goods in the u.s. if it turns out they were made under abusive conditions.
in short, we hypothesize that the modern scientifically managed subcontract factory will dramatically out-produce and out-pay the feudal sweatshop.
and please see nike's response to the bbc program ).
nietzsche's will to power (hereafter wtp) notebooks were written between 1883 and 1888 (see nietzsche, 1967).
the  issue is to rethink labor and environmental monitoring practices, within a  larger context that compels a reframing of the institutions and ethics of  development and globalization.
these are the nike employees celebrated in annual reports (landrum, 2000).
in his series of experiments he demonstrated that workers when performing a carefully calibrated and planned task, would increase their effort when wages increased by 60 per cent (p. 74).
hidden cameras smuggled inside showed children who appeared to be younger than 15 years old working on the shop floor, while other employees admitted working seven-day weeks. "
level 5 -the government enacts laws that oversee the certification and re-certification of monitoring programs to meet minimum standards for workers rights and environmental accountability.
in this way workers in french  taylorism have a way to invoke resistance as well as ongoing-negotiation, as  part of the work organization.
it is more accurately "critical  postmodern."
the women of nike are becoming  steeled as a higher form of being, with a will to achieve their own aristocracy  and empire.
yet, what weber theorized is quite consistent (though not identical) with the transactional theory of burns (1978) and bass (1985).
yet, nike only will  disclose the where about of about 40 of its 700 factory locations, claiming the  strategic secrecy is necessary to sustain its competitive advantage.
the irony is that feudalistic sweatshop factory work so prevalent at  the dawn of the industrial revolution is once again the motor of the postmodern  knowledge and service revolution.
this study group will focus on monitoring studies by pwc, fla, and global  alliance, as well as studies that support and question their methods and  findings.
answer - they agreed that there are organizational alternatives to  sweatshops that yield more productivity, profit, and net workers
in this way workers in french taylorism have a way to invoke resistance as well as ongoing-negotiation, as part of the work organization.
specifically we propose to work with a sample of factories (the  size and location will be determined with nike and stakeholder input).
others look at the appropriateness of child labor.
the field of transorganizational development theory and praxis was first appraised in a seminal article by culbert, elden, mcwhinney, schmidt, & bob tannenbaum (1972).
in short, raising quotas and extending the working day, were  found to be less productive alternatives than ensuring "prosperity for the  employee, coupled with prosperity for the employer" the key to his  compensation philosophy.
"if child labor is a  necessary evil of industrialization, then a nation should be judged on how  quickly it passes through this phase."
boje has also taught accountants and managers in  the maquiladora to implement iso14000 and sa8000 standards of health, safety  and ecology.
yet, nike has its heels dug in and will not be paying living wages, even though it pays tiger woods $100 million in endorsement contracts.
"they buy the product, they know the ads," she says.
in r. w. woodman & b. passmore (eds.)
smith (1976) in the wealth of nations, saw the choice about paying each worker a "living wage" was clear, economic and moral: a man must always live by his work, and his wages must at least be sufficient to maintain him.
furthermore, the anti-sweatshop movement is far more widespread than the scholars seem to realize.
this link between postmodern culture and postindustrial supply chain has been brilliantly treated by victoria carty (1999).
boje, d. m. (2000e) "phenomenal complexity theory and change at nike: response to letiche."
"the message in nike's women's empowerment ads are strong," said  feminist majority president, eleanor smeal, "but there's a disconnect  between that message and the way nike pays and treats its workers, especially  its women workers.
"strategy retold: toward a  narrative view of strategic discourse."
does nike subcontract with "sweatshops"?
national labor committee report, " made in china," human rights for workers - november 2000 issue covers sweatshops in china also see breakdown of cost of pair of nike sneakers
the super leaders sees the abyss with the eyes of an eagle and grasps the abyss of poverty and misery with the talons of an eagle (tsz, p. 288).
furthermore, the anti-sweatshop movement is far more widespread than the  scholars seem to realize.
(standing up to the swoosh
postmodern cultural icons 4.
and workers'  pay, even if it's better than average for that country, is still pitiful  considering the nearly 40% gross profit margins nike and reebok  earn"  (a world of sweatshops - business week; new york; november 6,  2000;
table one: six levels of government involvement on global enterprise  monitoring level 1
do you still wants to work at that place?
retrieved august 30th from  the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_kn_speech.shtml nike (2000h) "statement by nike regarding espn's 'made in vietnam: the  american sneaker controversy'."
finally, after interviewing luen thai workers, the thai labour campaign found that "...they felt that the questionnaires were guiding them and tried to encourage them to conduct activities at the community level.
cole, cheryl l. (1996) "american jordan: p.l.a.y.,  consensus and punishment."
corporate writing is embedded in a web of media, accounting, consultant,  and ad writing that seeps into academic writing (student, doctoral, and  professorial) that influences how groups, such as unions, state, women,  minorities, and populist movements get characterized.
special guest issue of journal of organizational  change management.
students then ultimately design business plans for fictitious companies based on what they learn
i would like to resituate leadership by including the work of machiavelli and nietzsche (cells 2 and 4).
over-branding - the over-branding of sports celebrities and swooshes onto every conceivable body and life space surface has reached saturation level.
" anita roddick argues that instead of pulling  out nike should stay and face its responsibilities -  "somehow, we  have to persuade these retailers and the media on the rare occasions when they  publicise the issue - that the right response is to take responsibility.
and this is exactly what we have  witnessed in apparel manufacture: without the external control of government or  the global enterprise's policies and codes, subcontractors use piece-wage and  extend the working day, as well as the number of days worked each month.
"nike has pledged to  pull out of the factory it uses in cambodia and the gap has suspended orders  there, following sunday's bbc panorama program, which uncovered the use of  child labor by both companies...
the danger of investor and consumer boycott and rebellion is kept at bay the will to power, the will to sustain the life of the nike global empire.
nike provides course materials, access to nike executives, and financial  incentives that make student or faculty-critique of nike at st. john's  problematic.
boje, david m. (2000a) "are new mexico state garments made in  sweatshops?"
please consult the report for additional issues related to methodology.
after the manager hits me, i could not  work
the proposed action research experiment conclusions references about david boje introduction i did my dissertation on the centrality of organizations and leaders in various interorganizational networks, such as communication, resource, and reputation (boje, 1979a).along with david whetten, we posited that leadership takes place in an interorganizational field of strategies and environmental constraints (boje, 1979b,1999a; boje & whetten, 1989; boje, white & wolfe, 1994).
with up to 80% of workers already skipping breakfast to save money, the upper-floor employees were aghast, says liu.
fifth, the french variation of taylorism is based on a conflict-engagement approach in which employers and employees actively consider social power and diversity and the dangers of hegemony.
unpublished dissertation, sociology department, the university of  new mexico.
will to serve others t r a n s a c t i o n a l 1.
in part i, i will review a three-dimensional model of network leadership.
taylor (1911: 92-96, 136-143) hypothesized that better working conditions including shorter hours (from 12 to 8.5 hours), rest periods four times a day, paid days off each month for "girls" (his term), and rigorous scientific work procedures would lead to both higher factory output and higher wage levels and therefore to more harmonious relations between employer and employees.
in the development of sex differences, edited by e.e. maccoby, stanford, ca: stanford university press.
abstractoutline abstractoutline
workers on the fourth floor,  including liu and pang, were still laboring under the old egregious  conditions--illegally low pay, 14-hour days, exorbitant fees for meals--and  still making the same kathie lee handbags.
nike is flirting with the idea of implementing osha safety and health standards, iso 9000, and even iso 14000 standards.
kohlberg, l. a (1966) cognitive-developmental analysis of childrens sex-role concepts and attitudes.
how critical theory and critical pedagogy can unmask nike's labor practices presented to the critical theory pre-conference of the academy of management meetings, san diego, ca, august 8.
but it is not phil's charisma that sells shoes or the  spectacle image of nike to consumers and investors.
a shorter version will appear in management  communication quarterly, essays for the popular management forum for volume  14, number 3 of management communication quarterly.
knight is forming, shaping and reshaping his power domain in athletic apparel and in his narrating of his power domain.
nietzsche, friedrich (1967)
yet, nike only will disclose the where about of about 40 of its 700 factory locations, claiming the strategic secrecy is necessary to sustain its competitive advantage.
members of the top three teams are each awarded a share of nike stock and are honored at a daylong event in new york city.
instead, i see knight as  exercising a will to power that is prerequisite to what nietzsche calls the  superman leader.
in short, both taylor and marx held out solutions  to sweatshops' "slow sacrifice of humanity" (marx, 1867: 244).
we believe that by turning from consultant and monitor reporting to scientific study (quantitative and qualitative) and to action research experimentation, that we can convince subcontract factory owners and managers, that sweatshops are not as profitable as the modern firm.
the superman (or  superwoman) is "lid by a faultless and severe instinct into doing nothing  that disagrees with him, just as he eats nothing he does not enjoy:" (wtp  # 906).
harvard business review, january-february, 1993, p. 1223.
translated by walter kaufmann and r. j. hollingdale.
the  manager told me that it would take time for people to gain experience.
, phil knight is a charismatic heroic figure, with the tattoo of the swoosh on his leg, something the distributor sales force, knows as ekins emulates.
do you think the treatment was related to the interview (translator note: with espn)?
it is not allowed and we don't want to do anything to violate the law, we can't do anything.
workers signed new labor contracts with yecheng, whose name went up outside the fourth floor.
if everybody  washes their hands of the whole problem, we won't get anywhere" (diary,  new statesman; london; oct 16, 2000; anita roddick; volume:  13
i told the manager that without experienced sewers, its going to be hard to get the quota done.
the women of nike are becoming steeled as a higher form of being, with a will to achieve their own aristocracy and empire.
french taylorism is a mid range solution between trade unionism and feudalistic sweatshops.
yet, for  machiavelli's strategic advice to prince, the types of power burns finds  amoral, and therefore outside his definition of leadership, is still, i think,  very much in evidence today.
to marx, it is in the personal interest of the subcontractor using  piece-wage systems to "strain his labor-power as intensely as  possible" by lengthening the working-day.
nike generated about $9 billion in sales in 2000, making it the market leader.
i told the manager that it would be hard for me to complete my quota with only trainees.
``if we had left the factory then, we wouldn't have had even enough money for a bus ticket home,'' he says.
instead, i see knight as exercising a will to power that is prerequisite to what nietzsche calls the superman leader.
while this is good news  for a few businesses, many others are finding themselves targets for and often  embarrassing public criticism" - marketing; london; oct 26, 2000 by tania  mason, page: 27).
the recurrent use of child labor, while the exception, is a public relations nightmare for nike.
once a thriving tradition at the turn of the century, sweatshops saw their numbers dwindle in the face of relentless encroachment by labor organization and social legislation.
in the past few years, nike  has told us that they would like to keep their promise and respect the right to  organize in china.
the theory of moral sentiments ; alternate copy.
the kinds of leadership in the nike supply chain, running from beaverton to the subcontractor factories in asia, to the showrooms of footlocker, niketown, and the campus apparel store must somehow convince that savvy postmodern consumer, that the age of feudalistic sweatshops is not reality.
i told her that i only talked about  wages.
adam smith, among others,  contended that interests of self-centered interests of merchants and  manufacturers ran counter to the general welfare of society.
taylor also included "the consumers, who buy the product" of employer and employees "and who ultimately pay both the wages of the workmen and the profits of the employers" (p. 136).
did they force you to quit?
david m. boje, ph.d. department of management, msc 3dj new mexico  state university p.o. box 30001/las cruces, nm 88003-8001 phone (505)  646-2391 work phone (505) 532-1693 home office fax (505) 646-1372
so i asked  the union to resolve the problem.
managers announced that those on the fourth floor were no  longer working for chun si but for a new factory they called yecheng.
video version; bbc panorama - global exchange excerpts   another  video transcript excerpts and please see nike's response to the bbc program ).
the horizontal x dimension of transactional to transformational made famous in the work of james macgregor burns (1978) and bernard m. bass (1985); and the vertical y dimension i am adding, extends from the will to serve others to the will to power of friedrich nietzsche (writing in the 1870s).
the recurrent use of child  labor, while the exception, is a public relations nightmare for nike.
"emerging post-industrial, postmodern trends and the implications for social change: a case-study of nike corporation.
taylor  (1911: 92-96, 136-143) hypothesized that better working conditions including  shorter hours (from 12 to 8.5 hours), rest periods four times a day, paid days  off each month for "girls" (his term), and rigorous scientific work  procedures would lead to both higher factory output and higher wage levels and  therefore to more harmonious relations between employer and employees.
melbourne, australia (2000) " response to nike's claims to have  reformed it's labour practices."
this described the global  subcontracting production and distribution network of nike corporation.
the absurdity of it is that keady's sufferings were self imposed: the result of his having volunteered to live for a month on the typical wages-about $1.20 a day-of an indonesian factory worker sewing shoes for nike. "
at the end of the semester, when the business plans are done, an independent judging group from anderson consulting reviews the plans and selects a winner.
superman/ superwoman leader will to power figure one: the x & y leader dimensions burns' transformational leader can be an intellectual, reform, revolutionary, or (charismatic) hero.
acftu is the only union allowed in china.
kohlberg,  l. (1969) stage and sequence:
religious congregations throughout the united states  are involved..
for a more recent review, see thetransorganizational development web site).
jennings (196) observed the transition from production to consumption heroes.
when we ask those that say there is a union what the  union does, they say they organize picnics, karaoke singing contests, a  monthly birthday party, but they never try to help solve labor disputes or  stand with the workers.
the new study was conducted by junya yimprasert of the thai labour campaign and looks into the situation at luen thai and w ga fails to report is how workplace conditions have been defined.
managers announced that those on the fourth floor were no longer working for chun si but for a new factory they called yecheng.
for now, governments in the 1st and 3rd  world let nike hire its own monitors.
most of the attention is on the supply chain of asian factories.
and the third dimension "z" extends from the narrative homogeneity to narrative heterogeneity.
his vita is available on the web (press here).
this is facilitated by threatening workers who talk to monitors in suits or anyone who looks like a journalist or activist.
in 1998, even nike chief executive phil knight conceded that "the nike product has become synonymous with slave wages, forced overtime, and arbitrary abuse."
instead of taking an anti-taylorism approach, besson  (2000) argues that the post-war configurations of taylorism in france have not
it is a wtp to keep from falling into the  disordered chaos of the democratic impulse or the humanitarian impulse to pay  living wages to 600,000 workers.
take three shells and label them "global alliance," "fair  labor association" and "price waterhouse coopers."
we would like nike to  let us academics into the factory gates to conduct some action research  experiments.
level 6 - transgovernment trade agreements that include ecological, wage, health and safety standards for global enterprises and subcontract factories.
kohlberg (1964, 1966, 1969, 1976, 1981 & 1984) studied differences in children's reasoning about moral dilemmas.
yet, the consumer boycott is growing. "
the manager told me that it would take time for people to gain experience.
any profit gained by overwork and snatching time for mealtimes and rest breaks and from paying the least possible bare subsistence wage and over-work in unhealthy and unpleasant situations was meager compared to the output of the high productivity enterprise.
see boje (2000b) for a review of the relation of what i term "narrative moral development" to leadership theory.
hero - within nike, phil knight is a charismatic heroic figure, with  the tattoo of the swoosh on his leg, something the distributor sales force,  knows as ekins emulates.
hidden cameras smuggled inside showed children who  appeared to be younger than 15 years old working on the shop floor, while other  employees admitted working seven-day weeks. "
this is part of the postmodern condition, the  marketing of products using endorsement sports and movie stars.
the government could begin to monitor the claims and practices of consulting firms and non-governmental organizations such as global alliance, price waterhouse coopers, fair labor association, workers rights consortium, etc.
the olympic living wage project - the olympic living wage project, sponsored by press for change, and done in collaboration with the nicaraguan solidarity committee,nikewatch, and call to action usa, is an international human rights project focusing on the lives of sweatshop workers in nikes indonesian shoe factories.
figure two adds a third dimension to what was displayed in figure one.
ballinger, jeff  16 september, 2000 nike: american dream on ri sweat  from jakarta news.
("oregon withholds dues to worker-rights group" the chronicle of higher education; washington; nov 10, 2000; volume: 47 issue: 11:a40).
after having  gone through a series of punishments, she realized that she cannot take it any  more and she eventually quit working for sam yang in may 1998.
``but if we stayed, we knew we wouldn't have enough money to  eat.''
what follows is an interview with alice kwan, a researcher with the  hong kong christian industrial committee (hkcic), where she monitors labor  conditions in south china, with a particular focus on the garment and footwear  industries.
boje, d. m. & wolfe, t.(1989) "transorganizational development: contributions to theory and practice."
marx hypothesized that piece-wage is paid such that it becomes the average  wage, thereby negating any incentive for independence, self-control, or  liberty.
"nike corporation, nike women and narrative moral dilemmas."
smith did favor the landowners over the merchants and  manufacturers.
after the interview, the manager (bak) called me up and  asked me what i told the reporter.
level 6 - transgovernment trade agreements that include ecological,  wage, health and safety standards for global enterprises and subcontract  factories.
the sports gladiators can continue to sell swoosh apparel, and workers can move up a notch on the food chain.
"student monitoring reports."
prince - phil knight shrewdly manages the ad machine to enact a  spectacle public image of himself and nike corporate behavior.
the second dimension i call "y" extending from the will to serve to the nietzschean will to power.
the result we anticipate is to be able to contrast different forms of pay-systems and work design and working conditions.
nike says a "sweatshop" can not be defined.
she polled the class about which company they'd rather learn about, and the nearly unanimous vote was for nike.
(standing up to the swooshnike's cover story is getting fiddled with more and more holes, with each revelatory story.
"in england this system is characteristically called the "sweating system."
the danger of  investor and consumer boycott and rebellion is kept at bay the will to power,  the will to sustain the life of the nike global empire.
the leaders of this supply  chain act as if they really believe that feudal sweatshops are more productive,  efficient, and profitable than modern management systems.
" "we know of no case where a nation developed a modern manufacturing sector without first going through a `sweatshop' phase," according to david l. lindauer in nichols, martha, "third world families at work: child labor or child care?"
father jim maher (st. john's university) and unidentified st. john students  (see nike, 2000b).
it is our proposal to test taylor's option in the  apparel industry.
.the scholars should stop pretending to be neutral and objective in a situation where people-especially women and young girls-are being exploited and are suffering so that excessive profits may continue to be generated by nike and the corporations that indulge in similar practices.
the more mechanistic form is an expression of the calculability of the world in formulas of motion, cause, and effect, attraction and repulsion, as well as the separation of deed from doer (wtp #624-627, 631).
the purpose of this paper is to extend the field of leadership from its current focus on leaders and worker transactions and organizational transformations to the interorganizational field of network study.
on the sunday the 29th while working overtime, i was working very hard and being sick at the same time, so i got a really bad headache.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web: retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_uniterep.shtml nike (2000f)
he serves on the editorial board of academy of management review,  management digest, organization,journal of management inquiry, m@n@gement,  organization studies, ej-rot,emergence: a journal of complexity issues in  organizations and management communication quarterly .
in the nike supply chain shell game, subcontractors will move a sweatshop  from location to location.
nike (2000e) "statement by nike regarding unite report."
several (usually two to four) actors collaborate with the shell game to take the tourist's money.
after the interview, i was asked to lead another sewing line in a different  plant.
nietzsche, like marx, say them as the future of great social movements and revolutions.
while i was mopping the floor, i was crying.
this way a sample of existing subcontract firms can be compared with the experimental options.
what was revolutionary about taylor's scientific management, was the  observation that rest and refreshment are necessary to quality and sustained  work.
"the well-known campaign against nike,  for example, has forced the company to promise significant changes in its  employment practices, though few have yet been realized.
""i was told f  would have to wear nike clothes and drop the issue or resign."  keady  decided to go to indonesia and see if he could live on the nike wages? "his head was throbbing from a headache, and he felt so faint from  hunger that the 6-4 former soccer pro was having trouble "lifting a water  bottle to my mouth without it shaking violently."
most of the nike workers who we have asked whether or not they have a trade union in their factory don't know.
nike, nietzschean superman and the sweat life for superwomen david m. boje january 1, 2001 this paper for will be presented to the international relations research association.
let me tell you, i was a section leader overseeing 50 workers.
wile coyote meets  the road runnerpaper presentation to the sun break conference, chaos and  complexity, chaired by janice black, las cruces, nm, february at new mexico  state university.
we believe that by turning from consultant  and monitor reporting to scientific study (quantitative and qualitative) and to  action research experimentation, that we can convince subcontract factory  owners and managers, that sweatshops are not as profitable as the modern firm.
boje, david m. and 45 academic scholars (2000) " global manufacturing and taylorism practices of nike corporation and its subcontractors" drafted september 16, 2000 and submitted to nike corporation to obtain permission to enter samples of factories (no money is requested).
retrieved august 29th from the world wide web:http://business.nmsu.edu/~dboje/conferences/acad2000nikeandtime.html barry, david & michael elmes (1997)
(3) postmodern cultural icons (woods, jordan, and stars like gibson & hunt) -
sweatshops exist in the u.s. too - a "garment enforcement report" (apriljune 1999) from the u.s. labor department reported that 205 sweatshop investigations resulted in the discovery of 109 violations."
several  (usually two to four) actors collaborate with the shell game to take the  tourist's money.
jennings (196) observed the transition from production to consumption  heroes.
nike is a $9 billion supply and distribution chain subcontracting and marketing 200 million pairs of sports shoes a year.
the government takes no formal role in apparel monitoring forums, legislation or research.
there are many feudal lords and princes in the nike empire.
different countries throughout the world  including asia and europe have implemented taylorism quite differently.
the field of leadership has not strayed from from the trait study of great leaders, the dyadic behavioral relations between leaders and followers, and the recent interest in differentiating between transactional and transformational (even charismatic) leaders.
prince (x = transactional; y = will to power; z = monophonic)
nike women's empowerment ads aimed at the us market are in sharp  contrast to the treatment of women workers in these sweatshops.
and workers' pay, even if it's better than average for that country, is still pitiful considering the nearly 40% gross profit margins nike and reebok earn" (a world of sweatshops - business week; new york; november 6, 2000; sub title: progress is slow in the drive for better conditions edition: industrial/technology edition issue: 3706 page: 52).
at nike's urging, nikomas set a higher wage scale for senior workers and ousted managers who had yelled abuses at workers.
nike is the lightning rod for a postmodern network of resistors to its leadership.
marx, karl (1867) capital: a critique of political economy.
"women want employment, but employment with dignity."
department of kinesiology, women's studies program, unit for criticism and interpretive theory, university of illinois at urbana-champaign, louise freer hall, 906 south goodwin avenue, urbana, il 61801 (press here) for web paper.
in international business and ecology research yearbook.
yet, the  consumer boycott is growing. "
on nov. 28, a second notice went up stating that starting on dec. 10, all workers would be required to pay cash for dinner rather than just have money subtracted from their paychecks as before, say liu and pang.
taylor concludes, "the writer has great sympathy with those who are over-worked, but on the whole a greater sympathy for those who areunder paid" (p. 18).
since then, i have looked at how change and transformation takes place in transorganizational networks (boje & wolfe, 1980).
towards a post-taylorian  approach to taylorism.
so tiger woods is the current spotlight hero of nike, have supplanted the retired michael jordan.
where nike  goes, so do its competitors, even co-locating in the same factory.
special issue (march, vol. ii) 77-109.
consider what nike (2000a) posts in  its corporate web site: knight succeeded of his own accord, of course.
in nike's code of conduct, they say they respect the right to organize.
meanwhile nike and its subcontractors open up new factory locations.
to marx, it is in the personal interest of the subcontractor using piece-wage systems to "strain his labor-power as intensely as possible" by lengthening the working-day.
david m. boje, ph.d. department of management, msc 3dj new mexico state university p.o. box 30001/las cruces, nm 88003-8001 phone (505) 646-2391 work phone (505) 532-1693 home office fax (505) 646-1372 emaildboje@nmsu.edu home page http//business.nmsu.edu/~dboje tamara journal http//www.zianet.com/boje/tamara nike research proposal http//business.nmsu.edu/~dboje/nike/call_for_nike_research.html
by the post-war years they were  pushed to the brink of extinction.
in each case, the transaction leader "requires a shrewd eye for opportunity, a good hand at bargaining, persuading, reciprocating" (p. 169).
kohlberg, l. (1976)  moral development and behavior.
"whileno company suggests that  its auditing systems are perfect, most say they catch major abuses and either  force suppliers to fix them or yank production."
the factory did not pay for overtime  work.
but the plant manager did not let me sew.
"i know-i starved on it."http://www.nikewages.org/this is what a term paper can do -"keady's professor suggested that the young jock explore the connection between moral theology and sports, and keady settled on the issue of nike's labor practices.
each sub-group will review research proposals and participants for selection to do various tasks, such as participate in action research experiments.
a recent  bbc panorama expos report filmed nike and gap child labor in a cambodian  sweatshop (seebbc, panorama web site -  "gap and nike:
conclusions phil knight exercises a strength of will to power and conviction, and begrudging negotiation with activists that can only be described as "enlightened despotism."
unpublished doctoral dissertation, department of organizational behavior,  university of illinois, champaign-urbana, illinois.
the principles of scientific management.
the contribution of this essay is to present a look at leadership that is not polite, humble, or quite so moral and pure.
academy of management journal.
nike, greek goddess of victory or cruelty?
there has been a good deal of consulting (i.e. global alliance, fair labor association, and price waterhouse coopers) and non-governmental organization (ngo) report and media writing, but limited academic empirical study (see appendix b).
this is no small feat of leadership given the hundreds of web activists, university intellectuals, and skeptical journalists who find nike's claims that sweatshops do not exist hard to swallow.
here's a nifty thing to just do: nike allows web surfers to customize this sneaker online, selecting style, colors and lace types, even stamping the shoes with a personal id code.
taylor  also included "the consumers, who buy the product" of employer and  employees "and who ultimately pay both the wages of the workmen and the  profits of the employers" (p. 136).
development of moral character and moral ideology.
but, the shell game is for the monitors to figure out if all 700 factory locations are up to such high standards.
45 issue: 40, page: 41-43).
the reports are posted to nike's (2000b) corporate web site along with a transcript of a conference call (nike, 2000c) and nike's (e.g. 1998, 2000d) response to issues raised.
10:15 a.m. - 12:15p.m.
in the second part of the essay, i will look at ways nike corporation could transform its supply chain of feudalistic sweatshops into what dominique besson (2000) calls, "french taylorism."
- santa and sweatshops  wall street journal; new york,  n.y.; dec 22, 2000, a14.
but our purpose is not to assess phil knight, it is to look at the nine  types of network relationships in which knight's leadership is engaged.
at the same time, french taylorism achieved high increases in productivity and efficiency in "an informal kind of postmodern administration" (p. 426).
public protest around the world, on college campuses, in factories, and in  the streets of various nations has been a main reason that government has  become involved in how global enterprises have begun to behave with more  conscience and ethics.
the project sets out what it takes to live on  indonesian wages at a nike factory seehttp://www.nikewages.org/addressing.html 3.
(9) postmodern network of resistors to the leadership of nike in the global stage of postmodern capitalism - knowingly or not, many of us wear garments made in sweatshops.
meanwhile nike has a number of empty shells.
i develop a three dimensional model of leadership across nine types of networks.
prince leader prince who gains power but does not know how to handle it; superman who  becomes prince; superwoman who resists prince 4.
"fact sheets on learning: taking it to the schools."
management and worker, as well as customer and  supplier have voice in the postmodern version.
you probably heard the news story that phil knight canceled his endowment to the university of oregon.
2nd source - asiaweek:
(1) supply chains of third world factories - nike corporation, its  700 subcontractors and a 1,000 outlets form a global production and  distribution supply chain.
the credibility of the shell game is augmented by flashy consulting studies and a few well rehearsed factory tours by celebrities such as andrew young, mba students (tuck business school), and a few sympathetic academics.
this study group will focus on monitoring studies by pwc, fla, and global alliance, as well as studies that support and question their methods and findings.
journal of business & entrepreneurship.
includes dusty kidd (director of global labor practices), amandatucker (nike compliance and monitoring programs), simon pestridge (labor practices manager), father jim maher (st. john's university) and unidentified st. john students (see nike, 2000b).
at the  same time, french taylorism achieved high increases in productivity and  efficiency in "an informal kind of postmodern administration" (p.  426).
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web: http://nikebiz.com/labor/reports/nr_1.shtml nike (2000e)
he hypothesized that moral difficulties motivated their development through a fixed sequence of increasingly flexible kinds of moral reasoning.
the journal of critical postmodern organization  science.
"nike corporate writing of academic, business, and  cultural practices."
what is the relationship between fair labor association (fla) and workers rights consortium (wrc)?
what i have proposed is a way for nike to sustain its global economic  power, but enjoy the fruits of modern factory practices.
it is this sense of the will to power  that i read in the texts and behavior of phillip knight.
one of the central issues is what is the role of  government in sweatshop monitoring?
"i know-i starved on it."http://www.nikewages.org/ this is what a term paper can do -"keady's professor  suggested that the young jock explore the connection between moral theology and  sports, and keady settled on the issue of nike's labor practices.
it is an improvement over  classical taylorism, that allows piece-wage systems to be modified in ways that  increase productivity and worker wage levels, while affording workers avenues  of resistance to totalizing systems of control.
these codes vary according to corporate or non-corporate control and the inclusion or exclusion of areas such as living wage, right of workers to associate, enforcement of local national laws.
the subcontractor invisibly moves the  "ball" here, here, or there.
david is chair-elect of  the research methods division of the academy of management and serves on the  board of governors of the international academy of business disciplines.
shells are a  neat concept as they hide the "sweatshop" -- like the pea, something  desired by labor organizers, student activists, and academic rebels..
nike student monitoring trips conference call."
besson, dominique & haddadj, slimane (2000)
interviews and field studies would best be conducted by  multi-lingual researchers in order to minimize translation difficulties.
to me the princely leader is concerned about the means of power, and will sacrifice ends over means.
this study group will focus on the monitoring efforts of fla and wrc by sampling colleges and universities with and without fla and/or wrc agreements.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/labor/reports/toc_studrep.shtml nike (2000c) "
the  manager then hit me in the arm.
(summary of the business  week article).
the usda has "locked campuses nationwide with  protests against sweatshop conditions in the collegiate apparel industry,  occupying buildings on more than a dozen campuses.
in 1997 alone,  nike spent $978 million on marketing  and advertising its corporate image and logo.
special guest issue of journal of organizational change management.
translated from the third german edition by samuel moore and edward aveling, edited by frederick engels.
it is a primitive form of affect,  "encroachment of one power upon another power" (wtp #668, 689).
for example, nike (2000b, c, d) sponsored 16 students from st. john's university to study code of conduct compliance auditing practices of price waterhouse coopers and visit "some" nike factories.
see boje (2000c) for more on the multiple voices of leadership.
this is defined  here, as feudalistic sweatshop practice.
i would like to make several related contributions to leadership.
campus protest - on college campuses nike and  other apparel manufacturers are attacked regularly in speeches, street theater  and sit-ins reminiscent of the 1970s vietnam war rallies.
extending the 3 leader dimensions to nike's nine types of  network relationships
where nike goes, so do its competitors, even co-locating in the same factory.
(ann kaplan, feminist criticism and tv) just 10% of nike's annual $978 million a year advertising budget would lift nike's subcontracted workers' wages to a livable level.
(7) investors and consumers (who purchase stocks and products) - protests at annual shareholder meetings have become so newsworthy and  regular that nike has moved its annual meetings away from beaverton  oregon.
research in organizational change & development, vol. 8: 181-242.
in review at the journal, emergence.
translated from the third german edition by  samuel moore and edward aveling, edited by frederick engels.
"statement by nike regarding unite report."
she asked me if i told the reporter whether the company  still beats workers.
as a case example, i look at the nine networks of involvement of the nike corporation in (1) supply chains, (2) distribution webs, (3) postmodern cultural icons (woods, jordan, and stars like gibson & hunt), (4) transgovernment relations (among 1st & 3rd world governments), (5) education, (6)
the first, with about  200 workers, was assigned to work on the fixed-up second floor, while the  remaining 700 or so worked on the fourth floor, leaving the other floors  largely vacant.
"storytelling and the collective  dynamics of  transorganizational networking" october 7th web paper.
``it felt like being in prison,'' says pang, 22.
bureaucratic transaction leader bureaucrat pretending to be heroic; hero who is tamed by bureaucracy 3.
moral stages and moralization, edited by thomas likona: holt, rinehart and winston, cbs college publishing.
733-753 in leavitt, h., pondy, l. r. & boje, d. m. (eds.)readings in managerial psychology, 4th edition.
this, in my opinion, is forcing nike  leadership to move from denial that sweatshops exist, to camouflage tactics  where factories raided by activists and journalists are cleaned up, moved, or  shut down (as in #2).
one could argue that knight's wtp is mechanistic, about amassing quantities of money and market share by the mechanistic chaining of more and more asian subcontract factories to distribution chains worldwide.
``but if we stayed, we knew we wouldn't have enough money to eat.''
recent books include managing in the postmodern world (1993, 2000) with bob dennehy; and postmodern management and organizational theory (1996), with robert gephart and tojo thatchenkery, narrative research methods for communication studies (sage, 2000), andspectacles and festivals: ahimsa approaches to production and consumption (hampton press, ca, 2001 use id=guest and pass=guest).
(press here for  survey results).
my hand were getting swollen from repairing the shoes and their punishment.
it is the wtp of the robber barons at the dawn of the industrial age, renewed in this postmodern global economy.
2nd source - asiaweek: signs of the times asiaweek; hong kong; oct 9, 2000; "nike pulled out of the june textiles sweatshop factory in cambodia after discovering it used child labor.
but with the new arrangements made possible  by the global economy -- highly mobile transnational capital,  computer-coordinated production schedules, and free trade policies (sweat gear  web site).
this is part of the postmodern condition, the marketing of products using endorsement sports and movie stars.
nike ceo phil knight to address national press club speech to focus on asian manufacturing issues."
a wicked introduction to the unbroken circle
and just like the feminists at the turn of the century fought sweatshops, it's incumbent on us to do the same."
what are the reassurances that nike and other u.s. companies such as gap, toys `r' us, wal-mart, and payless can give to american consumers that their goods aren't produced under sweatshop conditions?
meanwhile,  activists and journalists and a few academics hunt the asian world for factory  locations like treasure hunters search for sunken ships.
- does nike pay a living wage?
however, shareholder vote down  initiatives voiced by protesters.
the proprietor of stock is properly a citizen  of the world, and is not necessarily attached to any particular country (wn, 2:  848).
the nike storytelling machine (boje 1991, 1995) is a narrative web spanning the  1st world thirst for heroic sports worship  and the 3rd world supply chain  of sweat labor, as well as the global distribution transaction economy of  distributors (niketown, footlocker, and university campus apparel stores).
smith argued for the primacy of agrarian capitalism over industrial  capitalism.
in this way, their priorities were suggested for them.
what did karl marx (1867), adam smith (1776), and frederick taylor (1911) have in common?
on the one hand piece-wage allows the capitalist to make a contract for so much per piece with the head laborer--in manufactures with the chief of some group, in mines with the extract of the coal, in the factory with the actual machine-worker--at a price for which the head laborer himself undertakes the enlisting and payment of his assistant workpeople (p. 554).
moral stages and  moralization, edited by thomas likona: holt, rinehart and winston, cbs college  publishing.
campus protest - on college campuses nike and other apparel manufacturers are attacked regularly in speeches, street theater and sit-ins reminiscent of the 1970s vietnam war rallies.
in the past there have been workers who have been fired and otherwise disciplined for participating in studies and media reporting on nike factories
women's groups urge nike to put its  money where its mouth is: low wages for women workers in southeast
students of organization as well as journalists, investors, consumers, and  activists read and write about nike's and critics' writing.
we  hypothesize the implementation in apparel factories in southeast asia is the  reverse to the taylorian philosophy itself, and even a return to the  feudalistic factory conditions and piece-wage compensation schemes of the  1800s.
liu says there was even a phone number workers could call with problems: 1-800-wm-ethic.
answer - they agreed that there are organizational alternatives to sweatshops that yield more productivity, profit, and net workers higher wages.
the credibility of the  shell game is augmented by flashy consulting studies and a few well rehearsed  factory tours by celebrities such as andrew young, mba students (tuck business  school), and a few sympathetic academics.
first, instead of implementing flexible work rules, the french prefer to keep those rules more rigid, in order to give employees confidence in the work design.
the government monitors everything from barbershops, beauticians, and chiropractors.
"i didn't know that this. would lead to any sort of activism," he says.
what is interesting  about these competitors, is the way the follow the market leader.
the storytelling machine has an easier task since supply chains are already complex and hard to decipher: for example, if factory a cannot complete an order of 10,000, they might give 4,000 to factory b, where the conditions are worse.
transactional leadership "requires a shrewd eye for opportunity, a good hand at bargaining, persuading, reciprocating" (burns, 1978:169).
the kinds of leadership in the nike supply chain, running  from beaverton to the subcontractor factories in asia, to the showrooms of  footlocker, niketown, and the campus apparel store must somehow convince that  savvy postmodern consumer, that the age of feudalistic sweatshops is not  reality.
the mechanistic wtp includes the idea of  "every specify body strives to becomes master over all space and to extend  its force (-its will to power:) and to thrust back all that resists its  extension" (wtp  #636).
boje, d. m. (2000e) "phenomenal complexity theory and change at nike:  response to letiche."
the reality soon became clear.
in short, raising quotas and extending the working day, were found to be less productive alternatives than ensuring "prosperity for the employee, coupled with prosperity for the employer" the key to his compensation philosophy.
"nike is paying a starvation wage in indonesia;" says jim  keady.
unpublished doctoral dissertation, department of organizational behavior, university of illinois, champaign-urbana, illinois.
i therefore treat it as a second dimension of leadership (seeboje, 2000b) for an overview.. z - from monophonic (single voice) narrative to (polyphonic) narrative .
(8) workers (in beaverton, oregon, expatriates, and 3rd world mostly young females - nike has several types of workers.
may 12, 1998 phil knight  announced revolutionarily labor initiativesafter release of the ernst and young  report.
the government could begin to monitor the  claims and practices of consulting firms and non-governmental organizations  such as global alliance, price waterhouse coopers, fair labor association,  workers rights consortium, etc.
the race is on and enrollments are in the two associations are running neck and neck.
sweatshops, which all of us thought were a thing of the past, are back again.
"catch me if you can?
"piece-work has, therefore, a tendency, while raising the  individual wages above the average, to lower this average itself" for the  workforce.
" protesters are  everywhere, "marching down fifth avenue to the rockefeller christmas  tree to protest nike, gap, kohl's and disney; or, up in cambridge, walking  through the harvard administration building singing carols like "away in a  sweatshop."
references refer to section numbers.
(7) investors and consumers (who purchase stocks and products) - protests at annual shareholder meetings have become so newsworthy and regular that nike has moved its annual meetings away from beaverton oregon.
the 700  subcontractors in the supply chain are not all created equal.
the transformational leader  "recognizes and exploits an existing need or demand of a potential  follower... (and) looks for potential motives in followers, seeks to satisfy  higher needs, and engages the full person of the follower" (burns, 1978:  4).
for the purposes of the global  alliance study, "workplace conditions" does not include several major  topics of concern to thai garment and footwear workers, such as issues relating  to wages, hours of work, freedom of association and collective bargaining.
but, a more careful reading of nietzsche reveals quite a different approach to both leadership and the study of morals.
located at www.dogeatdogfilms.com -michael
the next part of the essay looks at the nine types of network leadership that nike participates in.
introduction part i - towards a network theory of leadership x dimension y dimension figure one - x and y dimensions phil knight's leader styles z dimension figure two - x, y, and z dimensions part ii -
his vita is  available on the web (press here).
how has nike enacted its espoused code of conduct over time?
yet, what  weber theorized is quite consistent (though not identical) with the  transactional theory of burns (1978) and bass (1985).
cole, cheryl l. and amy hribar (1995) "celebrity feminism: nike style  (post-fordism, transcendence, and consumer power)."
to download entire dara o'rourke report using  adobe seehttp://web.mit.edu/dorourke/www/pdf/pwc.pdf "based on  recent visits to asia, companies such as reebok, nike, liz claiborne, and  mattel have finally begun enforcing their codes...
the hong kong christian industrial committee has been working for the rights of workers since 1967.kwan:
the political economy of child labor and its impacts on international business business economics; washington; jul 2000; s l bachman; volume: 35 issue: 3 page: 30-41.
"nike is paying a starvation wage in indonesia;" says jim keady.
resituating the transaction/transformation model of leadership - figure one crosses the x and y dimensions of transaction to transformation with wts to wtp.
nike claims "cultural relativism," - china and other developing countries are at a stage the u.s. was at 100 years ago and therefore, nike is not to blame.
out of the birth of tragic sweatshop conditions of exploitation and  terror, is born the will to resist corporate power by the women tending the  cutting, gluing, and sewing machines.
the race is on and  enrollments are in the two associations are running neck and neck.
in a proposal to nike corporation, boje et al (2000) have outlined the risks of escalation of governments mandating nike and subcontractor reforms.
we heard that  they also told their taiwanese partner, yue yuen, "no matter, help them to  organize."
you can also enter to win a "what women want" prize pack which includes a "what women want" t-shirt, pair of nike air kukinis and a nike watch.
"take nikomas gemilang, a sprawling, 50-building minicity  near jakarta that employs 22,500 workers making shoes for nike and adidas.
we would like to conduct research that would implement and test experiments in alternative pay schemes.
why not try french taylorization as a possible improvement over "extreme" forms of taylorization now in use in the apparel industry in third world nations?
we believe that paying a living wage will result in higher profits to both nike and its subcontractors.
some day they made me cut threads, some day they made me do pressing (?) and continued to move me around from one job to another.
the y dimension extends from will to serve (wts) to will to power (wtp).
barry and elmes (1997) look at monophonic and polyphonic aspects of leadership strategy.
and the superleader is not satisfied with the happiness of the greatest number of workers or consumers (tsz, p. 287).
she was interviewed by espn in february 1998.
the proprietor of land is necessarily a citizen of the particular country in which his estate lies.
the urban community mission in jakarta worked with workers to survey 3,500 workers from 11 different nike contract factories.
third, instead of management total control over the system of work,  employees can avoid such productive despotism by co-control over work  processes.
nike's labor practices presented to the critical theory pre-conference of the  academy of management meetings, san diego, ca, august 8.
we seek permission to run this experiment.
bureaucratic (x = transactional; y = will to serve; z = monophonic)
workers were paid so little, and so often fined for infractions, such as taking too long in the toilet, that at the end of a month they often owed the company money.
source - chinese rights, u.s. wrongs: interviews with wei jingsheng and alice kwan multinational monitor; washington; may 2000; anonymous; volume: 21 issue: 5 page: 19-23 what happens when activists become the heroes?
my basis thesis is one can not properly understand the depth and scope of nike leadership unless we understand its relations to the nine types of networks listed above.
widespread gains in the  workplace are unlikely until workers can organize unions, or a system emerges to punish violators of international codes.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide  web:http://nikebiz.com/media/n_espn.shtml smith, adam (1759)
for a listing of academic work on nike corporation, please consult  academics studying nike web site.
extending the 3d model to the 9 types of nike network relationships 1.
after the interview, i was asked to lead another sewing line in a different plant.
"i was just looking for a good paper topic."
he is editor of thejournal of organizational change management.
the factory did not pay for overtime work.
733-753 in leavitt, h., pondy,  l. r. & boje, d. m. (eds.)readings in managerial psychology, 4th edition.
we believe this is an attainable objective for the nike corporation, its subcontractors, and global workforce.
cities: boston, new york city, atlanta, miami, chicago, denver, los angeles, san francisco, portland, seattle (source nike).
multi-skilling, for example, is seen as a way to enhance worker's negotiating position.
in its organic form, nietzsche  describes it a s a will to life.
the contracts are worth big bucks.
for taylor, the solution to feudalistic sweatshop factories was to convince  employee and employer, that through scientific experimentation, work conditions  and work processes could be redesigned so that workers toiled few hours, with  more rest breaks, and at higher pay, while the firm enjoyed the fruits of sharp  increases in production.
knight exercises his will, despite  postmodern coalitions of resistance (wet artists, intrusive journalists, campus  protest, wto protest, and niketown protest, and shareholder meeting  protests).
what nike is learning, presumably, is that a growing percentage of shoppers take account of a company's conduct and reputation when deciding whether to buy its products.
(see the case of miss lap nguyen).
nike will bring in its accomplices, the fla, ga or  pwc to verify that there is no sweatshop.
in terms of will to power, nike has disclosed the locations of forty-one of its factories in eleven countries around the world, the rest are secret.
but the nike sportswear contracts have provided the glue that has  cemented them, like sneakers, firmly together" what does it  mean when time magazine gives nike its worst innovation award>
they interview and observe nike subcontract factories, and  returning to the 1st world with stories of sweaty practices.
when a recent  cross-country "nike truth tour" organized by students protested the  firing of a worker at a nike subcontractor in honduras, the employer was forced  to rehire her" (globalization from below  the nation; new york; dec  4, 2000; jeremy brecher; tim costello; brendan smith; volume: 271issue: 18:  19-22).
taylor (1911: 14-18) argued that it is possible to have prosperity for both  owners and workers and the diminution of poverty and the alleviation of human  suffering.
there are facts about subcontractor factory life, that do not make it into the press releases about tiger woods.
nike women's empowerment ads aimed at the us market are in sharp contrast to the treatment of women workers in these sweatshops.
bureaucrat - phil knight as executive director manages the  transaction game, the rate setting of production and wage prices negotiated in  contracts with some 700 subcontractors.
students then ultimately design business plans for fictitious companies  based on what they learn
in the past there have been  workers who have been fired and otherwise disciplined for participating in  studies and media reporting on nike factories
the new footage shows the ceo justifying the use of 14-year-old labor in his overseas factories.
piece-wage is the main pay system in today's apparel subcontract factory.
corporate writing is embedded in a web of media, accounting, consultant, and ad writing that seeps into academic writing (student, doctoral, and professorial) that influences how groups, such as unions, state, women, minorities, and populist movements get characterized.
from the world wide web:http://nikebiz.com/labor/reports/toc_studrep.shtml nike (2000c) "
the question is, do off-the-tour factories operate in ways that violate nike's code of conduct and are just not being reported in the fla, global alliance, and price waterhouse coopers studies (bissell et al, 2000).
that's why we try to press multinational corporations to disclose information about all of their suppliers.
.the scholars should stop pretending to be  neutral and objective in a situation where people-especially women and young  girls-are being exploited and are suffering so that excessive profits may  continue to be generated by nike and the corporations that indulge in similar  practices.
and they fined them up to $1 for infractions such as taking too long in the bathroom
boje has also taught accountants and managers in the maquiladora to implement iso14000 and sa8000 standards of health, safety and ecology.
the  implication is that "auditing systems can miss serious problems -- and  that self-policing allows companies to avoid painful public relations about  them."
the business week study found pwc audits missed  most of the more serious abuses: chun si management confiscated all id papers  of its workers, an illegal practice that left a worker a "virtual  captive" of the factory.
volume i the process of capitalist production.
mechanistic wtp is more transactional, where as the organic one is more about transformation.
for example, ms. nguyen thi lap, a worker for the nike  subcontractor, sam yang in cu chi, hcmc vietnam  started working for nike  in october 1995.
apparel industry competitors 7.
despite the militaristic and subservient photos, there is worker resistance.
moore made the video out-takes available after he saw a misleading posting of selected clips on the nike website earlier this week.
references barry, david, boje, david m. landrum, nancy, jeanne logsdon & wood,  donna, oakes, leslie, wells, don & greenberg, josh and tucker, amanda  (2000) "nike and time" an all academy of management showcase  symposium at the august toronto meeting.
however with increased numbers of reports of factory abuses, it is likely that there will be more government intervention into this area.
beneath the coliseum where this spectacle plays on its global stage in tv and every ad imaginable, there are the beating hearts of 600,000 sweatshop workers (mostly young women).
each sub-group will review research proposals and  participants for selection to do various tasks, such as participate in action  research experiments.
- superman - i do not think we can capture and define phil knight's leadership qualities and behaviors in the typical duality of transaction and transformational categories (see figure one).
but, the writing opportunities are corporately financed, staged, and otherwise controlled.
that's why we try to press multinational corporations  to disclose information about all of their suppliers.
students of organization as well as journalists, investors, consumers, and activists read and write about nike's and critics' writing.
nike (2000a) " lehigh university teams up with nike for intro to business class."
our purpose can be summarized to promote  dialogue that leads to basic, applied, participatory, as well as action  research efforts that lead to change.
and this is exactly what we have witnessed in apparel manufacture: without the external control of government or the global enterprise's policies and codes, subcontractors use piece-wage and extend the working day, as well as the number of days worked each month.
we find that it is  very hard to track the locations of the factories because the subcontracting  system is so complicated.
nike is the leader of a pack of competitors - nike and reebok  once traded market shares, but not anymore.
for simplicity, i will label them x, y, and z. x - transactional to transformational leadership, as studied by burns (1978) and bass (1985).
the subcontractor sweatshop shell game i remember seeing my first shell game on the streets of manhattan.
"reebok, nike, liz claiborne, and mattel--have finally begun enforcing their codes in the past year or two" (bernstein, 2000: 86).
for example, going back to taylor (1911), his innovation in pay schemes was  to introduce the idea of differential piece-rate systems.
paramount pictures presents "what women want," a film by nancy myers, starringparamount pictures presents "what women want," a film by nancy myers, starring mel gibson, helen hunt, marisa tomei, lauren holly, delta burke, and alan alda, in which a chicago advertising executive gets a whole new outlook on life when a fluke accident gives him the ability to read women's minds.
women's stories of asian factory life journal of organizational change management.
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web: http://nikebiz.com/labor/trancript1.shtml nike (2000d)
you can also enter to win a "what  women want" prize pack which includes a "what women want"  t-shirt, pair of nike air kukinis and a nike watch.
why don’t they recognize my  past contribution to the company?
bernstein, aaron  with michael shari in jakarta, and elisabeth malkin  " a world of sweatshops" business week, new york; november 6, 2000,  is. 3706; industrial/technology edition; pg. 84-86.
- bureaucrat - phil knight as executive director manages the transaction game, the rate setting of production and wage prices negotiated in contracts with some 700 subcontractors.
david is chair-elect of the research methods division of the academy of management and serves on the board of governors of the international academy of business disciplines.
we have four research subgroups organized as follows 1.
four study questions - how has nike enacted its espoused code of conduct over time?
after the manager hits me, i could not work so i went to the nurse to take the rest of day off.
how critical theory and critical pedagogy can unmask
volume:  47 issue: 9,  page:  b4) part ii -
when the union asked me to do the interview,… right before i did the  interview, the manager told me that since i’m an employee of this company  i should said nice thing about the company, that the company is currently  facing problems.
phil knight's leader styles as an illustration, we can look just at phil knight's leadership style in  terms of the dimensions and categories of figure one.
in nike's code of conduct,  they say they respect the right to organize.
for complete interview, see the case of miss lap nguyen)/ nike no longer employs child labor, after the life magazine expos of children making nike and reebok soccer balls (see pakistan).
i told the manager that without  experienced sewers, it’s going to be hard to get the quota done.
boje, d. m. (2000g) "faciality of nike corporation."
eighty to  ninety percent of the workers in these sweatshops of vietnam, indonesia, and  china are women...
" "we know of no case where a nation developed a  modern manufacturing sector without first going through a `sweatshop'  phase," according to david l. lindauer in nichols, martha, "third  world families at work: child labor or child care?"
adopted the deskilling system that braverman points out.
apparel manufacture too often equates to sweatshop work that is based on modes of production and piece-wages that appears feudal in contrast to the kinds of factories that are recently attaining iso9000, iso14000, and sa8000 certification.
resistance network part iii - one answer - how nike might transform from sweatshops to french taylorism?
yet, the name, sweatshop, goes back to the late 1800s, and  refers to the technique of "sweating" as much profit as possible out  of each worker.
conference: international business & ecology boje, d. m. 1998.
nike is the leader of a pack of competitors, (7) investors and consumers (who purchase stocks and products), (8) workers (in beaverton, oregon, expatriates, and 3rd world mostly young females, and (9) the postmodern network of resistors to the leadership of nike in the global stage of postmodern capitalism.
nike  is flirting with the idea of implementing osha safety and health standards, iso  9000, and even iso 14000 standards.
french workers are  not disempowered from their knowledge and know-how (besson, 2000: 425).
in either case, wtp is "an insatiable desire to manifest power" and "the exercise of power, as a creative drive" and one that "can manifest itself only against resistances" (wtp, 619, 656).
towards a post-taylorian approach to taylorism.
smith (1976) in the   wealth of nations, saw the choice about paying each worker a "living  wage" was clear, economic and moral: a man must always live by his work, and his wages must at least be  sufficient to maintain him.
keady learned  about nike's now notorious history of child labor lin 1996, eight-year-olds  were found making nike soccer balls in pakistan wretched working  conditions (in 1997, overworked vietnamese women were found to have been  exposed to toxic chemicals at 177 times legal levels) (see 1997 leak of ernst  and young nike audit report - greenhouse).
"there existed, and there still exists today, a coded social dialog between workers, union officials, organizers and the hierarchical management" (p. 434).
and breakdown of cost of a cap is retail price = $19.95 university makes $1.50 or more worker makes 8 it is the task of each subgroup to decide upon the most valid, reliable and credible methodologies to address their respective research question and our overall objectives.
these are the nike employees  celebrated in annual reports (landrum, 2000).
figure one, therefore is an effort to resituate the discussion of transactional and transformational leadership by adding a second, vertical dimension.
the usas student movement comes of age - the nation; new york;  oct 16, 2000; liza featherstone;  volume: 271 issue:  11, page:   23-26.
(1) supply chains of third world factories - nike corporation, its 700 subcontractors and a 1,000 outlets form a global production and distribution supply chain.
holly, delta burke, and alan alda, in which a chicago advertising  executive gets a whole new outlook on life when a fluke accident gives him the  ability to read women's minds.
by contrast, french taylorists implemented what besson (2000) describes  a more postmodern approach.
the subcontractor invisibly moves the "ball" here, here, or there.
melbourne, australia (2000) " response to nike's claims to have reformed it's labour practices."
"effects of organizational strategies & constraints on centrality and attributions of influence in interorganizational networks," administrative science quarterly, 26, pp.
that means sticking with the factory to sort out the abuses, sending the child-workers to school and paying them while they're there.
what i have proposed is a way for nike to sustain its global economic power, but enjoy the fruits of modern factory practices.
he criticized, among other things, the group's approach to monitoring apparel factories (the chronicle of higher education, may 5, 2000)."
while this is good news for a few businesses, many others are finding themselves targets for and often embarrassing public criticism" - marketing; london; oct 26, 2000 by tania mason, page: 27).
this, in my opinion, is forcing nike leadership to move from denial that sweatshops exist, to camouflage tactics where factories raided by activists and journalists are cleaned up, moved, or shut down (as in #2).
the manager then hit me in the arm.
critics are  skeptical of nike-arranged factory tours to only 32 of over 600 locations.
do you think the treatment was related to the interview (translator  note: with espn)?
heroic (x = transformational; y = will to serve; z = monophonic) - prince (x = transactional; y = will to power; z = monophonic) - super (x = transformational; y = will to power; z = monophonic) - government (
consider what nike (2000a) posts in its corporate web site: knight succeeded of his own accord, of course.
this study group will sample subcontract factory workers, review factory payroll records, and collect data that will measure and validate various living wage formula.
when the union asked me to do the interview, right before i did the interview, the manager told me that since im an employee of this company i should said nice thing about the company, that the company is currently facing problems.
however with increased numbers of reports  of factory abuses, it is likely that there will be more government intervention  into this area.
- prince - phil knight shrewdly manages the ad machine to enact a spectacle public image of himself and nike corporate behavior.
the chronicle of higher education; washington; nov 10, 2000; volume:  47  issue:  11:a40).
retrieved august 30th from the world wide web: http://nikebiz.com/environ/learn.shtml and http://www.nikebiz.com/environ/ate.shtml nike (2000g) "
this study group will sample  subcontract factory workers, review factory payroll records, and collect data  that will measure and validate various living wage formula.
- does nike subcontract with "sweatshops"?
in "the  best & worst of 2000" list of  time magazine, dec 18, 2000,  volume: 156, issue: 25, p.78, voted nike among the worst innovators of  2000,  "the nike id
if a journalist or activist  finds child labor, force overtime, unsafe conditions, nike will demand that the  subcontractor clean it up.
there were times they make me mop the floor on the second floor.
in  m.l. hoffman & l.w. hoffman, eds., review of child development research,  vol.
in handbook of socialization: theory in research, ed.
including the voice of the workers, while  essential, must also be done with great care.
session s19 "the anti-sweatshop movement and corporate codes of conduct" session is friday january 5th.
adam smith, among others, contended that interests of self-centered interests of merchants and manufacturers ran counter to the general welfare of society.
in these transactions, the  subcontracting factory owners (who are mostly korean and thai) are left little  bargaining room to extend more than poverty wages to their workers.
nike's $750 million dollar advertising  budget for writing and the sponsored apologist writing has spawned reactionary  and resistance writing (bissell et al, 2000), but that is not what makes its  way into the business college classroom.
the result we anticipate is to be able to contrast different forms of  pay-systems and work design and working conditions.
knight is forming,  shaping and reshaping his power domain in athletic apparel and in his narrating  of his power domain.
"the change agent as revolutionary: activist interventions into inter organizational networks," transorganizational development session of the academy of management meetings, atlanta, georgia, august.
and piece-wages, from his point of view, afforded the "source  of reductions of wages and capitalistic cheating" of workers (p. 553).
who either offer apparel factory monitoring or  certify and recommend those who do or procedures for monitoring the apparel  industry.
but it is not phil's charisma that sells shoes or the spectacle image of nike to consumers and investors.
meanwhile nike and its subcontractors open up  new factory locations.
nike is the leader of a pack of competitors - nike and reebok once traded market shares, but not anymore.
we find that it is very hard to track the locations of the factories because the subcontracting system is so complicated.
academy of management review, 22(2) 429-452.
stop by a niketown in the cities listed below between now and december 14th, to receive a pair of complimentary advance screening tickets, while supplies last.
kohlberg, l. (1964).
two months later she was demoted and punished by the company.
"the consultant's dilemma: a multiple frame analysis of a public housing community."
in the postmodern era, the public worships heroes of consumption, not production.
guards regularly punched and hit  workers for various offenses.
z narrative dimension - from monophonic (single voiced) to polyphonic (many voices).
kohlberg, l. (1976) moral development and behavior.
it is an improvement over classical taylorism, that allows piece-wage systems to be modified in ways that increase productivity and worker wage levels, while affording workers avenues of resistance to totalizing systems of control.
the philosophy of moral development: essays on moral development (volume i).
nike's corporate strategy is to enroll universities in their fair labor association (fla), while campus radicals hold non-violent protests until the administration and faculty vote in the workers rights consortium (wrc).
my hand were  getting swollen from repairing the shoes and their punishment.
in short, we hypothesize that the modern  scientifically managed subcontract factory will dramatically out-produce and  out-pay the feudal sweatshop.
"nike spokesman todd mckean says inbbc interview, "unfortunately we've found on occasion in different places isolated instances (of child labor) which i would say this is isolated.
philip knight is the superman, who has ordered nike to terminate promotion contracts with brown, michigan, and his own alma mater, the university of oregon, withdrawing a pledge of $30 million for a sports stadium.
- what is the relationship between fair labor association (fla) and workers rights consortium (wrc)?
the (blue) boxes in the lower potion of the figure on the monophonic narrative types, whereas, the upper (orange) ones represents the polyphonic ones.
please consult the report for  additional issues related to methodology.
conclusions phil knight exercises a strength of will to power and conviction, and   begrudging negotiation with activists that can only be described as  "enlightened despotism."
nike is out of time - showcase  symposium for academy of management meetings - august, 2000 in toronto.
ny: vintage books (a  division of random house).
that is, factory locations that rival the best factory conditions anywhere.
nietzsche's will to power (hereafter wtp) notebooks were  written between 1883 and 1888 (see nietzsche, 1967).
however, here the risk takes on new intrigue.
the superman (or superwoman) is "lid by a faultless and severe instinct into doing nothing that disagrees with him, just as he eats nothing he does not enjoy:" (wtp # 906).
the leaders of this supply chain act as if they really believe that feudal sweatshops are more productive, efficient, and profitable than modern management systems.
i  told the manager that it would be hard for me to complete my quota with only  trainees.
who either offer apparel factory monitoring or certify and recommend those who do or procedures for monitoring the apparel industry.
a shorter version will appear in management communication quarterly, essays for the popular management forum for volume 14, number 3 of management communication quarterly.
what did karl marx (1867), adam smith (1776), and frederick taylor  (1911) have in common?
cole, cheryl l. (1997) "p.l.a.y., nike, and michael jordan: national  fantasy and the racialization of crime and punishment."
yet, the protests continue.
but luckily for lehigh, some of his seminal business insight for the company that became nike has gone into a class that professor karen collins had designed for incoming freshman in lehigh's college of business and economics at the bethlehem, penn. school.
the combination of the three dimensions (x, y, & z) provides eight  types of leadership.
in "the best & worst of 2000" list of time magazine, dec 18, 2000, volume: 156, issue: 25, p.78, voted nike among the worst innovators of 2000, "the nike id
in bureaucratic leadership, for example, there is mostly monologue; other  voices are there on the stage but forbidden to speak, or they can only be  whispered, their words unhearable, drowned out by the one official narrator who  is authorized to take center-stage and speak and speak some more.
the usas student movement comes of age - the nation; new york; oct 16, 2000; liza featherstone; volume: 271 issue: 11, page: 23-26.
she asked me if i told the reporter whether the company still beats workers.
it is more accurately "critical postmodern."
123-128 article that looks at a 3-month business week investigation of the auditing practices of pwc for wal-mart (kathie lee gifford handbags), timberland, new balance, and nike.
cole, cheryl l. (1996) "american jordan: p.l.a.y., consensus and punishment."
david boje's past academic work on nike corporation is listed next.
by paul kenyon full text version.
see boje (2000c) for more on the multiple  voices of leadership.
cole, cheryl l. (1997) "p.l.a.y., nike, and michael jordan: national fantasy and the racialization of crime and punishment."
whereas we once worshiped the heroes of production, we now celebrate heroes of consumption.
edition: industrial/technology edition issue:
second, i wish to look here to elaborate an expanded and more integrative theory of moral and amoral reasoning (e.g. kohlberg).
we believe that nike can deep six the sweatshop practices in favor of some french taylorist ones.
on the other hand, the postmodernists see a drift between what taylorism was in taylor's day, and what it is now, in france (and elsewhere).
undercover investigators filmed children sewing shirts for just a few cents a day.
but the nike sportswear contracts have provided the glue that has cemented them, like sneakers, firmly together" what does it mean when time magazine gives nike its worst innovation award>
the assumption of the subcontractor is that  since the alternative to work is starvation or more rigorous demands of  agriculture, those workers have ample incentive to produce.
monitoring is left to the voluntary action of the global enterprise, its subcontractors, labor unions, workers, and non-governmental organizations.
this  would mean establishing research grants for university research into such  issues as the viability and effectiveness of codes of conduct, what is a  sweatshop, how to measure living wages, and the relationship between the  university and organizations such as fair labor association, workers rights  consortium, and collegiate apparel who offer alternative and different  monitoring standards and programs.
and "nike's sales plummeted after it was singled out as a sweatshop culprit" (source http://www.wslc.org/reports/latest.htm ).
fourth, taylorism, in its french manifestation, is part  of a plurality of perspectives.
the global economy has evolved from production to consumption capitalism, but feudalistic sweatshops is apparently here to stay.
retrieved august 29th from the world  wide web:http://business.nmsu.edu/~dboje/conferences/acad2000nikeandtime.html barry, david & michael elmes (1997)
but this is manipulated by the factory management.