this seems to be the only area that nike lacks in.
this addition to the shoe, a lighter and more reactive foam, allows for greater spring in the step while also allowing for greater impact force when stepping down.
overall rating: 7.5/10
while some might argue that because nikes  are lighter this makes movement much better, i have found that once the shoes  wear out (which happens quite often), i slide around the court unable to  control the valuable seconds of time i need to get to the next shot.
common traits among nike shoes related to design are that they are: for example, in the last line of nike shoes (the nadal air series), the apparel featured strong contrasting colors, small dots for breathability and lunarlite technology (will be explained in the comfort section).
but don't take my word for it, judge for yourself.
not found anywhere in the nike designs, this checks off as one of the few distinct and positive design traits.
other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.
(the longest these shoes have ever lasted is 2.5 weeks.)
submit a comment members and guests sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account.
because of this monopoly on the sporting industry, nike has allowed itself  enough room to expand its design.
vote upvote downshareprintflagwas this hub ...?
in my experience, playing close to 1-2 hours everyday  (including sprinting, sliding and stopping), i have found that adidas tennis  shoes can last at minimum 2 weeks.
the next section, comfort, is one of the more contested  areas with adidas.
holding, basically, the same design for the last 4 models of the barricade shoe, it is easy to see why nike, with all of its color and flair, is a much more attractive shoe.
as an owner of a pair  of courtballistec nike shoes, i can vouch for this stiffness.
design, as mentioned above, is not a huge factor in the adidas company.
while this might seem insignificant to any recreational player, all competitive players know that this contributes greatly to a player's ability to turn and push in any direction.
adolph 19 months ago 6o years ???
â with more than 700 patents on new sports equipment and  shoes before his death in 1959, adidas was able to maintain its number one spot  until just recently, with nike in first place.
some argue that nike tennis shoes are the best, while others say that adidas are the future of tennis shoes.
terms of use privacy policy (0.55 sec) hubpages sportsworking
as you can see, based on the pictures to the right, the same design has lasted  through 5 different series of adidas shoes.
as an owner of a pair of courtballistec nike shoes, i can vouch for this stiffness.
as i mentioned before, i constantly go through tennis shoes because of my  regular tennis schedule.
â eventually changed to nike in 1974, the reason for nike's great success in the shoe industry is due to its original designs and shoe soles.
comment, rate or follow
the reason that i believe adidas to be the better shoe is because, from the perspective of a competitive player, while bold colors and new shoe technology are great, they don't win matches.
the traits that will be examined in order to make deciding easier are: ·â â â â â â â â â â â
so we set out to develop a new kind of footwear, one that would mimic walking on soft, uneven ground.
the reason that i believe adidas to be the better shoe is because, from the  perspective of a competitive player, while bold colors and new shoe technology  are great, they don't win matches.
mbts are now sold in more than 35 countries around the world and enthusiastic users testify that wearing mbts noticeably increase their well-being.mbt shoes sale?mbt outlet?mbt sneakers lexi is cool 4 weeks ago ello :)
this addition to the shoe, a lighter and more reactive  foam, allows for greater spring in the step while also allowing for greater  impact force when stepping down.
despite this fact, the small dots covering the exterior of the shoe do allow for greater movement and flexibility.
while this might seem insignificant to any recreational player, all  competitive players know that this contributes greatly to a player's ability to  turn and push in any direction.
what is important about the barricades though, is that movement is an extreme emphasis.
from the shots of the bottom of the shoes, it is easy to see the circular pattern at the point of the ball of the toe.
because of this, adidas can often feel heavy to the user, but with practice, this feeling goes away.
overall rating: 7/10 evolution of the adidas barricade tennis shoe adidas - impossible is nothing the constant theme that i have noticed throughout the history of adidas's  tennis shoe lines is the phrase, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
by the revelationistsee all 11 photos over the past 60 years, the struggle for the number one tennis shoe has raged between two industrial giants, nike and adidas.
the  reason for this is partially because they are so light, and also because so  little rubber is used to support the ball area of the foot.
(the longest these shoes have ever lasted is  2.5 weeks.)
another factor dealing with the comfort of the new nike line is that of lunarlite technology.
â with more than 700 patents on new sports equipment and shoes before his death in 1959, adidas was able to maintain its number one spot until just recently, with nike in first place.
the final category, comfort, tends to be a medium strength  for the shoe.
â today known as cleats, this innovation soon became world renowned for its impressive traction and durability.
the powerhouse of athletic goods, nike holds range over everything from shirts and shorts to watches and weights.
what is important about the barricades  though, is that movement is an extreme emphasis.
because of the barricade's weight, i  can easily maneuver around the court.
â today known as cleats, this  innovation soon became world renowned for its impressive traction and  durability.
because of this monopoly on the sporting industry, nike has allowed itself enough room to expand its design.
seeing these people in action made us realize that the human body is simply not designed to walk or stand on the hard, flat surfaces of modern society.
while some might argue that because nikes are lighter this makes movement much better, i have found that once the shoes wear out (which happens quite often), i slide around the court unable to control the valuable seconds of time i need to get to the next shot.
from the shots of the bottom  of the shoes, it is easy to see the circular pattern at the point of the ball  of the toe.
the results have been dramatic and revolutionary.
holding, basically, the same design for the last 4 models of  the barricade shoe, it is easy to see why nike, with all of its color and  flair, is a much more attractive shoe.
the traits that will be examined in order to make deciding easier are: ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   style ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   comfort and ·â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â   durabilityâ bios - adidas founded in 1924 by adolf dassler (1900-1959), at the age of 20, invented  the first pair of shoes with spikes.
aside from these two traits, nike shoes, as opposed to that of adidas, have a much more comfortable interior.
and let me know what your opinion is!
while not the same as the slipper-like feel of nike's tennis shoes, the soles of adidas shoes conform well to the shape of the foot very quickly, and don't put too much pressure on the toes.
â some argue  that nike tennis shoes are the best, while others say that adidas are the  future of tennis shoes.
because i prefer my shoes to be tied firmly and tight, i constantly am going  through shoe laces.
as you can see, based on the pictures to the right, the same design has lasted through 5 different series of adidas shoes.
the factor of price: one final reason why adidas won out is because, typically, nike shoes are much more expensive.adidas men's barricade v tennis shoe do you think nikes are better, or adidas?
because of this, adidas can often feel heavy to  the user, but with practice, this feeling goes away.
the reason that these shoes last so long is due to  additional rubber on the shoe.
we made this discovery by observing the wonderfully agile masai people walking barefoot on natural, uneven ground.
â producing its first innovative  and original design in 1974, called the waffle trainer, the company soon  thereafter took the sport apparel industry by storm.
â producing its first innovative and original design in 1974, called the waffle trainer, the company soon thereafter took the sport apparel industry by storm.
the factor of price: one final reason why adidas won out is  because, typically, nike shoes are much more expensive.
due to nike's strong shoe laces, i constantly find myself replacing all of my broken laces with nike string.
in my experience, playing close to 1-2 hours everyday (including sprinting, sliding and stopping), i have found that adidas tennis shoes can last at minimum 2 weeks.
as a competitive tennis player, i constantly go through shoes every 2-3 weeks, and i have found that nike shoes tend to last me at most 2 weeks.
because of the barricade's weight, i can easily maneuver around the court.
not found anywhere in the nike designs, this  checks off as one of the few distinct and positive design traits.
the reason that these shoes last so long is due to additional rubber on the shoe.
bios - nike the current leading supplier of all shoes and apparel, nike was founded in  1964 under the name blue ribbon sports.
one factor of the shoe that must be brought to attention is the weight of  the barricade lines.
another factor dealing with the comfort of the new nike line is that of  lunarlite technology.
as i mentioned before, i constantly go through tennis shoes because of my regular tennis schedule.
overall rating: 7/10 the constant theme that i have noticed throughout the history of adidas's tennis shoe lines is the phrase, "if it ain't broke, don't fix it."
the final category, comfort, tends to be a medium strength for the shoe.
described as stiff and rigid, nike claims that their toe section is  stronger for better stability and traction on the court.
(masai barefoot technology) was born in 1996 when we discovered that natural instability has some amazing health benefits.
when i look to buy shoes, i specifically  target two things: endurance and traction.
while not the same as the slipper-like feel of nike's tennis  shoes, the soles of adidas shoes conform well to the shape of the foot very  quickly, and don't put too much pressure on the toes.
the last trait of the nike shoes to be examined is that of endurance .
â eventually changed to nike  in 1974, the reason for nike's great success in the shoe industry is due to its  original designs and shoe soles.
nike - just do it the powerhouse of athletic goods, nike holds range over everything from  shirts and shorts to watches and weights.
because i prefer my shoes to be tied firmly and tight, i constantly am going through shoe laces.
â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â â comfort and ·â â â â
due to nike's strong shoe laces, i constantly find myself  replacing all of my broken laces with nike string.
adidas  men's barricade v tennis shoe amazon price: $120.00 adidas men's cc feather iii tennis shoe,punjab/silver/yellow,6.5 m amazon price: $99.95
when i look to buy shoes, i specifically target two things: endurance and traction.
common traits among nike shoes related to design are that  they are: flashy consistently endorsed by professionals and are constantly upgrading technology for example, in the last line of nike shoes (the nadal air series), the  apparel featured strong contrasting colors, small dots for breathability and  lunarlite technology (will be explained in the comfort section).
â the purpose of this hub isâ notâ to persuade you toward either  brand, but to help make your own decision about which shoe is better.
also, in terms of shoe laces, nike shoe laces are actually very strong.
the reason for this is partially because they are so light, and also because so little rubber is used to support the ball area of the foot.
despite this  fact, the small dots covering the exterior of the shoe do allow for greater  movement and flexibility.
overall rating: 7.5/10 how did adidas win?
described as stiff and rigid, nike claims that their toe section is stronger for better stability and traction on the court.
name: comment: read more hubs by the revelationist copyright © 2012 hubpages inc. and respective owners.
aside from these two traits, nike shoes, as opposed to that of adidas, have  a much more comfortable interior.
endurance: still, throughout my tennis career, i have continued to come back to  adidas's tennis shoes for one reason, and one reason alone: durability.
design, as mentioned above, is not a huge factor in the  adidas company.
as a competitive tennis player, i constantly go through shoes every 2-3  weeks, and i have found that nike shoes tend to last me at most 2 weeks.
endurance: still, throughout my tennis career, i have continued to come back to adidas's tennis shoes for one reason, and one reason alone: durability.
the next section, comfort, is one of the more contested areas with adidas.
one factor of the shoe that must be brought to attention is the weight of the barricade lines.
nike vs. adidas - the definitive guide to tennis shoes 73
bios - nike the current leading supplier of all shoes and apparel, nike was founded in 1964 under the name blue ribbon sports.
nike only have 32 in market crl 18 months ago mbt shoes
â â â â â â â â â â â â durabilityâ bios - adidas founded in 1924 by adolf dassler (1900-1959), at the age of 20, invented the first pair of shoes with spikes.
with slipper-likeness to the beginning of the shoe, the foot feels much less constrained and overall more comfortable.
see all 11 photos the age long battle over the past 60 years, the struggle for the number one tennis shoe has  raged between two industrial giants, nike and adidas.
with slipper-likeness to the beginning of the  shoe, the foot feels much less constrained and overall more comfortable.
the purpose of this hub isâ notâ to persuade you toward either brand, but to help make your own decision about which shoe is better.