even resource extraction has to do with intelligence.
a basic example is recycling.
so my thought is that this would work especially well in many areas in the third world.
i predict this because the economy is a collective intelligence that becomes more intelligent over time and this is the smart thing for it to do.
so the trend is to take worthless land.
i am not implying it will be all western companies doing it.
they are same as thenike air shoes authorized shop.
no one loves a landlord.
there is no strategic thought here at all.
sunedison, follows this model in a way also, even though its not a real estate development project.
the income from this model will be in the form of rent.
it all represents negative entropy.
they can't factor in free will.
there are lots of other people in thnat quadrant that are concerned about the environment but are also "go getter" type people.
they just like to control things other people have created.
nature recycles everything.
lately, i think he assumes its too late for any of his urban planning ideas to come to fruition.
i do think that amory lovins would be the first to admit that we do live on a finite planet and that his solutions are temporary when taken in the context of the huge picture.
no one can predict the future, we can look at the present and the past and try to rectify our mistakes and move on.
there is an opportunity right now to make a lot of money bringing the economy into harmony with the biosphere and growing them together.
i took the well worn path and now think it might have been a mistake, or not.
it will be more solid growth.
creating resorts in the desert on slave labor wages isn't qualitative growth.
i just found this site a couple of weeks ago and have been reading with interest and checking out blog history as much as i can.
socialists, after trying to get along without rent, now say charge some rent but pay it to the government, who is now the landlord.
the economy grows as ecological health grows.
i am saying you can have permaculture and also spectacular real estate development projects such as skyscrapers.
i'll be focusing on a decision-making system for the individual, but  many of the principles will work equally well for nation-states and  corporations.
success will be measured by the ability to provide a high quality of life and attract people to live there.
after all, each of us, every day, stakes our lives and our family's  lives on our ability to predict the future.
in the united states neither of these things has happened.
or claim that there is no room for healing the environment.
here is an excellent article about bucky's take on it meetings with remarkable buckminster fuller
are you sure you don't have an emotional agenda of your own in wanting to see people suffer?
theo, i looked at destiny usa and it seems to be business as usual to my unsophisticated eye.
many franzose like seach “chaussure sport” by the internet when they need buy thepuma shoes or nike max shoes.
sorry to dissapoint you but in my mind none of these things apply.
three of the top ten green skyscrapers are there.
except to say that its something that some how leaks out of our brains like insulin leaks out of our pancreases.
because the truth implies sacrifice and hard manual labor and giving up toys." "the human subconscious is a marvel for turning rational thinking into rationalizing in order to satisfy emotional demands.
they are really great .
kind of like, if the recent past growth has been getting fat on junk food, the future growth will be building muscle on health food.
i am reading lovins book now on natural capitalism among others and i agree with you, nature does recycle everything.
do you know nike air shoes is a best air shoes .
well, here are the trends: jetson green green books growth will be in making everything green.
its not oil money that built it either.
materialists simply cannot factor in true human creativity.
i believe there will have to be some kind of contraction first to get people to wake up, and then, if enough knowledge is conserved, then perhaps, after quite some time and quite some sacrifices, yes, the economy might grow in the sense theo_musher alludes to.
that even though the reality of energy's relation to economic activity, and the latter's relation to global warming, and all of it related to overpopulation, is obvious to anyone who bothers to look, people still avoid facing the truth.
do you know what leed certification even is?
i'm not sorry about it.
based on my limited posting to you, theo, i came away from our last conversation thinking that you might think: a) i am a hippie b) i am a pessimist c)
you can't make money of any commodity without said commodity being able to be put to intelligent use.
but not all the long-run consequences of this demise are favorable.
my case is simply that green building is not the answer, just part of a shorter term remedy.
mom and pop will ultimately survive the large developments.
i only  wish i had followed it more closely myself (i was leveraged long oil and short  the s&p500, but excessively weighted in the former so that my gains in my  s&p super-bear fund didn't cover my recent losses in oil--though i'm  holding my 2011 crude oil calls because i still think there's a good chance of  the price shooting up again).
in the two men you could see the polarities of intellectual vision.
but anyway, the model that is being used in canada and the us can be used in the developing world.
i've got to get out in the garden right now.
any thing seems possible in the uae from a design standpoint: zero emissions city in the deset who could have predicted this?
how much emissions does it cost to get water and food to that region?
thepuma shoes and the adidas shoes (or addidas shoes) are more on internet shop .i can buy thecheap nike shoes and cheap puma shoes online.
that might happen, but i'm not counting on it.
here is an interesting quote: "should we, by a kind of reverse land reform, reinstate a landlord class?
if our brains are quantum computers able to access a greater reality that interpenetrates the material world, then we don't live in a closed system.
nukes, for example just aren't friendly
people with an interpersonal style of hostile strength ime show lack of creativity.
i actually think a landlord class is going to re-emerge.
here is a good shrödingerlink from die off dot org of all places!
i am not a dooms dayer by any means and i think that what lovins espouses is a path that we should strive for.
the problem of growth-series on this blog is the best stuff by far i have read, because it addresses the root cause of all the global problems and then proposes solutions.
theo, thanks for the link.
i didn't intend  my prediction to be inherently testable or not testable--perhaps in the future  i will be more careful to conclude with an empirically testable prediction...
the human mind is an even superior negative entropy creator than mother nature, her self.
it is manipulating the environment in an energy intensive way.
we have the technology togreen the desert
its a collective intelligence, like the biosphere is a collective intelligence.
i just ordered (from the library) a couple books by herman daly.
such beings are not universally recognized under the military-industrial power structure – but i’m sure that as the aquarian age proceeds, they will come into their own.
so i am just predicting that a past pattern will continue into the future.
therefore a goal of  my methodology will be to optimize future resiliency in the absence of perfect  knowledge of the future outcome.
as a college student many years ago, i considered myself an environmentalist and idealist.
the economy can keep growing in a qualitative manner versus a quantitative manner.
please view my fc2 blog and hair straighteners blog.
people that are in a position to do this through technological innovation are in a position to make a lot of money.
it gives me great joy and an increase of responsibility.”
i also think that some basic assumptions of peak oil doomers are wrong, because they discount the role of intelligence in economic growth/ the economic system itself is intelligent.
many with this worldview don't even recognize the possibility for the existence of people in the top right quadrant.
my motive for becoming involved and investigating is 'action oriented' and not because i think or know i am right.
i didn't simply make up the concept of "negative entropy."
it’s really convenient.
there are other collective models that might work also.
theo, first, i want to thank jeff for his essays.
so he wishes it would go away.
this season is best time that can buy thecheap ugg boots.
tax the resource to limit use not the value added which encourages consumption.
http://www.slate.com/id/2215339/
but anyway jeff, i think what gets in the way of accurately predicting the future is wishful thinking.
hostile strength/friendly strength hostile weakness/friendly weakness i think most peak oil doomers are in the lower left quadrant.
this isn't a new development, its just a reality that is hidden from people with a mechanical materialistic newtonian worldview.
its a hub basically to develop africa.
i am a dooms dayer d) i am not a forward thinking person e) i believe i am right
so he's just basically a pessimist.
so they tend to look at everything in the universe as mechanical and constantly in the process of winding down.
there can no doubt be partnerships.
there's an interesting new website up,  wrong tomorrow, that strives to track and report on the predictions of various  pundits and prognosticators.
mentally i called herman “fat hope” and bucky “slim chance.”
its not like they are clear cutting the rain forest to build there.
" it examines failures of "experts" to predict the fall of the soviet union, 9/11, and the lack of wmd's in iraq, the economic crash of 2008-??, and then asks "what if we're wrong about other conventional assumptions".
i can start conserving, live in a commune or a tent in the woods...it won't change the outcome of your theory.
first he predicts y2k will utterly wipe it out, then peak oil.
here's a good example of a failed doom prediction by kuntsler jeff is either ignoring me or too busy to post (which is likely being a lawyer with a family)
by positive, in this case i mean "action oriented" nietzsche talked about the "slave morality" and the "master morality" that's pretty loaded with bad (or unpc) connotations, but i still think the basic premise is sound.
any project that touts 1 million square feet of retail space is just the same ole same ole.
it looks like more of the same 'green' marketing to get us to come and buy more stuff that we really don't necessarily need.
in my view we all have to take two steps back and once we have done this, take a long, hard look at how things stand and then take a step forward or even better: sideways.
bucky scrawled an unhesitating response: “indeed you do!
i don't see it as any kind of paradigmatic shift.
however, if your theory proves to be totally flawed... believe it or not lonnie, the key to overcoming the problem of entropy is in understanding the relation between quantum physics and spirituality.
unless, las vegas is healing the environment.
my belief is that we will experience a devolution of sorts.
more likely, in my opinion, is a slow, grinding reduction in the overall size of the pie and a simultaneous increase in the relative concentration of wealth among a few..." that seems to be an overarching prediction you have about the future in general.
there needs to be a shift to renewable resources but the economy will still continue to grow.
so far you don't seem to get what i am saying.
some new stylepuma speed is in fashion this year.
this is the economic model of the future: http://www.princeofdubai.com/ dubai is archaic yet modern, arguably the most modern city its controlled by a feudal monarchy.
so, i decided to start giving my opinion for the first time here on this blog...
people are converting cronfeilds in iowa to perennial pasture and restoring the soil and making more money than corn and soy bean farmers still getting subsidies.
this is what intelligent people are doing like jigar shah of sun edison.
lots of people we share the earth aren't hippies and aren't going to either become hippies or die anytime soon.
it has done this to favor certain capitalists, to promote growth, and to ease the labor-capital conflict and win votes in both camps."
the proof is all the biological life we see all around is.
i just found out one of them "steady state economics" is available online.
one way this is talking place is real estate development firms going into economically depressed areas, with brownfields and doing bioremdiation and creating huge green developments.
but the income is all from ppv's.
rent may be an illegitimate source of income, but it is a totally legitimate and necessary price, without which efficient allocation of scarce resources would be impossible.
i've decided to dedicate at least a few years at making jeff vail's idea of rhizome reality.
spring has sprung the sun is out :)
he's explaining why resources are such a low percentage of gdp and why the price of scarce, mon-renewable resources is so low.
he designed four quadrants of interpersonal styles.
we can green the entire middle east and then build massive green cities on sustainable bases of local food and energy production, wheras before it was a wasteland.
i think people like geoff lawton are in the "friendly strength" quadrant.
they are concerned with making the future.
i am a middle aged man, i make a very decent living and i would consider myself at the top of the consumer chain.
maybe i'm just ignorant.
in my mind, the key difference between these actors is that it is  always the individual (as opposed to the currently reigning politician or ceo  who can just walk away) that ultimately must carry the bag for failure to  integrate the need for resiliency into our decision making.
written by jeff vail email
unfortunately, intelligence or technology can only go so far for so long, again given the constraints of physics.
"he was very approachable, very warm and saintly, radiating a very loving aura – in sharp contrast to herman kahn who was hugely aloof and sneering, radiating little warmth.
what about the developed countries?
my prediction for the future is that the economy and the biosphere will begin to grow together in greater harmony.
the economy will no longer grow at the expense of the biosphere.
landlord rent is unearned income, and we find income based on ownership of that which no one produced to be ethically distasteful.
the most profitable construction projects to make right now are green buildings.
very high-caliber air shoes and puma cat shoes .
leed certification green roofing, paperless construction, buildings that generate their own power etc.
one could call that stick your head in dubai sand.
it was a major premise of the ideas of karl popper, buckminster fuller, and in a sense, pierre tielhard de chardin, erwin shrödinger.
turn out that my prediction that themexican state  won't see 2012is up for testing--though, highlighting one weakness of the site,  it takes my prediction out of context, dropping the first half of my prediction  that some form of state-shell may exist in mexico for decades.
i like orange converse shoes ,i like to buy the cheap converse shoes by the internet shop .
fuller, on the other hand, was convinced that universe is sentient, that cosmic intelligence always prevails, and that cooperation, not competition, was the key to real progress.
polo shirts ralph lauren polo shirts chaussure puma chaussure sport chaussures puma puma cat ed hardy clothing ed hardy clothes ed hardy womens ed hardy sunglasses http://polotshirts.blogspot.com http://0o0o0o-000.blogspot.com http://ghd-mk4-online.blogspot.com http://cheap-polo-shirts.blogspot.com http://nike-shoxonline.blogspot.com http://trade-nike-shox.blogspot.com post a comment
within hours i had decided bucky would make the ideal grandfather.
my concern is that it will take crisis to bring about this particular state.
" more: http://questioneverything.typepad.com/question_everything/2009/04/april-fools-.html neven, did you even peek at the abu dabi link?
so, over the next few weeks, this will  be the focus of my posts: the development of a future modeling and  decision-making methodology that will maximize outcomes in a very uncertain  future.
it's the best way for me and the world around me.
this simple act proved to me that bucky represented the noblest spirit of humanity, the archetypal community elder who has grown beyond tribal concerns and was in effect one of the true sages of planet earth.
and our unconscious minds are fantastic at avoiding any sense of self-blame for anything that is going wrong in our world.
here is the ultimate dilema for you, though: my basic belief that technology will not overcome entropy and that there are going to be consequences, will be a mere blip on the radar if your theory ultimately proves correct.
it causes people to look at positive people with a jaundiced eye.
a materialistic worldview tends to negativity because it is inherently passive.
were we to accelarate toward your theory of a qualitative state then that finite point would be further into the future
by the way ,the nike max ltd is really good nike air shoes ,don’t forget buy the puma mens shoes and nike air max ltd by the internet when you need them .
the key is to make healing the land profitable.
it's in the desert, right?
i think pessimism is another distortion.
just because there has been a lot of chicanery doesn't change that fact.
the end result, ultimately, is heat.
" so the extrapolation i am making is that the universe is sentient, life feeds off negative entropy, we human beings are by extention alive and sentient also and have the ability to order the universe even faster than mother nature.
chaussure puma is puma shoes in french .
i think this because i think the past overall trend of economic growth (looking at it in terms of decades, even centuries)has been growing muscle on health food.
less population coupled with less consumption.
it would take a lot of sacrifice, quantitatively and qualitatively, sacrifice people aren't prepared for and aren't prepared to make unless they have to.
another kinds of nike shoes is better .
they don't believe in free will.
i studied forestry and found out i was not willing to make the monetary sacrifices to excel in my field.
but they are in the killing bussiness.
so that means we have to all work together.
like innovations in solar technology.
robert anton wilson thought so too.
an excellent resource is a book called "natural capitalism" if you go to amazon you will find a lot of new books on related subjects, like economic growth vs. scarcity.
demand for grass fed beef is estimated to be 10 times greater than supply.
the cheap puma shoes as same as other.
that takes us to the third distortion i see.
where does economic growth lie for them?
this is a good slate article on "what else could we be wrong about?
its easier to start from scratch.
would it upset you if people people started making money in a green collar economy?
i thought what you were talking about was qualitative growth but now i'm not so sure.
you are not suggesting that the developed countries are the landlords for these massive green developments so as to provide economic growth in the neoclassical sense are you?
theo, i believe that your analysis is correct, as far as the end result being more in harmony with the bioshpere to the extent this is possible, given the constraints of physics.
i was doing some reading up on george mobus' excellent questioneverything-blog, and this piece reminded me of the problem i have with the way theo_musher presents his case: "so the g-20 is meeting in london to figure out the best logistics and tactics to restore the global economy to its prior growth-oriented consumer-based ways.
they see mostly inertia and the second law of thermo-dynamics winding down.
i'm the first one in line to buy it.
the puma cat shoes is a kind of cheap puma shoes.
nowadays you can add -wash to most of the plans that use the word 'green' in it.
like some kind of revenge fantasy?
its just a fact that there is lots of green development going on in dubai.
while predictions and record-keeping can be interesting, and can  even serve an important purpose by highlighting the past inaccuracies of  someone offering a new prediction, i'm more interested in the methodology of  prediction.
i think many people high up in the military are in the upper left quadrant.
many sellers are selling discounted.
share to  twitter share to facebook labels: decision-making, planning, predictions
so in a way its like the income is from rent.
i think the ability of the political machine to package itself in an acceptable manner exceeds the ability of the masses to broadly see through this facade.
the economy is designed to grow, just like biological life is designed to evolve and diversify and spread out.
one last thing then i'll shut up.
it explains how its been built and where the water is coming from.
my overarching prediction is that "perpetually increasing material consumption" will transform, into "perpetually increasing actual wealth" and that the economy will continue to grow in the future.
so when i found him sitting one row behind me at one of the talks, i scribbled my request on a sheaf of conference notes and handed it to him: “do i have your permission to adopt you as my grandfather?”
i think the most opportunity is there for growth.
i would much rather you be right, theo.
in the comment section a few posts back: "i don't think people will actually revolt unless there is a sudden realization that the dream of perpetually increasing material consumption--what all these government programs are implicitly selling--is a fantasy.
imo all wealth creation is mostly qualitative rather than quantitative.
anyway you lok at it.
well, one key concept is biomimicry.
the future of economic growth is massive green development projects in the developing world.
its already happening, sorry to say.
how much emissions does it cost to build this zero emissions city?
the largest resource owner, the government, has followed a give-away and low price policy, both on resources it owns and on those, such as natural gas, whose price it regulates (energy policy project, 1974, chapter 11).
people able to think big.
it all makes more sense, now, because i have witnessed it first hand.
there was nothing there in the 1960's.
here is the cure for pessimism: we are the weeds i said i would shut up...but i'm not sure this is 'healing' the environment.
one example is destiny usa.
and that is a materialistic worldview.
but first people's consciousness has to alter radically.
its the possibilities of the region that capture my imagination.
dubai? theo, i was mistaken...
it doesn't matter if its not your taste.
which is really silly, because its so obvious.
kale, you really don't know?
readers may also find my litigation  checklist of interest.
if you check the investment theory outlined in that  article, it would have worked out quite well over the past 18 months.
and most of the world wants that to happen.
henry george said let rent be charged but then tax it away.
i am a huge fan of amory lovins.
nike shox shoes is fitting to running.
it's about scale, ultimately.
i'll have a read later looks interesting.
but, 'sustainable' is thrown around a lot in marketing and it really isn't ultimately close to being sustainable.
it just seems counter intuitive to call a million square foot retail space 'green'.
adam smith tells us that landlords love to reap where they have never sown, and not many lament the historical demise of the landowning aristocracy.
green building will not sustain perpetual growth, that's my only point.
lots of people are motivated by making money.
either they stick their head in the sand, or they come up with optimist visions such as theo_musher's.
in james kuntsler's case he hates sub-urbia.
spring is coming, do you think this season is not forugg boots?
kahn was convinced that the planet was in deep trouble and that malthusian economics dictated darwinian survival strategies (e.g., he advocated and defended america’s policy of exporting pollution to third world countries).
the sun is not going to grow, but the ability to capture usable energy from it will grow with investment in that sector.
so if you are really committed to continuing to be pessimitic, you have too choices: deny that healing the ecology can ever be profitable.
the strategy is 'let's do what we did before because, well, that is what we did before and it all seemed to work ok.'
you can always e-mail me, if you want to have a private conversation ted_heistman@yahoo.com.
intelligence is not going to reach an endpoint any time soon.
please do tell theo, explain to me how life on earth is negative entropy?
again, i think it's all about scale.
i am sure some are decent people.
there are too many global problems at the moment for the intelligent economy to solve.
if there were no machines, no pesticides, no plastics, no pharmacuticals, it would have no value.
the fact is, we have never lived in a closed system.
the information age is really convenient .
once you are able to do that, you heal the land and create economic growth.
they aren't worried about passively predicting the future.
i talked briefly about my theory of  prediction in my essayhedging the future solution space, which highlights that,  while predictions may be fun, the more utilitarian approach (until i can figure  out how to be 100% correct in predicting everything) is to outline the  possibilities and then see how we can make choices today that will fare best  regardless of the outcome.
everything else i have read so far on the topic of solutions is old thinking (what did einstein say about that?) and greenwash.
neven, just for discussion and a wild theory: have you ever considered that maybe there is some secret agenda and that maybe they do have a clue and the answer is to go ahead and wreck this train and get it over with to start the rebuilding process?
" "what is the foolishness here?
these are the philosophers i believe robert anton wilson picked up the concept from for his book "prometheus rising"
the future of green building in the economic downturn theo, you will get no argument from me that green building is the only way to build.
if you want to buy the cheap nike air shoes ,you can buy them online.
its renting the use of the sun to people, through giving the equipment that captures the energy away for free.
rehabilitating those rain forest and retrofitting existing infrastucture to be 'greener' is more akin to 'healing' the environment.
planning for the future predictions are difficult, especially when  they're about the future.
for example , nike air rift is good and cheap nike shoes .the
i envision a green type of corporate feudalism, which i don't think will be as scary as people think.
big green development projects.
i am mostly a lurker just trying to absorb the amount of information that needs to be dealt with.
many persons more like puma basket shoes than nike air rift shoes .
now 30 years later, i am rediscovering daly and boulding, leopold and lovins.
but there needs to be more intelligent allocation of resources.
maybe that is simply because i'm too dense to grasp the big scale of such a project.
i think what you are advocating is what daly has been teaching for decades.
they can't factor in human consciousness at all.