capturing water from gutters and downspouts in a well-designed rain barrel conserves the municipal supply while providing the best water for lawn and garden.
only rain in the storm drain!
everything from our streets drains to surface waters and someone's ground water, so we need to try to keep plant material, toxins (fertilizer, pesticide, herbicide) and debris out of the storm sewers—and we need to avoid wasting ground water by sending it down the storm drain.
in addition to the recommendations above, if your house  has an even-number address, limit outdoor use to even-numbered calendar days;  if it has an odd-number address choose odd-numbered calendar days.
collect rain water in a rain barrel or cistern water that runs off hard surfaces such as roofs can be collected and put to use in the garden.
step on the grass; if it springs back up  when you move your foot, it does not need water.
capturing  water from gutters and downspouts in a well-designed rain barrel conserves the  municipal supply while providing the best water for lawn and garden.
water before 8:00 a.m. when it isn't windy, position a sprinkler to avoid  losing water on driveways or sidewalks, and water slowly so the soil can absorb  the water.
the water conservation and sustainability plan of 2008 (pdf) looks at a variety of things that can be done by the city and its residents and businesses to reduce our impact on the water resources that help make madison such a great place to live, work and play.
water the lawn only when needed.
everything from our streets drains to surface waters and someone's  ground water, so we need to try to keep plant material, toxins  (fertilizer, pesticide, herbicide) and debris out of the storm sewers—and  we need to avoid wasting ground water by sending it down the storm drain.
- the university of wisconsin-extension publishes an excellent lawn watering guide (pdf).
hint: place  3-5 empty tuna or cat food cans at varied distances from the sprinkler.
good outdoor watering practices - water lawn and garden, not pavement: position sprinklers so that water lands on plantings and isn’t lost to evaporation or the storm drain.
copyright © 1995 - 2012 city of madison, wi webmaster |  español | accessibility | conditions & use |  privacy & security  policy
rain water is “soft,” without groundwater  minerals or chlorine, so it's more plant-friendly than tap water.
7:30am - 4:00pm water conservation the madison water utility has led an effort to develop a comprehensive  water conservation program for the city.
collect rain water in a rain barrel or cistern water that runs off hard surfaces such as roofs can be collected and put to  use in the garden.
to learn more, visitcity of madison engineering, water quality  initiatives, rain gardens sustain dane dane county office of lakes and watersheds rain garden information uw extension home & garden wisconsin dnr water protection milestones city of madison engineering division water quality initiatives special drug disposal collection days, city streets division and dane  county meddrop epa watersense your browser does not  support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
- check weather reports or buy a rain gauge to monitor whether watering in addition to rain is needed; most established lawn and garden plantings do well on an inch of water per week.
consider alternate-side use in hot, dry conditions when many people may be  watering.
main: (608) 266-4651 fax: (608) 266-4426 wi relay service email:water utility to report an emergency, 24/7 call madison water utility at (608) 266-4665 office hours: monday-friday: 7:30am - 4:00pm water conservation the madison water utility has led an effort to develop a comprehensive water conservation program for the city.
the water conservation and  sustainability plan of 2008 (pdf) looks at a variety of things that can be done  by the city and its residents and businesses to reduce our impact on the water  resources that help make madison such a great place to live, work and play.
copyright © 1995 - 2012 city of madison, wi webmaster | español | accessibility | conditions & use | privacy & security policy
check weather reports or buy a rain gauge to monitor whether watering in  addition to rain is needed; most established lawn and garden plantings do well  on an inch of water per week.
hint: place 3-5 empty tuna or cat food cans at varied distances from the sprinkler.
good outdoor watering practices water lawn and garden, not pavement: position sprinklers so that water  lands on plantings and isn’t lost to evaporation or the storm drain.
to learn more, visitcity of madison engineering, water quality initiatives, rain gardens - sustain dane - my fair lakes.com - dane county office of lakes and watersheds rain garden information - uw extension home & garden - enact program - wisconsin dnr water protection milestones - city of madison engineering division water quality initiatives - special drug disposal collection days, city streets division and dane county meddrop - epa watersense your browser does not support inline frames or is currently configured not to display inline frames.
content can be viewed at actual source page: http://www.epa.gov/watersense/widget/widget-medium.html.
step on the grass; if it springs back up when you move your foot, it does not need water.
the time it takes to fill the cans is about how long you should water your lawn.
rain gardens manage rainfall on your property as much as possible, using the contour of  the area and plantings to slow the flow of water, use it and offer it back to  the atmosphere.
- home - my account - services - agencies - contact us - search - home - in the home - toilet rebate - conservation - home treatment - water quality - notices - water quality for wells serving my address? - chromium - manganese - lead and copper - testing - chlorine & fluoride - annual water quality report -
a good soaking is better than watering frequently and will allow the roots to grow to greater depths and help make turf more drought tolerant.
if lawn and garden do need water, limit loss to evaporation.
lawns need about 1 inch per week.
the university of wisconsin-extension publishes an excellent lawn watering  guide (pdf).
during drought, turf grass plants need only 1/4 inch of water a month to  survive.
rain water is “soft,” without groundwater minerals or chlorine, so it's more plant-friendly than tap water.
rain gardens manage rainfall on your property as much as possible, using the contour of the area and plantings to slow the flow of water, use it and offer it back to the atmosphere.
a good soaking is better than  watering frequently and will allow the roots to grow to greater depths and help  make turf more drought tolerant.
- water before 8:00 a.m. when it isn't windy, position a sprinkler to avoid losing water on driveways or sidewalks, and water slowly so the soil can absorb the water.
- water less frequently and thoroughly.
water less frequently and thoroughly.
- water the lawn only when needed.
well reports - news & reports - current press releases - archived press releases - reports - water quality notices - sustainability - home conservation - lawn & garden - toilet rebate - water conservation - businesses - programs - lead replacement - toilet rebate - water main flushing - private wells - project h2o - wellhead protection program - plans & projects - east side water supply project - automated meters - arbor hills supplemental fire flow supply - pressure zone 4 water supply augmentation - pressure zone 7 & 8 water supply augmentation - well 15 voc mitigation - prairie road water tower - project news - infrastructure plan - master plan - contact us - general information - request to start or end service - billing questions - ask us, tell us (report a problem) - subscribe to water utility notifications - about us - water utility board - doing business - water main flushing - project h2o - water faqs - just for kids tom heikkinen general manager administrative office 119 east olin avenue madison wi 53713
in addition to the recommendations above, if your house has an even-number address, limit outdoor use to even-numbered calendar days; if it has an odd-number address choose odd-numbered calendar days.
content can be viewed at actual source page:  http://www.epa.gov/watersense/widget/widget-medium.html.
- during drought, turf grass plants need only 1/4 inch of water a month to survive.
the  time it takes to fill the cans is about how long you should water your lawn.
- consider alternate-side use in hot, dry conditions when many people may be watering.