it took me and my labor pool (aka husband)
and from the university of rhode island comes this advice: fine mesh screen should be used to cover any openings in the rain barrel  to prevent mosquitoes and to trap debris.
if you have asbestos shingles or live in a very urban (bad air pollution) area.
also, the  spigot needs to be really close to the bottom of the barrel so you can get all  the water.
rain barrels can be installed upon blocks or wooden crate to provide  height for gravity flow purposes.
we've posted about it a few times (at the "rain harvester" tag on our blog).
the homemade one is closed except for the  hole that the downspout empties into.
well, that's not much help, is it?
here's a us government site about water usage check out aquabarrel's "learn more" and "faqs" in the  nav bar of their site.
lower photo courtesy of aquabarrel.
in order to keep debris out, we used a  piece of window screening over that hole.
lower photo courtesy  of aquabarrel.
posted by susan harris on december 22, 2007 at 05:15 am in designs,  tricks, and schemes | permalink reblog (0) | | trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451bd5e69e200e54fc0167e8834
details about suppliers, making them yourself and maintenance are needed but my  big question is this:  can one or even two 55-gallon barrels really make a  difference, or are they mainly feel-good items, as one expert suggested to me?
i plan to add another, larger, rain barrel this year.
say it rains for three days.
seems like gardener-gouging to me.
to make them more appealing in the landscape we planted bushes around them,no one knows they are there unless you are standing right next to them.
the s-shaped thing seems like too much work.
ten good minutes of rain would refill the barrel.
veggies were planted more closely than recommended so that leaves completely shaded the earth once the plants were part grown, as the beds had at least 14 hours of sun a day.
they are great, i love'm.
for one i replaced the entire section with  those "flexible downspout extensions" they sell everywhere.
(he is so handy) i like it , water all potted plants with it, i want one for our detached garage so i don't have to haul water to the back of the lot.
i can't wait until i have time to read this more closely and follow through on all those links.
it seemed a waste then, and even more so now that private ownership of cars is so much more common.
someone else wrote to recommend the full-service company aquabarrel and their website looked so promising, i immediately asked for and got  an interview with owner barry chenkin.
owner barry chenkin is so excited about this stuff he calls himself a master rain harvester, and indeed he is, offering build-it-yourself workshops and/or powerpoints on the subject of rain barrels through the anacostia watershed society and community forklift.
i also appreciate being able to water my acid-loving plants (i know i should be growing plants more suitable to the soil i have, but i just can't bring myself to give up the luxury of my own blueberry patch!) with low ph rainwater.
coming soon: the rain garden alternative.
my garden is small, and only half of it needs supplemental water during the dry season--by which i mean there is no reasonable expectation of rain from may through sept, and only light rains in april and october.
weather patterns are becoming completely erratic in some places, and sometimes it seems hard to justify watering flowers and veg when there's a drought going on.
again, if  you see it it makes perfect sense.
the last sentence refers to something you'd put on the end of the cut off downspout to direct the water into the rain barrel.
as to installing them on blocks or wooden crate to provide height for gravity flow purposes, i use my barrels to fill watering cans so it's not such an issue for me, but if you want to use it with a hose or soaker hose, having it higher will create more "flow".
for the  other i used a small flexible piece to reconnect the cut off piece.
the captured rain that would fill 2 or three barrels would be used up in a matter of weeks leaving the barrels barren for 6 months of the year.
just hard to explain in words.
hisowner's manual has more.
again, multiply that out to every home in a subdivision, and you begin talking about acre feet of runoff saved.
posted by: rob | december 24, 2007 at 08:14 am i have one rain barrel (not sure how many gallons--the plastic pickle-barrel kind) so far.
we'll try to get the details and help publicize the events.
i don't think these barrels can be used to help with vegetables and edible plants unless the water from asphalt roofs is cleaned.
susan harris elizabeth licata michele owens amy stewart about us change is good more...subscribe to this blog's feed « my idea of a great houseplant | main |
no leaks and best of all the overflow is super huge and we have never had water overflow out the top - it takes a 4" landscape pipe - we buried the landscape pipe and also used their drainbox at the end of the pipe at the rain garden (limits erosion) - no mosquito issue to speak of either.
any pollution settled on a roof that can be washed off by water likely will be washed off in the first two days.
amy stewart, michele owens,  elizabeth licata, susan harris.
surprised?  well,  a quarter-inch of rain falling on an average-size house yields slightly over  200 gallons!
not necessarily for drinking, but okay for vegetable gardening.
here in dc we're compiling information about good  landscaping practices for our website, and have canvassed the local  eco-listservs to that end.
too many chemicals could go into the barrel from the shingles.
posted by: tibs | december 22, 2007 at 08:25 am we have two rain barrels (like the $135 ones from gardeners supply) one which we received from the city of austin at a discount price of $35 as part of its water conservation program and one which was a gift.
he told me they make their barrels locally in gaithersburg, md using recycled materials and sell either mail order or at two retail sites so far - amicus green in kensington, the washington cathedral, and soon, gingko's in dc.
i love my rain barrels--only $65 each from the city of austin and no problems with leaks or cracking.
husband made me one from found items.
and in print water storage by ludwig coming soon: the rain garden alternative.
the comments to this entry are closed.
they sell kits, individual parts, or full service including installation.
posted by susan harris on december 22, 2007 at 05:15 am in designs, tricks, and schemes | permalink reblog (0) | | trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451bd5e69e200e54fc0167e8834 listed below are links to weblogs that reference wanted: your real-life experiences with rain barrels: one question - how do you save 1300 gallons of water over the summer if it doesn't rain?
they save (a little) on our water bills, though not enough to justify  using them on the basis of cost alone.
before we build our rain harvester we were using a 55-gallon trash can wedged under a downspout.
the lower pressure is just right for hooking up a hose, dragging it to the base of a shrub and leaving it for a while as i putter around other parts of the yard.
gardening with nature amy stewart: flower confidential: the good, the bad, and the beautiful amy stewart: from the ground up: the story of a first garden your email address: powered by feedblitz
his system uses a diverter (photo) to restore the usual rain path down the downspout.
be careful with using collected rainbarrel water on your edibles and herbs if your rainwater is washing down from your roof - esp.
[pdf]  barrels cost $50 each plus $14 for attachment  "stuff," but the order form doesn't say how many gallons they hold,  though 55 gallons would be a good bet.
by the third day, the water coming off the roof will be reasonably clean.
beijing is a desert - and yet we saw the hotel's cars being washed with lots of water, keeping them up to a 'western standard of cleanliness'.
our solution, as i said, is to eventually get a much larger system.
i used the small flexible piece (available at home depot) which i also  use to reconnect the downspout cutoff.
we were living in beijing in 1989.
in my expierence i have seen numerous clients switch to more impactful water management practices like rain gardens and swales once they have a few barrels.
in order to keep debris out, we used a piece of window screening over that hole.
when we bought our home 15 years ago from a then 80 year old gardener & florist, he had just a huge blue barrel under one of the down-spouts, so i left it and used it for all my potted containers-outdoors in the summer and indoors during the non-freezing times the rest of the year.
i do not think the rain barrels save me very much on my water usage but as far as i'm concerned every little bit helps.
gardener's supply's 75-gallon deluxe costs $135.
darn those cannas, heliconias and bananas !
the hinged thing they refer to is something you can get from catalogs.
sidebar photo by: « my idea of a great houseplant | main | a musical memory » wanted: your real-life experiences with rain barrels by susan
they collect naturally soft, chlorine-free rainwater for use on our  plants, which may result in increased plant health (though our petroleum-based  roofing products and bird poop contribute their own pollution to the mix, sorry  to say).
we use it to divert the snow melt away from the house since the foundation doesn't need so much water.
takoma park gives workshops in building your own, which cost only $35  "and some diy".
here's what i've learned from some web research and advice offered by local gardeners on local yahoo groups: some users say "the bigger the better" while others suggest working backwards to determine how much excess water your garden could actually use.
i'd really love to have a cistern one day.
posted by: georgia | december 24, 2007 at 04:03 pm i only have a single 55-gallon barrel.
for families using rain barrels, water is suddenly a resource to be harvested, not a utility to be paid.
they were badly caulked by the seller, and i failed to improve matters by choosing the wrong caulking material when i gave it a go.
owner barry chenkin is so excited about  this stuff he calls himself a master rain harvester, and indeed he is, offering  build-it-yourself workshops and/or powerpoints on the subject of rain barrels  through the anacostia watershed society and community forklift.
many hours of research and store visits to figure out the best design for our purposes and climate (which we think is superior to many commercial ones).
during long dry spells i use them to top off the small pond we have,we also water potted plants with them.
i have long thought that water supply and water usage will be esssential issues in the 21st century.
(although, i have tasted it and it tastes like plain old water.)
so if i just wait to collect the water from the tail-end of a heavy late spring storm, i'm set.
he told me they make their barrels  locally in gaithersburg, md using recycled materials and sell either mail order  or at two retail sites so far - amicus green in kensington, the washington  cathedral, and soon, gingko's in dc.
his system uses a diverter (photo) to restore the usual rain path  down the downspout.
in one test a rain barrel saved  about 1,300 gallons over the summer, and one user told me he'd saved $35 over  the course of the summer.
for one i replaced the entire section with those "flexible downspout extensions" they sell everywhere.
we intend, someday, to put in a complete rainwater collection system.
here's what we have so far on the subject of rain barrels, and i welcome your feedback, corrections and additions.
leave it to an 80 year old gardener to guide this newby gardener with something so basic.
they'll do the installation for you for a $45 preinstallation  inspection and $65/hour to install (a simple one-barrel system typically takes  2 hours).
building your own operating and maintaining one barry at aquabarrel explained to me that by virtue of their shape (something technie about how freezing works), refurbished barrelsmust to be emptied for the winter.
if your barrel is screened off like this, then you shouldn't need mosquito dunks because they shouldn't be getting into the water.
after several years one of them froze and cracked, after which she found even better barrels.
"they're produced by theriversides program in toronto, hold 132 gallons in the same footprint as the gardeners supply 75-gallon, and they're designed to withstand freezing."
two rain barrels alone don't provide enough water to see us through the dry spells and they quickly overflow during floods.
not sure if this was mentioned in the original post, but you can easily "chain" barrels by setting two side by side and placing a hose between them.
one reader wrote to tell me she directed her downspouts to carry rainwater to her garden, which brings us to rain garden techniques as another way to accomplish the same ends.
posted by: meg | december 22, 2007 at 07:57 am rain barrels are just a start.
posted by: commonweeder | december 23, 2007 at 09:43 am rain barrels are a moot point in my mediterranean climate - no real measurable rain fall from late april through late november.
also, the spigot needs to be really close to the bottom of the barrel so you can get all the water.
if we had had a long run of very hot weather and tomatos for instance were developing fruit, i occasionally did a little supplementary watering.
i've no idea if the lack of chlorination makes a big difference in plant growth, but it's pretty darn nice water.
if i was really concerned, i could buy a filter.
posted by: mss @ zanthan gardens | december 22, 2007 at 08:47 am in my prairie garden, average 14" precipitation a year, we had a big metal rainwater barrel, which stood on our back steps.
so you cut off a section in the appropriate height and  then put it away to use again when the rain barrel is gone for the winter.
aquabarrel sells refurbished 55-gallon barrels for $100 at retail outlets,  which is preferable because shipping even locally starts at about $55 for one  barrel.
all it takes is 1" of rainfall to fill my barrels.
posted by: sandra | december 22, 2007 at 09:21 am we recently installed two 60-g olive barrels re-purposed as rain barrels (and i blogged about it).
one dc resident wrote to say she first bought four 75-gallon barrels from gardener's supply, one for each corner downspout.
they sell kits, individual parts, or full  service including installation.
the last  sentence refers to something you'd put on the end of the cut off downspout to  direct the water into the rain barrel.
we made the first one out of a garbage can.
posted by: kathy j, washington gardener | december 22, 2007 at 07:30 pm as a chemist, i've thought a little about pollution in my rain barrel water.
unfortunately, the largest size refurbished barrel is 55 gallons; barrels from unrecycled materials are available in larger sizes.
more information available on line and in print
the hinged thing they refer to is  something you can get from catalogs.
subscribe to this blog's feed blog powered by typepad copyright 2006-2011.
it has all the problems identified in the aquabarrel video.
"they're produced by theriversides  program in toronto, hold 132 gallons in the same footprint as the  gardeners supply 75-gallon, and they're designed to withstand freezing."
posted by: emmakw | december 21, 2007 at 11:17 am my dad (who has a greenhouse retail business in the uk) used to have a nice little sideline selling used foot container barrels - the stuff big quantities of orange juice, brined vegetables etc are shipped in - as rain barrels (dedicated rain barrels being basically the same thing massively overpriced at the time).
posted by: michelle derviss | december 23, 2007 at 11:03 am we've been using rain barrels for several years.
i use the rainwater mostly for potted plants or to water recently-transplanted seedlings.
i got one at a neighborhood workshop sponsored by some environmental group, and i'm not really happy with it.
after several years one of them froze and cracked, after which  she found even better barrels.
of natural resources) sells a 54-gallon barrel for $155.
ah, this just in from the owner of rain barrels in my town of takoma park: as to whether fine mesh screen needs to be used, the  gardener's supply barrel has a "lid" that's made of screening  material to keep out debris and bugs.
the only way a rain barrel system would benefit my small suburban garden is if it was paired up with a grey water system and i modified my sub- tropical plant collection habit to include only drought tolerant plants.
also look for models that have very few places to leak from!
posted by: peter hoh | december 22, 2007 at 09:28 pm we have two rain barrels, which i use to top off my container pond (the fish don't have any problem with runoff from my asphalt shingle roof) and to fill up a can for whatever hand watering i do.
we'll try  to get the details and help publicize the events.
heavy metals from car pollution settled on the roof are a slight concern.
i live on a 0.9 acre lot with 25 mature trees so water for my garden is at a premium!
fills easily after not much rain, and really helps get through dry spells.
a visual guide to easy diagnosis and organic remedies jeff goodell: how to cool the planet: geoengineering and the audacious quest to fix earth's climate susan leigh tomlinson: how to keep a naturalist's notebook love albrecht howard: so you want to be a garden designer: how to get started, grow, and thrive in the landscape design business sydney eddison: gardening for a lifetime: how to garden wiser as you grow older john greenlee:
both filled to overflow when we got less than one inch of rain last week.
there is a company in texas that collects and sells rainwater for drinking: rainwater.org.
asphalt is petroleum-based.
when it does rain here starting ( fingers crossed ) in december thru march, most of my garden is semi dormant and does not require the rain .
we purchased ours through a group buy and saved a lot - $190 instead of $250 plus.
but my goal is that rain barrels are "toe in the door" items to begin to alter thinking.
the homemade one is closed except for the hole that the downspout empties into.
we plan to write up the detailed how-to this winter.
you'll need some sort of a joining piece between the section you cut off and the part still on the house though.
my conjectures follow...
unfortunately, the largest size  refurbished barrel is 55 gallons; barrels from unrecycled materials are  available in larger sizes.
we've got pictures and step-by-step directions, faqs, safety information, and even a rainfall collection calculator!
it probably doesn't have much of an environmental impact, but i love it.
by the time all my shrubs are watered, i've usually accomplished quite a lot of weeding.
the whole thing cost under $200, and it provided water all summer.
we get about 30 rain events, so our 5 barrels are saving about 10,000 gallons per year.
reflecting these advantages, starting in 2008 montgomery county, md will  be offering rebates to residents who use rain barrels.
to me, the "new" phase of rain barrels is something that i inherited and cost me nothing, but provided many, many benefits over the years by not having to use our over-chlorinated tap water for my plants.
another reader recommended the local source arlington echo, and here's  theirorder form.
the s-shaped thing seems like too much  work.
and from the university of rhode island comes this advice: ah, this just in from the owner of rain barrels in my town of takoma park:
someone else wrote to recommend the full-service company aquabarrel and their website looked so promising, i immediately asked for and got an interview with owner barry chenkin.
we never once had to turn to the well.
the overflow from one rain barrel is directed into a dry stream that flows into a rain garden ( http://www.penick.net/digging/?p=222).
freezing isn't an issue for me, if that's relevant.
you'll need some sort of a joining piece between the section you cut off and  the part still on the house though.
i may invest in a stand alone version at some point.
both hold about 100 gallons and i would highly recommend them.
i'd like to add a couple more barrels.
they reduce or eliminate runoff of stormwater into our watershed, which  means less downstream pollution and sedimentation.
petroleum repels water, and water-soluble petroleum-based leachates are likely to be susceptible to quick decomposition by soil microbes.
amy stewart: wicked plants: the weed that killed lincoln's mother and other botanical atrocities suzy bales: suzy bales' down to earth gardener: let mother nature guide you to success in your garden julie moir messervy: home outside:
home and garden television's website on how to make your own.
more information available on line
i am certainly glad to see that we are finally learning the value of water and reinventing more ways to recyle it.
thanks so much for this post and all the helpful comments.
well, a quarter-inch of rain falling on an average-size house yields slightly over 200 gallons!
i'm certain my garden soil is rich with microbes.
having it up on something makes it easier to get to.
to provide the information to others i created a website on how to build your own rainbarrel for about $40.
top photo by goforgr33n.
posted by: sue | december 22, 2007 at 06:19 pm i love my rainbarrel and want 3 more - a cistern too would be great.
if you'rereally serious about rain harvesting and have a larger garden, 450-gallon barrels are available.
plus the exercise i gain filling and lugging my watering cans is another perk.
posted by: chuck b. | december 22, 2007 at 08:08 pm i like the concept.
for all but the summer drought it supplies all my irrigation needs when combined with xeriscaping and deep mulch techniques.
spruce creek rain saver.com (recommended on the site of maryland's dept.
so  that'll be the next subject we tackle.
maryland's department of natural resources how to uild your own.
one dc resident wrote to say she first bought four 75-gallon barrels from gardener's supply, one for each corner  downspout.
now, i make rain barrels for profit, so i am biased.
(and how do i fix it?):
and i feel pretty comfortable taking my chances with vegetables from my own garden watered with rain water collected off my roof.
we are looking to expand the garden sometime in the future--which will mean expanding our water capacity--so we're very interested in reading up on various collection methods.
posted by: bev | december 23, 2007 at 08:09 am this is a great post.
rain barrels should be drained and removed for the winter months to  prevent ice damage - the details about how to do that arehere on this page.
however, as mss points out, two rain barrels can't hold enough water to get us through the dry summer months.
they reduce the load on our municipal water supplies.
posted by: tai haku | december 22, 2007 at 05:41 am i would like to have one but to do what i'd like them to do i would need some sort of filter to clean the water from my asphalt shingle roof.
my advice about rain barrels is to buy them locally, with some sort of warranty about quality, or at least good word-of-mouth.
if you'rereally serious about rain harvesting and  have a larger garden, 450-gallon barrels are available.
why all the interest in rain barrels?
as to installing them on blocks or wooden crate  to provide height for gravity flow purposes, i use my barrels to fill watering  cans so it's not such an issue for me, but if you want to use it with a hose or  soaker hose, having it higher will create more "flow".
posted by: chuck b. | december 22, 2007 at 09:38 am we have used rainbarrels for the last seven years and absolutely love them.
these can often be obtained cheap if you have a food factory of some kind nearby and come in all sizes up to massive.
as for that rhode island'swinterizing advice in the link above, (which i found confusing) she writes: this is all about how you have to have a shorter downspout when the barrel is under it.
still if you're lucky enough to have a slate or other type of roof i think they would be really helpful.
she continues: "if anyone is interested in purchasing one, please let me know.
for the other i used a small flexible piece to reconnect the cut off piece.
operating and maintaining one barry at aquabarrel  explained to me that by virtue of their shape (something technie about how  freezing works), refurbished barrelsmust to be emptied for the  winter.
posted by: kaye williams | december 23, 2007 at 01:14 am this is a great post and very timely for me.
i think rainwater collection is going to become increasingly important in the next few years.
we have 2 of the aquabarrel rain barrels that are linked together.
we purchased ours through a group buy and saved a lot - $190  instead of $250 plus.
we’d like to get another and and know others  who want one as well."
here's what we have so far on the subject of  rain barrels, and i welcome your feedback, corrections and additions.
so you cut off a section in the appropriate height and then put it away to use again when the rain barrel is gone for the winter.
we’d like to get another and and know others who want one as well."
as to whether fine mesh screen needs to be used, the gardener's supply barrel has a "lid" that's made of screening material to keep out debris and bugs.
get the good life buy it now at barnes & noble amazon borders indiebound james van sweden:
my husband and i built a rain barrel system that holds about 500 gallons.
as for that rhode island'swinterizing advice in the link  above, (which i found confusing) she writes: this is all about how you have to have a shorter downspout when  the barrel is under it.
i wish i had a cistern like the house i grew up in had.
here's hisvideo introduction.
a musical memory » by susan here in dc we're compiling information about good landscaping practices for our website, and have canvassed the local eco-listservs to that end.
posted by: dave | december 22, 2007 at 06:47 am in colorado, rainwater collection is "is subject to the constitution of the state of colorado, state statutes, and case law" but we have a rain barrel anyway in the back yard.
my husband and i have been puzzling over how to construct our own rail barrel(s) after the great drought of '07 here in the d.c. area.
http://home.comcast.net/~leavesdance/rainbarrels/myproject.html posted by: rebecca | december 24, 2007 at 06:54 am i have 5 55 gallon oak rain barrels on our property.
here's what i've learned from some web  research and advice offered by local gardeners on local yahoo groups: some users say "the bigger the better" while others suggest  working backwards to determine how much excess water your garden could actually  use.
the steps had a little landing at the top and as it was about 4' above the garden we ran a gravity-fed drip hose from a tap my clever partner soldered into the barrel near the bottom and that serviced all four 10x4' vegetable beds.
at the moment the garden is about 60 - 65 percent drought tolerant .
posted by: karen | december 26, 2007 at 08:05 amnext »
both of mine have hose sections attached though for more manouverability.
the diverters are excellent (although i'm not familar with the model featured) and well worth the extra few bucks.
even here in the east  where we've been having prolonged droughts, global weirding has also brought  more severe downpours, so the runoff problem is just getting worse.
more sources and prices the university of rhode  island site offers this guidance about prices: "ready-made rain barrels  range from $89 to $135 each depending on size, style and added features."
we need to change our thinking to become more sustainable as a society, and rain barrels are a very good way to achieve that end.
it was a mosquito nightmare, but our moderately dry southeastern pa summer kept it full enough that we could dunk a watering can a few times a week to give our garden a boost.
they're located in millersville,  md, so it's possible to pick up the barrels yourself and save on the hefty  shipping charges (no matter where you buy them).
more sources and prices the university of rhode island site offers this guidance about prices: "ready-made rain barrels range from $89 to $135 each depending on size, style and added features."
one problem in austin is that we can go weeks without rain and then get a downpour of 4 inches in an afternoon.
at the moment even our indigenous reservoirs are at less than 40 percent capacity.
i used the small flexible piece (available at home depot) which i also use to reconnect the downspout cutoff.
details about suppliers, making them yourself and maintenance are needed but my big question is this: can one or even two 55-gallon barrels really make a difference, or are they mainly feel-good items, as one expert suggested to me?
so that'll be the next subject we tackle.
the artful garden: creative inspiration for landscape design stephen orr: tomorrow's garden: design and inspiration for a new age of sustainable gardening amy stewart: wicked bugs scott ogden: plant-driven design: creating gardens that honor plants, place, and spirit andrea bellamy: sugar snaps and strawberries: simple solutions for creating your own small-space edible garden william robinson: the wild garden: expanded edition jeff gillman: the truth about organic gardening: benefits, drawbacks, and the bottom line jeff gillman: the truth about garden remedies: what works, what doesn't, and why jimmy williams: from seed to skillet: a guide to growing, tending, harvesting, and cooking up fresh, healthy food to share with people you love edible landscaping fritz haeg: edible estates: attack on the front lawn, first edition sue reed: energy-wise landscape design: a new approach for your home and garden janet loughrey: saratoga in bloom: 150 years of glorious gardens david deardorff and kathryn wadsworth: what's wrong with my plant?
posted by: luise h | december 22, 2007 at 02:21 pm great post.
riversides in canada sells 132-gallon barrels for $190 as a group or $250  individually.
both of mine  have hose sections attached though for more manouverability.
posted by: john | december 24, 2007 at 01:03 pm i recommend the rain barrel initiative sponsored by the nine mile run watershed association ( http://www.ninemilerun.org/programs/rainbarrel/index.htm).
whatever size or combination you use, have an overflow system  because rain barrels can fill up in as few as 5 minutes.
that is not huge, but not insignificant.
again, if you see it it makes perfect sense.
if your barrel is screened off like  this, then you shouldn't need mosquito dunks because they shouldn't be getting  into the water.
creating the landscape you love james van sweden:
we cut a hole at the top into the side and added a spigot for easy emptying on the bottom.
whatever size or combination you use, have an overflow system because rain barrels can fill up in as few as 5 minutes.
building your own chesapeake bay foundation's instructions in pdf.
pam/digging | december 22, 2007 at 10:34 pm
it was simple, and cheap!
if everyone took small steps, it would have a bigger impact than just a few people taking large steps.
i can't fathom any reason why this should be seen merely as feel-goodery.
the american meadow garden: creating a natural alternative to the traditional lawn suzy bales: garden bouquets and beyond: creating wreaths, garlands, and more in every garden season linda chalker-scott: the informed gardener blooms again ginny stibolt: sustainable gardening for florida jeff gillman: how trees die: the past, present, and future of our forests dell: sustainable landscaping for dummies (for dummies (home & garden))
having now emptied one 60-g barrel (in order to dry it for re-caulking) and using the water in the garden as i would normally do, i think if i had one more 60-g barrel, i plant to go without using any city water during a normal dry season.
she continues: "if anyone is interested in purchasing one, please let me  know.
i just don't see myself shelling out the big bucks for all the new barrels and items that are now available.
and i think about today's global food supply chains ( http://www.gardenrant.com/my_weblog/2007/11/no-free-lunch.html)
posted by: valerie | december 22, 2007 at 07:19 am great post!
one reader wrote to tell me  she directed her downspouts to carry rainwater to her garden, which brings us  to rain garden techniques as another way to accomplish the same ends.
posted by: meg | december 22, 2007 at 07:53 am oh, and to answer the question you posed: can one or even two 55-gallon barrels really make a difference, or are they mainly feel-good items, as one expert suggested to me?
rainfall tended to be short heavy thunder storms during the summer but the barrel provided enough basic water supply.
toward that end, when a tree fell on our house and we had to have the roof replaced, we chose a metal roof.
the other one we bought ready to use from a local farmsupply store.
i'll try to find out more and include the  details here.
unfortunately, both barrels have slow leaks from the hose adapter things, and need to be re-caulked.