when purchasing a commercial rain barrel, look for one that has a fine screen to filter out debris and bugs and a closed top to keep animals and children out of the rain barrel.
also plants prefer the warm rain water over cold tap water.
my cart wish list stay connected request catalog email sign up blog facebook shop greenhouses greenhouse covering greenhouse supplies garden supplies books natural choices order by phone: 1-800-825-1925 shop with confidence 90-day money back guarantee ssl the greenhouse catalog 3740 brooklake rd ne | salem, or 97303 © copyright 2011 corrugated plas-tech, inc. all rights reserved.
if utilizing a used rain barrel, make sure to find out what the barrel was originally used for.
so in the summer months when  there is a light rainfall but not enough moisture to saturate your garden soil,  you can still collect plenty of water in your rain barrel to replenish your  plants without violating water restrictions.
receive  gardening tips and special offers.
my account call for expert help: 1-800-825-1925 view cart | 0
sustainable growing how to control pests 50 natural gardening tips compost with worms main gardening tips follow us at: also find uson our company about us why buy from us testimonials privacy policy 90-day guarantee need help?
you too can collect the rain using simple rain barrels with minimal expense.
generally gutters have a down spout that runs down the side of your home that flows into a storm drain.
also, an overflow device is important to keep the water away from your home’s foundation during a heavy rainfall.
developed in and hosted bycommercev3.
whether you use a rain barrel during a drought or throughout the year, you  will be doing a good thing for your environment and your plants.
generally gutters have a down  spout that runs down the side of your home that flows into a storm drain.
about us | contact us | why buy from us |
you  will need to shorten the spout so that it fits onto the top of your rain barrel.
saving rainwater may  also put a dent in your city water bills.
if utilizing a used rain barrel, make sure to find out what the barrel was  originally used for.
you too  can collect the rain using simple rain barrels with minimal expense.
rain barrel resources live chat subscribe now!
also  plants prefer the warm rain water over cold tap water.
when looking for a rain barrel there are some important points to consider.
many  rain barrels will have a hose attachment so the water overflow can be diverted  into your garden.
receive gardening tips and special offers.
it is best to avoid barrels that have stored chemicals and detergents.
municipal water is generally chlorinated and contains minerals and chemicals that can harm your plants.
so in the summer months when there is a light rainfall but not enough moisture to saturate your garden soil, you can still collect plenty of water in your rain barrel to replenish your plants without violating water restrictions.
throughout history, innovative rain collecting devices have been used to  sustain plants and people when indoor plumbing was less commonplace.
faq’s sustainable growing how to control pests 50 natural gardening  tips compost with worms main gardening tips
throughout history, innovative rain collecting devices have been used to sustain plants and people when indoor plumbing was less commonplace.
you are left to watch your garden wither away.
saving rainwater may also put a dent in your city water bills.
on a 1000 sq ft roof, 600 gallons of  water can be collected for every inch of rainfall!
it is best to avoid barrels that have stored chemicals and  detergents.
many rain barrels will have a hose attachment so the water overflow can be diverted into your garden.
rain water is actually better for your plants.
when purchasing a commercial rain barrel, look for one that has a  fine screen to filter out debris and bugs and a closed top to keep animals and  children out of the rain barrel.
whether you use a rain barrel during a drought or throughout the year, you will be doing a good thing for your environment and your plants.
contact us customer service shipping info resources printable order form account information my account
home >  rain-barrel get through water restrictions with a rain barrel here’s the situation: it’s the peak of summer and the drought  has spurred water restrictions.
municipal water is generally  chlorinated and contains minerals and chemicals that can harm your plants.
there is an option that might save your garden.
on a 1000 sq ft roof, 600 gallons of water can be collected for every inch of rainfall!
also, an overflow device is important to keep  the water away from your home’s foundation during a heavy rainfall.
consider collecting the rain.
learn more greenhouse growing how  to choose a greenhouse greenhouse growing tips heater calculator fan calculator  greenhouse comparison chart installing solexx covering solexx greenhouse
items: $0.00 - - all greenhouses - hobby greenhouses - starter greenhouses - greenhouses by brand - mini greenhouses and cold frames - - solexx rolls - solexx panels - panel accessories - - benches / shelves - cooling and ventilation - flooring - grow lights - heaters - shade cloth - thermometers - tie down kit - - seed starting supplies - hydroponics / cloning - pots and containers - tools - kitchen garden - garden accents - seeds - watering - frost covers - - composting - pest control - beneficial insects - natural weed control - fertilizers - greenhouses - all greenhouses - hobby greenhouses - starter greenhouses - greenhouses by brand - mini greenhouses and cold frames - greenhouse sale - greenhouse covering - solexx rolls - solexx panels - panel accessories - greenhouse supplies - benches / shelves - cooling and ventilation - flooring - grow lights - heaters - shade cloth - thermometers - tie down kit - books - gardening supplies - seed starting supplies - hydroponics / cloning - pots and containers - tools - kitchen garden - garden accents - seeds - watering - frost covers - natural solutions - composting - pest control - beneficial insects - natural weed control - fertilizers - holiday gift ideas - gifts under $20 - gifts under $50 - gifts under $100 - gifts under $150 - gifts over $150 home > rain-barrel - resources - receive our e-newsletter - free greenhouse catalog - choosing a greenhouse - expert growing tips - solexx faq's - testimonials - customer service - about us get through water restrictions with a rain barrel here’s the situation: it’s the peak of summer and the drought has spurred water restrictions.
you will need to shorten the spout so that it fits onto the top of your rain barrel.
learn more greenhouse growing how to choose a greenhouse greenhouse growing tips heater calculator fan calculator greenhouse comparison chart installing solexx covering solexx greenhouse faq’s
how to get started first off, your house needs to have gutters.