watering a little every day encourages  lots of surface roots and the plants never really get enough moisture.
in this feature - water in the cool, water well not often when to water, watering systems watering seedlings, water wise design watering containers, don't over water water in the cool of the day one key factor to remember is that watering in the heat of the day is not as effective as morning or evening watering, as the sun will evaporate precious droplets, especially if you use a sprinkler.
as a rule 25mm (1 inch) of water is enough to penetrate the  soil to a depth of 12-15cm (approx 1 foot) and that is sufficient for most  grasses, ground covers and perennials.
you can water less frequently if you give your plants a good soaking.
watering should be avoided during the heat of the day, should be deep enough to  encourage deep root growth.
we always seem to have too much or not enough.
well not often water plants thoroughly
this is a barrier to subsequent watering or rain; it may prevent the essential exchange of air and gases.
spray irrigation can simply erode precious topsoil as it drains away.
it's not just standing there with the hose!
there  are a number of ways to increase your supply of water in the garden, without  increasing the water bill.
water butt by the  potting shed time-wasting kinks in your  garden hose?
a down pipe from your garden shed running into the barrel  will collect rain water, a dipper is all that is needed to have a good supply  of fresh, clear water.
dramatic instances of water shortages and restrictions highlight how water-greedy some gardens can be.
when, and how often, to water is a question invites debate between gardeners.
with experience you will be able to judge the water needs of different areas within your garden.
last revised 10 jan '02
with experience you will be able to judge the water needs of different  areas within your garden.
or you can dig about 8 - 10 cm (3 - 4 inches) into the soil and see  what the moisture content is like beneath the surface.
the water on the soil surface will also dry up more quickly.
the simplest method of  testing the moisture content in the soil is by rolling a little bit of soil in  your hand.
you want to water the roots, rather than the leaves  and certainly not have the water evaporate in the air before the plants can get  to it.
in this feature - water  in the cool,  water well not often when to water,  watering  systems watering seedlings,  water wise design watering  containers,  don't over water water in the cool of the day one key factor to remember is that watering in the heat of the day is  not as effective as morning or evening watering, as the sun will evaporate  precious droplets, especially if you use a sprinkler.
it is ever more important today to use water wisely in the garden.
if you have heavy falls of rain you will need to install a system of dry streambeds (also called 'swales'), drains filled with gravel or sump holes to move water quickly and safely away from the house and border.
keeping rainfall records, or checking the local  paper, will tell you whether a shower wet or merely dampened the soil.
and, by watering a large area and not just the  plants, spray irrigation can result in a burgeoning weed population, competing  with your precious plants for water.
all rights  reserved.
don't expect the surface to be moist all of the time.
you want to water the roots, rather than the leaves and certainly not have the water evaporate in the air before the plants can get to it.
watering with a strong force of water, or with  large droplets, results in a crusty layer forming on the top of the soil.
a surface 'crust' can be enough to prevent seedlings coming through the soil surface.
if you merely wet the surface of the soil it will quickly dry out again, leaving plants gasping for water.
if you have heavy falls of rain you will  need to install a system of dry streambeds (also called 'swales'), drains  filled with gravel or sump holes to move water quickly and safely away from the  house and border.
garden tasks | plant care | veges | organic gardening | glossary | garden botany |nature's
if you  merely wet the surface of the soil it will quickly dry out again, leaving  plants gasping for water.
dramatic instances of water  shortages and restrictions highlight how water-greedy some gardens can be.
water wise watering the garden may sound simple, but different requirements require different solutions.
and to reduce watering the lawn, when designing your paved driveway slope it towards the lawn, directing the rainwater onto the grass instead of into the storm water drains.
watering systems traditional watering methods are wasteful of water and can cause other problems in especially dry climates.
a surface 'crust' can be enough to prevent seedlings  coming through the soil surface.
and to reduce watering the lawn, when designing your paved  driveway slope it towards the lawn, directing the rainwater onto the grass  instead of into the storm water drains.
trees and shrubs are more deeply rooted and need the water to penetrate further.
take care that the paving is higher enough and angled away from your house or garage, or you will find you are watering your cellar instead!
next page compost a late winter or spring compost mulch will not only reduce water loss through evaporation in the garden, it will improve soil structure, help water conservation in the soil and drainage.
it is ever more  important today to use water wisely in the garden.
watering with a strong force of water, or with large droplets, results in a crusty layer forming on the top of the soil.
a down pipe from your garden shed running into the barrel will collect rain water, a dipper is all that is needed to have a good supply of fresh, clear water.
trees and shrubs are more deeply rooted  and need the water to penetrate further.
much of the water you applied will be of  no benefit to the plants.
the alternative is a potential for flooding and washouts in  the border.
webmaster@bestgardening.com
storing water water is a precious and expensive resource.
as a rule 25mm (1 inch) of water is enough to penetrate the soil to a depth of 12-15cm (approx 1 foot) and that is sufficient for most grasses, ground covers and perennials.
check that your local council allows this first!
thestark hose-swiveltm avoids kinks in hoses.
or you can dig about 8 - 10 cm (3 - 4 inches) into the soil and see what the moisture content is like beneath the surface.
even a large bucket left out on the terrace or outside the potting shed will fill with rainwater.
the alternative is a potential for flooding and washouts in the border.
contact tel/fax+64 (0)7 855 3083 email: cm-stark@xtra.co.nz website: www.starkhoseswivel.com
light surface watering encourages the roots towards  the surface where they are more vulnerable to dryness and heat, rather than  deeper into the soil.
in very bright sunny weather, the water can actually scorch the plants, as the sun reflects on the water droplets.
watering a little every day encourages lots of surface roots and the plants never really get enough moisture.
there are a number of ways to increase your supply of water in the garden, without increasing the water bill.
if only the soil surface is wet, it will soon dry out and the plant  roots, where the water is best absorbed, will have received little or no  moisture.
collecting rainwater rainwater,  free of chlorine and other chemicals used in treating mains supply water, is  the choice of many for use in watering pot plants, seedlings and tricky, fussy  plants.
watering systems traditional watering methods are wasteful of water and can cause other problems  in especially dry climates.
it can leach all the nutrients from a light sandy soil as it very quickly drains away.
good looking traditional or modern rain butts are available for specialist merchants.
good looking traditional or modern rain butts are available for specialist  merchants.
using rainwater run-off you can attach an 'elbow' to the bottom of the down pipes on your house, directing the water into the garden.
spray irrigation can simply erode precious topsoil  as it drains away.
water wise watering the garden may sound  simple, but different requirements require different solutions.
in very bright sunny weather, the water can  actually scorch the plants, as the sun reflects on the water droplets.
it's  not just standing there with the hose!
it can leach all the nutrients from a light sandy soil as it  very quickly drains away.
light surface watering encourages the roots towards the surface where they are more vulnerable to dryness and heat, rather than deeper into the soil.
but water is the lifeblood of  the garden and essential for good plant growth.
garden design * copyright 2000-2001 bestgardening.com limited.
the simplest method of testing the moisture content in the soil is by rolling a little bit of soil in your hand.
check that your local  council allows this first!
take care that the paving is higher  enough and angled away from your house or garage, or you will find you are  watering your cellar instead!
this  is a barrier to subsequent watering or rain; it may prevent the essential  exchange of air and gases.
but water is the lifeblood of the garden and essential for good plant growth.
keeping rainfall records, or checking the local paper, will tell you whether a shower wet or merely dampened the soil.
when to water when, and  how often, to water is a question invites debate between gardeners.
and they will develop good, deep root systems.
back to top * home * garden hub * garden events * plants *
we look at different ways of reducing the amount of water we use, especially water from the tap.
and they  will develop good, deep root systems.
using rainwater  run-off you can attach an 'elbow' to the bottom of the down pipes  on your house, directing the water into the garden.
back to top * home * garden hub * garden events * plants * garden  design * copyright 2000-2001 bestgardening.com limited.
the water on the soil  surface will also dry up more quickly.
you can easily install a rain butt or barrel in your garden.
we  look at different ways of reducing the amount of water we use, especially water  from the tap.
water butt by the potting shed time-wasting kinks in your garden hose?
much of the water you applied will be of no benefit to the plants.
even a large bucket left out on the terrace or  outside the potting shed will fill with rainwater.
we keep saying it, but compost is truly at the heart of the garden.
collecting rainwater rainwater, free of chlorine and other chemicals used in treating mains supply water, is the choice of many for use in watering pot plants, seedlings and tricky, fussy plants.
next page compost a late winter or spring compost mulch will not only reduce  water loss through evaporation in the garden, it will improve soil structure,  help water conservation in the soil and drainage.
you can water less frequently if you give  your plants a good soaking.
watering should be avoided during the heat of the day, should be deep enough to encourage deep root growth.
if only the soil surface is wet, it will soon dry out and the plant roots, where the water is best absorbed, will have received little or no moisture.
and, by watering a large area and not just the plants, spray irrigation can result in a burgeoning weed population, competing with your precious plants for water.