despite promises  that bottling operations will bring employment, in reality they create few new  jobs, and those few are dangerous and low-paid.
a: odd tasting water does not necessarily mean that it is unhealthy or contaminated.
q: what is a contaminant?
for  this reason, food & water watch recommends either stainless steel or lined  aluminum bottles.
for more information common questions and answers about tap water q: why should i choose tap water over bottled water?
the  national research council recently warned of more water-borne disease outbreaks  unless we make "substantial investments" in improving our drinking  water and sewage storage and distribution systems.12 every year, congress debates proposals for funding clean drinking water.
in fact, some bottled water is simply municipal water that has been wastefully packaged, falsely labeled as pristine spring water, and sold at an exorbitant price.
cost turning to tap water will not only benefit communities, the  environment, and consumer safety, it could help save money as well.
federal dollars are the only way to address this clean water infrastructure  funding gap estimated by the u.s. environmental protection agency, government  accountability office, and the non-profit water infrastructure network at  between $300 and $500 billion over 20 years.
what you can do choose tap water over bottled water whenever possible.
most of  the primary water pipes and sewer lines in the united states were built during  the late 1800s, the 1920s, and in the years immediately following world war ii.
a 2007 bill provided $14 billion in federal loan guarantees over four years for water and sewer improvements.
some of these piggybackers are harmless, but many are not.
annual production of the plastic  (pet or polyethylene) bottles required to meet u.s. consumer demand for bottled  water uses the equivalent of about 17.6 million barrels of oil, not including  the cost of transporting the product to consumers.
these violations likely stem from some combination of pollution of the water source, inadequate water treatment, or deteriorating infrastructure (e.g., pipes that carry water can have lead or be old and falling apart).
while the bill passed the house of  representatives, it has not yet passed the senate.
a: bottled  water costs hundreds or thousands of times more than tap water, and although  bottled water companies would like you to believe that their product is somehow  better than tap water, most tap water is just as clean and safe as bottled  water, and much less expensive.
they are wearing out under the weight of time and increasing demand.
social problems beverage companies also harm communities with their  bottled water operations.
the administration has less than one full-time employee in charge of bottled water, and regulations apply only to the 30 to 40 percent of bottled water that is sold across state lines.1 the inadequacy of bottled water regulations was documented by the national resources defense council which tested 1,000 bottles from 103 brands and found bacteria, carcinogens, and other chemicals in a significant number of the products.2 some of these contaminants can be traced to the water source, others are byproducts of the purification process, and still others leach from the plastic bottle.
the u.s. environmental protection agency, which oversees the safety of tap  water, currently regulates 87 different contaminants.
what's more, water from the tap may actually be safer than water from bottles.
unfortunately, even if it  were to become law, it would still be insufficient in meeting our nation's  water infrastructure needs.13
collectively, our communities fall about $22 billion short annually of what they need to maintain and improve public drinking water and sewage systems.
in addition to avoiding contaminants, giving up  bottled water also benefits our environment.
the environmental protection agency requires utility companies to test  municipal water hundreds of times per month, while the food and drug  administration requires bottling companies to test their supply only once per  week.
sign the take back the tap pledge to join tens of thousands of  consumers who are pledging to reduce or eliminate their consumption of bottled  water.
on the other hand, fluoride is more of a challenge.
and due to shortages of funding and staff, fda regulation of bottled  water is even less stringent than these basic guidelines would suggest.
the companies extract vast quantities of water that  local people need, making huge profits and leaving the locals with depleted  resources in addition to economic and environmental problems.
typically, only reverse osmosis filters and distillation units reduce or remove  it.
it tends to grab particles from things it passes and brings them along for the ride.
whether flowing in a mountain stream or pouring out of your faucet, water usually contains more than just oxygen and two hydrogen atoms.
the environmental protection agency requires utility companies to test municipal water hundreds of times per month, while the food and drug administration requires bottling companies to test their supply only once per week.
giving up bottled water is not enough     what you can  do did you know common questions and answers  about tap water
q: my water tastes funny.
some of these  piggybackers are harmless, but many are not.
this means approximately two million tons of pet plastic bottles pile up in u.s. landfills each year.
this is partially due to the fact that the federal government requires  more rigorous and frequent safety testing and monitoring of municipal drinking  water.
much of the funding gap stems from  government cuts to clean water programs.
although the majority of u.s.  tap water is clean, safe, and healthy, public water systems in some communities  fall short of consistently meeting epa safety standards.
despite promises that bottling operations will bring employment, in reality they create few new jobs, and those few are dangerous and low-paid.
page last updated september 2009 related information:
while bottled water can cost between $0.89 and $8.26 per gallon, tap water typically only costs about $0.002 per gallon.8,9,10 giving up bottled water is not enough
part  of the solution will require investing in the maintenance and renewal of  municipal water and sewage treatment plants, storage, and distribution.
old, corroded water lines can break, not only wasting water but also opening avenues for contamination.
they collectively spend hundreds or thousands of dollars more per gallon for water in a plastic bottle than they would for the h20 flowing from their taps.
despite what many consumers are led to believe, bottled water is no safer or purer than tap water.
this report is required by law to provide information about contaminant violations in the water system.
in the end, about 86% of empty plastic water bottles in the united states  land in the garbage instead of being recycled.4
in this section:safety bottled water american consumers are drinking more bottled water every year, in part because they think it is somehow safer than tap water.
look in your phone book to find the contact information for your local health department.
typically, only reverse osmosis filters and distillation units reduce or remove it.
sign food & water watch's take back the tap pledge.
sign the take back the tap pledge to join tens of thousands of consumers who are pledging to reduce or eliminate their consumption of bottled water.
with warmer periods, earlier snowmelt could mean that "much  of the winter runoff will immediately be lost to the oceans" unless there  are adequate water storage systems.7 but this, like protecting water sources  from pollution, requires money.
q: should i reuse disposable plastic bottles?
tap water is generally just as safe, clean, and healthy as bottled water—in many cases even more so.
in addition to avoiding contaminants, giving up bottled water also benefits our environment.
it also includes a useful guide to home tap water filtration to  help consumers improve the quality of their tap water.
that volume of oil more or less equals the amount required to fuel over one million vehicles on u.s. roads each year.
although the majority of u.s. tap water is clean, safe, and healthy, public water systems in some communities fall short of consistently meeting epa safety standards.
while  bottled water can cost between $0.89 and $8.26 per gallon, tap water typically  only costs about $0.002 per gallon.8,9,10 giving up bottled water is not enough
in 2005, the journalnature published a study showing how climate change could diminish both underground and surface (e.g., lakes and rivers) water sources around the world that are dependent on melting snow.
the u.s. environmental protection agency, which oversees the safety of tap water, currently regulates 87 different contaminants.
the companies extract vast quantities of water that local people need, making huge profits and leaving the locals with depleted resources in addition to economic and environmental problems.
this means approximately two  million tons of pet plastic bottles pile up in u.s. landfills each year.
single  serve water bottles and other beverage containers, often used on the go, are  recycled at a lower rate than containers typically used at home.
what's more, water from the tap may actually be safer than water from  bottles.
epa posts many of these results on its websitewww.epa.gov/safewater local health departments often provide testing services or have lists of accredited laboratories that do the testing.
whether flowing in a mountain stream or pouring out of your faucet, water  usually contains more than just oxygen and two hydrogen atoms.
and due to shortages of funding and staff, fda regulation of bottled water is even less stringent than these basic guidelines would suggest.
for this reason, food & water watch recommends either stainless steel or lined aluminum bottles.
worldwide, bottling of water uses about 2.7 million tons of plastic each year.3
in fact, some bottled water is simply  municipal water that has been wastefully packaged, falsely labeled as pristine  spring water, and sold at an exorbitant price.
it  tends to grab particles from things it passes and brings them along for the  ride.
by taking back the tap, you can save money, protect your health, and help prevent environmental and social problems as well.
a: many people have concerns about plastic food containers and beverage bottles because some chemicals in the plastic can leach into the contents.
a: locate the contact information of your local water utility on one of your latest bills to request a copy of the annual water quality report, also referred to as the consumer confidence report.
in 2005, the journalnature published a  study showing how climate change could diminish both underground and surface  (e.g., lakes and rivers) water sources around the world that are dependent on  melting snow.
part of the solution will require investing in the maintenance and renewal of municipal water and sewage treatment plants, storage, and distribution.
for tips on  how to choose a filter, see http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/take-action/consumer-tools/choosing-a-water-filter q: can a filter remove chlorine and fluoride?
that volume of oil more or  less equals the amount required to fuel over one million vehicles on u.s. roads  each year.
in the end, about 86% of empty plastic water bottles in the united states land in the garbage instead of being recycled.4
with warmer periods, earlier snowmelt could mean that "much of the winter runoff will immediately be lost to the oceans" unless there are adequate water storage systems.7 but this, like protecting water sources from pollution, requires money.
a: bottled water costs hundreds or thousands of times more than tap water, and although bottled water companies would like you to believe that their product is somehow better than tap water, most tap water is just as clean and safe as bottled water, and much less expensive.
unfortunately, even if it were to become law, it would still be insufficient in meeting our nation's water infrastructure needs.13
tap  water is generally just as safe, clean, and healthy as bottled water—in  many cases even more so.
most water filters remove or reduce  this chemical disinfectant.
between 1995  and 2005, the national recycling rate for all pet type #1 plastic fell from  39.7 percent to 23.1 percent.5 ultimately, many plastic bottles of all types  and sizes will be incinerated, which releases toxic byproducts such as chlorine  gas and ash laden with heavy metals.6 the production and transport of bottled water products causes pollution and  contributes to global warming.
a: locate  the contact information of your local water utility on one of your latest bills  to request a copy of the annual water quality report, also referred to as the  consumer confidence report.
a: odd  tasting water does not necessarily mean that it is unhealthy or contaminated.
this is partially due to the fact that the federal government requires more rigorous and frequent safety testing and monitoring of municipal drinking water.
a home filtration system is  the best solution to this problem.
q: how do i find out whether my tap water is safe?
this report is required by law to provide  information about contaminant violations in the water system.
it also means halting or severely curbing nestle, coca-cola, pepsi, and other commercial bottlers from taking spring water and municipal water to be bottled into easy profits.
old,  corroded water lines can break, not only wasting water but also opening avenues  for contamination.
that amounts to about two million  tons of pet plastic bottles piling up in u.s. landfills each year.15 bottled water typically costs more than $1 for eight to 12 ounces,  amounting to more than $10 per gallon.
therefore,  they should not be reused.
page last updated september 2009 related information: water pollution sources tell a friend | privacy policy | use of content | faqs | opportunities | contact us a program of
a: when it comes  to chlorine, the answer is "yes."
while the bill passed the house of representatives, it has not yet passed the senate.
much of the funding gap stems from government cuts to clean water programs.
plastic bottle production in the united states annually requires about  17.6 million barrels of oil, enough to fuel more than one million cars.14 about 86 percent of empty plastic water bottles in the united states land  in the garbage instead of being recycled.
a home filtration system is the best solution to this problem.
a: select a  filter that removes the particular contaminants that are present.
"clear waters" - this 2007 report by food & water watch  examines trends in clean water spending in various states.
a: the disposable  pet #1 plastic bottles in which many beverages are sold cannot be properly  cleaned and, over time, may leach plastic components into the water.
for tips on how to choose a filter, see http://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/take-action/consumer-tools/choosing-a-water-filter q: can a filter remove chlorine and fluoride?
federal dollars are the only way to address this clean water infrastructure funding gap estimated by the u.s. environmental protection agency, government accountability office, and the non-profit water infrastructure network at between $300 and $500 billion over 20 years.
q: what kind of reusable bottle should i use to carry tap water?
according to the national resources defense council, as much as 40 percent of bottled water is actually from a tap.
it also means halting or severely curbing  nestle, coca-cola, pepsi, and other commercial bottlers from taking spring  water and municipal water to be bottled into easy profits.
common questions and answers about tap water q: why should i choose tap water over bottled water?
between 1995 and 2005, the national recycling rate for all pet type #1 plastic fell from 39.7 percent to 23.1 percent.5 ultimately, many plastic bottles of all types and sizes will be incinerated, which releases toxic byproducts such as chlorine gas and ash laden with heavy metals.6 the production and transport of bottled water products causes pollution and contributes to global warming.
they  collectively spend hundreds or thousands of dollars more per gallon for water  in a plastic bottle than they would for the h20 flowing from their taps.
a  2007 bill provided $14 billion in federal loan guarantees over four years for  water and sewer improvements.
cost turning to tap water will not only benefit communities, the environment, and consumer safety, it could help save money as well.
worn out or overburdened sewage systems can overflow into our streams, rivers, lakes, and oceans, creating serious health concerns.
therefore, they should not be reused.
most americans pay $0.002 per gallon for  tap water.16
by taking back the tap, you can save money, protect  your health, and help prevent environmental and social problems as well.
for more information "take back the tap" - this 2007 report by food & water watch  explains in more detail the many problems with bottled water and the advantages  of tap water.
environmental damage
q: what can i do if my water is contaminated?
the water station curated by food & water  watch at slow food nation in san francisco, 2008.
worldwide, bottling of water uses about 2.7 million tons of plastic  each year.3
to solve these problems, action from federal, state, and local governments must be taken to protect the quality and integrity of our water resources.
to solve these problems, action from federal, state, and local governments  must be taken to protect the quality and integrity of our water resources.
according to a natural resources defense council study of 103 bottled  water brands, about one-quarter of the brands tested contained bacterial or  chemical contamination in some samples at levels that violated  "enforceable state standards or warning levels.
bottled water american consumers are drinking more bottled water every  year, in part because they think it is somehow safer than tap water.
most water filters remove or reduce this chemical disinfectant.
what can i do about it?
the agency recognizes but does not regulate an additional 51 contaminants.
the agency recognizes but  does not regulate an additional 51 contaminants.
single serve water bottles and other beverage containers, often used on the go, are recycled at a lower rate than containers typically used at home.
these violations  likely stem from some combination of pollution of the water source, inadequate  water treatment, or deteriorating infrastructure (e.g., pipes that carry water  can have lead or be old and falling apart).
social problems beverage companies also harm communities with their bottled water operations.
what you can do did you know?
annual production of the plastic (pet or polyethylene) bottles required to meet u.s. consumer demand for bottled water uses the equivalent of about 17.6 million barrels of oil, not including the cost of transporting the product to consumers.
a: water is very rarely pure h2o.
the national research council recently warned of more water-borne disease outbreaks unless we make "substantial investments" in improving our drinking water and sewage storage and distribution systems.12 every year, congress debates proposals for funding clean drinking water.
a: the disposable pet #1 plastic bottles in which many beverages are sold cannot be properly cleaned and, over time, may leach plastic components into the water.
"the unbottled truth about bottled water jobs" - this 2008 fact  sheet by food & water watch lists the truth about the jobs that bottled  water corporations bring to a community.
a: when it comes to chlorine, the answer is "yes."
epa posts many of  these results on its websitewww.epa.gov/safewater local health departments often provide testing services or have lists of  accredited laboratories that do the testing.
despite what many consumers are led to believe, bottled water  is no safer or purer than tap water.
worn out or overburdened sewage systems can overflow into  our streams, rivers, lakes, and oceans, creating serious health concerns.
look in your phone book to find  the contact information for your local health department.
the taste could be due to chlorination or to the mineral content in the water,  depending on the region of the state or country.
a: select a filter that removes the particular contaminants that are present.
according to the national  resources defense council, as much as 40 percent of bottled water is actually  from a tap.
the  administration has less than one full-time employee in charge of bottled water,  and regulations apply only to the 30 to 40 percent of bottled water that is  sold across state lines.1 the inadequacy of bottled water regulations was documented by the national  resources defense council which tested 1,000 bottles from 103 brands and found  bacteria, carcinogens, and other chemicals in a significant number of the  products.2 some of these contaminants can be traced to the water source, others  are byproducts of the purification process, and still others leach from the  plastic bottle.
collectively, our communities fall about $22 billion short annually of what  they need to maintain and improve public drinking water and sewage systems.
most of the primary water pipes and sewer lines in the united states were built during the late 1800s, the 1920s, and in the years immediately following world war ii.
the taste could be due to chlorination or to the mineral content in the water, depending on the region of the state or country.
a: many people have concerns about plastic food containers and beverage  bottles because some chemicals in the plastic can leach into the contents.