since they don't like the cold, i don't think they would like it if you watered with cool water.
because the plants should be kept cool  for much of the time during their dormancy, it is best to allow the growing  medium to become almost dry before watering again.
you might want to try repotting into new, clean media and water with distilled water only for a month or so to see if the plants recover.
feel free to ask questions like this in the forum!
re: ... written by matt, april 06, 2009
seed kits aren't very good to try for a first timer.
but i think the admins could be saved a lot of annoyance and frustration by disabling the comment feature, since people obviously don't get that it's for commenting, not questions.
because it's summer time i of course keep my door and windows wide open, but i usually do not see any flies or bugs in my appartment - will it die without food?
i've had it for a decent 4 months and it seems to be doing really well up to now.
~teen just got my seeds!
yes, you can use shallower pots.
it is especially important during theirdormancy to avoid wet conditions when it  is very cool or cold at the same time.
named varieties - registered cultivar list - unregistered cultivar list other articles - trapping mechanism of a venus flytrap other carnivorous plants - heliamphora - cephalotus follicularis - drosophyllum lusitanicum - pinguicula tissue culture - tissue culture basics - tissue culture glossary resources - questions or comments?
thanks for the info on this site.
hi there, just got my seeds, i've put the pot of soil (correct soil i was given with the seeds) in a tray of rain water untill the top soil is wet / damp, now it's time to put the seeds in!
rain water written by lftal_81, may 16, 2010 hi all.
although higher levels of tds can be tolerated (up to 100 ppm (parts per million)) or so, in that case the growing medium would need to be flushed occasionally by watering several times over a period of several hours or perhaps a day, and the plants may benefit from repotting (changing the growing medium) once per year or so.
to prevent stagnation, can i choose not to place my flytrap on a bowl with water on it and just use a spray bottle to spray some water at the plant?
re: water problems written by matt, april 20, 2009
:> ... written by joe, june 01, 2011 okay everybody, distilled water costs a dollar a gallon, and rain water is free.
the comment sections on the pages are really for comments, not questions.
it then cooled it would it be helpfull to water it with that please email me boiled water written by ki, march 28, 2010 can i use boiled water too water my flytrap?
any tips would be appreciated very helpful site by the way re: terrarium - do i need to water it at all?
otherwise, if the plant and growing medium can be monitored, it is best to  water and then allow the medium to dry until just moist before watering again.
if i have flytraps in a terrarium - is the natural condensation which forms enough to keep the plants healthy or should i water as well?
i'm a first time owner of my venus fly trap, and i can't thank you enough for all the info.
i hope to hear more about your growing experiences on the forum.
thank you flytrapcare.com your so helpful.
mostmedia (soil) that venus fly traps are potted in is very good at retaining water.
am i allowed to...... written by jojo, november 24, 2009 omg
how do i correct this?
if you live in a similar area and use rain water or your vft's stay outside.
like in target store.
sign in with facebook tweet
however, the tray method is often not a good method to use all  the time (see the paragraph above).
do i sprinkle the seeds on the top or make a little hole and plant them then cover it over?
in any case, your seeds might need longer to germinate, or they might never germinate.
although higher levels of tds can be tolerated (up to 100  ppm (parts per million)) or so, in that case the growing medium would need to  be flushed occasionally by watering several times over a period of several  hours or perhaps a day, and the plants may benefit from repotting (changing the  growing medium) once per year or so.
janene written by devile15, may 20, 2010
however regarding tap or well water, if one measures the water with a tds (total dissolved solids) meter which indicates a tds measurement of less than 50 ppm (parts per million), it is safe to use for venus flytraps and other carnivorous plants.
one way to water a venus flytrap is the tray method.
otherwise, if the plant and growing medium can be monitored, it is best to water and then allow the medium to dry until just moist before watering again.
but i think that made it worse!
hi there from the uk
if you are sure that it is clean, then it could be something else.
name email website title comment smaller | bigger subscribe via email (registered users only)
do you have any particular reason for growing them in a terrarium?
the tray method works well when plants are actively growing, are in lots of direct sunlight, and the weather is warm, or during vacations when one is not able to check one's plants.
if you have a questionjoin the forum!
thnx danny forums!!!!!!!!!!!
matt well water? written by tom, january 08, 2009 would well water be okay for a venus flytrap?
written by scott, february 12, 2009
dont start out with seeds.
the media will soak up water from a tray or bowl almost like a sponge.
food written by danny, april 23, 2010 myplant can never catch food by itself i put it next to a plant with 10 flies on it the flys stare at it and then just leave never get on the plant or even on the pot.i have to catch food myself.but 1 more thing were the flies are and my plant is there is shade.doese that affect anything?i still put it in full sunlight for at least 11 hours doese sunlight produce the nectar or what?
i'm hopeing to get a venus fly trap sometime in august.
scott re: just got my seeds!
if not, you should soon so that you can post on the forum and upload photos.
- carnivorous plants for sale - site map login username password remember me forgot your password?
... written by johnny, july 15, 2009 i have recently started growing fly traps from seed and have been using sterilized water to water them!
if you have a question join the forum!
i noticed the first trap i got was starting to get little wrinkles and now one part of it has a very subtle tinge of light brown i noticed.
written by flytrap lover, july 22, 2010 i have been doing everything it says to take care of my venus fly trap
but it's dying on me does anyone know why?
i live in a area with lots of air pollution including an petrochemical plant.
tips 4 all of you would be only use rain or distiller water no acceptions!
watering help written by terrence, september 03, 2008 is arrowhead water safe enough for the plant re: watering help written by matt, september 04, 2008 arrowhead water will likely not be safe.
venus fly traps, written by kaylee, april 29, 2009
hopefully these 2 plants will survive as my first attempt ended in death i think it was a combo of bad light & bad water.
please answer or comment.
larger pots allow for more mistakes, and beginners make mistakes, so i recommend a 4-6 inch pot.
its mineral free and has no solids.
- site citations - myspace tracker - help out!
everybody who asked about the different types of water are obviously unexperienced, so your plants are gonna die anyways.
mostmedia (soil)  that venus fly traps are potted in is very good at retaining water.
i love vft's written by jtylerh, september 21, 2011 i love my fly trap!
it's possible to grow them in terrariums, but they are healthier and more robust if they are grown outside.
is that water ok for my venus fly traps?
written by matt, february 12, 2009 scott, you'll find tons of information on this in the forum, but basically you just sprinkle the seeds on top of the peat moss and keep them very moist until they germinate then you put them in a sunny windowsill to continue growing.
there are tons of people hear that would love to hear about your plants.
is this ok or does sterilized water still contain impurities?
2) how oftern do you water them?
standing water can be detrimental to the venus flytrap.
written by omg, may 09, 2010 i just happened to be browsing google on venus fly traps and came across this site which i found very helpful.
boiling the water increases the amount of dissolved solids by making the clean water evaporate.
datter re: how to water my plants? written by matt, march 09, 2009 questions are actually meant for the forum.
is it in a cold area?
i suggest for a wider range (and more expert advice) you go to the forum.
jojo a 10 year old.. water written by akira, december 21, 2009 hi there i have just brought pure dew water from the super market.
anywho, thank you very much for all the articles and a forum for questions.
the next step was to put it in direct sunlight.
add comment please enable javascript to post a new comment last updated on thursday, 15 july 2010 06:24 copyright © 2012 flytrapcare.com.
water problems written by aaron, april 20, 2009 is it safe to use fridge water for my venus fly trap?
a comprehensive venus fly trap website - home - store - forums - community - groups - community photos - blogs - photo galleries - venus fly trap faqs main menu home store forums community groups blogs photo galleries venus fly trap faqs recommend venus fly traps - venus fly trap information basic cultivation - background information - trapping and digestion - venus fly trap cultivation - venus flytrap faqs basic concepts - light and venus fly traps - water for venus fly traps - soil for venus fly traps - venus fly trap dormancy advanced cultivation - venus fly trap propagation - growing flytraps from seed - cultivars:
it is especially important during theirdormancy to avoid wet conditions when it is very cool or cold at the same time.
the growing medium ideally should be just moist, not  soggy or waterlogged.
if you repotted your vft in fertilized soil, it will burn the roots.
the dissolved solids that are in tap  water - namely sodium, calcium, alkaline salts, sulfur, chlorine and magnesium  - are detrimental to the health of your dionaea.
re: no germination visible written by matt, february 28, 2009
best regards, karen (south africa)
if you have any more questions, you should join the forum and ask them there.
re: pur water written by matt, april 20, 2009 filtered water usually won't do.
thanks written by oddball, february 09, 2010 this site is great.
is that safe for the plant?
the time you spent on here asking about other types of water you could have spent getting the water recommended by every carnivorous plant website on the internet.
it's completely damp and sealed inside a plastic bag.
venus fly traps and all other carnivorous plants should only be watered with distilled water, rain water, reverse osmosis water (from an ro system).
trim off the traps that die.
i use distilled water.
however regarding tap or well water, if one measures the water with a tds  (total dissolved solids) meter which indicates a tds measurement of less than  50 ppm (parts per million), it is safe to use for venus flytraps and other  carnivorous plants.
i have a tiny question about watering the fly traps.
re: snow! written by matt, february 06, 2009 yep, clean snow will work great for your flytrap!
therefore the tray method (described and pictured below) is best used only while the plants are in direct sunlight in hot weather, or when one goes on vacation to ensure that the medium does not dry completely.
for questions, you'll get better responses if you ask them in the forum.
are yyou using proper water?
should i store the water out of the fridge? @
it is best to let the water disapear for a little bit before adding water to the tray, as long as they don't dry out.
you have helped me and other beginner fly trap owners how to care for our plants keep up the good work
um will it impact that great on the venus flytrap?
... written by jordan, april 29, 2009 never feed it hamburger meat and give it rain water thats the best becuase even bottled water
i have barely had my plant for a week.
vft are tropical, so they would naturally like a warm environment, ... written by hayden, june 14, 2010 janene.
am i doing anything wrong?
however, the tray method is often not a good method to use all the time (see the paragraph above).
it's great to look at everyone's feedback + comments janene xx food written by raymond hughes, march 08, 2010 im considering buying a venus fly trap
or is it a good idea to buy bugs to feed it?
distilled, rain, or ro water only-at least untill you gain experience :-).
but most of all care for it like a child...
the seeds have usually set on the shelf for too long and aren't viable any longer.
this area is for comments only.
written by alan king, july 31, 2008
i realy dont want it to die thanks all xx water written by ..., august 07, 2010 can i put some tap water dechlorinator (i.e. for aquariums) in some ordinary tap water for my plant?
venus fly traps don't usually make very good terrarium pets.
top site....thank you... ice water written by louis, may 01, 2011 can i use melted ice from my freezer can half of the bug be sticking out written by jd, may 08, 2011
it could be the water.
too much water kills.
thanks written by ed, may 12, 2011 great site, i've learned a lot about flytraps, ty ... written by dreamcreek, may 30, 2011 thank you so much for this information!
they are prone to rot (as [matt] you probably know).
but i live in california and its very hot and dry,u said it should be best to keep it outside
so as it said, i put the seeds in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for 3 weeks and then planted them in a pot with a sand/acidic soil mixture.
i currently put in a cap's measurement (the cap from the arrowhead bottle) of arrowhead before reading the information on the website.
bring your vft's inside during this time.
it depends on what method you are using to collect it.
any type of ground water will usually have a lot of dissolved solids in it, which can accumulate in the media and poison your plant.
question: is it ok for me to put my fly trap under a lamp next to a window?
i'm sure there is a section in this website that talks about it.
in  general, tap water is not a good idea.
written by matt, january 08, 2009 unfortunately no tom, well water isn't ok for venus fly traps.
if you let the tap water sit for a day or so dos that work?
the tray method  works well when plants are actively growing, are in lots of direct sunlight,  and the weather is warm, or during vacations when one is not able to check  one's plants.
i want to know if it is ok to put it in the fridge for the plant.
bottom watering is the preferred method.
did you join the community yet?
my little vft's are now 2 years old thanks to the wealth of information and advice from here, and the forum.
i couldn't help but laugh though after seeing the request to post questions in the forum and the very next post would be another question!
forgot your username?
... written by sagal, april 06, 2009 i have noticed that alot of people's pictures are using really deap pots, since the roots dont go that deep is it ok to use shallower pots or would that be bad?
venus fly traps and all other carnivorous plants should only be watered  with distilled water, rain water, reverse osmosis water (from an ro system).
re: a venus fly trap owner written by matt, december 10, 2008 karen, i'm glad to hear that you found the website helpful.
can you buy distilled water written by acidburn, july 16, 2011 i was wondering if you can buy distilled water?
although it may not be immediately apparent with a few waterings, over time, the dissolved solids will begin to build up in the soil and can lead to a sickly looking plant and eventually death of the plant.
written by janene price, february 17, 2010 i'm so scared my fly trap (or serena as i have called it) is dying!
or does it just take a little longer?
can i still keep it here during winter or should i take it outside to simulate the winter weather.
if you feed it never ever give it anything it could not catch itself in the swamp.
and i currently use this "pur" water filtration pitcher.
or could i use bottled table water for her?
yes, if you are talking about using the water from the freezer, that should be fine to use.
my town has no public water source whatsoever.
overwatering often leads to sudden death; therefore it is best to keep the soil moist, but never wet.
water quesion written by manzano167, august 14, 2009 can i put ice water from tap water to water my venus fly trap seeds?
should i water it differently or continue with the same.
i'd love to hear updates on your progress.
color help written by edmond, november 29, 2010 hi since my venus fly trap is going to go into dormancy will all the leafs turn black and re color back in spring and does the leafs look very dead black?
and no they can't catch hamburger, don't be silly it will kill it!
this cleared up a lot of things and probably prevented me from doing something that would've killed my vft.
tap water written by earl, january 23, 2010
comments only, questions belong in the flytrapcare forum written by steve_d, december 17, 2010 prahnaplant001 asks: "ive seen people use fish bowls and mist them instead of having them constantly soak in the water.
and oddball isn't my real name it's actully my cats i love my fly trap!
the dissolved solids that are in tap water - namely sodium, calcium, alkaline salts, sulfur, chlorine and magnesium - are detrimental to the health of your dionaea.
but i wanna know what type of bugs would be acceptable to give it and if i cooked my water on the stove to clean
will this be good or what do i do?
i live in an appartment and will likely keep it inside.
snow! written by nate, february 06, 2009
it is very humid and its summer all year round.
sincerely the one who's a first timer at this and really needs information about venus fly traps.
has clorine becuase everything we drink has clorine and it will catch it's own food and they usally eat 2 bugs a month and they grow good to many bugs written by louis, may 28, 2009 what happens if i feed my fly trap to many bugs what happens if.. written by jackie, june 12, 2009 my venus flytrap doesnt eat any bugs?
no, never use fertilised soil.
quick answers to your questions: 1) some people top water their plants, but usually misting doesn't do much.
avoid collecting water from at least the firs 3-4 downpours since this rain is usually very acidic and contains high amounts of solids.
you can join the forum by clicking on the forum link at the top or right side of any page.
... written by teen, february 09, 2009 woah, thak god i got to this info when i did!
hi!my mom just recently bought me a venus fly trap,it has caought to flys already,but incase it can't is there any other food we could feed it?i heard you could give it hamburger meat
don't expect your first attempt at raising a fly trap to work out they are picky plants and it take a bit of time to get used to them!
all i want to know is it ok if i use rain water ??
... written by joyce, november 27, 2010 i bought 2 traps the other day & didn't realise you shouldn't give them tap water.
just a thing to all the food question people - it isnt needed for a flytrap, aslong as you result to the sun, water and soil.
... written by jamnut, july 14, 2010 wow the answers to 95% of these questions can be found by reading the information already on the site, which has been very helpfull by the way.
despite the description you gave, i am still abit confused.
chlorine water written by dom, august 08, 2008
winter care written by challenger, november 09, 2011
this section is for comments on the articles.
i watered my first trap with chlorine water for a week or two but when i got two new flytraps i started watering with rain water i collected.
i doubt boiling normal tap water works.
re: what happens if... written by matt, june 12, 2009 jackie, questions should be asked in the forum.
click on the "forums" link across the top of the page or on the left navigation menu to get into the forums.
rain written by libby gilbert, august 04, 2010 hi every one i just got my very first vft - and im very excited.
steam disttilling written by ki, march 29, 2010 can i use water that has been steam distilled?
if 1/2 of the fly i fed it yesterday and it had half of the bug sticking out.
my plant is kept on the windowpane right above the radiator.
a venus fly trap owner written by karen hobbs, december 09, 2008 great site, very helpful.
really, just don't use tap water.
flytrapcare forum, http://www.flytrapcare.com/phpbb3/ read the info above written by dufty07, january 29, 2011 hi guys, great web site.
water written by pirahnaplant001, december 17, 2010 ive seen people use fish bowls and mist them instead of having them constantly soak in the water.
2) no, boiled tap water is actually worse for your plants than regular tap water.
sometimes this means  watering only 2-3 times per month during the growing season, depending on  weather, humidity and the size of the pot the plant is growing in (larger pots  often retain water for a longer period).
the importance of clean water for venus fly traps written by  matt sunday, 30 march 2008 13:34 using pure water is essential to the health of a venus fly trap.
you should collect rain water, melt snow or buy distilled water for your plant.
you will definitely still have to water them.
the importance of clean water for venus fly traps written by matt sunday, 30 march 2008 13:34 using pure water is essential to the health of a venus fly trap.
during their active growing season, venus flytraps should be monitored, especially during hot and dry weather, to ensure that their growing medium does not dry out completely.
secondly, can i use boiled tap water to water my plants?
i appriciate it if you answered my question.
the media  will soak up water from a tray or bowl almost like a sponge.
water now written by lap, april 11, 2009 wich one is more haelthyer to use hot or cold water on the venus-flytrap.
they don't need bugs just make sure you give it lots of sun and always keep the soil damp not wet or dry.
look forward to keeping you updated on the progress.
the six inchers can accomodate even the most mature flytraps.
set as favorite bookmark email this hits: 66690 comments (75) subscribe to this comment's feed terrerium - do i need to water it at all?
i am from new zealand and it's so hard to find them to buy!
venus flytraps come from the bogs of america, so are used to all sorts of weather!
the growing medium ideally should be just moist, not soggy or waterlogged.
http://www.target.com/market-p...primary_c olor-bin,target_com_size-bin,target_com_brand-bin&frombrowse=0 ... written by zeitgeistt, july 20, 2011 i love just leaving the pot in the water, ... written by tdismang, july 23, 2011 this website is amazing!
i live in munich so its pretty cold.
written bymatt, august 01, 2008
one important thing i have noticed with the death of my last vft.
great job matt, and happy growing for the rest of you.
no water should be vissible if you happen to press on the soil.
i am a beginner and dont know anyhting about them.
no germination visable written by dan, february 28, 2009 i bought a venus fly trap seed kit sometime in january and it told me to prepare the seeds by imitating a dormancy period first.
although it may not be  immediately apparent with a few waterings, over time, the dissolved solids will  begin to build up in the soil and can lead to a sickly looking plant and  eventually death of the plant.
but i am unsure,also whe watering the plant,can you use spring water?please let me know,thanks.
devile - whats the point in wasting 4l of fridge space for something that does a plant no good?
about venus traps and watering... written by duvet, october 21, 2010
to find out why, and because as the bright red type says, this area is for comments only not questions, join the flytrapcare forum!
venus fly trap written by yo, september 01, 2009 can someone give me some tips on how to grow a venus flytrap in a tropical area?
matt outside written by omar , july 12, 2009 i am growing a venus flytrap
no jk i'm not that freaky about plants.
re: chlorine water written by matt, august 08, 2008
because the plants should be kept cool for much of the time during their dormancy, it is best to allow the growing medium to become almost dry before watering again.
best of luck with your flytraps!
therefore the tray method (described and pictured below)  is best used only while the plants are in direct sunlight in hot weather, or  when one goes on vacation to ensure that the medium does not dry completely.
sometimes this means watering only 2-3 times per month during the growing season, depending on weather, humidity and the size of the pot the plant is growing in (larger pots often retain water for a longer period).
so keeping the plant and medium "moist, not wet" most of the time is a good general rule, and it should be less moist most of the time during its dormancy when the air is cool to cold.
cool water written by devile15, may 20, 2010 i bought a 4l distilled water and put it in the fridge.
in the winter, is it ok if i collect unstepped on snow, then boil it and give it to my flytrap?
quick answer - your venus flytrap will be fine if it never eats a bug in its entire life.
pure water written by adamjoetan, december 04, 2010 would a bottle of pure drinking water to the trick?
during their active growing season, venus flytraps should be monitored,  especially during hot and dry weather, to ensure that their growing medium does  not dry out completely.
i'm a first timer at this and i'm looking for a site with information.
so i don't know by experience, but most from theory.
they will die if left outside.
below you will  see a photo of the tray method which involves setting a pot with drainage holes  in the bottom of it in a tray of distilled or other pure water.
... written by jeremy, july 20, 2009 can u use bottled water ... written by sarah, august 01, 2009 can u water your plant by spraying it with bottles like hair spritzer bottles, but with tap water in them?
if i cannot find distilled water, or collect rain water, is there any way that i could use regular water?
in general, tap water is not a good idea.
thanks ... written by steve_d, november 09, 2011 questions should not be asked here but instead in theflytrapcare forum mr written by melvin burles, february 01, 2012 i think my vft is nearly dead but will try again having read all the good tips write comment this area is for comments only.
is that safe enough water for my venus flytrap?
below you will see a photo of the tray method which involves setting a pot with drainage holes in the bottom of it in a tray of distilled or other pure water.
is that okay to do?" no, it's not ok.
pur water written by vince, april 20, 2009 i currently just got a venus fly trap.
it sort of looks like it's going through the dying process can anyone give me tips on how to bring my babe back to life?
how to water my plants? written by datter, march 08, 2009
so keeping the plant and medium  "moist, not wet" most of the time is a good general rule, and it  should be less moist most of the time during its dormancy when the air is cool  to cold.
and i know it needs to be kept humid
ive been doing this for almost a week.
it says they use a combination of steam distilling, ro, filtration and ozonation.
i have yet to see any growth for about a month.
standing water written by ian, april 23, 2009
how hard is it to buy one gallon, which will water your plant for well over a month, maybe even two?
i've tried setting it under a south facing window and then under a bright fluorescent plant light.
you should try to use distilled water, rain water or reverse osmosis water.
you need to make sure you use distilled water.