this memorial day 168 comment(s) fiji water and palms casino resort's new year's flyaway sweepstakes 162 comment(s) fiji water responds to mother jones article 122 comment(s) catch the best rolling party at #sxsw!
enjoy the #workout rt @mariotravels good times roll on in #austin :) rt @canwenetwork: take a load off and have a @shinerbeer or @fijiwater on the @canwenetwork bus at #sxsw.
i buy about 3 cases a month from trader joe's, which sells them for about 1 dollar per bottle less than anywhere else.
1 day, 10 hours ago 1 day, 10 hours ago 2 days, 10 hours ago 2 days, 10 hours ago 2 days, 10 hours ago 3 days, 10 hours ago 3 days, 10 hours ago 3 days, 10 hours ago 4 days, 10 hours ago 5 days, 10 hours ago | follow us - united states - australia - canada (english) - canada (french) - hong kong - japan - mexico - south korea - singapore - taiwan - united kingdom highlights perez hilton's got one night in austin to blow your mind fashion designer lucian matis on his likes, dislikes, and new collection agnyess deyn beckons
take advantage of our special: http://t.co/3tdg1xwl rt @awesome_sisters: in #love with @fijiwater
the aquifer - taste - company timeline - contact info: corporate & distribution - newsroom - store locator - faq - partnerships - contests - entertainment - epicurean - fashion & health - giving back - around the world - news & notes environment - 1% for the planet - saving the rain forest - sustainable practices community giving - fiji water foundation - education - clean water - health - disaster relief - economic contributions - corporate giving home | blog preview | 11.30.10 fiji water to reopen plant following discussions today with fijian officials, fiji water will reopen its bottling plant, effective wednesday morning, dec. 1, at its regular start-up time of 8 a.m. through our discussions, we have also agreed to comply with fiji’s new water tax law.
buy what you want, the market will adjust.
i hope you were able to work out some better deal than 15 cents a liter.
please send us details, minimum quantity and all other information kind regards vafiahmed rawjee 02.07.11 @ 3:55 am jane yay
want tix to the @perezhilton sho?
i do not drink bottled water.
in perhaps a conciliatory gesture, representatives of the [...] 12.02.10 @ 3:05 am fiji media gal hi jacqueline, here's our reply to your comment.
thanks for your comment.
fiji water is committed to running our business, in fiji and around the world, as energy-efficiently as possible.
tweet @fijiwater when you arrive!
though the tax increase seems excessive, i believe that it is in the best interest of both the fijian people and fiji water that the relationship continue.
check out the fiji water foundation at www.fijiwaterfoundation.org.
moving forward, fiji water is committed to working with the fijian government, and remains dedicated to helping the country’s economy and its people.
11.30.10 @ 2:45 pm scott i am glad to read that the people of fiji will continue to benefit from the jobs created by fiji water.
12.01.10 @ 2:38 pm joe keating i am certain that once the fiji government realized the crushing blow they would receive by their taxing effort, quick negotiations / other accomodations were quickly put into place to either lessen the tax blow or remove it altogether.
it's going to be epic #sxsw
07.23.11 @ 3:01 pm carl mielcarek i was given your fijigreen water at the beladio casino in las vegas.
03.23.11 @ 11:14 pm fiji water michael, thank you for the comment!
in the meantime we are reducing our energy use through a series of operational efficiency and equipment upgrade projects at the plant.
it is a shame that i have to purchase clean, healthy water from a country thousands of miles away from my home, but until that is no longer necessary i will gladly do it to ensure my health and the health of my loved ones.
12.07.10 @ 7:50 pm the week that was, 11/28-12/4/2010 | chance of rain [...] through our discussions, we have also agreed to comply with fiji’s new water tax law.
hopefully this answers your questions.
jerry k. may i offer my services to visit the bottling plant and investigate some of these issues?
http://t.co/pmdijvnj via @fijiwater #coupons fantastic!
12.09.10 @ 3:54 pm blue-eyed girl frankly, dorian roffe-hammond, i find the idea of being poisoned by the water provided by my municipality downright ludicrous as well.
win tickets to savor dallas, plus gift certificates to abacus, capital grill and more 0 comment(s) enter the star for a day hollywood getaway sweepstakes 4 comment(s) fiji water's welcome back sweepstakes 405 comment(s)
i have been drinking nothing but fiji bottled water for the last 4 years.
see our website, http://www.fijiwater.com/giving-back/environment/sustainable-practices/ for more info.
i love your water, but if i was in your shoes i would be looking for a new place to set up shop.
the 1st 3 to meet us at 4th & red river win a pair of tix.
and i liked the taste of the water 03.24.11 @ 7:01 pm simon how has the tragedy that has befallen japan affected fiji water?
in other words i will never support it or buy it!
12.01.10 @ 4:23 pm dorian roffe-hammond frankly, the idea of transporting enormous quantities of water by container ship thousands of miles across an ocean so it can be consumed elsewhere from its origin is downright ludicrous.
reliable access to clean, safe drinking water is common throughout much of fiji, but there are still numerous villages and communities where infrastructure is lacking.
we've given away all of our tickets to @perezhilton 's showcase.
see you tomorrow @perezhilton 's show!
in perhaps a conciliatory gesture, representatives of the [...] 12.02.10 @ 3:22 am fiji: fiji water agrees to new tax and re-opens plant · global voices [...] plant because of a new government tax it called “discriminatory,” fiji water decided to reopen for business in western viti levu.
because there are no municipal sources of power at the fiji water bottling plant, we rely on a diesel generator for electricity as the only viable source of reliable power.
comments (21) suggested articles comments... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
home  |    blog preview  |  11.30.10  fiji water to reopen  plant following discussions today with fijian officials, fiji water will reopen  its bottling plant, effective wednesday morning, dec. 1, at its regular  start-up time of 8 a.m.  through our discussions, we have also agreed to  comply with fiji’s new water tax law.
or that fiji water bottles are made from chinese plastic in a diesel-fueled manufacturing plant" 12.01.10 @ 1:30 am robert i think it is awful that the fijian government wants to raise taxes on your company by 5000%.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment lilshay when the people of fiji are no long suffering due to lack of clean water and reporters are able to get clear cut answers out of the resnicks about why they are not helping the fijian people only exploiting them is when i will purchase fiji water.
at this time, we are fortunate enough to already have a strong partners in your region.
you "here" fiji recycling program nets over five tons of plastic bottles water quality report | terms | privacy | careers | contact | sitemap follow @fijiwater newsletter | country
i can imagine that anyone would be a little skeptical before purchasing your product.
it tastes a little stale and heavy like tap water.
the it lounge movie line contest 276 comment(s) win a trip to palms casino resort
12.01.10 @ 1:15 pm bob jordan i say, tell the fiji gov. to "stick it" with their taxes.
thanks, fiji water 03.17.11 @ 9:40 am michael mohajer has fiji been sourcing its water elsewhere?
perhaps dorian has access to everything he needs in his quaint little community and nothing is imported?
maybe its just me.. 03.17.11 @ 6:03 am fiji water thank you for your interest in fiji water.
rt @wokstar: i gave @fijiwater +k about beverages on @klout http://t.co/21hboi3j thanks!
see you all tomorrow!
rt @austinjohn: @fijiwater @perezhilton excited for #onenightinaustin tomorrow!!
then i will provide a concise report for everyone to read.
in our case, we source this pet resin from thailand and taiwan.
let's be real here folks!
rt @hillaryjanine 20% off fiji water throughout the big dance.
however, we are continually evaluating alternative sources of energy to supplement our current source.
and i strongly disagree with the trend.
i refuse to be pumped full of chlorine, fluoride, estrogen, and other contaminants while they continue to assure me it is "safe".
jacqueline can you please tell us more about these accusations, is this true?
our next pick up will be on 6th in ten minutes!
i bottled water for the south african market .
we believe that fiji is home to the best water on the planet, and the people of fiji should be able to enjoy it as much as the rest of the world does.
we are a south african company in johannesburg and want to import f i j
keep in mind that our pet bottles are fully recyclable and that pet bottles require 24% less energy to produce, generate 40% less solid waste, and emit 46% less carbon during shipping than glass bottles.
this month, the water hasnt been as crisp and frefreshing as it has always been to me.
in fact i started a campaign against it on my college campus!
just like any sucessful business, they wait in line to steal anything they can.
yes, go mad for fiji!
thanks to the #sxsw fans.
fiji water agrees to new tax and re-opens plant :: elites tv [...] plant because of a new government tax it called “discriminatory,” fiji water decided to reopen for business in western viti levu.
they're no different than any gov. entity anywhere, steal all they can and do nothing but sit and wait for the next victim(business) to make a $ with hard work, innovation and smarts!
moving forward, fiji water is committed to working with the fijian  government,  and remains dedicated to helping the country’s economy  and its people.
02.09.11 @ 10:44 am vafiahmed rawjee
we actually blow-mold our bottles on site at the fiji plant from high-grade pet resin.
we always want to know if our customers are not satisfied with our water.
this resin can only be sourced from a few locations in the world.
however, we appreciate your inquiry and would appreciate if you could please send an email with your contact information to info@fijiwater.com so that we can keep your details on file for future reference.
i for one would not purchase it anymore until properly satisfied.
11.30.10 @ 1:08 pm most popular | most shared win a trip to charleston wine + food festival 43 comment(s) win a trip to las vegas for you and your friends 6 comment(s) 5 fitness training tips for the new year 0 comment(s)
we are still sourcing from the same place (fiji), if you are noticing a difference in taste it something we want to investigate.
- the water - the company - blog - giving back - the store - types of bottled water - untouched by man -
our use of the highest grade resin yields bottles of the greatest clarity and strength that protect the water’s pristine quality and taste.
can we put you in touch with our customer relations department?
— fiji water to reopen plant, fiji water company statement, november 30, [...] 12.05.10 @ 3:25 pm
i recommend at least a month's time at my standard hourly rates with expenses.
no, it is not true that our fiji water bottles come from china.
"island risk exposure to typhoid because of their own unsanitary water supplies.
yup 12.20.10 @ 4:01 pm jerry k. blue-eyed girl, you're correct.
since then, the foundation has funded projects to bring clean water to over 40,000 fijians, and counting.
in 2007, we set up the fiji water foundation with one of its key goals to increase access to clean water in fiji.
as a result, diseases spread due to unclean water and lack of sanitation, such as typhoid, are not an uncommon problem there.