that’s a little big for me,’”
it isn’t green for the sake of being green.
with the judge’s deadline in mind, perdue created the water contingency task force, whose members scrambled to make water supply recommendations, which became the basis for the georgia water stewardship act of 2010, passed during the last legislative session.
if all the rooftops in 13 metro atlanta counties were used to  collect rainwater, more than 300 million gallons of water per day could be  harvested.
rainwater harvesting: mcdonough’s mark brown, founder of rain catchers http://daemonpictures.com three years ago georgia was wilting in the arid throes of a record drought, the worst in more than a century.
already, institutions like the university of georgia, emory and georgia tech are saving millions of gallons of municipal drinking water through the use of rainwater harvesting systems for non-potable uses.
the credits, however, are  dependent entirely on federal stimulus money – which may or may not be  available to fund state tax credits.
“when it’ll happen, who can say, but i believe it will have a  future here in georgia, in the coastal region.
so, capturing the freest source of water known – rain – was barely mentioned in the stewardship act, but the legislature also passed house bill 1069, a complicated piece of omnibus legislation that includes, among other things, up to $2,500 in state income tax credits for people who install rainwater harvesting (or catchment) systems.
using rainwater from the roof is simple.
“this was not an engineering issue or a technology issue, it was a  funding issue,” jeffcoat says.
but koros, who tries to remain optimistic in the face of it all, says we  have the technology and the ingenuity to do better.
they never even got that  far.
the timing definitely seemed right, with the drought and the water wars between georgia, florida and alabama,” browning says.
but first they were going to build a $1-million demonstration plant capable of producing more than 25,000 gallons a day.
if all the rooftops in 13 metro atlanta counties were used to collect rainwater, more than 300 million gallons of water per day could be harvested.
and it will take creative and concerted measures to supply a wet and thirsty planet.
“desalination, interbasin transfers, new reservoirs all require a lot  of infrastructure, pumps, the acquisition of land, and it takes years for those  things to become productive.
then again, some legislators also think desalination will be a viable part of the solution.
rep. smith supported the project at the time and remains certain of desalination’s place in georgia.
“clean up the water you take out and reuse it – there are some real advantages to that,” he says.
“i think people in the u.s. are starting to realize that this is not some great environmentalist conspiracy – there’s a limited amount of resources in the world, and the whole world wants those resources,” he says.
i thought, ‘what am i doing?
a five-year drought had ended in 2003.
“if we could just take this seriously long enough, we can get far ahead of everybody and start getting more efficient right now, and the rest of the world can catch on.
“it takes a lot less energy to  clean up water for reuse than it does for desalination.
and while it is expensive (when compared to drawing water from lakes, rivers and aquifers), the cost – in terms of dollars and energy – is coming down somewhat.
agl resources was in on the deal, they were gonna give right of way for pipes from down here up to atlanta.”
scorching heat, record-low rainfalls in historically wet regions and shrinking water supplies pushed most of the southeast to the brink of dehydration while georgia was engaged in a pitched battle with florida and alabama over water rights to lake lanier.
“because when you have a drought, people are wringing their hands, saying  to themselves, ‘this is serious.’
brine teaser it seemed like a great idea at the time.
that makes the most sense.”
aquasis inc., a jonesboro-based company, announced in the summer of 2006 that it was planning to build georgia’s first desalination plant that would produce about 30 million gallons of potable water a day from saltwater.
• tuscon, ariz., now requires new commercial construction to include a  plan in which at least 50 percent of landscape irrigation uses rainwater  harvesting.
two supply options that have been discussed under the gold dome in recent years are not addressed in a significant way – desalination (which is considered in the state water management plan), and rainwater harvesting (although the use of rainwater and gray water in lieu of potable water is encouraged).
“but i thought some bigger players were  putting a lot of money into it, and i wanted to be a small part of it, even  though it was a big chunk of money for me.”
“in australia, 20 percent of the population has rainwater harvesting systems.
but first they were going to build a $1-million demonstration plant  capable of producing more than 25,000 gallons a day.
that means legislators are beginning to realize this is a viable part of the solution.”
subscribe | advertise | nominate | contact us | archive copyright 2012 georgia trend magazine.
there are cheaper, more efficient ways to generate new sources of water.
the need for water is automatic, not something traditionally perceived consciously as we blissfully let the tap run while brushing our teeth, unaware that all the water that ever was is all there is, that less than one percent of it is available to meet our needs, that the global population will reach nine billion before very long
the engineering firm, which has done desalination projects all over the world, was working with aquasis.
“you have to do something with the highly concentrated salt water  left over, and one way to do that is putting it back in the ocean,” says  koros.
with the judge’s deadline in mind, perdue created the water  contingency task force, whose members scrambled to make water supply  recommendations, which became the basis for the georgia water stewardship act  of 2010, passed during the last legislative session.
but koros, who tries to remain optimistic in the face of it all, says we have the technology and the ingenuity to do better.
in arid regions like the middle east (which uses about 70 percent of the current worldwide capacity), desalination is widely employed because it is the most viable source of fresh water.
“right now there are some big ‘ifs’ regarding that  program, but it passed easily and it’s a positive direction,” says  brown, who produces a rain harvesting blog (www.thecistern.com).
georgia was parched and in the early stages of what would be a  devastating three-year drought.
“i’m hopeful that the plant is still a possibility,” he says.
aquasis inc., a jonesboro-based company, announced in the summer of 2006  that it was planning to build georgia’s first desalination plant that  would produce about 30 million gallons of potable water a day from saltwater.
for the  shortsighted and absentminded, the water problem was solved.
howard  browning could see the pattern and the opportunity it presented.
eddie van giesen is well aware of that, and he’s tried to spread the  message to state lawmakers as a registered lobbyist and policy director for  brae rainwater technologies that rainwater harvesting could close the water gap  in metro atlanta.
rep. smith supported the project at the time and remains certain of  desalination’s place in georgia.
this article appears in the november 2010 issue of georgia trend did you like what you read here?
brown and other advocates of rainwater harvesting added their two cents’ worth to the task force.
crosby, who could not be reached for this story, told georgia trend in spring 2007 that the company was mainly focused on serving coastal communities, but a pipeline to atlanta wasn’t out of the question.
“it takes a lot less energy to clean up water for reuse than it does for desalination.
eddie van giesen is well aware of that, and he’s tried to spread the message to state lawmakers as a registered lobbyist and policy director for brae rainwater technologies that rainwater harvesting could close the water gap in metro atlanta.
“it’s a proven, ancient technology,” he says.
we haven’t figured out yet how to increase the rainfall, nor have we  figured out how to increase the attention span of the tap-turning populace.
they never even got that far.
you can’t distribute all of that water, now with a higher concentration of salt, in one spot or you run the risk of killing aquatic life.”
already, institutions like the university of georgia, emory and georgia
the general assembly adopted the plan during the 2008 session.
“rainwater collection went from barely being mentioned to written  legislation for tax rebates.
“i’m hopeful that the plant is still a possibility,” he  says.
“some places in the world, desalination is the best or only option, because they don’t have a choice, they don’t have that renewable rainfall like georgia.”
that may be a long way off, though, says stuart jeffcoat, regional  technology manager for ch2m hill.
georgia trend contacted psalmonds, who declined to be interviewed for this story.
“i guess that project is pretty much defunct now,” says browning, a st. simons resident who retired after 30 years in the seafood processing industry.
and  according to a recent report in national geographic magazine, new desalination  plants may add about 13 billion gallons a day to the global potable water  supply within the next six years.
crosby, who could not be reached for this story, told georgia trend in  spring 2007 that the company was mainly focused on serving coastal communities,  but a pipeline to atlanta wasn’t out of the question.
“when i heard they wanted to run a pipeline from the coast to atlanta
subscribe to georgia trend » subscribe now
but there are more efficient ways of spending money with ge, he intimates.
“rainwater harvesting can’t solve all of our water supply problems, but it can solve a lot of them,” says van giesen, who lives in watkinsville and comes into the conversation armed with factoids: •
and according to a recent report in national geographic magazine, new desalination plants may add about 13 billion gallons a day to the global potable water supply within the next six years.
browning invested in the desalination project, which was being directed by  aquasis partners, ceo jonathan psalmonds and coo aaron crosby.
“but you’re talking billions and billions of dollars,” he said at the time.
scorching heat, record-low rainfalls in  historically wet regions and shrinking water supplies pushed most of the  southeast to the brink of dehydration while georgia was engaged in a pitched  battle with florida and alabama over water rights to lake lanier.
they were going to  supply the technology.
but there are more efficient  ways of spending money with ge, he intimates.
in 2009 it  started raining again, and lake levels returned to near normal.
“using a technically complex and expensive system to address a  common sense problem just seems like putting the cart ahead of the  horse,” says deborah sheppard, executive director of the altamaha  river-keeper.
but the  state is growing faster than water can accumulate, so environmental advocates,  entrepreneurs and leaders from business and government are seeking solutions  and considering different and varied options, including one that relies totally  on rain and its storage, to meet georgia’s water supply challenge.
you hope that the  judge will give us more time, but this bill gives us measures that will help us  in the future,” says state rep. lynn smith (r-newnan), who chairs the  house natural resources and environment committee.
for environmental advocates, desalination, with its energy cost (and the use of fresh water to generate the electricity), just doesn’t make sense.
it’s one of the easiest  ways to get leed points, and businesses should step up to the plate,” he  says.
“but there is a lack of education for policymakers as to the  potential of this, and if the need is not perceived, it’s hard to get  support.”
for the shortsighted and absentminded, the water problem was solved.
“if we could just take this seriously long enough, we can get far  ahead of everybody and start getting more efficient right now, and the rest of  the world can catch on.
“but there is a lack of education for policymakers as to the potential of this, and if the need is not perceived, it’s hard to get support.”
it  isn’t green for the sake of being green.
we’re just retooling the wheel.”
there’s still time to maneuver around this problem.”
“i have yet to meet anyone who says this is a bad idea,” van  giesen says.
the long-range plan was to pipe water from the coast uphill to atlanta, about 250 miles.
as lake levels kept shrinking and gov. sonny perdue publicly prayed for  rain, participants from government, business, agriculture and (to a lesser  degree) environmental advocacy groups came together to complete the  state’s first water management plan, an effort that began in 2004,  following a five-year drought.
if every one of the estimated 85 big-box retailers (home depot, walmart, etc.) in a 10-county metro atlanta region collected rainwater, it would yield about 700,000 gallons of water a day.
that means legislators are beginning to realize  this is a viable part of the solution.”
he believes perception is growing, and that might be our species’ saving grace.
“i absolutely think we have desalination in our future,” she  says.
“the biggest enemy of conservation is rain,” quips william j.  koros, chemical and biomolecular engineering professor at georgia tech.
everything is not ok.
it’s expensive, but the cost of desalination has fallen by about 80 percent over the last decade, according to jeff fulgham, chief sustainability officer of ge power and water.
“rainwater collection went from barely being mentioned to written legislation for tax rebates.
“if you do it carefully, it’s ok.
• tuscon, ariz., now requires new commercial construction to include a plan in which at least 50 percent of landscape irrigation uses rainwater harvesting.
browning declined to say just how much he gave to aquasis, which shelved  the project in early 2008.
about half  of the water used by industry in the u.s. is used by power plants.
there’s also the question of what happens to the salt filtered out of the seawater.
today he goes by captain howard browning, guiding visitors to the georgia coast on boat tours on the altamaha river.
georgia law only permits non-potable use for rainwater catchment systems (irrigation, flushing toilets, laundry, building and vehicle washing, fire suppression, etc.), though advanced filtration systems can clean and purify water to levels that exceed the quality of municipal systems.
“i guess we were kind of disappointed, because nobody seemed willing  to look outside of the box,” says mark brown, founder of rain catchers, a  mcdonough-based firm that designs and builds rainwater harvesting systems.
“you know, it’s like ‘as long as we’re not in a  crisis, everything must be ok.’”
“for example, before you build  your next coal-fired power plant, ask yourself what else you can do to reduce  demand.”
georgia experienced record-high average temperatures over the summer and much of the state experienced drought conditions, and the probability for another drought is high for 2011.
georgia experienced record-high average temperatures over the summer and  much of the state experienced drought conditions, and the probability for  another drought is high for 2011.
in an efficient system, about 50 percent of the water taken in is purified.
brine teaser it seemed like a great idea at  the time.
“desalination, interbasin transfers, new reservoirs all require a lot of infrastructure, pumps, the acquisition of land, and it takes years for those things to become productive.
georgia law only permits  non-potable use for rainwater catchment systems (irrigation, flushing toilets,  laundry, building and vehicle washing, fire suppression, etc.), though advanced  filtration systems can clean and purify water to levels that exceed the quality  of municipal systems.
that may be a long way off, though, says stuart jeffcoat, regional technology manager for ch2m hill.
tech are saving millions of gallons of municipal drinking water through the use  of rainwater harvesting systems for non-potable uses.
rainwater harvesting advocates like van giesen and brown (who both have an obvious vested interest in the process) point out that this isn’t merely a matter of rain barrels at the end of your gutter downspout.
conservation and efficiency measures are given their cursory due –  encouraged, not mandated – in the law, which also creates something  called the joint committee on water supply, whose primary duty seems to be  analyzing the state’s reservoir system and concocting ways to finance  additional reservoirs.
resource from above general electric is in  the water technology business – building and selling systems that provide  clean water to communities and companies, through desalination and other means  – and fulgham wants to stay in business.
but the state is growing faster than water can accumulate, so environmental advocates, entrepreneurs and leaders from business and government are seeking solutions and considering different and varied options, including one that relies totally on rain and its storage, to meet georgia’s water supply challenge.
but it also provides fresh water to people in the u.s., especially in california and florida.
that’s a little big for  me,’”
brown and other advocates of rainwater harvesting added their two cents’  worth to the task force.
“rain is a cyclical thing, and after it rains people stop recognizing the fact that the water situation isn’t getting any better,” koros says.
“you have to do something with the highly concentrated salt water left over, and one way to do that is putting it back in the ocean,” says koros.
“for example, before you build your next coal-fired power plant, ask yourself what else you can do to reduce demand.”
this would be terrible timing because unless georgia can strike a deal with alabama and florida by july 2012, lake lanier will be off limits as a source of drinking water, meaning four million area residents will be facing a 280-million-gallon-a-day deficit – all of this because in july 2009 u.s. district court judge paul magnuson ruled that atlanta’s withdrawals from lanier were illegal since the lake was built to generate electricity, not supply drinking water.
so, capturing the freest source of water known – rain – was  barely mentioned in the stewardship act, but the legislature also passed house  bill 1069, a complicated piece of omnibus legislation that includes, among  other things, up to $2,500 in state income tax credits for people who install  rainwater harvesting (or catchment) systems.
taking salt water and  making it drinkable is an expensive, energy-intensive process.
the need for water is automatic, not something traditionally perceived  consciously as we blissfully let the tap run while brushing our teeth, unaware  that all the water that ever was is all there is, that less than one percent of  it is available to meet our needs, that the global population will reach nine  billion before very long
in reverse osmosis, the current state-of-the-art in desalination, water is pumped through a membrane that catches the salt.
“you know, it’s like ‘as long as we’re not in a crisis, everything must be ok.’”
desalination is used in 150 countries, where 15,000 plants produce water  from the sea, or brackish water, for more than 300 million people.
“rainwater harvesting can’t solve all of our water supply  problems, but it can solve a lot of them,” says van giesen, who lives in  watkinsville and comes into the conversation armed with factoids: •
“in  australia, 20 percent of the population has rainwater harvesting systems.
these are  typically underground cisterns, and often quite large, like the 16,000-gallon  system brown’s firm installed at the goddard school in buford, or the  35,000-gallon system he designed for a hospital in brunswick.
about half of the water used by industry in the u.s. is used by power plants.
we’re not reinventing the wheel.
“you can increase supply by reducing demand – that’s the  low-hanging fruit, and i’m not convinced georgia has done everything it  can to reduce demand,” fulgham says.
as lake levels kept shrinking and gov. sonny perdue publicly prayed for rain, participants from government, business, agriculture and (to a lesser degree) environmental advocacy groups came together to complete the state’s first water management plan, an effort that began in 2004, following a five-year drought.
georgia power is the no. 1 industrial user of water in georgia.
in arid regions like the middle east (which uses about 70 percent of the  current worldwide capacity), desalination is widely employed because it is the  most viable source of fresh water.
browning declined to say just how much he gave to aquasis, which shelved the project in early 2008.
“i think people in the u.s. are starting to realize that this is not  some great environmentalist conspiracy – there’s a limited amount  of resources in the world, and the whole world wants those resources,” he  says.
there are  cheaper, more efficient ways to generate new sources of water.
rainwater harvesting advocates like van giesen and brown (who both have an  obvious vested interest in the process) point out that this isn’t merely  a matter of rain barrels at the end of your gutter downspout.
this article appears in the november 2010 issue of georgia trend did you like what you read here?
it takes  about five million gallons of water a day for a 1,000-megawatt power plant.
it’s one of the easiest ways to get leed points, and businesses should step up to the plate,” he says.
“because when you have a drought, people are wringing their hands, saying to themselves, ‘this is serious.’
for environmental advocates, desalination, with its energy cost (and the  use of fresh water to generate the electricity), just doesn’t make sense.
the combination of using an untapped resource while controlling stormwater  runoff can buy the state time to locate other surface water supplies, van  giesen says, while providing a bargaining chip in negotiations over water  rights with alabama and florida.
two supply options that have been discussed under the gold dome in recent  years are not addressed in a significant way – desalination (which is  considered in the state water management plan), and rainwater harvesting  (although the use of rainwater and gray water in lieu of potable water is  encouraged).
“the 2012 deadline is looming, and it’s real.
the long-range plan was to pipe water from the coast uphill to atlanta, about  250 miles.
this would be terrible timing because unless  georgia can strike a deal with alabama and florida by july 2012, lake lanier  will be off limits as a source of drinking water, meaning four million area  residents will be facing a 280-million-gallon-a-day deficit – all of this  because in july 2009 u.s. district court judge paul magnuson ruled that  atlanta’s withdrawals from lanier were illegal since the lake was built  to generate electricity, not supply drinking water.
as the possibility of another drought looms, georgia searches for  long-term water solutions jerry grillo rainwater harvesting: mcdonough’s mark brown, founder of rain catchers http://daemonpictures.com three years ago georgia was wilting in the arid throes of a record drought,  the worst in more than a century.
“me and several others invested with them.
when it rains, there is ample water supply for a thirsty state.
in 2009 it started raining again, and lake levels returned to near normal.
“when it’ll happen, who can say, but i believe it will have a future here in georgia, in the coastal region.
subscribe to georgia trend » home | honors | features | our state | upfront | commentary | downtime | annual publications | special sections
we haven’t figured out yet how to increase the rainfall, nor have we figured out how to increase the attention span of the tap-turning populace.
at this writing, even authors of the bill seemed unsure of how or if the credits could be used without revisiting the issue legislatively.
in an efficient system, about 50 percent of the water taken in is  purified.
the engineering firm, which has done  desalination projects all over the world, was working with aquasis.
then all of a sudden it rains.”
but is it right for georgia?
there’s also the question of what happens to the salt filtered out of  the seawater.
you hope that the judge will give us more time, but this bill gives us measures that will help us in the future,” says state rep. lynn smith (r-newnan), who chairs the house natural resources and environment committee.
“this was not an engineering issue or a technology issue, it was a funding issue,” jeffcoat says.
taking salt water and making it drinkable is an expensive, energy-intensive process.
they were going to supply the technology.
the credits, however, are dependent entirely on federal stimulus money – which may or may not be available to fund state tax credits.
“i have yet to meet anyone who says this is a bad idea,” van giesen says.
“rain is a cyclical thing, and after it rains people stop recognizing  the fact that the water situation isn’t getting any better,” koros  says.
“using a technically complex and expensive system to address a common sense problem just seems like putting the cart ahead of the horse,” says deborah sheppard, executive director of the altamaha river-keeper.
you can’t distribute  all of that water, now with a higher concentration of salt, in one spot or you  run the risk of killing aquatic life.”
it’s expensive, but the  cost of desalination has fallen by about 80 percent over the last decade,  according to jeff fulgham, chief sustainability officer of ge power and water.
resource from above general electric is in the water technology business – building and selling systems that provide clean water to communities and companies, through desalination and other means – and fulgham wants to stay in business.
in germany, where rainwater harvesting systems are required in new  construction, the industry generates more than $350 million per year in  revenue; van giesen estimates that the rainwater harvesting industry could  contribute up to $40 million to georgia’s economy.
“right now there are some big ‘ifs’ regarding that program, but it passed easily and it’s a positive direction,” says brown, who produces a rain harvesting blog (www.thecistern.com).
he believes perception is  growing, and that might be our species’ saving grace.
“the biggest enemy of conservation is rain,” quips william j. koros, chemical and biomolecular engineering professor at georgia tech.
georgia trend /   georgia trend november 2010 / salt and rain email   print  feed subscribe to : environment salt and rain
then all of a sudden it  rains.”
in reverse osmosis, the current state-of-the-art in desalination, water is  pumped through a membrane that catches the salt.
georgia trend  contacted psalmonds, who declined to be interviewed for this story.
the timing definitely  seemed right, with the drought and the water wars between georgia, florida and  alabama,” browning says.
and while it is expensive  (when compared to drawing water from lakes, rivers and aquifers), the cost  – in terms of dollars and energy – is coming down somewhat.
“but i thought some bigger players were putting a lot of money into it, and i wanted to be a small part of it, even though it was a big chunk of money for me.”
“some places in the world, desalination is the best or only option,  because they don’t have a choice, they don’t have that renewable  rainfall like georgia.”
these are typically underground cisterns, and often quite large, like the 16,000-gallon system brown’s firm installed at the goddard school in buford, or the 35,000-gallon system he designed for a hospital in brunswick.
“there’s a lot of active interest in improving the efficiency of reverse osmosis, a lot of talk about high-efficiency membranes that are aimed at reducing energy use by as much as 30 to 40 percent,” says georgia tech’s koros, whose focus has been on high-tech membranes that can be used to filter impurities from water and air – he currently is working on membrane technology designed to remove carbon dioxide from the flue gases of coal-burning power plants.
it takes about five million gallons of water a day for a 1,000-megawatt power plant.
“i absolutely think we have desalination in our future,” she says.
at this writing, even authors of the bill  seemed unsure of how or if the credits could be used without revisiting the  issue legislatively.
in germany, where rainwater harvesting systems are required in new construction, the industry generates more than $350 million per year in revenue; van giesen estimates that the rainwater harvesting industry could contribute up to $40 million to georgia’s economy.
“but  you’re talking billions and billions of dollars,” he said at the  time.
“clean up the water you take out and reuse it – there are some  real advantages to that,” he says.
“i guess we were kind of disappointed, because nobody seemed willing to look outside of the box,” says mark brown, founder of rain catchers, a mcdonough-based firm that designs and builds rainwater harvesting systems.
browning invested in the desalination project, which was being directed by aquasis partners, ceo jonathan psalmonds and coo aaron crosby.
“you can increase supply by reducing demand – that’s the low-hanging fruit, and i’m not convinced georgia has done everything it can to reduce demand,” fulgham says.
then again, some legislators also think desalination will be a viable part  of the solution.
there’s still time to maneuver around this  problem.”
today he goes by captain howard browning, guiding visitors  to the georgia coast on boat tours on the altamaha river.
agl resources was in on the deal, they were gonna give  right of way for pipes from down here up to atlanta.”
and it will take creative and concerted measures to  supply a wet and thirsty planet.
desalination is used in 150 countries, where 15,000 plants produce water from the sea, or brackish water, for more than 300 million people.
“there’s a lot of active interest in improving the efficiency  of reverse osmosis, a lot of talk about high-efficiency membranes that are  aimed at reducing energy use by as much as 30 to 40 percent,” says  georgia tech’s koros, whose focus has been on high-tech membranes that  can be used to filter impurities from water and air – he currently is  working on membrane technology designed to remove carbon dioxide from the flue  gases of coal-burning power plants.
georgia was parched and in the early stages of what would be a devastating three-year drought.
“i guess that project is pretty much defunct now,” says  browning, a st. simons resident who retired after 30 years in the seafood  processing industry.
we’re just retooling the  wheel.”
he hasn’t gotten any of it back, though.
howard browning could see the pattern and the opportunity it presented.
but it also provides fresh water to people  in the u.s., especially in california and florida.
if every one of the estimated 85 big-box retailers (home depot,  walmart, etc.) in a 10-county metro atlanta region collected rainwater, it  would yield about 700,000 gallons of water a day.
the combination of using an untapped resource while controlling stormwater runoff can buy the state time to locate other surface water supplies, van giesen says, while providing a bargaining chip in negotiations over water rights with alabama and florida.
conservation and efficiency measures are given their cursory due – encouraged, not mandated – in the law, which also creates something called the joint committee on water supply, whose primary duty seems to be analyzing the state’s reservoir system and concocting ways to finance additional reservoirs.