if you would like to read more i recommend two books: the truth about  water and your body’s many cries for water.
the calcium comes out instead in ionic form (with a positive charge) and precipitates by forming other salts.
the calcium comes out instead in  ionic form (with a positive charge) and precipitates by forming other salts.
if they are present in excess then they are filtered through the kidneys and this is exactly what needs to happen with all things which are in excess in the circulation.
the views and nutritional advice expressed by oasis advanced wellness are not intended to be a substitute for conventional medical service.
finally, if mineral water is not a good source of biologically available  minerals, then what is?
carbonate is  not a sufficiently complex organic molecule and therefore cannot properly  contribute its calcium to living systems.
this makes dust of the argument that healthy water is  mineralized, and dust is of course the source of minerals in mineral water.
that form  involves an association with an organic (carbon based) molecule.
home articles home water home advanced health & wellness dr. lanphier's health e-tips [back issues] print this pageprint
nature knows best and nature supplies distilled water in the form of rain.
your mineral source should be plants not water.
we design and recommend individual nutritional programs and supplements that allow the body to rebuild and heal itself.
this point of view is that water should be mineralized in order to have health benefits and that distilled water somehow leaches out minerals from the body.
water from the ground comes with minerals alright, but these minerals are in salt form.
the statements enclosed herein have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration.
distilled water cleanses the body through promoting healthy kidney function.
finally, if mineral water is not a good source of biologically available minerals, then what is?
where would that come from?
if you have a severe medical condition, see your physician of choice.
distilled water does not leach out significant amounts of biologically available minerals because these are quickly taken up by the body on an as needed basis.
water from the ground comes with  minerals alright, but these minerals are in salt form.
the purpose of water is to cleanse the body.
carbon based molecules are to be found in living systems, and are not found in the ground which is where mineral water comes from.
distilled water vs mineral, carbon filtered and reverse osmosis water ron kennedy, m.d. there is circulating a point of view about distilled water, undoubtedly  promulgated by producers and sellers of mineral water.
to do the best job of that, it must be free of everything else.
it does not cause mineral loss but in fact takes out harmful toxins from the body.
the only remaining option is for us to distill our own water.
a good example is caco3 (calcium carbonate).
when salt is presented to the body (with rare exceptions such as sodium chloride) it must be either stored or excreted.
incidentally, caco3 comes from lime stone and comprises the bulk of most  calcium supplements, including that in “calcium enriched orange  juice.”
in order for a mineral to be of any use to the body it must be presented in a form in which it can be used.
minerals are present in the ground and  must be biologically bound in order to be used by the body.
if you want cataracts, kidney stones, and arteriosclerosis, be sure to eat and drink “calcium enriched” foods.
back to top disclaimer:
unbound minerals must be excreted, which is extra work for the kidneys) or stored.
that form involves an association with an organic (carbon based) molecule.
as to carbon filtered and reverse osmosis water, these are better  solutions than tap water or mineral water, however they still fall far short of  the standard set by distilled water.
unbound minerals must be excreted, which is extra work for  the kidneys) or stored.
this point of view is  that water should be mineralized in order to have health benefits and that  distilled water somehow leaches out minerals from the body.
distilled water does not leach out significant  amounts of biologically available minerals because these are quickly taken up  by the body on an as needed basis.
back to top oaw information product  shopping customer help about dr. lanphier
ron kennedy, m.d. there is circulating a point of view about distilled water, undoubtedly promulgated by producers and sellers of mineral water.
information and statements made are for education purposes and are not intended to replace the advice of your treating doctor.
as to carbon filtered and reverse osmosis water, these are better solutions than tap water or mineral water, however they still fall far short of the standard set by distilled water.
however, rain water is no longer pure due to atmospheric pollution.
the products and information mentioned on this site are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
it does not  cause mineral loss but in fact takes out harmful toxins from the body.
to do the best job of that, it  must be free of everything else.
this is true, and this is exactly what we want it to do.
page home > health knowledge base >  water > distilled water vs mineral, carbon filtered and reverse  osmosis water distilled water is the healthiest water that you can drink.
only distilled water fits that bill.
common locations for precipitation of calcium are the lens of the eye (cataracts), the kidneys (kidney stones) and the walls of arteries (arteriosclerosis).
to understand the truth about this matter one must know a little about  mineral chemistry in living systems.
minerals are present in the ground and must be biologically bound in order to be used by the body.
if you want cataracts, kidney stones, and arteriosclerosis, be  sure to eat and drink “calcium enriched” foods.
where would that  come from?
the minerals it leaches out  are of the unusable, ionic form and we want these to leave the body rather than  be deposited and cause disease.
carbon based  molecules are to be found in living systems, and are not found in the ground  which is where mineral water comes from.
if you would like to read more i recommend two books: the truth about water and your body’s many cries for water.
now as to the argument that distilled water leaches out minerals.
when salt is presented  to the body (with rare exceptions such as sodium chloride) it must be either  stored or excreted.
carbonate is not a sufficiently complex organic molecule and therefore cannot properly contribute its calcium to living systems.
incidentally, caco3 comes from lime stone and comprises the bulk of most calcium supplements, including that in “calcium enriched orange juice.”
privacy policy | partners | disclaimer/terms of use
distilled water cleanses the  body through promoting healthy kidney function.
this page distilled water is the healthiest water that you can drink.
common locations for precipitation of calcium are the lens of the eye  (cataracts), the kidneys (kidney stones) and the walls of arteries  (arteriosclerosis).
if they are present in excess then they are  filtered through the kidneys and this is exactly what needs to happen with all  things which are in excess in the circulation.
this is  true, and this is exactly what we want it to do.
the minerals it leaches out are of the unusable, ionic form and we want these to leave the body rather than be deposited and cause disease.
the only  remaining option is for us to distill our own water.
in order for a mineral to be of any use to  the body it must be presented in a form in which it can be used.
oasis advanced wellness does not dispense medical advice, prescribe, or diagnose illness.
this makes dust of the argument that healthy water is mineralized, and dust is of course the source of minerals in mineral water.
to understand the truth about this matter one must know a little about mineral chemistry in living systems.