- "vigor" of the dance.
modern technology allows us to grow  fish on farms.
on the next three days he filled these places with life.
my toe  nail does not grow that fast.
- they are used to fund civil wars.
(cassiopeia, cepheus, andromeda, perseus, pegasus, cetus, auriga, lacerta, triangulum).
ants can carry 10 to 20 times their body weight and they work in teams to move heavy objects.
through the action of peristalsis and respiration, water, food and air flow into our bodies as nutrients and carbon dioxide, urine and feces flow out as waste.
androgen insensitivity syndrome (ais).
animals, people and plants were about 200%-300% larger in the beginning and lived ten times longer.
carbon is returned through respiration, burning and decay.
group chromosomes centromere size a 1-3 median largest b 4-5 submedian large c 6-12, x submedian medium d 13-15* acrocentric medium e 16-18 median, submedian short f 19-20 median short g 21-22*, y acrocentric very short *
given to adhd children barbiturates depressant anxiety, insomnia, seizures, nausea, hallucinations, reduces inhibitions oxycontin depressant a pain reliever with effects that are similar to heroin.
it is illegal in many countries.
a baby has 300 bones.
possibly cases of gender identification may be prevalent also.
it can also be crushed, dissolved in water and injected.
how can you possibly think outside the box when everything in your set of building blocks depends on electromagnetic waves.
consumer appliances.
you are the most important part of that creation.
since viruses do not have a cell wall antibiotics have no effect on them.
instrument examines the stomach proctoscope.
conflict diamonds conflict diamonds or blood stones get their name because of the exploitation of workers, families and children.
they have short axons and dendrons and are located in the spinal cord.
they  have a combined weight greater than the combined weight of all humans.
a type of amphetamine in powder form pcp depressant, stimulant, analgesic, hallucinogen eaten, inhaled, injected or smoked.
contaminated water, rivers, lakes and ponds.
what do you think they looked like?
- diseases spread faster because of crowded conditions and the sewage water they live in.
cows eat as much as 90 pounds (41 kg) of food each day.
dichromatic vision anomaloscope.
there is a defence or military system, transportation, communications,  education, medical, reproduction, energy, structural engineering, waste  management and food management.
it is a comet and an asteroid hektor 116 km trojan largest trojan achilles 370 x 195 km trojan first trojan discovered
an acid burn in the stomach wall halitosis.
neutrophil 60-70% wound healing.
biosafety hazard level for microorganisms level severity treatment example 1
the class of drugs designed as appetite suppressants have proven to be dangerous almost every time.
stick bugs look like a branch.
we need carbohydrates to give our bodies energy.
manufacture red blood cells and some white blood cells.
the dna double helix looks like a stick with spots and stripes.
but "little tyke" is a female vegetarian lion  who refused to eat meat.
thymine and cytosine are paired with three hydrogen bonds.
- zoology (fish and birds).
other events and structures some of these are predicted to exist, while others are descriptions of what is observed.
the top half can see in the  air and the bottom half sees in the water.
5e primary motor cortex voluntary movement.
do not let the drug companies experiment on you.
deoxygenated blood comes from the body through two large veins (vena cava) to the right atrium.
a baby would have choked to death.
this lung is black with deposits of carbon and tar.
muscle turns to bone designer
animals get their nitrogen from plants or other animals.
but if standards were not set about the use of these frequencies there would be interference and chaos and we could not have proceeded as far as we have done in making consumer applications that improve our daily lives.
the effects are similar to pcp or morphine.
the duodenum in the upper part digests food and the rest of the intestine (jejunum and ileum) abso bs nutrients.
(3.7 meters and 454  kg).
(tranquility g, midnight blue, ghb, gbh, liquid ecstasy, liquid x, georgia home boy, grievous bodily harm, liquid g, somatomax, cherry meth, easy lay, gamma 10) permanent memory loss.
consider her ways, and be wise" proverbs 6: 6 - queen.
(ursa major, ursa minor, draco, canes venatici, bootes, coma berenice, corona borealis, camelopardalis, lynx, leo minor) - orion.
all plant foods grown in selenium rich soil copper cu heart, arteries, blood vessels and skeletal system.
it is possible if god widens the range of our receptors.
the near earth asteroid rendezvous (near) spacecraft landed on eros on february 14, 2000 after a 4 year trip near earth objects asteroid can be classified by their average orbital diameters.
it is located in the center of the vertebrae white matter connecting fibers that form the interior of the brain gray matter
that does not sound like a  scientific theory.
- hormone anomalies.
plants lose water through their leaves.
treats the intestines kidney stones.
deuteranomaly is the most common form of color blindness (5% of males, 0.38% females).
and god is so great, we cannot even think of a way to measure him.
gives an idea of the source of the food.
and this miraculous fairy tale  continues further because every one of the two to thirteen million species that  we know, must have gone through this same miraculous process that is full of  coincidences.
views objects using x-rays muscular system # part muscles body organs and muscles 1 skeletal (voluntary) types of muscles voluntary muscles for movement.
if stacked on top of each other, they would reach 5000 miles.
- since their normal color is grey, farmed fish are dyed pink so that they look like wild fish.
biological systems also have many complicated parts that must all be working at the same time or they will be useless.
dark matter, black holes, neutron star solar and heliospheric observatory (soho)
one method is to use other objects to choke themselves.
the princess canis major the big dog coma berenices ♥ berenice's hair boötes herdsman ursa major the big bear the big dipper the plow vulpecula the fox - cassiopeia the queen canis minor the little dog corona borealis northern crown leo minor little lion aquila the eagle columba the dove cepheus the king orion.
large sterile females who defend the colony, raid other colonies and capture slaves drone.
it is the database used in the united states.
the brain # brain area function left hemisphere controls right side of body and verbal stimulii (words)
there are two halves called the left and right hemispheres, they are connected by the corpus callosum.
they have a thin lining, the size of a tennis court, which absorbs oxygen and transfers it to the hemoglobin of the blood.
the ear structure 1 outer ear pinna ear lobes collect sound 2 external auditory meatus ear canal 3 middle ear ear drum transmits sound 4a malleus bones amplify sound in this air filled chamber.
33% or one in every three cancer deaths are caused by smoking.
- water cycle (hydrologic cycle).
they are small particles that are normally the size of a grain of sand.
1347-1350 black death 5 spreads quickly, high infection rate, high mortality (90%) smallpox in new world the pandemic severity index measures disease, deaths, disruptions (economic impact).
between july to september the worker ants raid the nests of formica japonica species and seize the larvae and pupae of the raided nest.
cancer is more prevalent in this group.
scientists claim that carnivorous  animals must eat meat to survive.
mosquitos see infrared.
temperance is knowing how much to consume.
allow to stand for thirty minutes.
three pounds of mackerel, sardines and other fish feed one pound of  salmon.
special delivery my child you may not know me,
later they transport waste and guard the nest.
url: http://www.nssl.noaa.gov/edu/tornado/ http://www.worldatlas.com/geoquiz/thelist.htm - geographical measurements.
incomplete division of a cell causes fusion at the physical level with an incomplete separation of identical children after the twelfth day of fertilization.
when the larva of a fertilized egg is fed enough food, hormone levels increase and cause sex organ development.
tiny worker ants who are too small to do any work but they hitchhike on the back of the loads and help to warn against airborne attacks.
north: (delphinus, equuleus, puppis, pyxis, columba).
records and analyses sound united states radio spectrum allocations instrument frequency (mhz) consumer home wireless infrared remote 38 khz garage door opener 40 alarms 40 baby monitors 49 radio controlled toys walkie talkie 49 cars, airplanes, boats 27 and 49 advanced models 72 and 75 radio am radio 535khz - 1.7mhz fm radio 88-108 short wave radio 5.9-26.1 cb radio 26.96-27.41 deep space radio 2290-2300 old analog tv and services vhf analog tv (2-6) 54-88 vhf analog tv (7-13) 174-220 uhf analog tv (14-69) 470-806 catv (cable) 54-804 wireless microphones 700s new digital services digital tv (2-13) 54-470 digital tv (14-51) 470-608.
biological systems also have many complicated parts that must all  be working at the same time or they will be useless.
science and technology science has a way of finding what might be truth in the physical universe.
are there other colors?
therefore farmed fish receive antibiotics in their food and by injections.
this includes up to 455 liters (100 gallons) of burps.
meet your creator" adult | contact | become a christian | lessons | 700+ new messianic prophecies | modern science in the bible creation days 1.
government purified, disinfected and delivered by pipes to the public.
the best star charts http://library.wolfram.com/webmathematica/astronomy/starchart.jsp - creates dynamic star charts http://www.geocities.com/capecanaveral/hall/9111/doc.html - acid rain http://www.epa.gov/acidrain/site_kids/games.htm - acid rain for children http://www.home.cio.net/timo/man/ - the origin of nations http://www.christiananswers.net/q-aig/race-skincolor.html - skin color http://www.mypyramid.gov - the 2005 food pyramid http://mypage.direct.ca/c/csamson/multiples.html - (facts about multiples) http://www.howstuffworks.com/ - how stuff works.
after this her only work is to lay eggs.
so aids is rampant among the diamond mines.
a theory or discovery was tested in the laboratory and it contradicts the theory of evolution.
sensory motor the brain has a map of the surface of the body on the parietal lobe.
decoy fish he also goes fishing by attracting other fishes.
at that location there can be no rods or cones to interpret vision.
the keystone formation is in the hercules constellation.
- aphids ("ant cows").
as the iris gets smaller the pupil gets larger.
he does not eat or sleep.
wings flap at 100 beats  per second and they can fly backwards.
it takes 499 seconds for light to travel from the sun to the earth.
this is because small mutations usually go back to their original form within two generations.
- no color normal red orange yellow lime green cyan blue violet pink click on the link to see a color deficient version of the picture.
army ants migratory hunters that feed on other creatures.
animals and man magnetic elements are in the sixth period.
heat clear water and let it boil for ten minutes.
♥ these were known by the ancients.
this combination of water and light causes a rainbow and a cloud to surround him.
also, the male does not eat.
- praise him for his mighty acts.
this malfunction can be caused by defects in production, transport, delivery and clearance of the hormones.
germs and microscopic organisms they are the smallest living creatures that cause diseases.
melanin is one chemical that affects color.
releases histamines and heparin 2d
20/20 (6/6) legally blind.
neurofibromatosis (elephant man), ehlers-danlos, cancer: ovarian, breast (brca-1), marfan 18 766 d18s51 lipids edward's syndrome, tourette, niemann-pick f 19 1454 d19s433 absorbs iron, green-blue eye hemochromatosis, hypercholesterolemia 20 927 brain, prion, immune cfj, scid (immunodeficiency) g 21 303 d21s11 biotin enzyme down's syndrome, als, early onset alzheimers 22 288 supress tumor (chek2) neurofibromatosis, digeorge 23 sex 231 amel y .
the toucan triangulum australe southern triangle chamaeleon chameleon pavo the peacock indus indian musca the fly there are 61 constellations visible in the northern hemisphere, 48 were known by the ancient greeks.
3 other blood components thrombocyte (platelet) causes blood to clot when there is an injury.
cheek dimple present absent chin shape cleft absent tongue rolling roll in a "u" (65-81%) cannot roll front teeth gap (5%)
synthetic marijuana sold as organic blend for smoking and for incense.
ephesians 1: 11-12 you were not a mistake.
this indicates intelligence and mathematical ability.
this inorganic phosphorous dissolves in water.
- more than half of the world's diamonds are cut and polished by child slave laborers.
this combination of water and light causes a rainbow  and a cloud to surround him.
while we believe that refined flour and sugars are to be avoided, god designed our original diet to be high in carbohydrates from fresh fruits, vegetables and grain.
because of the earth's motion around the sun, the sun appears to pass in front of each constellation of the zodiac once per year.
water retention water retention diabetes insipidus hypothalamus oxytocin contractions of the uterus during labor - -
so, could a dinosaur sized creature and a lizard  be produced in the same year from a large alligator?
we need fresh air, water, rest, regular exercise and sunshine.
it becomes a black dwarf when it cools.
combines nitrogen and oxygen.
we are all children of god.
the combined dna index system (codis) is a national dna data bank that uses 13 str regions to code in their forensic database.
complex visual information 7b visual cortex simple visual information 9 spinal cord carries signals between the brain and the body.
20/40 (6/12) means that what a person sees at 20 feet (6 meters) can be seen at 40 feet (12 meters) by someone with normal vision normal vision.
the receiver translates the signals to pictures, sound, text or instructions.
metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats for energy.
and this miraculous fairy tale continues further because every one of the two to thirteen million species that we know, must have gone through this same miraculous process that is full of coincidences.
they live about eight weeks while the queens live ten to thirty years.
there is a stream of living  water flowing from him.
oxygen burns hydrogen in living matter to produce energy - electrolysis.
it is possible that there will be a sun and moon but that we cannot see them because the light from god is so much brighter.
kid zone the wonderful creation the awesome creator "explore science.
therefore they must have had the genes that are in all the different racial groups.
carbon exists in the earth as carbon dioxide (co2), carbonate (caco3), coal, dead organic matter.
so look for ties, ropes, bags or anything than can be used for choking or hanging.
44 b.c. - julius caesar 66 a.d. - masada 451 a.d. - the fall of atilla the hun 530 a.d. - church 1066 a.d. - battle of hastings comets comets orbit the sun.
(frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital).
nerve cells in the brain die alzheimers.
this was the diet in the exodus.
they grow larger, have big heads and jaws to defend the colony.
measures alcohol content breathalyzer.
three stars (alnitak, alnilam, mintaka).
in addition, they only have a short period in their  life span for these systems to developand the compatible design must be  transmitted to the other parent whomust be developing at the same time.
cerebral cortex outer portion of the cerebrum which is divided into lobes.
if there is a multiple birth, identical twins would be of the same gender.
animals use disguises and camouflage to blend into the surroundings so that they can hide from their enemies or to lure food.
- scientific observations.
however, it is a cancer that is caused by unfertilized reproductive cells (egg or sperm) dividing and differentiating like a normal fertilized egg.
- three pounds of mackerel, sardines and other fish feed one pound of salmon.
if there are 100 million then they must have evolved every 5½  years.
these use cells from other parts of the body, not embryos.
both involve the rapid growth of cells.
the white of the eye and the transparent cornea - choroid coat middle layer.
wait until you are married.
list of human chromosomes genes, deoxyribonucleic acid (dna) genetic material or genes are made up of two strands of material called dna.
this is the fairy tale  that says that one day a fish laid one egg and a male and female frog came out!
this trail of dust causes a meteor shower when the dust eventually reaches the atmosphere.
prepares a dead body for burial.
acts 17: 26 you are lovingly and wonderfully made.
they attach the ribs to the sternum inhale.
kills bacteria and living cells with hydrochloric acid and breaks down protein with pepsin 3 digestion, absorption and assimilation small intestine 17 feet long (518 cm).
respiration carbon cycle photosynthesis fossil fuel decay organic carbon - carbon cycle.
it goes to the right ventricle through the tricuspid valve and then it is pumped through the pulmonary valve through the pulmonary artery and to the lungs.
the unfertilized eggs will hatch into males.
paints, sculpts, draws objects of beauty snooperscope.
have children to continue the species.
what is wrong with these figures?
the distance that light travels in one year (5,878,625,373,183.61 miles) 9,460,730,472,580.8 km.
the cloning technique takes a normal cell which has all the genetic material and substitutes the nuclear dna of one animal with the nuclear dna of another, then cell division is artificially stimulated.
studies physics artist.
reproductive system structure function 1 female ovary eggs 1a fallopian tube eggs travel down this tube to the uterus 2 uterus baby storage 2a cervix entrance to the uterus 2b vagina birth canal 2c placenta blood supply from the mother to the baby 2d umbilical cord blood vessels from baby to mother 2e amniotic fluid baby swimming pool.
csf1po, tpox, d5s818, d7s820, d13s317, fga, th01, vwa, d3s1358, d8s1179, d16s539, d18s51, d21s11 and amel - second generation multiplex
it loses over three million teeth during its life.
normal pressure is less than 120/80.
most camouflage mimic only one pattern but cuttlefish are the best.
then it is pumped through the aortic valve to the aorta and to the body.
turn off the television.
treats diseases and impairments in animals ulcer.
includes the pleiades (m45) and the orion nebula (m42 and m43).
we need rest to restore our mental functions and to allow the body time to repair itself.
other species of ants collect and grow tiny seeds and plant them underground or above ground.
the complexity and other coincidences related to the item indicated that a designer must have planned it.
(norma, circinus, telescopium, microscope, sculptor, fornax, caelum, horologium, octans, mensa, reticulum, pictor, antlia.) constellation groups hercules heavenly waters perseus orion the bayer group la caille ursa major northern hemisphere hercules the hero lyra the lyre perseus medusa slayer lynx camelopardalis the giraffe ursa minor little bear little dipper draco the dragon corvus the crow cygnus the swan auriga chariot driver monoceros the unicorn canes venatici hunting dogs sextans the sextant corona australis southern crown andromeda
radio waves are not as harmful to humans as other parts of the spectrum, but they have certain properties that make them ideal for transmitting information.
dna is made up of a sugar and phosphate backbone with one of four chemicals attached (adenine, guanine, thymine, cytosine).
digestive system process structure function 1 ingestion swallowing and mixing esophagus mouth and teeth grind food and it is sent down the esophagus.
even if a fish could  possibly give birth to a frog.
gaucher, glaucoma, prostate cancer, alzheimer's 2 2288 tcpx d2s1338 collagen type 3, 4 and 5 als, harlequin ichthyosis, ehlers-danlos (eds), waardenberg 3 2032 d3s1358 eyes, ears, heart usher syndrome, von hippel-lindau, long qt syndrome b 4 1297 fga wound healing, nerve wolf-hirschhorn, fop, huntington's, parkinsons, narcolepsy, achondroplasia, ellis-van-creveld 5 1643 d5s818 csf1po bones, muscle, face, collagen proteins cri-du-chat, treacher-collins, ehlers-danlos, asthma, cockayne, crohn c 6 1963 collagen, blood vessels parkinsons, diabetes mellitus, hemochromatosis 7 1443 d7s820 collagen type 2, circulatory, blue eye color, bone williams syndrome, cystic fibrosis, ehlers-danlos, diabetes, obesity, pendred syndrome 8 1127 d8s1179
living things also protect themselves, we will see how they do this and the clever way they search for food.
some endangered animals are killed for their horns, skins and bones.
field test for measuring alcohol intoxication you are lovingly and wonderfully made.
they travel farther and penetrate better in steel, concrete, large industrial or multi-story buildings.
birds sing, and the sound is similar to speech in humans.
21p/giacobini-zinner epsilon geminids october 14-27 2 - orionids october 21-22 24 1p/halley taurids november 5-12 5-8 2p/
an underground source that comes to the surface naturally.
sun photovoltaic cell - weathering.
sunshine is good for creating vitamin d in our bodies and for killing germs.
a pathogen is an organism that causes disease.
leaf feelings and emotions skin, feet, hands, antenna, whiskers internal, nerves, gravity, physical, drugs, brain chemicals touch, temperature, pressure skin pain hypothalamus hunger, thirst insula hunger, cold, pain sex organs pleasure semi-circular canal balance (gravity), orientation magnetite (fe3o4) electricity, magnetism magnetic field, migration, navigation greigite (fe3s4) electrocytes (ampullae of lorenzini) electroreception, electric fields lateral line water pressure, electricity psalm 115 lists several senses and their organs.
- medium mass explode and form a neutron star.
there are two basic ways of injecting or substituting new genes.
this impossible  coincidence must be repeated in every species.
constellation families : constellation families star chart locations are approximate
it is believed to be the source of most comets.
they have short dendrons and long axons.
sulphur is present in amino acids, proteins and vitamins.
it is found in cough medicine such as coriciden and robitussin.
they do no work except to raid other nests and force the slaves to work.
in modern times several asteroids and fireballs have struck the earth.
so, where did the ribs come from and why did god use the rib?
in the evening he created the last two living things.
protein, carbohydrates and fat metabolism wheat germ, nutritional yeast, beans and peas, collard greens, raisins, oranges, nuts, whole grains.
telescope measures european space agency (esa) systems international gamma-ray astrophysics laboratory (integral) x-ray, gamma swift gamma ray burst mission uv, x-ray, gamma x-ray multi-mirror mission (xmm-newton) x-ray other observatories and satellites galaxy evolution explorer (galex)
black skin, brown or white.
- y-chromasome analysis.
females who do not have children.
here is a possible answer.
creation how god created the world.
- movement # part bones organs and muscles 1 head axial skeleton (80 bones) skull, jaw (mandible, 2 maxilla), ear (malleus, incus, stapes), hyoid, 7 cervical vertebrae, 32 teeth brain, eyes, ears, nose, mouth, tongue 2 spine 33 bones: vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx nerves 3 chest 24 ribs (12 pairs),
and this miracle of both male and female evolving must be repeated at least 26 million times (twice for each of the 13 million species we have named on earth).
some people claim that  there are 100 million species, thirteen million is just the conservative upper  limit.
but the living conditions are not what our creator intended for his creatures and the results are probably not healthy.
this is a tumor that may have hair, teeth and other tissues and may look like a cyst caused by a fetus in fetu.
they migrate  south and travel in flocks at night, navigating by the stars.
causes brain damage and death.
the gender is female if the chromosomes are "xx" and male if they are "xy".
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/asteroid - encyclopedia http://www.abbysenior.com/biology/default.htm - body systems http://www.biology.clc.uc.edu/courses/bio105/reproduc.htm http://www.starryskies.com/the_sky/constellations/index.html -
recorded knowledge about god and his actions caring for god you can care for god by remembering how great
hunger, blood pressure, heart rate, sleep and wake, arousal, thirst, water balance, body temperature, circadian cycles 4e
epididymis sperm matures and is stored here 2 penis urinary and sexual organ 2a corpus cavernosum helps to keep the penis erect 2b corpus spongiosum helps to keep the penis erect 2c prostate gland releases alkaline fluid that buffers the acidic urine.
columbia union college (1982).
the only bee who can have children.
this periodic boost may be part of the system of derived eternal life.
some antibiotics work by damaging the cell wall.
that is your limitation.
c1 tricuspid valve c2 pulmonary valve (right ventricle to pulmonary artery) c3 bicuspid valve c4 aortic valve (left ventricle and aorta) 2a
the environment plays a secondary role in favoring certain combinations over others.
the death explosion of a massive star (supergiant).
forensic dna analysis.
sleepiness, reduces pain, brief euphoria, coma, death marijuana depressant (grass, pot, weed, reefer) hallucination, delusion, sleepiness, impaired memory, disorientation hashish depressant same effect as marijuana salvia hallucinogen divine sage, magic mint.
then they grow a fungus in this compost heap and even weed the garden to remove unwanted plants.
we need fibre to help to clean the digestive tract.
1ghz (gigahertz) = 30 centimeters.
cruithne 5 km aten nea apophis 415 m aten nea 1950 da 1.1 km - has a 1:300 chance of hitting earth on march 16, 2880 asclepius (1989fc) 30m apollo march 23, 1989 it missed earth by 400,000 miles.
fraternal twins of opposite genders may come from separate ovaries and are separated for days before they are implanted in the uterus.
a prion is not a living organism.
a broadcaster can send signals to a receiver along this private electromagnetic highway on one channel (lane) and receive signals along another channel.
an epidemic is a regional spread of disease.
it uses 16 markers and sometimes 24 markers if mutation is suspected.
water from an underground source of water.
immunity, thyroid, nerves, lipase werner syndrome, burkitt lymphoma 9 1299 urea, collagen type 5, abo blood citrullinemia, galactosemia, ehlers-danlos 10 1440 cell division, pten gene cowden syndrome, gyrate atrophy, refsum, crohn 11 2093 tho1 hemoglobin ataxia telangiectasia, cancer (atm), sickle cell growth russel silver syndrome 12 1652 vwa bone, cartilage, collagen parkinson, phenylketonuria, excessive growth d 13 748 d13s317 cell division retinoblastoma, breast cancer (brca-2), wilson, deaf 14 1098 lipid, thyroid niemann-pick, alzheimer 15 1122 fibrillin, blue-brown eye angelmans, prader-willi, marfan, tay-sachs e 16 1098 d16s539 atp, coq7, red hair crohn's, autism, polycystic kidney, alpha thalassemia, fmf 17 1576 myelin, cells, collagen type 1
they are the smallest birds.
pure water heated to kill microorganisms and to remove chemicals.
variations hermaphrodite an organism with both sexes, or the external characteristics are partially from both genders.
acts 17: 28 i knew you even before you were conceived.
depressant date rape drug with a salty taste.
- uniparental disomy.
it sends solid and liquid waste to be eliminated teeth, mouth, tongue, stomach, gall bladder, liver, small intestine, rectum, anus, saliva, hydrochloric acid, bile urinary removes waste products and excess fluids and regulates the volume of fluids kidney, colon, urinary bladder, large intestine, ureter reproductive produce children uterus, testes, eggs, sperm, mammary glands respiratory processes oxygen (o2) and exhales carbon dioxide (co2 ) nose, trachea, lungs, alveoli, bronchi, pleura, hemoglobin, vagus nerve, pulmonary arteries and veins circulatory transmits blood, oxygen, food and waste to the organs heart, artery, vein, blood immune fights infections and foreign substances skin, stomach acids, white blood cells, bone marrow, spleen lymphatic lymph nodes, lymph, tonsils, thymus, malt, peyer's patches sensory or nervous control motion.
views the interior of the eye chromatoptometer .
for example, if you go to a new planet one can expect to find a force called gravity because the planet has mass.
it is called the master gland because it stimulates other glands to secrete hormones.
let it stand for thirty minutes.
metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
it may cause those with certain characteristics to move to a more favorable environment.
this impossible coincidence must be repeated in every species.
chimerism appears most often in cases of in vitro fertilization.
the child of a male lion and a female tiger that is usually a giant.
they can stand up to twelve feet tall and weigh as much as 1000 pounds.
makes enzymes and hormones that regulate digestion, energy and fat metabolism, and nerve transmission.
type of join head (cranium) chest (thorax) abdomen hip (pelvis) - conjoined.
the laws of god create an environment where we can make great leaps forward to increase freedoms which make our lives much more happy and convenient.
the endocrine system gland hormone function excess deficiency endocrine pituitary luteinizing (lh) production of testosterone, estrogen and progesterone precocious puberty delayed or absent puberty follicle stimulating (fsh) stimulate egg or sperm production pcos infertility human growth (hgh) muscle, fat, liver and bone growth gigantism, acromegaly pituitary dwarfism prolactin stimulate milk production infertility
- respiration and decay.
immobilizes weak bone radioscope.
they have different names in some organs (kupfer cells, microglia, mesangial, osteoclasts)
so water may not be a good source of minerals.
there are two types of vegetarians.
digestive enzymes break down food 5 liver breaks down fat, removes toxins, stores glucose 6 gall bladder makes bile which helps to digest fat 7 appendix processes good bacteria for digestion peristalsis is the automatic movement of the muscles of the esophagus to send food towards the stomach 7 large intestine 5 feet (152 cm) long.
permanent memory loss, visual disturbance, motion difficulty, drowsiness, confusion, dizziness, respiratory depression, amnesia 1,4-butanediol (bd) depressant permanent memory loss.
limit your exposure to violence and fake reality.
sternum the true ribs are attached here in the front
the male bird has a beautiful indigo blue color, while the female is brown.
a creature can only produce their own species.
do remarkable things for your mind and body.
recombinant dna technology involves switching sections of the gene of an animal with the genes of another animal or plant.
a show of bright colors can be used to warn of danger or to attract a female.
so, understanding embryonic development may lead to a cure for cancer.
it is agreeing with god.
this is usually done only by simple single celled creatures.
there are about seven to eight thousand species of  birds.
space debris many small objects wander around the universe, sometimes in a long orbit and other times by gravitational pull.
superior and inferior rectus raises and lowers eye 8c superior and inferior oblique rotates eye 8d ciliary body it contracts and relaxes to control the size of the lens for focusing 8e dilator and sphincter makes the iris smaller or larger.
ants touch their antennae to communicate, rock back and forth so that their mandibles strike the nest with beats up to seven thumps per 50 millisecond (drumming), by making high pitched squeaks by rubbing body parts (stridulation) or use pheromones.
so, could a dinosaur sized creature and a lizard be produced in the same year from a large alligator?
this is the dna taken from a cell after the egg and sperm have fused.
pheromones are chemicals that are used to alert other ants of danger, mark trails, identify each other, enlist the help of other ants and scare off enemies.
octuplets 9 nonuplets 10 decaplets 15 quindecaplets multiple births occur when there are more than one fertilized egg or a single egg develops into separate babies.
(one liter for every 22.68 kg).
imagine do you think that we will be able to see radio waves or hear visible light when we go to heaven?
usually, they will throw in millions of years for events to happen.
it is the largest cat in  the world.
any physical traits that we have are governed by a pair of genes.
cuts meat nutritionist.
in the nuclear dna of the nucleus and the mitochondrial dna in the mitochondria outside in the cell body.
we need energy which is stored in food.
male or female external characteristics can develop because of a malfunction in the hormones or abnormal levels of the correct hormones during gestation.
gastrocnemius, soleus, tibialis anterior, peroneus longus back view body.
they sometimes capture hostages from other colonies and raid a colony to kill  the queen and enslave the workers.
god asked adam to name the animals.
they claim that this is why they have evolved sharp incisor teeth.
on july 30 1908, a massive explosion of an asteroid above the forests of russia destroyed 1000 square miles.
bones, skull, vertebrae, ribs, teeth, tendon, ligament, marrow muscular movement.
f12 is the speed of sound.
group markers function disease a 1 2968 connective tissue, rh blood, collagen porphyria.
travel for hundreds of miles and are perfect for am radio.
learn to write with your feet.
the rule is one quart of water (four glasses) for every 50 pounds of body weight.
he made several advanced systems to take care of our bodies while  we are on earth.
treats the teeth and gums.
sometimes they travel up to forty miles  away from their nest in search of food.
god has many objects in his tool box, look what he created with just one tool!
when the food gets low the colony gets nectar from them.
now how could these have evolved?
assists walking brace .
lack of balance and dizziness otoscope.
the neurons of the brain and spine sensory neurons send information from the outside to the central nervous system.
god demonstrates how he will make peace with the world through twelve nations.
while others have their skeleton on  the inside (endoskeleton).
they have destroyed the brain, liver and the heart tissue.
but humans have tried to cross-breed related species.
too much direct sunlight can damage the skin.
no disease in the healthy bacillus subtilis 2 not serious available dengue, pox 3 lethal available west nile, yellow fever, smallpox 4 lethal not available ebola, marburg, lassa, junin cold and flu geographic activity level severity 1 no report 2 no activity 3 sporadic 4 low activity 5 regional (epidemic) 6 wide spread (pandemic) viruses and bacteria are the smallest of living things.
heated to produce steam and condensed back into water.
the plan of salvation
produces ammonia, urea and ammonium nitrate (nh4no3) for fertilizer.
b1 thiamin all body cells, nerves.
carpals, metacarpals, phalanges (fingers) 19 muscles
an object whose gravity is so strong that not even light can escape from it.
amor near spacecraft lands here ganymed 32 km amor largest amor ceres 1003 km alinda largest asteroid pallas 608 km alinda second largest asteroid vesta 538 km alinda third largest asteroid gaspra 19x12x11km floras first fly by of an asteroid chiron 170
have they ever dunked a star three billion miles away?
sunshine and fresh air.
does no eat meat (this includes fish and chicken).
lack of skin color due to loss of melanin down's syndrome.
did you know that god usedthe ruminant stomach to illustrate the resurrection which is a critical part of the plan of salvation?
- sterile female workers.
some bees use pheromones, sound and dance to communicate.
the difference in size of a liger and a tigon shows that in one generation a medium sized animal can produce a giant and a dwarf.
makes red blood cells an enzymes.
notice that the sun plays a critical role in many processes.
some examples are, acetylcholine, noradrenaline, norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine.
abnormal dependency or addiction to alcohol alcoholometer.
that would require two impossible events using processes that contradict  modern observations and scientific knowledge.
ants hear with their knees by picking up vibrations.
thank you in the beginning, god created the heavens and the earth.
hope can see a future.
stimulate thyroxine hyperthyroidism hypothyroidism adrenocorticotrophic (acth)
some people claim that there are 100 million species, thirteen million is just the conservative upper limit.
electromagnetic spectrum sunlight is composed of a continuous stream of electromagnetic radiation.
6 antibody they provide a major defense for our bodies against invasion by alien organisms.
if evolution occurred, then our ancestors would have choked on their food for several thousand years until they realized that they should evolve a flap to protect the wind pipe.
we can link the decrease in age to a change in diet from vegetarian to carniverous.
autonomic nervous system involuntary responses
meat was not eaten for almost 2000 years.
trapezius, deltoid, pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, rectus abdominis.
wind direction is counter clockwise (west to east) in the northern hemisphere and clockwise (east to west) in the southern hemisphere.
the yellow spot (fovea).
hunger, taste, craving, breathe, addiction, heat, cold, itch, tell fresh food from rotten, muscle ache, pain (anticipate or feel).
b9 folate (folic acid) maintains cells, pregnancy.
the pink flower mantis looks like the orchid that it hides inside as it waits for food.
learn to write with both hands.
his  breath gives life to physical beings.
dna, inherited from the mother, is also found in the mitochondria.
legal substances such as alcohol and cigarettes are often the first substances used and become the gate through which the other drugs are abused.
this is called the scientific method.
the largest ant colony is 3,600 miles long (5890 km),  stretching from the italian riviera to northwest spain.
bacteria convert ammonia to nitrites (no2)- and other bacteria convert nitrites to nitrates (no3-).
fat and sugar have been linked to many diseases.
it releases hydrochloric acid and digestive enzymes
over 40 trillion bacteria live in the human body!
this triggers the vagus nerve which causes us to increase respiration and exchanges oxygen for carbon dioxide 2 heart receives oxygen from the lungs and sends carbon dioxide to the lungs through the pulmonary vein and artery 3 diaphragm muscle moves up and down so that the lungs can contract and expand and force air in or out 4 trachea wind pipe.
e.g. meningitis, tetanus.
animals and man magnetic elements are in the  sixth period.
(beans, nuts, eggs, and meat) 2-3 servings or 5½ oz. - fats and oils.
nuclear dna mitochondrial dna nuclear dna mitochondrial dna baby embryo cloning removes the material from the nucleus of the embryo of one animal and places it in the egg of another animal.
http://www.vegetarian-society.org - vitamins and minerals http://www.bbc.co.uk/weather/features/weatherbasics/clouds/shtml - clouds http://www.whyquit.com - for smoking information.
dark green leafy vegetables, nutritional yeast, beans, avocados, wheatgerm, fruits, banana, orange, whole grains b7 biotin metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
beans, peas, nuts, whole wheat and grains, potato, nutritional yeast b5 panthothenic acid metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
they are the  parents of all the human family.
see four colors, blue, green, red and ultraviolet.
immune response and rejection of foreign tissue 2e b-cell.
these are very energetic particles that need rest by turning into a more stable form.
- electromagnetism, physics and chemistry.
the most famous are the leonid meteor showers which show increased activity every 33 years.
(genesis 1: 1) time: 500 minutes how awesome is our creator god!
he attaches himself to a female and their blood streams merge!
this disease is caused when an egg loses an "x" or "y" chromasome.
e.g. malaria - virus.
eye color brown /other
5b motor association cortex complex movement coordination 5c broca's area speech center 5d auditory cortex sound quality, loudness, tone homunculus ("the little man in the brain").
a large number of these occurring at the same time are called a shower.
fish god created some very incredible fish and other creatures  that live in the sea.
with each system or creature that god created, we will offer some basic arguments for you to think about as "proof" that they did not evolve over billions of years.
we inherit one gene from each parent.
vitamin d deficiency causing soft bones beriberi.
hemoglobin the gas transporting protein molecu e that is 95% of the volume of red cells.
ultraviolet image solar wind wilkenson microwave anisotropy probe (wmap)
tarsals (ankle), calcaneus (heel), metatarsals, phalanges (toes) achilles tendon
nose, tongue smell vomeronasal (jacobson's organ) pheromone (chemical signals for danger, alarm, sex, food trail)
- layers sclerotic coat tough outer layer.
vitamin a deficiency.
and you will see it in heaven.
- high mass stars live a few million years, die in massive supernova explosion and form a black hole.
adam could have had thirteen pairs in the beginning.
in the body, the storage factory is the mitochondria and the hydrogen is stored in a battery called adenosine triphosphate (atp).
did you know that god used circumcision to illustrate what would happen to him as he kept his vows in the plan of salvation?
pregnancy anomalies gender determination a gene on the y chromosome (sry) is the master switch for making a male.
the bible says that the lion will live with the lamb and it will eat straw like an ox.
- biology (land animals and humans).
- protect the internal organs.
blue (8%) freckles present absent thumb curved (hitch hiker) (25-36%)
circumcision: the loose outer skin is stretched and a small portion is cut off and buried.
tetrachromats have four color receptors and pentachromats have five.
there are at least 1114 amor asteroids including: nyx, amor, ganymed, alinda, albert, eros. (years) last seen next halley 76.1 1986 2061 shoemaker-levy 9 17.8 1994
cross the synapse to send a signal.
baby cries all night, eats a lot.
when they looked at the stick as they mated their children looked like the stick with spots and stripes and circular stripe pattern (ringstraked).
10f synapse the space between the axon termonal of one neuron and the dendron of another neurologist.
skin color is essentially the only biological difference in race, and science has been unable to determine all the causes of "race".
engineers have divided up the frequencies of the radio wave and microwave spectrum into different channels for sending and receiving signals in consumer applications.
absorbs water egestion (elimination) holds and removes solid waste 8 rectum solid waste exit ruminant stomach
used to treat heroin addiction but it is more addictive rohypnol (flunitrazepam) depressant date rape drugs these drugs are colorless, odorless, tasteless and erases memory of crimes being done on your body (roofies, roach, r-2, mind erasers, roche, stupifi, shays).
in some water, minerals or carbon dioxide may be added back after it is purified.
there are about seven to eight thousand species of birds.
if one explodes close to earth it could kill all biological life in one month while the bible does say that we will be destroying the earth when christ comes and that we will be terrified by events approaching from the heavens, we are guaranteed that there will be people here when he comes.
the striped pattern of the zebra makes it impossible to see only one.
legal substances food, household chemicals caffeine stimulant "uppers" alter sleep pattern, reduce motor coordination, headaches, dizziness, nervousness.
support the organs and muscles.
you show his love best by being kind to everyone.
the tail is formed when the ice melts and a separate tail can be formed from the trail of dust and water.
in an epidemic, pandemic or an active season for a germ, the government issues a report on the geographic activity of the germ concerning human to human transmission.
in creating the sabbath, he established the mental and spiritual laws.
rods handle vision in low light.
centromere close to one end.
it deforms red blood cells heart attack.
rhodopsin converts light into electrical impulses that are transmitted to the brain by the optic nerve.
squids and deep sea fishes.
a pandemic is a widespread or global spread of disease.
in 150 a.d., the greek scientist ptolemy listed 1022 stars arranged into 48 constellations in a book named "almagest".
this is extremely rare.
- pray to him every day.
the trpa-1 protein is a chemical that converts sound into electrical impulses.
apparently, evolutionists cannot do basic arithmetic either because if a new creature emerged every 50,000 years then it would take 75 billion years to develop the one and a half million species that we have named so far.
treats diseases in children neonatologist.
does it only like to eat blue things?
objects less than 50 meters wide are called meteoroids.
the genes of the father determines the size of the worker ant.
sometimes these extra limbs can be attached in strange places.
humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes, one strand of dna is inherited from each parentand the last pair determine gender.
temperature fluctuations in the microwave background gamma ray large area space telescope (glast)
the heart pumps blood to the body through the artery and receives blood through the veins.
water source processing additives our bodies are 75% water and our brain is 85% water.
all vegetables fruits 2 - 4 (2 cups)
for you are my child.
i tried doubling in size so that i could split in  two and reproduce.
one of the fins looks like a tiny fish while the rest of the body is camouflaged.
it gives moral intuition, empathy and the capacity to respond emotionally to music.
you can only absorb 8-12% of the inorganic minerals if you are below 35 years old and only 3-5% if you are above 35 years old.
the bees have two dances to indicate the location of food.
will it fly, hop, swim or do all of these?
with every discovery made by one scientist, other scientists must be able to do the following: - duplicate the experiment - make a guess about what should happen if they change the experiment.
honey bee bees are social creatures that live in hives ruled by a queen.
study of bees entomology.
high cholesterol can build up in the walls of the blood vessels and block them.
fish creature description fish farms god created some very incredible fish and other creatures that live in the sea.
instead, for the time in which  life is supposed to have emerged, the calculations support one specie emerging  every 540 years for the 1½ million we know exist.
oxygen is recombined with the stored hydrogen to produce water and electricity or other forms of energy.
pure water returns to the earth as rain, snow, ice.
analyzes food content dietitian.
heart rate, blood pressure, thinking about self 4f insula (insular cortex or island of reil).
this is a problem for evolutionists.
for higher elevations let it boil for one minute extra for each 1000 feet (300 meters).
this releases oxygen into the air and stores hydrogen.
in addition, the people who profit from the sales of these drugs are also responsible for the cycle of evil in murder, crime, slavery, terrorism and misery.
this list was taken from a two hour documentary on the history channel called "last days on earth".
ants touch their antennae to communicate, rock back and forth so that their  mandibles strike the nest with beats up to seven thumps per 50 millisecond  (drumming), by making high pitched squeaks by rubbing body parts (stridulation)  or use pheromones.
pigmented with melanin, forms the iris 5 retina inner layer with light receptors opthalmologist.
a high is also achieved when oxygen rushes back to the brain.
# multiples 2 twins 3 triplets 4 quadruplets 5 quintuplets 6 sextuplets 7 septuplets 8
mishkan unified model of everything standard model of particle physics mishkan physics model mishkan chemistry model mishkan quarks bosons 1 2 3 2.4 mev 2/3 u 1/2 up 1270 mev 2/3 c 1/2 charm 172.7 gev 2/3 t 1/2 top 0 0 γ 1 photon 4.8 mev -1/3 d 1/2 down 104 mev -1/3 s 1/2 strange 4200 mev -1/3 b 1/2 bottom 0 0 g 1 gluon  200 f6 > 318 > 511 - the 2007 new scale is called the enhanced fujita scale.
instrument for examining the ear myringoscope.
sea horse the male carries the  eggs and gives birth whales and dolphins mammals that breathe air but live  in the sea imagine try to invent a new animal.
insects have six legs, hard outer shell (exoskeleton) and a three part segmented body (head, thorax and abdomen).
legumes, soybeans, nuts and seeds, wheatgerm, rice bran, wheat bran.
it causes delerium, amnesia, motor and respiratory problems.
- medium wave (500 khz - 3 mhz).
stop drinking and smoking.
however, the same evidence could be used to show that they are just relatives (like different types of cats) or that they are built according to the same design.
it takes forty weeks for the baby to grow in humans.
beginning with nothing, each day of creation god created the next building block needed to make the rest of the universe.
there is a defence or military system, transportation, communications, education, medical, reproduction, energy, structural engineering, waste management and food management.
no gap ptc sensitivity taste (70%) cannot taste blood type a-40%, b-11%, ab-4%
the only ant who can have children workers.
meteorites are nickel and iron alloys that are difficult to make on earth.
when the egg combines with the sperm, each contributes one half of the nuclear genetic material.
inability to clot blood causes bleeding sickle cell anemia.
the bone marrow produces 2.6 million red blood cells every second.
voluntary response from sense organs to muscular system peripheral nervous system somatic nervous system voluntary responses autonomic nervous system.
in 2001, one appeared over washington d.c.
each strand of a chromosome pair is joined or constricted at one location creating two arms.
source: - farmed fish are crowded into pens and swim in their own waste.
fusion at the cellular level that can occur between eggs of the same sex or opposite sex.
it sends solid and liquid  waste to be eliminated  teeth, mouth, tongue, stomach, gall bladder, liver,  small intestine, rectum, anus, saliva, hydrochloric acid, bile urinary removes waste products and excess fluids and regulates the volume of  fluids  kidney, colon, urinary bladder, large intestine, ureter reproductive produce children  uterus, testes, eggs, sperm, mammary glands respiratory processes oxygen (o2) and exhales carbon dioxide (co2 )  nose, trachea, lungs, alveoli, bronchi, pleura, hemoglobin, vagus nerve,  pulmonary arteries and veins circulatory transmits blood,  oxygen, food and waste to the organs  heart, artery, vein, blood immune fights infections and foreign substances  skin, stomach acids, white  blood cells, bone marrow, spleen lymphatic lymph nodes, lymph,  tonsils, thymus, malt, peyer's patches sensory or nervous control motion.
nutrient or matter life cycles.
plants eat dissolved inorganic phosphorous and make organic phosphorous which is eaten by animals.
a doctor who diagnoses and treats diseases of the endocrine system (glands and hormone levels)
straight thumb (64-75%) little finger bent straight mid-digital hair hair on knuckles no hair index finger vs ring finger shorter in males longer in males hand clasp left thumb on top (55%)
it does not have any internal organs and does not develop into a viable baby.
male gender jacobs (xyy), klinefelter (xxy) c 1184 amel x. female gender, iris color, red and green eye color triple-x (xxx, xxxx, xxxxx), turner's (xo), midas, goltz, hemophilia, color blind, duchene muscular dystrophy total chromosomes organism total organism total organism total ant 2 roundworm 2 earthworm 36 rabbit 44 kangaroo 12 amoeba 13 human 46 chimpanzee 48 mouse 40 hare 46 rhesus monkey 48
caring for the earth.
argo navis (ship of jason and the argonauts).
comet period - aten.
- a creature can only produce their own species.
- space, earth and water.
sirenomelia (mermaid syndrome).
during the flood, the earth was struck with something with such force that it broke up the surface and tilted the orbit 23.5 degrees.
testosterone is produced but the body cannot process it and actually turns it into estrogen.
it sounds ridiculous.
overeating can lead to obesity.
may 5-6 20-50 1p/halley bootids june 26-july 2 -100 7p/pons-winnecke pegasid july 7-13 3 - phoenicid july 10-16 3-10 - southern delta aquarids july 27-29 3 96p/machholz alpha capricornids july 30 - aug 1 3 unknown kappa cygnids august 3-25 3 - perseid august 11-13 40-200 109p/swift-tuttle northern iota aquarids august 11-31 3 -
improve reaction time and hand-eye coordination.
on sabbath the creation rests.
a child growing in the uterus prostate cancer.
1c ligament attaches bone
a vegetarian diet is always kosher.
(3.7 meters and 454 kg).
if there are 100 million then they must have evolved every 5½ years.
every month tobacco kills 418,000 people in the world, including 36,000 americans!
mishkan bible science: quantum physics and the composition of matter .
evolution cannot support separate species communicating design specifications to each other therefore it is a mystery how the two different creatures emerge within thirty years with chemical and physical attributes that complemented each other.
so if we embrace the basics of honesty, generosity, respect, contentment and faithfulness we can discover powers from god that we never thought were possible.
the lion and the lamb.
xiphopagus omphalopagus (30%) ischiopagus (6%) cephalothoracopagus thoraco-omphalopagus omphalo-ischiopagus lateral (side) (not joined) (not joined) (not joined) parapagus (5%) (not joined) (not joined)
plants convert the energy from sunshine into food.
study of insects, arachnids biologist.
it consists of billions  of argentine ants living in millions of nests that cooperate with each other.
the process was observed in nature or in the laboratory and it totally contradicts the theory of evolution.
the direction opposite the sun.
we explored the application of the radio spectrum to demonstrate the creative power of law and order and organization.
unfortunately, these are addictive, destroy the mind and the body and your future.
at 8 days old the jewish male perfomed this ceremony to join the covenant.
phosphorus is found in bone, teeth, fats, dna, atp and adp.
we all have the same original parents.
sterile females who become regular workers or the larger soldiers.
instrument for viewing the interior of hollow organs skeletal system the adult body has 206 bones and 32 teeth and  about 650 muscles.
nuts, seeds, beans and peas, avocados, bananas, dark green leafy vegetables, whole grains, soybeans potassium k helps to balance and distribute fluids.
loss of calcium, brittle bone crutch.
because hormones affect all systems, a malfunction can cause many diseases.
god created ears so that we could recognize them.
it increases the speed of the signal.
faith can also move mountains by talking to the personal god named yhwh.
so chimerism could be caused by a variation of fetus in fetu at the cellular level in the early stages of cell division, or it could also be caused by a second sperm penetrating the egg.
there are over 100 known comets but there may be thousands more.
microbes change organic phosphorus from decaying plant material and manure into inorganic phosphorus.
chromosome classification - median (metacentric).
after mating she searches for a place to dig the founding nest which is a vertical tunnel 2 to 5 inches deep (5-13 cm).
but unfertilized bee eggs turn into males in the spring.
the worst case is a level 3 or 4 pathogen, level 6 activity and level 5 severity.
stroke to the spinal cord caused by arching the back and cutting off blood supply to the spine.
- reduce the number of harmful chemicals going into the atmosphere.
e.g. scale insects and the larvae of the corbicular butterfly.
it is difficult to breathe.
usually, only females are produced.
go walking, hiking, read a book, do puzzles, construct puzzles.
it is a powder that is smoked and is usually combined with other drugs.
green or leafy vegetables, broccoli, turnip greens, cabbage, cauliflowers, avocados, oats, wheat, rye, and alfalfa essential fatty acids omega 3 linolenic acid normal functioning of all body tissues nuts, seeds, vegetables, beans and fruits; vegetable oils such as canola, flaxseed, soybean, walnut, and wheat germ omega 6 linoleic acid
do you think we will have a series of meteor showers like fireworks all the way home?
the trait must be inherited from both parents to be expressed.
bad breath gastroscope.
thank him for the ozone, for trees, for the indigo bunting.
- submedian (submetacentric).
proteins are used to build muscles and repair the body.
before the world was created, god also designed a plan of salvation to recreate us and bring peace between earth and heaven when man sinned.
learning to control the appetite will help to control the desires of the limbic system.
environment does not change our genes.
they take care of the nest, repair, dig tunnels, store seed and transport food.
hybrid animals god created us so that we cannot have children with other species.
the sun heats up water in seas, rivers and lakes and turns it into steam which rises up in the air.
when the queen goes to create a new colony she carries a sample of this fungus with her.
young onset dementia caused by shrinking brain lewy body disease (lbd).
trapezius, deltoid, teres minor, teres major, external abdominal oblique, internal abdominal oblique, latissimus dorsi, gluteus maximus.
instrument for examining the bladder colonoscope.
the word adam means red dirt.
our proofs are based on the following: - designer.
there is no chance that the event would occur.
ureter blocked by deposits of calcium anuresis.
if this occurs in one of two identical twin boys, then we could have a case when identical twins would be male and an infertile female!
they gather tiny seeds from the fields and plant them underground.
these aphids usually suck more juice out of a plant than they need and it is secreted out of their backs.
5 nerve signals retina converts light to nerve impulses.
pray to god, praise him and thank him every day as often as you can.
sterile, wingless females.
dicephalic parapagus (dicephalus).
in fact, twenty six million impossible events if you count the male and female.
high levels of carbon dioxide make the blood more acidic.
this is usually the type found in homes.
during digestion, food goes from the mouth to the first and second stomach.
- manufacture red blood cells and some white blood cells.
the bones have several functions.
the limbic system is a combination of several structures which control the endocrine system and the autonomic nervous system.
angler fish he goes fishing!
cocaine stimulant, hallucinogen (crank, crack cocaine).
no carbon dioxide tonic any no carbonated water with quinine and high fructose corn syrup dehydration.
can it talk like a parrot?
use unprocessed, whole grain.
that does not sound like a scientific theory.
but only three of these groups are near earth asteroids (nea) that actually cross the path of the earth.
chromosomes with the same size and centromere location are further identified by the banding pattern of light and dark regions they make with certain stains.
genesis 1:27 because of me you are alive.
plants absorb sulphur dissolved in water and make proteins.
c ascorbic acid makes collagen, strengthens connective tissues and immunity, promotes healing, healthy teeth, gums and bones.
but even animals that are closely related have a few problems.
gracilis, adductor longus, iliopsoas, pectineus, gluteus medius.
eventually, this fuel will burn out and the star will die.
the kuiper belt is an icy asteroid belt beyond neptune.
growth and development, hormones and red blood cells.
they attach themselves to the tree at an angle like a branch.
his structure can change and pass through solid physical objects.
eat as little as possible.
we need at least sixty minutes of exercise every day to prevent weight gain.
it is responsible for good visual resolution.
leaf bugs look like leaves.
it is impossible for one complicated human being to evolve, but it is even more impossible for a male and a female to have evolved because they would have to evolve within 30 years and a short distance from each other.
- toxins are ten times higher in pcbs.
the quality depends on its proximity to dirt, rocks and sand.
the male bird  has a beautiful indigo blue color, while the female is brown.
therefore, the object being hidden does not have to look exactly like the surroundings.
these are the primary colors of light.
too much or too little can be deadly.
fruits, figs, watermelon, cantaloupe, potatoes, vegetables, grains, avocados, bananas, oranges, beans and peas, dried fruits sodium na same as potassium salt, fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts phosphorous p healthy bones and teeth.
how delicious the food is.
- current biological observations show that a single egg can only produce identical babies of the same gender.
the human body system the human body purpose structures god says that we are "wonderfully made".
also, the  male does not eat.
so on the first day hydrogen, helium and light were produced.
they give the sense of balance.
inherited disease destroys brain creutzfeldt-jakob (cfj).
many critical processes and all biological systems require a very short development time for success, but evolution requires a long time.
it is part of ursa minor.
their stomach has four parts.
damaged lung impairs breathing - be confident in his moral teachings.
excess chromosome 21 changes physical appearance modern genetics shows that when a large, freely interbreeding group is suddenly broken into many smaller groups which from then on breed only among themselves (as the biblical description of the language dispersion at babel would imply), different racial characteristics will arise very rapidly.
the theory recognizes that small mutations will not create the large biological changes that cause evolution.
- 90% of emphysema cases are caused by smoking.
god says that it is your responsibility to care.
designs menus kwashiorkor.
vitamin name function vegetarian source a carotenoid, and retinol eyesight, night vision, bone formation, skin and teeth.
niacin (b3) and the amino acid tryptophan deficiency goiter.
they affect the sympathetic and the parasympathetic motor system.
vitamin c deficiency causes bones to curve night blindness.
the bible  says that the lion will live with the lamb and it will eat straw like an ox.
solar storms radio waves.
to answer this  question they developed a theory calledmonster mutation.
there are three types - comets, meteors and asteroids.
these can grow into any type of cell.
it is responsible for sending the message to begin puberty.
change in diet and waste products.
everything except urea is later reabsorbed.
however, realizing that they have to account for sexual reproduction,  they further went on to say that when the new creature emerged, a male and  female must emerge from the single egg.
on july 8, 2004, a 100 lb meteor came over the south central usa (texas, oklahoma, louisiana, arkansas, missouri) ancient asteroids.
saliva in the mouth mixes with the food and breaks down starch 2 stomach holds and mixes food.
in this process light is produced.
anableps he has an interesting eye.
treats premature children, newborns gynecologist.
the bulb will disappear.
cloudy appearance of the lens glaucoma.
removes nitrates, minerals (calcium, magnesium), and the heavy metals (cadmium, barium, lead, and some forms of radium).
on the first three days he created the containers needed to hold the systems.
evolutionists rely on the scientific method.
cancer is also part of hercules.
a piece of the chromosome is missing.
creature description  fish farms anableps he has an interesting eye.
the queen lays at least 30,000 eggs in one day.
this is the region to watch for the second coming.
the temperature and climate are being affected by green house gases causing global warming, glacier melting, rise in sea level and sea temperature and stronger hurricanes.
source: christiananswers.net/q-aig/race-skincolor.html albino.
the spotted and striped stick (genesis 30: 37-41).
usually, the source is approved and it is periodically tested around four times a year.
worm infection from pork marasmus.
cells and cloning female egg male sperm dna is found in two places in the cell.
some animals, like bugs, have their  skeletons on the outside (exoskeletons).
it is the largest cat in the world.
living things are fascinating.
chromosome banding techniques type stain analysis q quinacrine chromosomes, centromeres g giemsa structural abnormalities c giemsa centromere, satellites r heat, giemsa deletions, translocations r acridine orange deletions, translocations t giemsa or acridine orange telomeric banding nor silver nitrate acrocentric satellites dapi/da distamycin a y autosome translocations, breaks, small chromosomes mutation.
metabolism of carbohydrates.
fish and birds were created on the same day and are the most colorful of  the living creatures that god created.
alcohol and cigarettes.
water is split into hydrogen and oxygen using electricity from solar energy.
short arms of 13, 14, 15, 21, 22 have satellites chromosome banding.
sabbath creation physics chemistry geology geography astronomy biology human body nutrition bible science creation - evolution geography project history maps games puzzles school solar system atmosphere the weather mishkan science camouflage the human body nutrition water drugs and alcohol
defend against infection by viruses, bacteria and other foreign enemies a1 atrium (left and right) a2 ventricle (left and right) b1 anterior vena cava from the head b1a inferior vena cava from the lower body b1b jugular vein b1c subclavian b2 ascending aorta b2a descending aorta b2b carotid artery b3a pulmonary artery (goes to lungs)
pressure in the eye from excess aqueous humor myopia.
however, several synthetic drugs which can be up to 800 times more potent than cannabis are the active ingredients dangerous behavior children get a high without drugs by causing oxygen deprivation through asphyxiation, or hyperventilation.
one or more may be used on a particular product.
a single cell organism.
the parasympathetic system uses acetylcholine to relax the body.
male and female impossibility sexual reproduction could not have developed over millions of years because the male and female must develop simultaneously in the same location in less than fifty years for humans and in a week for fruit flies.
plants use light energy to convert carbon to organic matter.
- sexual reproduction.
keeps it moist 3a eye ball iris
the diaphragm flattens and the ribs spread and are raised.
cloning is not the creation of life.
protein and plant material decay and produce ammonia.
usually, they will throw in millions of  years for events to happen.
if it survives in the womb it is because it uses the blood supply of its twin.
it is tested every day.
kidney or liver damage, peripheral neuropathy, spontaneous abortion over the counter medicine legal drugs dextromithorphan depressant triple-c, robo.
blond hair, dark hair, straight or curly.
in addition, they only have a short period in their life span for these systems to developand the compatible design must be transmitted to the other parent whomust be developing at the same time.
therefore, the theory  says that once every 50,000 years an egg has so many huge mutations that it  cannot go back to an original form.
it cannot measure the past accurately and it cannot measure some things that we cannot see.
provides first emergency services.
the famous showers on the night of november 12-13, 1833 started interest in astronomy and led many people to believe that the world was ending.
ieee manages global standards electromagnetic waves are the basis of all matter.
hydrogen makes up 90% of the matter in the known universe.
winged male ants who fertilize the queen and die myrmecology .
there are several methods of purification.
- ultra low frequency (ulf) (300 hz - 3000 hz).
- farmers kill hundreds of seals and sea lions and other fish to protect the farmed fish.
for years scientists believed that the electrons, protons and neutrons in the atom were the smallest objects in the universe.
rain sinks into the earth and becomes ground water.
exposure to radiation.
measures temperature endoscope.
a blood clot or other substances can block the flow of blood and causes the surrounding cells to die and they eventually stop functioning.
sunlight, fortified foods and beverages e tocopherol antioxidant.
maybe he will make this animal just for you and you will see it in heaven.
when she mates she collects and saves a bag of sperm that lasts her whole life.
god made light, atoms and molecules in our corner of the universe.
marconi harnessed the potential of these waves when he realized that he could use them to transmit language.
apophis will approach earth below the height of our communications satellites on april 13, 2029 and 2036 6 renegade black hole a giant cosmic vacuum cleaner.
these methods only kill some microbes and will not neutralize harmful chemicals.
pituitary, adrenal, thymus,  hypothalmus, thyroid, parathyroid, pineal, testes, ovaries, pancreas, liver better than super man.
on august 10, 1972 a large fireball appeared over canada and the eastern united states.
through the act of speaking and teaching, information flows out as wisdom and understanding.
with these we can advance to a greater potential that is beyond our imagination.
polyergus samurai  ants of the polyergus samurai  species have sharp, sickle-shaped mandibles which are good for fighting but  useless for domestic work..
and, understanding teratomas may lead to the growth of replacement body parts.
objects that large can destroy the earth.
death rates dropped from 40% to 3% biology the study of living creatures.
- care for the god who made them all.
dna is used to uniquely identify a person or to determine genetic relationships.
take a deep breath and hold it.
genetic disorders or mutations occur when there are missing, excess or malfunctioning genes.
from internal receptors to smooth muscles and glands.
did you know that over 4000 years ago jacob described a process that models the dna double helix and the dna replication process?
this is the force against the walls of the arteries as the heart pumps blood through the body.
this is about 8% of males and 0.4% of females in the united states.
boron b essential for normal calcium and bone metabolism.
oxygen, organic matter respiration co2, water, energy sun o2 atmospheric oxygen photosynthesis oxygen cycle respiration co2 (carbon dioxide) co2 n2 n2 industry microbes - photosynthesis.
left handed note that the dominant gene is not necessarily more prevalent in the population - polymerase chain reaction (pcr).
food cravings, sex, hallucinations, delusions 4e4 striatum (caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens) coordination center for chemical messengers.
20/200 (6/60) vision or worse pseudoisochromatic plate test (ishihara test).
an underground source that comes to the surface because of an artificial hole in the ground.
ants are the most numerous types of creatures.
we are handicapped by our current knowledge and what we think is possible.
a queen develops when the larvae is fed royal jelly.
2d seminal vesicle stores mucus, fructose, amino acids and hormones to help the sperm 2e prepuce foreskin cut off in circumcision male .
nutritional yeast, fortified foods and beverages, cereals, soymilk and orange juice.
movement # part bones organs and muscles 1  head  axial (80 bones)
in the same way god set strict standards of behavior between human beings, without these there would be chaos and mistrust.
it is formed from the death of a massive star.
maintains the nervous system and all cells.
the sympathetic system activates the body with noradrenaline, causing the "fight or flight" response.
electrolysis h2o hydrogen cycle o2 o2 h2 electricity (energy) hydrolysis hydrogen storage - hydrogen cycle.
the neurons that form the cortex on the surface central nervous system
url: http://pubs.usgs.gov/gip/volc/types.html tornado information from noaa.
estimates property damage and flooding by category # mph kph surge damage 5 > 155 > 249 18 ft most roofs, curtain walls, all trees 4 131-155 210-249 13-18 curtain walls, small home roofs 3 111-130 178-209 9-12 mobile homes destroyed 2 96-110 154-177 6-8 doors, windows, roof material, mobile homes 1 74-95 119-153 4-5 trees, unanchored mobile home - 35-73 56-118 0-3 tropical storm.
nerve and muscle activity.
only since advancement in modern technology, nutrition and medicine have we seen a small increase in age and size since the middle ages (3 inches or 8 cm).
- care for the people and creatures of the earth.
nerve transmission and cell membranes.
between july to september the worker ants raid the  nests of formica japonica species and seize the larvae and pupae of the raided  nest.
difficult breathing.
caring for your mind and body: food and nutrition grains, cereal fruit vegetables beans, nuts dairy fats, oil water god describes bread and water as our basic foods.
right on top (44%) big toe length shorter (10%) longer, equal dominant hand
teratoma (monster tumor).
did you know that the structure of the rib cage and chest cavity illustrates the plan of salvation?
but i know everything about you.
triceps brachii, anconeus, flexor carpi, extensor carpi.
both hemispheres - heavenly waters.
an undeveloped fetus is encased into the body of the other twin.
the others give temporary life.
humans and all biological systems reproduce in two ways: - asexual reproduction.
he could have used a part of the floating ribs.
hybrid animals god created us so that we cannot have children  with other species.
two dimensional images appear up side down on the retina 6 rods rods interpret black and white color cones cones absorb red, green or blue light 7 optic nerves sends signals to the occipital lobe of the brain 8a muscles lateral and medial rectus moves eye away from and towards the nose 8b
space exploration, energy 5 fish, birds carrier pigeons 6 animals transportation (horse, donkey, camel), military man slaves, military 7 sabbath vacation man has learned to harness the power of creation in reverse order.
once the queen mates in flight with several males she loses her two pairs of wings and goes to start a new colony.
a transgenic animal has foreign genes inserted into its dna.
http://www.astronomysight.com/as/welcome.html - the name of the moons.
they  can interlock their legs to form bridges across rivers and roll up into a ball  to float in a flood.
(one body, one head and two faces) dorsal (back) craniopagus (2%) rachipagus pygopagus (19%)
middle brown parent genes mother mamb mamb mamb mamb father mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb mamb one set of brown parents can produce all colors
it is an area of the solar system between 30 and 50 au from the sun.
in 2000, scientists discovered that black holes can wander around aimlessly.
they are generally confined to either the northern or southern hemisphere.
the systolic over the diastolic.
as a result several majar standards are in existance.
- do not buy products that hurt other people and animals.
some sea horses align themselves upright to look like the seaweed.
- codis (combined dna index system).
south: (pisces austrinus, carina, vela, eridanus ) - hercules.
(91 meters) - figure eight dance.
provides spiritual guidance.
nasa's four great space observatories # telescope spectrum 1 hubble space telescope hst visible, uv, infrared 2 compton gamma ray telescope cgro gamma rays 3 chandra x-ray observatory cxo x-rays 4 spitzer space telescope sst sirtf
earthworms and garden snails are complete hermaphrodites.
pituitary, adrenal, thymus, hypothalmus, thyroid, parathyroid, pineal, testes, ovaries, pancreas, liver better than super man.
most mammals cannot see red.
can they make a frog with blue dots or speak to a butterfly?
no none sparkling any no carbon dioxide equal to the source mineral any no natural or added inorganic minerals purified (demineralized)
there are several dna tests.
spiritual to learn about god and to worship him brain, mouth, voice box, eyes, ears and sensory system skeletal supports body, protects organs, movement, produces blood cells and stores minerals.
so far cloning does not take half the genes from the nucleus of one animal and combine it with half of the nuclear dna of another species of animal.
shoulder girdle (4 bones) clavicle, scapular 4 hip pelvic girdle (2 bones) pelvis (iliac, pubic)
ecstasy (mdma) stimulant permanent brain damage, memory loss, lowers inhibitions.
a solar eclipse occurs when the moon passes between the earth and the sun and the moon casts its shadow on the earth.
effects are hallucination, memory loss, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, sleepiness and slurred speech.
treats diseases and impairments of the heart phlebotomist.
excess body weight stove, oven.
look at what a color blind person sees.
their movement is caused by the movement of the ear drums 4b incus 4c stapes 5 inner ear cochlea interprets sound 6 nerves transmits signals to the brain 7 semi circular canal three fluid filled tubes aligned in three different directions.
3 ingestion omasum water is absorbed 4 abomasum (true stomach) prepares food for digestion in the small intestine.
it is a part of the retina located behind the pupil and includes only cones.
people with dark skin have more melanin and light skin have less.
- chimera and genetic mosaics.
- number of "waggles".
breathing impairment.
removes large particles like sands and rusts.
if eve was made from one pair of ribs, then god would use the number twelve to represent the number of people, who are within the body of one man, who would be the foundation of a race of people.
eats eggs and milk products.
exocrine glands release hormones into a duct connected to the target or directly outside.
so the clone has the mitochondrial dna of the female (e.g. cow) with 100% of the nuclear dna of the other animal (e.g. pig).
2,332,000 tons of fish are taken from the sea to produce 737,000 tons  of salmon in 1997.
discovered november 23, 1843 encke 3.30 2000 2003 biela's 6.62 1852 lost kohoutek 6.67 2001 2007 tempel-tuttle 33 1998 lost swift-tuttle 135 1992 2126 tuttle 13.51 1994 2008 hyakutake 8-14000 1996 18000 a.d. halley's comet has appeared at the conquest of some famous political leaders and nations.
common external features feature dominant recessive ear lobes free (70-90%)
the brain and the spinal cord the nervous system human nervous system central nervous system brain and spinal cord somatic nervous system.
store calcium, phosphorus and other minerals.
the muscles of the internal organs are controlled by the autonomic nervous system 3 cardiac (heart) muscles of the heart.
so, the child has half the nuclear dna from the mother and father and 100% of the mitochondrial dna of the mother.
they recognize and eliminate bacteria and viruses, mismatched blood transfusions and organ transplants.
- restriction fragment length polymorphism (rflp).
they have a combined weight greater than the combined weight of all humans.
because evolution depends on an offspring  surviving they needed an answer to the question of reproduction.
tells the location of food sources over one hundred yards and up to several miles away.
1b tendon attaches muscle to bone.
see two colors, blue and green.
sabbath rest creation day 7 (saturday)
male bees who fertilize the queen play a creation game apiology.
treats diseases of the eye optometrist.
accutane affects this part of the brain.
a lunar eclipse occurs when the earth casts its shadow on the moon.
three base pairs of genes make about twenty amino acids and a chain of amino acids make proteins.
therefore, the theory says that once every 50,000 years an egg has so many huge mutations that it cannot go back to an original form.
human form of mad cow disease lou gehrig's disease (als).
bees, many other insects, spiders and birds have ultraviolet eyesight.
anaerobic bacteria change nitrates to nitrogen gas (n2) in their respiration.
one of the fins looks like a tiny fish  while the rest of the body is camouflaged.
instrument for examining the rectum urinary system structure function 1 kidneys nephron saves nutrients and concentrates urea 2a blood vessels aorta blood is filtered under pressure and water, salt, amino acids and urea are removed.
they protect the organs in the chest 5a 7 true ribs they are attached directly to the sternum 5b 3 false ribs they are attached directly to the cartilage of the last true rib right lung left lung 5c 2 floating ribs they are only attached in the back breathing 5d cartilage
it has 13 markers plus the sex marker.
now the standard model of physics says that everything (all matter and radiation) in the universe is made up of 12 basic particles and 4 basic forces.
5 antigen a large protein found on the surface of red blood cells that gives the blood the type or identity.
the definition depends on the source, original content, purification and the additives.
some centaur asteroids are: asbolus, nessus, pholus and chiron.
axon is outside the spinal cord and the terminals attach to the muscles.
however one trait may be more likely to be expressed than another.
2,332,000 tons of fish are taken from the sea to produce 737,000 tons of salmon in 1997.
creationists and evolutionists believe different things about how the universe started.
they might experience a certain taste when they hear sound.
lymphocytes 25%-35% t-cell.
loss of muscle tissue and mobility fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (fop).
southern hemisphere - the bayer group.
she ate cooked grain, raw eggs and milk.
since the laws of genetics make it impossible for different species to have children, no human beings were descended from monkeys.
when the queen goes to create a  new colony she carries a sample of this fungus with her.
animals use two basic mechanisms to accomplish these: - display.
he made several advanced systems to take care of our bodies while we are on earth.
therefore, a fish can give birth to a frog!
it allows the head to turn.
as the sun changes its location, the information in the dance must change.
detective and police.
investigates crimes, arrests criminal.
a person whose non-identical twin was merged with their cell and causes them to have two different dna in various body tissues with various degrees of expression.
travel for thousands of miles, are reflected back from the ionosphere and are perfect for international radio stations.
(caecum, appendix, ascending colum, transverse colon, descending colon, rectum).
apus bird of paradise dorado the sword fish volans
what would you like to see?
fish and birds were created on the same day and are the most colorful of the living creatures that god created.
kosher rules are maintained by jews and christians who believe that the dietary laws of the bible are still in effect, and some meats are clean while others are unclean and unfit for food.
removes most radioactive minerals like strontium, plutonium, and chlorine, asbestos, selenium, mercury, hardened minerals, barium, nitrate, copper, lead.
pressure when the heart is at rest the ear.
they are the parents of all the human family.
find out about his day.
each spring, the queen lays eggs that develop into winged males and winged fertile females.
when the rib muscles and the diaphragm relaxes air is forced out.
b3 niacin metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
light: the foundations of the universe creation day 1 (sunday)
in vitro fertilization ("test tube babies").
it is smoked, inhaled or injected.
each chromosome has a unique banding pattern that is like a bar code.
these are either old, degraded samples or dna left by touch or sweat.
they make the honey, feed the queen and the babies, clean the hive and defend the colony.
the amount of mass whose existence is deduced but which has not been detected.
when the seeds sprout, they bite off the green sprouts and dry the seeds in the sun.
frontal lobe prefrontal cortex personality, complex thought, emotion.
requires two creatures, a male and female.
but they are the source of many infectious diseases.
a few have eleven or thirteen.
becomes ghb in the body illegal substances and club drugs drugs, pills, plants ghb (gamma-hydroxybutyerate)
h2s so2 h2so4 water - nitrogen fixation.
decrease in the speed of light.
if a male egg loses a "y" chromosome, he genetically becomes an "xo" female with one "x" chromosome.
violent, suicidal, psychotic, confusion, drooling, coma and death lsd hallucinogen hallucination, paranoia, confusion, panic and the effects can occur for years after heroin, opium depressant (horse, crank, smack, jive, dope, shag, junk, black tar)
- ovo-lacto vegetarian.
any no carbon dioxide, flavor seltzer spring
- scientific experiments.
light where did the light come from if the sun was not created yet?
absorbed by co2, h2o, ozone light reaches earth (2000-320 nanometers)
thule 4.2-5.05 au - trojan 5.05-5.4 au - beyond jupiter damocloid asteroids in this region and beyond may be composed of ice or other volatile substances and are similar to comets centaurs a class of icy planetoids that orbit the sun between jupiter and neptune.
in rare cases an egg can lose one of these chromosomes.
- vegetables (3-5 servings) or 2½ cups.
signals travel from the brain through the nerves.
god separated the different environments and made the food supply.
- hydrolysis (combustion).
they are caused by the dust trails from the tails as they burn off.
the phoenix telescopium the telescope mensa table mountain octans the octant fornax furnace ara ♥ the altar carina the keel grus crane horologium pendulum clock pictor painter's easel caelum the chisel circinus compass crux southern cross eridanus ♥ the river hydrus (the lesser water snake)
volcanic eruptions produce sulfur dioxide (so2) directly.
rain water collects in ground water, lakes, and in rivers which run to the sea.
prescribes eyeglasses cataracts.
and, forty two years for the thirteen million we estimate to exist.
cell body and dendrites are outside the spinal cord relay neurons these nerves carry signals between neurons.
what colors will it have?
animals eat the plants and make proteins.
since we are all descended from adam and eve, what do you think they looked like?
the neurons transmit electrical signals between the brain, spine, muscles and sensory organs.
fish and birds were made to fill the sea and sky and both are filled with color.
if we can use heat to run motors, is it possible to use sound or light as a new energy source?
creation only disputes some of the meanings, theories and conclusions scientists place on what they observe especially when they try to extrapolate back to the past to say when and how the object was formed and how it behaved.
but disease still spreads to the wild fish and the excessive use of antibiotics creates super bugs that we have no methods of killing.
in the middle of the chromosome with two equal arms.
a vacuum is created when the diaphragm and the rib cage contract and air rushes in.
the second sperm could be the same or the opposite sex as the first.
carina, puppis, pyxis and vela were part of one constellation.
in front of his mouth hangs an appendage that attracts other fish.
examines tissues for diseases microscope.
the aquifer may also be in a contained space so that it does not mix with other pools of water.
a cyclone is a storm with winds that swirl around a central eye.
anomalies occur when only one of the pair is inherited (monosomy) or three copies are inherited (trisomy) or substitutions or deletions in the chromasome occurs.
animals eat the plant proteins organic phosphorus decay, manure phosphorus cycle weathering phosphate plants (hpo4-2 h2po4-1) soil, water run off - phosphorus cycle.
feelings, senses as electrical impulses to the brain.
protects body cells and tissues from damage, regulate use and storage of vitamin a. vegetable oils, seeds, nuts, wheatgerm, spinach, peaches, avocados, broccoli, dried prunes, whole wheat k - blood clotting, promotes growth and healthy bones.
» 5 lumbar, » 5 fused sacral » 4 fused coccyx digestive system, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small and large intestine, colon, liver, pancreas, kidneys, bladder, anus reproductive system.
the child of a male horse and a female donkey.
the cancer process and the development of the cells into a fetus have important common elements.
so the earth will never be totally destroyed by any of the above doomsday devices.
print: 95 pages copyright updated : october 2007 credits: all images, except the lungs, were created by laverna patterson and are the property of teachinghearts.org laverna patterson.
toxins are ten times higher in pcbs.
sternum, 12 thoracic vertebrae trachea, bronchi, heart, lungs, diaphragm, intercostal muscles, aesophagus 3a appendicular skeleton (126 bones)
however, they may be extremely good at identifying variations in shade of the same color.
most hermaphrodites are either genetic males or female whose sexual organs have changed because of sex hormones in the womb.
it initially increases in brightness then gradually fades.
an unrepaired error in dna is a mutation.
instead, for the time in which life is supposed to have emerged, the calculations support one specie emerging every 540 years for the 1½ million we know exist.
so far it seems to occur only in real girls whose father has lost the "x" chromosome.
even if a fish could possibly give birth to a frog.
instrument for viewing the interior of hollow organs skeletal system the adult body has 206 bones and 32 teeth and about 650 muscles.
sickle cell anemia causes the malformation of these cells.
instrument examines the colon input and output flow control images sound air words food - (ileum) bladder ureter eyes ears nose mouth stomach (jejunum) colon testicles penis - - - - small intestine kidney ovaries - brain esophagus (duodenum) uterus vagina heart - gall bladder lungs liver pancreas large intestine rectum - physical food.
the map is based on the number and density of sensory and motor nerve connections and not on the physical proportions.
e.g. mad cow disease.
this also uses embryonic stem cells.
the lungs are unable to exhale because there is no more elasticity.
(orion, canis major, canis minor, monoceros, lepus) - perseus.
e.g. humans - tetrachromates.
but dna contributed by the mother is found in the mitochondrion.
imagine seeing a song and composing music so that the color combinations and patterns it creates are as interesting as the sound.
sodium bicarbonate neutralizes acid.
asteroids have been blamed for the destruction of the dinosaurs.
north: (hercules, saggita, aquila, lyra, cygnus, vulpecula, hydra, sextans, crater, corvus, ophiuchus, serpens, scutum) south: (centaurus, lupus, ara, triangulum australis, crux, corona australis) ecliptic - zodiac.
however, realizing that they have to account for sexual reproduction, they further went on to say that when the new creature emerged, a male and female must emerge from the single egg.
other insects also make this precious honeydew and the ants also keep these to farm.
- mitochondrial dna analysis (mtdna).
do not take illegal drugs.
both these frequencies are perfect for local communications used for fm radio and television stations.
instrument for cooking food scale.
studies animals ornithologist.
the nerves are the electrical system of the body.
creationism does not discount physical laws, in fact yhwh is a god of law and order.
they include spiders, scorpions and mites in about 73,000 species.
confirming the existence of gravity does not prove how or when the planet was formed, it proves that the theory of gravity is reliable.
the colored part that changes the size of the pupil and the amount of light.
when they grow to adults they become slaves.
there are many types of water.
the fertilized eggs will hatch into females but the sex organs are underdeveloped.
7 spine all the ribs are attached in the back 8 clavicle collar bone 9 pleura lining between the ribs and lungs that allows the lungs to slide along the rib cage without an injury paramedic.
the direction away from the sun.
it takes only one inherited gene to be expressed.
in return the ant protects the aphids from predators and even care for their young.
but depending on the type of water, the added ingredients must be the same amount as it naturally occurs at the source.
both copies come from one parent.
made in the bone marrow 2b eosinophil 5% attacks parasites like worms and eats antigens and antibodies 2c basophil 1% allergic response.
a band across the sky between the highest and lowest point of the sun's apparent path around the galaxy.
protect the internal organs.
an "xo" fetus is a female that may have begun as an "xx" female or "xy" male.
god created marriage to complete the attraction between male and female.
the moveable support structure front view back view 3 cartilage protective gel lining the joint the joint synovial fluid .
the second cervical vertebra is named the axis.
how do you think we will function without it?
the parasite can appear as an extra leg or a complete baby.
sea horse the male carries the eggs and gives birth whales and dolphins mammals that breathe air but live in the sea imagine try to invent a new animal.
uterus, vagina, eggs, fallopian tubes, penis, scrotum, prostate gland, sperm, testicles 5 arms upper extremities (60 bones) humerus, radius, ulna deltoid, biceps, triceps 6 hands 27 bones.
- the all male work rules in the camps discourage families and encourage prostitution.
pheromones are chemicals that are used to alert other ants  of danger, mark trails, identify each other, enlist the help of other ants and  scare off enemies.
only one copy is present.
he reproduces by speaking electromagnetic waves.
the four methods used to blend into the surrounding environment are: - similarity.
this means joined perception.
the dosage needed to get high is close to the lethal dose.
it has no head, heart or arms.
so feminization of the external sexual characteristics develops and the penis does not form and the testes do not descend.
go to the ant, you lazy bum.
the stomach of the clean animal demonstrates the death burial and resurrection of the seed of god who would spring back to life after it fell into the earth and died.
a baby whose upper body is not developed.
air flows from the nose to the lungs 5 ribs 12 ribs attached to the spinal column in the back and the sternum in the front.
lost july 1994, hit jupiter hale-bopp 2300-4300 1996 4300 faye 7.34 1999 (2006)
for example, the difference in skeleton size of related animals is taken as proof of evolution.
polyergus samurai ants of the polyergus samurai species have sharp, sickle-shaped mandibles which are good for fighting but useless for domestic work..
source: the ultimate field guide to the u.s. economy.
what  colors will it have?
a strand of rna or dna that has no cell wall that is technically not a living organism.
male and female impossibility sexual  reproduction could not have developed over millions of years because the male  and female must develop simultaneously in the same location in less than fifty  years for humans and in a week for fruit flies.
creates beautiful sounds for entertainment.
this apparently does not work well with complex creatures.
human beings have also created other equipment that can decode these waves.
the twelve constellations called the zodiac appear about eight degrees north and south of the ecliptic.
abnormal growth of any cell that starves  healthy cells.
use the same pattern as the surroundings.
it can be shown that one pair of middle-brown parents could produce all known shades of color, from very white to very black, in one generation.
ever since that time, we have had different seasons, the land mass was separated and the oceans dominated the surface.
tongue, eye, ears, nose, hands, feet, throat.
7 plasma clear liquid in which all the cells travel lymphatic system structures lymph, lymph vessels, lymph nodes, lymphocytes, spleen, bone marrow, thymus, tonsils, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (malt)), peyer's patches function absorbs excess fluid, absorbs fat from the small intestine and immune response there are 60,000 miles (96,000 km) of blood vessels in our body.
multiple births fraternal separate eggs fertilized by different sperm cells which may be of different sex identical one egg divides and each new cell becomes a separate fetus with the same sex.
a poorly formed fetus that does not have a heart or a brain is attached to a complete baby and is completely dependant on the normal child.
maintains the nervous system and immune system.
- store calcium, phosphorus and other minerals.
the center of the dna breaks off, rotates and is reinserted upside down.
3b pupil the opening of the eye in the iris 4a cornea adjusts the focus of the light 4b lens adjusts the focus of the light - fluid aqueous humor
it took a leap in thinking to realize that one can harness the power of electromagnetic waves and it took rules to make them work better by setting boundaries.
treats diseases of the brain psychiatrist.
arachnids have eight legs and two body parts.
they collect the food, feed the nest and larvae, build and clean the nest.
his structure can change and pass through solid  physical objects.
circulatory system the heart structure a1 heart atrium chambers at the top of the heart a2 ventricle chambers at the bottom of the heart b1 veins takes blood without oxygen to the heart b2 arteries takes blood with oxygen from the heart to the body b3 pulmonary carries blood between the heart and the lung c valves stops blood from flowing back into the chambers d capillaries tiny vessels that connect the arteries and veins 1 red blood cell (erythrocyte) 40-45% of total blood volume.
however, they have not discovered the source of gravity or mass as of 2011.
parts of the lung cannot expand or contract.
to purify water in the wild, add four drops of regular chlorine bleach to one quart of clear water.
no blue cone monochromat - - - - - - - - - low color rod monochromat - - - - - - - -
god created the three basic environments.
to answer this question they developed a theory calledmonster mutation.
imagine, thirteen million impossible events.
the nuclear reactions in a star give off radiation that causes it to shine.
study any system in the body and you will realize that it would not function if it had to wait millions of years for the necessary part to evolve.
- very high frequency wave (vhf) (30 mhz - 300 mhz).
emergency water purification bleach.
psalm 139: 15-16 i determined the exact time of your birth.
the source of bottled water may be a city municipal supply or natural source.
monster mutation mathematics.
alcohol depressant "downers" frontal lobe, poor coordination, reduces brain size, low weight babies, mental retardation, birth defects nicotine (cigarettes, tobacco) stimulant cancer, lung disease, heart disease, emphysema, stroke, bronchitis, bad breath, yellow teeth.
dietary style people have different rules by which they prepare meals.
normally, when a sperm fertilizes an egg, a change occurs in the lining that prevents penetration by other sperms.
the imploded core of a massive star produced by a supernova explosion.
this is the distance from the earth to the sun.
mdma (ecstasy), ghb, rohypnol, ketamine, methamphetamine, and lsd.
does not eat any products that come from an animal, this includes eggs and milk and any products made from them (cheese and yogurt).
a rotating neutron star which generates regular pulses of radiation.
therefore they must have had the genes that  are in all the different racial groups.
the child of a  male lion and a female tiger that is usually a giant.
iodine deficiency play a nutrition game.
it is responsible for filtering many toxins and for aiding in digestion.
tells the location of food sources less than about one hundred yards away.
because they can make correct guesses about the unknown, such as the existence of objects in space, it is not proof that the theory of evolution works - it is proof that the physical laws of the universe are stable.
these are constellations that are related to each other: northern hemisphere - ursa major.
adam and eve the first two humans were adam and eve.
broken bone arthritis.
source: archer fish captures insects by  shooting water out of the air like a bullet.
can we hear, feel, smell or taste colors?
in 1947 another struck siberia.
vitamins a, d, e and k are fat soluable and the rest are water soluable.
this makes them excellent snipers and good at identifyingcamouflaged objects.
fats little nuts, oil nuts, oil (nut, grain and vegetable), butter all, lard animal meat cow beef, veal sheep mutton, lamb deer venison pig pork, ham, bacon, sausage mixed pepperoni, bologna
a star whose mass is too low to have nuclear fusion.
during the rainy season, storage ants fill their abdomens to the size of grapes with nectar and hang from the ceiling until there is famine.
current biological observations show that a single egg can only produce  identical babies of the same gender.
as of november 2006 there were 831 potentially hazardous asteroids (pha) discovered.
o (45%) rh factor positive (85%) negative (15%) hair line widow's peak straight hair whorl clockwise counter (6%)
controlled by the somatic nervous system skeletal smooth cardiac 2 smooth (visceral)
different systems choose a set of dna markers to identify humans.
maximum pressure when the heart contracts diastolic.
2 xx or xy chromosomes
- co2 sun - evaporation.
has a 400m moon that orbits every 16 hours.
source: http://www.whyquit.com oncologist.
god filled the oceans and skies with life.
care for others without any thought of a reward.
the geminids are the only showers known to be caused by an asteroid.
they mimic color, pattern, texture and shape of any environment and can even give a light show by changing color in rhythmic pattern like a neon sign.
these are available to the roots of plants.
harvester ants they collect, store, and eat seeds.
in the lungs, carbon dioxide is removed and oxygen is added.
having a second pregnancy while you are already pregnant.
each section develops into a separate fetus that are joined in their physical body.
this gives eternal life.
this is because the areas in the brain that process the senses are close to each other and have developed crossed links.
after meat was introduced into the diet, the average age dropped from 700 years to 70 years!
they mate for life and are often seen in pairs.
treats the digestive system.
healthy hair and skin iodized salt, nutritional yeast, sea vegetables, almonds, mushrooms manganese mn formation of connective tissues, fats, cholesterol, bones, blood clotting factors and proteins.
for god, it is the spiritual component that is dominant.
but cows that eat grass instead of feed mixtures produce less methane.
in 1992 a fireball was observed over florida.
- chromosome deletion.
joining can occur at the front, side or back at the head, chest, abdomen or hips.
eclipse eclipses occur when the light from the sun or the moon is blocked by the shadow of the moon or the earth.
e.g. pp, pp, pp - recessive gene.
the physical description of god is very  different.
did you know that god also used the female reproductive system to illustrate the timing of the plan of salvation?
lubricating fluid between the joints.
speak, see, hear, smell, feel, walk, make sounds.
a living thing grows and reproduces.
it is smaller than a virus.
this is observable evidence that the evolutionary charts that rely on differences in size as proof of long periods of growth are a fallacy.
so scientist assume the presence of a meteor whenever they see this alloy.
they use the sun as a compass in relation to the vertical wall of the hive to show the angle of the food in relation to the sun.
not just in terms of the size of space but in the number of possibilities.
but  even animals that are closely related have a few problems.
the laws of god do not take away our freedoms.
it is these chemicals that are mostly affected by illegal drugs.
align yourself in the same direction as the surroundings.
did you know that in god's original plan humans only ate fruits, grains, nuts, herbs and vegetables?
treats mental disorders huntington's disease.
fresh fruits and vegetables, nuts iodine i thyroid hormones, which regulate metabolism, growth, reproduction, nerve and muscle.
cetus belongs to perseus and heavenly waters and is in the ecliptic.
ants can carry 10 to 20 times their body weight and they work in teams to move  heavy objects.
e.g. boundaries allow us to broadcast on walkie-talkies without interference, but personal identification allows us to make private phone calls.
symptoms are headaches, red eyes, blood shot eyes, and marks on the neck.
vitamin a deficiency can cause this problem because it is used to make retinal, which is a part of the pigment which absorbs light.
normal functioning of all body tissues nuts and seeds, sunflower seeds; vegetables oils such as black currant, borage, evening primrose, and hemp oils scurvy.
and 650 billion years to develop the thirteen million  estimated species.
this is because small mutations  usually go back to their original form within two generations.
now men and women have an equal number of ribs.
- very low frequency (vlf) (3 khz - 30 khz).
the food pyramid is a guide that tells us what to eat.
who knows how the unnatural forced chemical environment affects the growing fetus.
the distance from the hive.
diprosopic parapagus.
this anomaly may occur in some or in all cells.
old biological fragments such as hair, bones and teeth lack nuclear dna and cannot be analyzed by the previous three tests.
goldfish sees four colors.
- winged ants queen honey pot ants  during the rainy season, storage ants fill  their abdomens to the size of grapes with nectar and hang from the ceiling  until there is famine.
a single cell organism that loves moisture.
on the fifth day god filled the ocean and the skies with living things.
the kings and queens swarm out of the colony and mate in the air.
organ stimulus senses seeing and hearing eye electro-magnetic spectrum sight, light pineal body light (seasons, biological clocks)
the spotted and striped dna.
- short wave (3 mhz - 30 mhz).
zebra 44 horse 64 mule 63 donkey 62 cow 60 goat 60 sheep 54 elephant 56 mammoth 58 pig 38 bee (queen, worker) 32 bee (drone) 16 mosquito 6 fruit fly 8 gypsy moth 62 dove 16 chicken 78 turkey 82 shrimp 254 goldfish 94 carp 104 crayfish 200 frog 36 starfish 36 tobacco 48 algae 148 rice 24 corn 20 wheat 42 oat 42 potato 48 horsetail 216 pea 14 cabbage 18 mango 40 bean 22 - dominant gene.
near earth asteroids that orbit between earth and mars but do not cross the orbit of the earth.
- super high frequency wave (shf) (3000 mhz - 30000 mhz).
proof this symbol will appear whenever we want to suggest an argument in favor of creation.
it is like  living in a toilet.
periodically, these objects from space interact with the earth.
the famous gypsy moth experiments failed because the moths would change back after two generations.
it is a sign that the messiah would have his outer human body cut off.
an area outside the solar system that is believed to exist at 50,000 to 100,000 au from the sun.
methadone depressant a pain reliever with effects that are similar to heroin.
abnormal dependency on drugs alcoholism.
pandemic mortality severity index # severity example 1 widespread, low infection rate, low mortality, no economic impact 1968 flu 2 widespread, low infection rate, minimal mortality and economic disruptions aids 3 spreads quickly, low mortality (2%) 1918 flu 4 spreads quickly, medium mortality (40%)
but the receivers can interpret these signals and convert them to frequencies that the human eye and ear can interpret.
they migrate south and travel in flocks at night, navigating by the stars.
the bone marrow has cells called stem cells.
some people are enslaved or severely underpaid to work in diamond mines.
therefore farmed fish receive antibiotics in their food and by  injections.
avoid the sun between the peak hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 pm.
manages human health, treats disease influenza .
this affects emotion and pleasure, memories, sex, hunger, sleep, judgment, mood, insight, motivation.
in 1865 dr. joseph lister used the biblical principles and introduced handwashing and sterile techniques to the medical community.
since it carries the genetic desription of our outer appearance, when our parents mate we will look like the instructions carved in the dna.
- geology and botany.
nitrogen can be changed by three processes: - lightning.
archer fish captures insects by shooting water out of the air like a bullet.
a large one could destroy the earth.
- protect themselves from enemies.
a low mass star that has exhausted most or all of its nuclear fuel and has collapsed to a very small size that is 1% of its original size but has almost the same mass as the original sun.
not a movie star or an athlete.
journey through your imagination imagine your trip through heaven at the second coming.
cover your right eye.
nucleosynthesis takes only 3 minutes, so there was more than enough time.
it is used in the united kingdom.
a renegade black hole would suck up and devour our planet 7 gamma ray bursts nuclear gamma radiation bursts occur about once per day.
they are ideal for cellular phones fcc (federal communications commission) manages and distributes the frequencies for commercial use in the usa.
whether an organism is male or female.
in the beginning there was nothing in our region of the universe but darkness.
they were called "broom stars" by early observers because of their shape.
- appreciate our wonderful bodies and respect ourselves and others.
but there are probably over 100 million species.
treats skin diseases.
dementia, possibly caused by type 3 diabetes due to insulin receptors in the brain frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld).
process information from the limbic system and frontal lobe.
god filled the land with life.
adenine pairs with thymine with two hydrogen bonds.
these result in a change in the manufacture of a protein.
in the process called nucleosynthesis, hydrogen can be burned to produce all the elements up to nickel.
- the waste from a normal farm is equal to the sewage from a city of 7,500 people - this contaminates the water and destroys other fish habitats.
the bible says that god made adam fall asleep, then he took a rib and created eve.
6 parietal lobe sensory association cortex touch, pressure, pain, temperature, homunculus 7a occipital lobe visual association area
it occurs where the about 1 million axons of the nerves and blood vessels exit the eye.
chromosomes switch places on different genes.
experts who share knowledge by teaching others about a particular subject insects 85% of all living creatures on earth are insects from over one million species.
psalm 139: 13 and brought you out on the day you were born.
milk, eggs * cheese, yogurt all meat, poultry and fish (2 - 3) (5½ oz) not eaten not eaten beef, lamb, tuna, salmon all flesh (pork and shrimp)
there is a stream of living water flowing from him.
studies living things zoologist.
# creation technology 1 light wireless technology atoms weapons, energy 2 sky communications water hydroelectric, dam 3 earth metallurgy, construction trees medicine, construction 4 sun, moon, stars light, navigation.
he took a stick and carved spots and stripes in it, then set it in a trough of water where the animals of a single color came to drink and mate.
he reproduces by speaking electromagnetic  waves.
the trend towards a low carbohydrate and high protein meat diet is not biblical.
most asteroids exist in this region i 2.3-2.5 au hungarias, phocaeas, floras, nysas ii 2.5-2.706 au alinda, pallas, marias iib 2.706-2.82 au ceres iiia 2.82-3.03 au koronis, eos iiib 3.03-3.27 au - cybele 3.27-3.7 au - hildas 3.7-4.2 au -
sunshine can also make vitamin d through our skin.
no lactation melanocyte stimulating (msh) places melanin in the skin melanism leukoderma thyroid stimulating (tsh)
infrared a series of four space observatories designed to conduct astronomical studies over many different wavelengths (visible, gamma rays, x-rays, and infrared).
gracilis, adductor magnus, semimembranosus, semitendinosus, biceps femoris.
it crossed where earth had been 6 hours before sisyphus 10 km apollo largest apollo asteroid hermes two 300-450m apollo binary asteroid toutatis 4.5x2.4x1.9km apollo contact binary eros 33x13x13km
god made peace by offering himself and he became the father of a new creation through his seed.
scientific observation
this is partly correct.
camouflage evolution creation sea dragon sea dragon stick bug 1 stick bug 2 leaf bug bush cricket brimstone butterfly piltdown man nebraska man lucy gypsy moth monster mutation too much life clean world carbon dating neanderthal biogenesis missing link eye body symmetry turbidity current pleochroic halo arizona tracks speed of light biological clock baby dna designer colonies bee and ant display peacocks camouflage is the ability to blend into the surrounding environment by changing colors or markings and acting like the background.
the white spots are cancer.
allows small samples of nuclear dna to be copied to create millions of exact copies.
- protein (milk, cheese and yogurt) 2-3 servings or 3 cups.
she uses this sperm to control the gender and type of ant (male, female or queen).
we get this from fruits, beans and vegetables.
- - - larvae eggs - - food - dump food - - dump farm - - winged ants queen honey pot ants
the males have one pair of wings and do not work.
this is different from the ability that i describe above.
will it be spotted or striped?
each lab hopes theirs will be the global standard.
spinach, tea, whole grain breads, raisins, blueberries, pineapple, legumes, nuts, dark green leafy vegetables, dried fruits selenium se antioxidant, protects against cancer and heart disease.
it could work like a wave that synchronizes with those at rest (same frequency) but interferes with the waves of those at work.
- carbohydrates (grain, bread, cereal, rice and pasta) 6-11 servings or 6 oz.
among the different ant species are many types of behaviors performed by these workers.
look at the cross and move closer to the screen.
from this relationship you will learn to love and that you are loved so much by god.
farmed fish are crowded into pens and swim in their own waste.
genetic males with an xy chromosome who do not develop the male features because the male hormones (androgens) are not functioning normally.
tritanopia - - - - - - - - -
bed wetting cytoscope .
nineteen muscles move the wrist and fingers.
4e1 amygdala fear, jealousy, aggression 4e2 nucleus accumbens reward, pleasure, addiction, sex 4e3 mesolimbic system secrete dopamine.
zn makes enzymes in the body.
dark green, dark yellow and orange vegetables, carrot, sweet potato, colored fruits, peach, oranges, apples.
unfortunately, the reproductive system is very  complex and the two creatures have totally different parts, and half the  genetic material they need.
they are caused by the final collapse of a star.
evolution: monster mutation.
there are at least 1600 apollo asteroids including: 2004 asi, 1998 ky26, 1997 xr2, hermes, 1999 jm8, 1998 ml14, 1997 xf11, 1950 da, itokawa, golevka, castalia, nereus, asclepius, mithra, 1982 ta, cuno, toutatis, wilson-harrington, phaeton, adonis, bacchus, sisyphus, apollo, toro, geographos, icarus.
ritalin stimulant (west coast) same effect as amphetamines.
added chemical that removes pure calcium and magnesium by forming less active salts.
growth and repair of cells.
in addition, teratomas are cells that have received the instruction to differentiate like an embryo.
they are not impeded by the earth's ionosphere but travel along a line of sight and are affected by the weather.
some animals, like bugs, have their skeletons on the outside (exoskeletons).
b3b pulmonary vein (comes from lungs)
they give the red color to blood when they are bound to oxygen.
the seeds are stored in underground chambers.
removes heavy metals and some of the chemicals such as insecticides, pesticides, herbicides, and industrial solvents.
evolution cannot support separate species communicating design  specifications to each other therefore it is a mystery how the two different  creatures emerge within thirty years with chemical and physical attributes that  complemented each other.
i have not seen any of these exotic new creatures, have you?
blood clot or clogged vessel in the heart.
the number of chromosomes is not related to the similarity, size, complexity or intelligence of the organism.
twelve drops for each gallon of water.
one classification of asteroids is the distance at which they orbit (orbital radius).
motor - feet trunk head arms eye face sensory genital feet trunk head arms eye face detailed order.
workers feed and groom the queen and larvae, build tunnels, and protect the colony.
instrument for viewing the ear drum
the epiglottis is a flap of cartilage that covers the trachea when we swallow and stops food from entering the lungs.
magnifies small objects did you know that god used the concept of quarantine to illustrate the plan of salvation.
because evolution depends on an offspring surviving they needed an answer to the question of reproduction.
on the sixth day god created the male and female animals on the land.
they can stand  up to twelve feet tall and weigh as much as 1000 pounds.
creation day 5 (thursday)
then try to draw with both hands.
plastic or metal might cause chemicals to contaminate the water.
i have counted all the hairs on your head.
preserve fluid and electrolyte balance.
near earth asteroids that orbit the sun beyond the earth.
our theory is that each day of creation corresponds to each period of the periodic table.
physically, he appears as one who is on fire from head to toe.
sexual reproduction.
physics: explore a tiny universe physics the study of the atoms and the basic laws of the universe that govern the relationship between different particles or bodies with mass.
the most dangerous job.
hallucinogenic mushrooms hallucinogen hallucination, deep sleep, similar to symptoms of alcohol intoxication inhalants depressant nail polish, paint, glue, gasoline and over 100 products can be inhaled.
- smoking causes cancer of the lung, tongue, lip, mouth, throat, esophagus, larynx, pharynx, pancreas and bladder.
fish and birds the creatures of the fifth day fill the creation of the second day.
over 100 genes affect hearing vertigo.
space observatories the shortest, higher energy waves are gamma rays.
other experiments show that if the information seems to be impossible, then the hive will not go after the food.
volans and columba are also associated with the ship.
warmer temperatures also melt frozen methyl hydrates, releasing methane gas which is 26 times more powerful than carbon dioxide as a green house gas 2 plague a pandemic caused by a deadly pathogen like h5n1, small pox, ebola or a reengineered germ that is used as a biological weapon 3 atomic weapon a nuclear bomb earth 4 supervolcano a major eruption of a supervolcano could destroy a continent and plunge us into a state of nuclear winter outer space 5 asteroid a cosmic bus crash.
instrument for viewing infrared radiation sonograph.
dark green leafy vegetables, legumes, nuts and seeds, blackstrap molasses, dried fruits, sea vegetables, whole and enriched grains zinc
measures the eye's sensitivity to color color deficiency.
he  created adam and eve.
in the dance, they waggle their bodies to tell the distance and direction of the food in relation to the sun.
nitrous oxide dissociative laughing gas, gas, whippitts, nitrous, blue bottle.
insomnia, depression, hallucination, anxiety, headache, euphoria and death crystal meth stimulant (glass, ice)
kiess piscids september 3 - draconids october 6-10 ?
the largest ant colony is 3,600 miles long (5890 km), stretching from the italian riviera to northwest spain.
triceps, biceps, brachialis.
(leo, virgo, libra, scorpius, saggitarius, capricorn, aquarius, pisces, aries, taurus, gemini, cancer).
but it survives all the medical procedures used to decontaminate germs.
blood pressure, calcium balance and heartbeat.
sabbath radioactive elements are in the seventh period.
e.g. radio, television, phone, garage door opener.
however, they can cross the path of the earth.
one out of every twelve people has a color deficiency.
ketamine hallucinogen (special k, vitamin k, ket, k, kit kat, keller, cat valium, purple, super c) used as an animal tranquilizer.
this enhanced ability to see color may only exist in birds and some insects.
they are called "dirty snow balls" because they are believed to be made of ice and dirt.
the waste from a normal farm is equal to the sewage from a city of 7,500  people - this contaminates the water and destroys other fish habitats.
these  birds are interesting because of their beautiful colors and because they can  imitate human speech.
deep vein thrombosis.
modern technology allows us to grow fish on farms.
the big bang that started evolution was calculated to have occurred 6 to 13 billion years ago and life emerged 545 million years ago!
they operate like one way private roads.
they are also arranged in seven groups based on size and centromere location.
this is reported in astronomical units (au).
fresh fruits and vegetables, green pepper, broccoli, citrus fruits, tomatoes, guava, strawberries d sunshine vitamin absorption of calcium and phosphorus.
thinking only about yourself does not promote good mental health.
coma, loss of consciousness, decreased inhibitions, nausea, convulsions, amnesia - same effects as alcohol.
abnormal growth of any cell that starves healthy cells.
inability to make good moral choices bible.
every cell in the body, except the red blood cells, has a copy of the dna in the nucleus.
this is the most important thing you should do.
god might bring a spark of energy that rejuvenates those at rest.
the child of a female horse and a  male donkey.
a small segment separated by a secondary constriction.
his breath gives life to physical beings.
sensory homunculus central sulcus (fissure of rolando) is a fold or groove separating the frontal and parietal lobes corpus callosum bundle of axons (300 million fibers) connecting the left and right hemispheres.
in the past decade, a distinction had been made between white meat (fish and chicken) and red meat (beef).
evolution the fact is, evolution is based upon an interpretation of some observations.
in fact, twenty  six million impossible events if you count the male and female.
plants only use nitrogen in the form of nitrates (no3), ammonia (nh3) or urea (nh2)2co.
the difference in size of a  liger and a tigon shows that in one generation a medium sized animal can  produce a giant and a dwarf.
they are attached to the skeletal system by the  ligaments.
you show your love to him by obeying him, no matter what your friends say.
- medium frequency (mf) (300 khz - 3 mhz).
the top half can see in the air and the bottom half sees in the water.
(hydrus, dorado, volans, apus, pavo, grus, phoenix, tucana, indus, chameleon, musca) - la caille.
well no none spring spring
there are two ways to determine gender.
this is contrary to what we observe and know about genetics.
the physical description of god is very different.
as we look at the wonderful things god created, i will try to point out facts that point to a creator.
the cones are sensitive to red, blue and green.
the cerebrum is responsible for consciousness 4 temporal lobe auditory association area sound, memory storage 4a wernicke's area (lateral cerebral sulcus) language comprehension 4b pituitary gland endocrine gland which control the other endocrine glands and influence growth, metabolism, and maturation 4c thalamus all sensory input except smell 4d hypothalamus regulates the autonomic nervous system by hormone production and release.
they are arranged in order from the middle of the brain to the sides in this general order.
"oy" fetus is probably a possibility.
several species of ant domesticate a kind of insect called an aphid.
endocrine glands release hormones directly into the blood stream.
it is represented by a lower case letter in a pair of genes.
this is located in the hercules constellation.
- he has set aside time for you to meet him every saturday sabbath.
these birds are interesting because of their beautiful colors and because they can imitate human speech.
- low mass stars like the sun live longer (hundreds of billions of years), die quietly and become white dwarfs.
7 legs lower extremities (60 bones) femur, patella (knee), tibia, fibula gluteus maximus, quadricep, sartorius, biceps, gastrocnemius 8 feet 26 bones.
- children are used as soldiers, slave workers and prostitutes.
ultra high frequency wave (uhf) (300 mhz - 900 mhz).
this is an asteroid or meteorite that burns up as it enters the earth's atmosphere.
fusion of bones osteoporosis .
sebaceous oil (sebum) hair follicle the liver is the largest gland in the body endocrinologist.
oxygen easily dissolves in water when it is churned up by rapids and water falls.
it is used to trace biological relationships among males because the y chromasome is contributed by the father.
damages motor nerves parkinson's disease.
all protein was from beans, grains and nuts.
god created marriage to complete the attraction between male and  female.
vas deferens sperm travels to the urethra.
the food is in the direction of the sun.
through the action of seeing and hearing, information and knowledge flow in as mental nutrients.
the expansion of a star as it dies when the temperature near the core rises causing the size of the star to expand as the core shrinks.
» turner's syndrome.
integrates the mind and body displaying social emotions, things like lust and disgust, pride and humiliation, guilt and atonement.
crater the goblet delphinus the dolphin lacerta the lizard scutum the shield pyxis the compass - sagitta the arrow puppis the stern triangulum the triangle hydra water snake equuleus the little horse pegasus winged horse serpens the snake cetus
move the wrist and fingers
e.g. influenza, measles, chicken pox.
hybrid breeds are  almost always sterile.
army ants migratory hunters that  feed on other creatures.
comets are dirty snow balls with a bright head and a long tail.
they build the hive, gather nectar, water and pollen and care for the colony.
this is observable  evidence that the evolutionary charts that rely on differences in size as proof  of long periods of growth are a fallacy.
dark green leafy vegetables, avocado, wheatgerm, whole grains.
an injured joint may respond to the weather because the pressure changes in the atmosphere may cause pressure changes in this fluid.
a swollen thyroid gland caused by iodine deficiency hormones are powerful chemical regulators that affect every system of the body that are manufactured in organs called glands.
- let god be your hero.
scientists claim that carnivorous animals must eat meat to survive.
it is impossible for a male and female to emerge.
constellation ursa major constellation a constellation is a major pattern of the stars in the sky which is made by connecting a line between the bright objects in the sky.
18% of living organisms is composed of carbon, while the earth has 0.19%.
if god does something different on sabbath that he does not do on other days, then we may be able to detect this activity.
evolution requires millions of years for the theories to work.
all impurities and minerals are removed.
normal (trichromat) - - - - - - - - - normal protanomaly - - - - - - - - - low red deuteranomaly - - - - - - - - - low green tritanomaly - - - - - - - - - low blue protanopia - - - - - - - - - no red deuteranopia - - - - - - - - -
many ants are farmers who raise plants and animals.
while chimerism of identical twins may be impossible to prove, only chimerism of fraternal twins can be detected.
what could have caused the great reduction in size?
skull, jaw (mandible, 2 maxilla), ear (malleus, incus,  stapes), hyoid, 7 cervical vertebrae, 32 teeth  brain, eyes, ears, nose,  mouth, tongue 2  spine 33 bones: vertebrae, sacrum, coccyx  nerves 3  chest  24 ribs (12 pairs), sternum, 12 thoracic vertebrae  trachea,  bronchi, heart, lungs, diaphragm, intercostal muscles, aesophagus 3a   appendicular
mineral atom function vegetarian source calcium ca healthy bones and teeth, blood clotting.
the gender is male if there is a penis.
the watery liquid in the front chamber before the iris and lens - vitreous body the jelly liquid in the rear chamber behind the iris and lens
(angel dust, hog, rocket fuel, doa, peace pill)
these systems manage the body like any major city government.
the child of a female horse and a male donkey.
these are rest, fellowship and love for others and for god.
the human body god says that we are "wonderfully  made".
this is the fairy tale that says that one day a fish laid one egg and a male and female frog came out!
a dominant gene is not necessarily the trait that is the most common feature in a population.
it is not found in the air in a gaseous state.
there may not be enough receptors, or binding sites at the target.
they affect the cerebral cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus.
transports oxygen from the lungs to all the tissues and carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs.
neptune trojans - 2001 qr322 trans-neptunian objects >30 au kuiper belt objects and the oort cloud 1 kuiper belt objects 30-50 au icy asteroids 39-40.5 au plutinos 40.5-47 au cubewanos >100 au scattered disk objects 2 oort cloud 50,000-100,000 au hypothetical cloud of comets
the eye will fill in missing details.
so it is possible that this could occur with either identical or fraternal twins.
blood clot or clogged vessel in the brain.
it is the largest gland.
he can move faster than light.
creationists claim that the scientific method is not good enough.
oatmeal, nutritional yeast, legumes, soybeans, mushrooms, bananas, nuts, whole grains b12 cyanocobalamin metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
after fertilization, it intercepts and substitutes the nucleus of the sperm before it joins the nucleus of the egg.
when the food is far away (over 300 feet) the bees do a "figure eight" dance.
animals breathe in oxygen (o2) and exhale carbon dioxide (co2) lightning nitrates no3- nitrogen cycle nitrogen fixation plant protein nitrites no2- nh3 decay animal protein - nitrogen cycle.
vitamins are complex compounds.
that would require two impossible events using processes that contradict modern observations and scientific knowledge.
legumes, soybeans, avocados, mushrooms, green vegetables, bananas, oranges, whole grains, wheatgerm b6 pyridoxine metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats.
diseases spread faster because of crowded conditions and the sewage water  they live in.
(hatysa, m42, m43, ngc1981).
the sabbath is given for rest.
studies birds when they find a source of food, worker bees, perform one of two different kinds of dances when they return to the hive.
one fetus is absorbed into the cell of the other during the early stages.
since methane is a greenhouse gas, cows contribute to global warming.
makes dna, neurotransmitters that regulate mood, sleep and appetite.
is it possible that this system can be compromised?
there are also constellation families.
- 90% of the tar that is inhaled stays in the lungs.
in the body, these are most likely separated for three to ten days.
or see colors associated with letters.
- low copy number dna analysis (lcna).
ear, lungs, feet hearing ear, larynx echolocation, biosonar (radar) smelling and tasting tongue chemicals and volatiles taste (sweet, salty, sour, bitter, umami)
the sperm can either have "x" or "y" chromosomes.
a circle dance indicates food without any reference to distance.
it is a condition in which some people experience another sense in addition to the primary sensation.
the last two breaths are what it is like to breathe with emphysema.
a person with color blindness (color deficiency) has difficulty seeing one or more of these colors.
this is the blind spot.
right heart left heart 2 white blood cell (leukocyte) immune system.
sun condensation clouds evaporation transpiration water cycle precipitation sea collection rain - condensation.
everything that we can see, hear, touch and measure is based on one underlying concept, the electromagnetic spectrum.
suppose there are other building blocks, not based on electromagnetic waves?
treats diseases of the urinary system proctologist.
sometimes the trail of dust can take up to six years to become a shower.
analyze your diet here.
lack of water water toxicity .
you have only 28 to 32.
physically,  he appears as one who is on fire from head to toe.
made in the lymph nodes.
it forms sulfur dioxide.
chromosomes are numbered 1 to 22 from longest to shortest.
between the middle and one end creating two unequal arms.
leaf cutter ants cut leaves to make mulch which they take underground and fertilize with their feces.
humans have used the electromagnetic spectrum to invent all sorts of wireless communications applications.
rat 42 cat, tiger 38 dog, wolf 78
- length of the dance.
motor neurons send information from the central nervous to the muscles.
suicidal thoughts k2, k3 hallucinogen spice, black mamba, mr. nice guy.
humans and all biological systems reproduce in two ways: asexual reproduction.
could we create a song that generates heat that will keep us warm or cool?
she lays thousands of eggs, some are fertilized, some are not.
opens the body to treat injury and diseases dermatologist.
work is distributed by the size and age of the ant.
the retina contains 100 million rods and seven million cones and a chemical called rhodopsin, or "visual purple."
industry volcano sulphur cycle so4 acid rain decay plant (nh4)2so4 - sulphur (sulfur) cycle.
it is used when very small samples remain, even 15-20 cells.
moderation (temperance).
the short arm is called "p" and the longer "q arm".
makes antibodies 2f monocyte (macrophage) 3%-9% eat viruses and bacteria.
this plan was encoded in the design of the creation and follows rules and laws just like any fundamental principles of science.
then mitosis (cell division) occurs after this reproductive cell has all the dna.
fga, th01, vwa, d3s1358, d8s1179, d16s539, d18s51, d21s11, d2s1338, d19s433 and amel - paternity testing.
but disease still spreads to the wild fish and the excessive use of  antibiotics creates super bugs that we have no methods of killing.
usgs article on volcanoes.
unfortunately, the reproductive system is very complex and the two creatures have totally different parts, and half the genetic material they need.
male 3 both urinary bladder urine is stored here 3a ureter urine flows to the bladder 3b urethra urine or sperm flows to the outside 4 large intestine eliminates solid waste 1
it is based on the fact that the eye tends to look for patterns and to fill in the gaps.
cloning is just one extreme form of creating transgenic animals.
they have long dendrons and short axons.
they are gardeners who gather leaves, grind them to smaller pieces, fertilize them with their feces and then grow a fungus which they use for food.
while the development of the embryo eventually includes instructions to stop this process, cancer cells do not receive or respond to these instructions.
drugs usually act on the neurotransmitters by either blocking their actions or mimicking them.
so no two people will have the same experience.
this appears as a shower several years later.
some vegetarian animals have a stomach designed to digest plant material.
finds red-green deficiencies other animals can see a range of one to four colors including the spectra outside the visible light.
when they die the phosphorous sinks to the bottom and becomes sediment.
mutation creates thick mucus in the lungs the first surgery.
any purification none distilled any distillation none sterile water any purification none sodas club soda
the sabbath day was created as a day of rest.
ants ants also live in social colonies like bees but with millions of members, with the same division of work structure by three types of ants.
the bible models the relationships between the particles of matter better than all the current scientific theories.
color blindness normal color deficient color our eyes have three color receptors (red, blue, green).
after the earth is recreated, we will not have a sun or moon.
caring for your mind and body many people abuse dangerous legal substances, prescription drugs and illegal drugs because of the good feeling that they get for ten minutes.
water vapor gets cold and changes back to liquid, forming clouds.
this reduces the amount of fossil fuels in the air.
they are also known as the seven sisters.
strengthen the immune system.
asteroid asteroids are large, solid pieces of rocks greater than 50 meters wide that may be hundreds of miles long.
the brain is protected by the skull and the spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column.
- fetus in fetu (baby in a baby).
ignorance and rebellion can also flow out as waste.
stimulate adrenal gland cushing's syndrome addison's disease adrenal glands cortisol immune suppression and stress response cushing's syndrome addison's disease hypothalamus antidiuretic hormone (adh)
2b renal artery 3a renal vein 3b vena cava 4 elimination ureter urine flows from the kidney to the bladder through this tube 5 urinary bladder urine is stored here 7 urethra, penis urine flows outside through one of these organs urologist.
protein deficiency trichonosis .
on the sixth day god created the male and female  animals on the land.
the first 8 are also used by codis.
1 chewing and fermentation rumen the bacteria named cellulase breaks down and ferments cellulose 2 reticulum packs undigested food into cud so that it can be regurgitated and chewed again.
(hour) comet quadrantid (bootes) january 2-4 20-100 2003 eh1 delta leonids feb 15-mar 10 2 - pi puppids april 15-28 13-40 26p/grigg-skjellerup lyrids april 21-22 8-15 thatcher 1861
- tell others about him.
with "test tube" babies, many male and female eggs are simultaneously fertilized together in a dish which is a soupy mixture of male and female chemicals.
genetic changes and genetic pollution.
regular cells have all the genetic material, but the reproductive cells contain one half.
here are some facts about smoking.
apparently, evolutionists cannot do basic  arithmetic either because if a new creature emerged every 50,000 years then it  would take 75 billion years to develop the one and a half million species that  we have named so far.
they cause permanent damage to the brain and other organs and death.
- take care of national parks and forests.
it is given as two numbers.
4e5 hippocampus long term memory 4e6 orbitofrontal cortex decision making, morality 4e7 cingulate gyrus autonomic functions.
some additives, like fluoride, may be useful.
the choking game stimulant (space game, blackout, dream monkey, pass out game, fainting game, tingling game, gasp, knockout).
neuron cell body sends and receives nerve signals 10b dendron sends signals to the cell body 10c axon sends electrical signals from the cell 10d axon terminals they secrete neurotransmitters into the synapse 10e myelin sheath insulation created by the schwann cell which is wrapped around the axon.
thanks for coming to our web site.
it uses 20% of the blood and 20% of the oxygen we breathe.
the first nuclear dna test.
when we choose to learn about god by reading, hearing and listening to spiritual things, our mental food becomes spiritual food that gives eternal life.
- low frequency (lf) (30 khz - 300 khz).
- short tandem repeat (str).
as of april 2004, there are 708 of these that are over one km wide.
he knows what is good for your mind and body.
cushions baby the egg is fertilized when the sperm meets an egg from the ovary.
they can interlock their legs to form bridges across rivers and roll up into a ball to float in a flood.
creates and cooks delicious meals butcher.
makes fats and hormones, red blood cells.
superior autobiographical memory and obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd) are associated with the caudate nucleus.
it appears to be a protein that causes disease and is spread like the four classic germs.
url: www.fguide.org you can care for the earth and its people by doing several things: - recycle.
harnessing the power of creation - extremely low frequency (elf) (30 hz - 300 hz).
mammary milk breasts prostate seminal fluid secretes a slightly alkaline fluid salivary saliva initiate digestion sweat sweat cool body lacrimal tear eyes
when he spoke there was light.
treats pregnant women pregnancy.
used for satellite communications.
surfer's myelopathy .
they travel up to 20 meters per hour and set up a  temporary camp every night and only stay in one location for 2 to 3 weeks when  it is time to lay eggs.
he created the world in six days he loves you.
although some drugs give a good feeling in the beginning, they quickly become addictive and it takes more of the drug to give the same high, until finally there is no more pleasure and you need to take the drugs to avoid the pain of withdrawal.
insulin, dna and prostate gland.
controlled substances prescription drugs, illegal drugs amphetamine stimulant same effects as cocaine methamphetamine stimulant (speed, meth, chalk, ice, crystal, glass) parkinson's disease symptoms, euphoria, aggression, insomnia, confusion, tremors, paranoia, convulsions, stroke, anorexia and anxiety.
species description ant chamber - males.
the ants milk this delicious nectar.
the effects are the same as marijuana, but it is sold and labeled only as herbs.
farmers kill hundreds of seals and sea lions and other fish to protect  the farmed fish.
resting on another day can never capture this scheduled burst of energy.
ventral (front) cephalopagus (janus twin) thoracopagus (35%)
is this a possibility?
survival to survive, animals need to do several things: - breathe - eat - reproduce.
psalm 139: 14 i knit you together in your mother's womb.
it has stripes and spots and an orange - gold color.
my toe nail does not grow that fast.
dark green leafy vegetable, broccoli, beans, soy, nuts, seeds, dried fruits, sea vegetables, calcium fortified tofu, orange juice and soymilk iron fe manufactures hemoglobin which transports oxygen in blood.
they are attached to the skeletal system by the ligaments.
human activity 1 planetary climate shift
they leave the nest and forage for food.
the flying fish tucana
the consumption of too much purified water can increase the chance of tooth decay and leach other minerals from the body.
they are harmful and the ozone layer helps to keep them from striking the earth.
it is part of ursa major.
harvester ants   they collect, store, and eat seeds.
(one body and two heads)
kosher rules do not allow the mixing of meat and milk or cheese in the same meal.
these and some of the southern constellations were named after 1600 a.d. did you know that god used the constellations and the seasons to illustrate the timetable of the plan of salvation?
the fact that male and female exist is the greatest proof that god exists.
dementia caused by abmormal structures in the midbrain or cortex, microscopic protein deposits in the nerve that disrupts signals niemann pick disease type c. childhood dementia caused by fatty deposit buildup in the cells the eye the eye structure 1 outer eye eye lids protects the eye 2 tear duct cleans the eye.
the ability of an unfertilized egg to hatch.
however, the quality of specimens observed are few and in poor condition and the evidence on which they base their conclusions are subject to many other interpretations.
it eventually forms a white dwarf.
(matthew 4: 4) food groups these are the food groups: - water (6 - 8 glasses).
hydrogen is stored in a battery or fuel cell.
junk foods have little nutritional value and lots of fat and sugar.
simple inheritance of a trait is represented as a combination of two similar letters, one from each parent.
blood clot in the legs.
it stops working at puberty myasthenia gravis
biological germs like bacteria, viruses, and parasites are also removed.
it uses all the markers used by sgm+ and codis.
genitals, toes, feet, legs, trunk, neck, head, shoulder, arm, hand, fingers, thumb, eye, nose, face, lips, jaw, tongue, swallowing, intra-abdominal.
bottled water bottled municipal no none artesian artesian
the rate at which a star dies, the violence with which it dies, and its final form depends on the mass of the star.
and 650 billion years to develop the thirteen million estimated species.
they are gardeners who  gather leaves, grind them to smaller pieces, fertilize them with their feces  and then grow a fungus which they use for food.
and it took a naming and identification system to further increase the capabilities.
the inability to see clearly in the dark.
the theory recognizes that small mutations will not create the large  biological changes that cause evolution.
take two more deep breaths without exhaling.
so we need to drink about 6 to 8 glasses per day.
smoking damages the lung normal lung smoker's lung emphysema the lung is pink with little black spots caused by inhaling carbon from pollution.
a simple plant that cannot manufacture its own food, so they get food from living or dead tissues.
several anomalies can occur in this process.
on the final day, he started the social environment of love and community with a party.
this ensures that frequencies can be reused by the same network in different areas without interference, while providing programming for the local audience.
doomsday scenarios source # event description finally, this would not be complete without a scientific analysis of possible doomsday events.
what do you think will be in space?
instrument for listening to sounds in the body sphygmometer.
they do no work except to raid other nests and  force the slaves to work.
long waves (like radio waves) have low energy and are very harmless.
aquifer is standing much higher than the rock gravel, or sand.
meteors meteor shower active rate meteors are the temporary bright streaks of light that sometimes appear in the night sky at an altitude of about 100 km.
- spiritual, social and psychological foundations.
it is the artificial stimulation of mitosis after recombining the nucleus of one animal into the cell body of the female egg.
flooding, trees -  30,000k 60 15 10 lacerta, zeta puppis, hatysa, alnitak b blue-white 10000-30000k 18 7 rigel, spica, alnilam, achernar, pleiades a white-blue 7500-10000k 3.2 2.5 sirius, vega, altair, deneb f yellow-white 6000-7500 1.7 1.3 procyon, canopus g light yellow 5000-6000 1.1 1.1 sun, capella, alpha centauri k orange-red 3500-5000 .8 .9 arcturus, aldebaran, pollux, atria m red 1 au apollo 1.017 - 1.3 au amor mars-crosser - orbits cross mars mars trojan - none confirmed mars to jupiter the main belt 2 - 4 au the asteroid belt.
depending on the wave length, it can either be seen, felt, heard or is totally invisible to the human senses.
so the hands and tongue appear to be larger than most body parts.
alpha aurigids aug 25-sept 05 10
he attaches himself to a female and their blood streams  merge!
wound and burn healing.
the big bang that  started evolution was calculated to have occurred 6 to 13 billion years ago and  life emerged 545 million years ago!
the cell usually eats and grows in size then it divides to  form two new creatures from the old one.
while others have their skeleton on the inside (endoskeleton).
1 external sexual characteristics
the  senses collect signals from the outside, converts them to electrical signals  and sends them to the brain for interpretation  brain, spinal cord, eye, ear,  tongue, nose and skin endocrine a system of chemical messages  from organs that secrete hormones to control body functions such as growth and  development, puberty, reproduction, energy levels, response to stress and  injury and internal balance glands.
they take care of the larvae, pupae and the queen.
- activated carbon block filter.
right hemisphere controls left side of body and non verbal stimulii (sounds) grey matter neuron cell bodies on the surface of the brain (cortex) white matter connecting fibers in the brain interior hind brain medulla oblangata, pons, cerebellum 1 medulla oblangata regulates body functions such as breathing and heart beat 2 pons the pons and medulla control respiration 3 cerebellum cerebellum regulates posture and balance and coordinates skilled movements fore brain cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, limbic system, thalamus, hypothalamus the brain weighs three pounds, and has more than 100 billion neurons and 50 billion supporting cells.
the senses collect signals from the outside, converts them to electrical signals and sends them to the brain for interpretation brain, spinal cord, eye, ear, tongue, nose and skin endocrine a system of chemical messages from organs that secrete hormones to control body functions such as growth and development, puberty, reproduction, energy levels, response to stress and injury and internal balance glands.
these are drugs that are popular at bars, all night parties and dances.
chemicals at the end of the nerves help to block or transmit signals to the next nerve.
clouds get too heavy and fall.
to care for him you can do the following: - challenge the theory of evolution by learning as much as you can.
ocean sediment, guano, rocks - decay.
they travel up to 20 meters per hour and set up a temporary camp every night and only stay in one location for 2 to 3 weeks when it is time to lay eggs.
they enter the atmosphere at speeds of up to 70 km/second.
those between 320-2000 nanometers reach the earth, while the short wavelengths below 320 are absorbed by ozone and the longer wavelengths above 2000 are absorbed by carbon dioxide, water vapor and ozone..
wheatgerm, nuts, almond nuts, seeds, pumpkin and sunflower seeds, beans, mushrooms, whole grain products magnesium mg similar function as calcium.
the famous gypsy  moth experiments failed because the moths would change back after two  generations.
see three colors, blue, green and red.
the egg is attached to the uterus and begins to grow.
i also notice that many drugs created as appetite suppressants commonly become these narcotic drugs or are banned because they cause permanent damage.
then the animal lies down and the food is regurgitated and is swallowed into the third stomach.
it may not be disinfected or purified.
how awesome is our god!
most people have twelve ribs.
however, the power of god is so great that he might have used other processes to create her.
sulfur dioxide forms sulfuric acid and falls as acid rain.
carbon dioxide, chlorine, fluoride, sugar, vitamins, fruit and inorganic minerals.
jesus said,"man shall not live by bread alone but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of god."
encke alpha monocerotids november 15-25 5-400 - leonids november 17-19 7500 55p/tempel-tuttle phoenicids nov 28-dec 9 3-100 - geminids december 13-14 40-120 asteroid 3200 phaethon ursids december 22-23 10-15 tuttle coma berenicids dec 12-jan 23 5 - hemisphere location northern both southern meteor showers are named after the constellations from which they originate.
- support the organs and muscles.
it is represented by a capital letter in a pair of genes.
so love can change things.
the bull aries the ram pisces the fish aquarius water carrier capricornus the goat - fish the zodiac cancer the crab leo the lion virgo the virgin libra the scales scorpius scorpion sagittarius the archer southern hemisphere lepus ♥ the rabbit pisces austrinus ♥ southern fish sculptor the sculptor microscopium the microscope reticulum the net norma the level antlia the pump centaurus ♥ the centaur vela the sails phoenix
psalm 71: 6 i love you.
another "silly and unscientific" bible story described dna process 4000 years before watson and crick discovered it.
caffeine is found in coffee, tea and soft drinks.
- fruits (2 - 4) servings or 2 cups.
since their normal color is grey, farmed fish are dyed pink so that they  look like wild fish.
a true hermaphrodite is a chimera in which both male and female genes are fully expressed.
he probably had to comfort a lot of people.
sartorius, vastus medialis, rectus femoris, vastus lateralis.
he created fish and birds and everything that flies.
respiratory therapist.
it is completely dependent on the normal baby.
the great white shark has 3000 teeth!
and, forty two years  for the thirteen million we estimate to exist.
maybe he will make this animal just for you
but the living conditions are not what our creator intended for  his creatures and the results are probably not healthy.
- walk, use bicycles or use public transportation.
he created adam and eve.
all fruits protein legumes (2 - 3) beans, nuts, tofu dairy and eggs (2 - 3) (3 cups) not eaten milk, cheese, eggs, yogurt *
just as all colors can come from one set of parents, all features can come from one set of parents.
they can expel as much as 600 liters (132 gallons) of gas each day (from both ends).
defends a criminal in court.
thymus thymosin regulates the lymph system and t-cell production.
degeorges syndrome pineal gland melatonin biological clock, regulates sleep depression insomnia thyroid thyroxin t4, t3 basal metabolic rate graves' disease goiter, cretinism, myxedema parathyroid parathyroid hormone regulates blood calcium, phosphorus and magnesium hypercalcemia hypocalcemia testes testosterone male characteristics precocious puberty abdominal fat ovaries estrogen female characteristics allergies raised ldl, osteoporosis progesterone female characteristics incontinence hypoglycemia, obesity pancreas insulin regulates blood sugar levels hypoglycemia diabetes mellitus exocrine pancreas gastric juices duodenum glands that secrete products through ducts or canals, such as sweat glands or mammary glands.
hormones production may be too excess or deficient for the body to work normally.
it uses 10 markers plus the sex marker amel.
it is also good for our mental health.
614-698 mobile phones (52-59) 698-746 emergency services (60-69) 746-806 wireless phone cell/mobile phone 824-849 900mhz cordless phone 900 wireless microphones 900 old cordless phone 40-50 wireless data networks wifi (ieee 802.11) 2.4 and 5 ghz bluetooth (ieee 802.15) 2.402-2.48 ghz wimax (ieee 802.16) 2-11 and 10-66 ghz wireless business business walkie talkies 151-158; 462-469 wildlife tracking collars 215-220 air traffic control radar 960 - 1215 satellite bands l inmarsat, meterology, sea and air traffic, omnistar 1530-1650 mhz global satellite navigation systems gps (navstar) 1227, 1575, 1176 glonass 1602-1615 and 1246-1256 galileo 1176, 1207, 1278, 1575 digital audio worldspace 1467-1492 s xm, sirius 2.3 ghz arabsat, insat, indostar 2535 - 2655 mhz c communications 3700 - 4200 mhz c military downlink 4500-4800 mhz c c band uplink 5900-7000 mhz ku-1 direct to home fss, intelsat 10.7 - 11.75 ghz ku-2 dbs, hotbird 11.75 - 12.5 ghz ku-3 telecom 12.5 - 12.75 ghz ku telecom uplinks 12.75 - 13.25 ghz 14-14.8 ghz 17.3-18.1 ghz ka acts, superbird, n-star, italsat, dfs kopernikus 18.3 - 21.2 ghz k future telecom 27.5 - 31 ghz x military, nato 7200-7750 ghz x military uplinks 7900-8400 ghz uhf (300-3000 mhz) has the best coverage indoors and out especially 470-854 mhz.
but coma berenices was a part of leo and columba was a part of canis major.
on that day, god had a party to celebrate.
wings flap at 100 beats per second and they can fly backwards.
the animals ate the herbs or vegetables.
measures blood pressure blood pressure .
they are at least 217 of these that are inside the orbit of earth.
decoy fish he also goes  fishing by attracting other fishes.
imagine which system in our body do you think we will not have in our new bodies in heaven?
measures weight our wonderful bodies need regular maintenance to grow.
they are little planets that mostly originate in the asteroid belt between mars and jupiter.
imagine a patchwork animal!
white forelock absent present hair color not red red (2-6%)
this classification helps to see which asteroids might impact the earth.
hybrid breeds are almost always sterile.
it even has an -oh molecule at each end.
we will explore science from god's point of view.
loving and caring is more than agreeing with your friends.
jeremiah 1: 5 i chose you when i planned creation.
but "little tyke" is a female vegetarian lion who refused to eat meat.
gives breathing treatments.
vitamins and minerals are needed by the body to perform important chemical reactions that will process the carbohydrates, proteins and fats.
the racial characteristics which exist today have not evolved, and generally speaking, are simply different combinations of pre-existing (created) genetic (hereditary) information.
carpenter ants they construct nests in wooden structures.
they sometimes capture hostages from other colonies and raid a colony to kill the queen and enslave the workers.
system the human body purpose  structures spiritual to learn about god and to worship him   brain, mouth, voice box, eyes, ears and sensory system skeletal supports body, protects organs, movement, produces blood cells and stores  minerals.
use the same pattern, color, shape or size.
there are three different kinds of bees in a hive who divide the work by them: queen.
even too much water can cause water toxicity or leach minerals from the body.
- embryonic stem cell.
this process removes phosphorus from rocks.
the cell usually eats and grows in size then it divides to form two new creatures from the old one.
animals and man - the incredible human body creation day 6 (friday)
these are found in fresh fruits and vegetables.
it is the fourth most abundant element.
then it goes to the fourth stomach and to the intestines.
they are controlled by the autonomic nervous system joints are the point where two or more bones meet types of muscles 1a muscle tissues of the musculo-skeletal system the contraction or relaxation moves the bones to which it is attached.
this is a birth defect that is not related to conjoined twins.
beans and peas, nutritional yeast, wheatgerm, nuts, bananas, avocados, leafy green vegetables, cabbage, cauliflower, potatoes, whole grains, dried fruit.
municipal water (government supplied) tap (municipal) surface purification chlorine and fluoride fluoridated municipal purification fluoride filtered municipal home filter none water of life
dithoracic parapagus (not joined)
the egg has only "x" chromosomes.
then godspoke and the power of his voice produced electromagnetic waves that were the basis of all created things.
specific regions in nuclear dna are examined.
does it  only like to eat blue things?
a restriction enzyme cuts the dna into specific fragments which are separated by gel electrophoresis.
meteor shower activity can be linked to the passage of comets.
e.g. pp, pp, pp chromosome classification.
carbohydrates, protein and fat metabolism unprocessed foods, whole grains, dark green leafy vegetables, legumes chromium cr makes glucose tolerance factor, which maintains normal blood sugar levels.
water is best stored in glass containers.
several important elements are needed to preserve life and they undergo several processes that recycle them.
imagine have you ever thought about how infinite the universe is?
4 human leukocyte antigen system (hla) a group of over 100 antigens on the surface of cells are important for organ transplant because they are recognized by white blood cells.
a non-vegetarian does not eat unclean meats such as pork, duck, shrimp and crab.
god had a party to celebrate.
ophiuchus and cetus are also in the ecliptic.
- angle of the dance.
biceps, triceps, deltoid, gluteus maximus digestive processes food and changes it to energy for the body.
achilles tendon is located in the heel.
drug effects brain damage appetite suppressants.
it is used as an industrial floor cleaner.
the respiratory system # organs structure function 1 lungs
camouflage camouflage is the art of blending into the surroundings so that you cannot be seen.
asteroid dimensions class comment 2004 fh 30m aten passed 43,000 km by earth on march 18, 2004 1999 kw4 1.2 km aten nea.
sometimes they travel up to forty miles away from their nest in search of food.
aid in formation of bones, teeth, healthy nerve and muscle system.
omnivore water 6 - 8 all grains and roots 6 - 11 (6 oz) rice, whole grain, cereal, couscous, bread, pasta, flour, potato, yam vegetables 3 - 5 (2½ cups)
this produces methane gas in their stomach.
hydrogen sulfide (h2s) is released when plants and animals decay and by industrial processes.
a good spiritual life will help you to bond with others in true love.
the whale cetus the whale orion the hunter ophiuchus serpent holder the ecliptic lupus the wolf gemini the twins taurus
eye, ears nose and throat specialist.
the blood returns to the left atrium through the pulmonary vein and enters the left ventricle through the bicuspid valve.
this occurs in boys who have the same symptoms as girls with turner's but they have no damaged chromosomes.
stimulates protein synthesis nutritional yeast, whole grain breads, spices and herbs minerals are actually atoms that the body uses.
my vegetarian food pyramid 2000 calories food group servings vegan vegetarian ovo-lacto vegetarian kosher
all of us were descended from adam and eve.
asterisms : smaller star patterns within a constellation: - pleiades.
teacher and professor .
examines body for the cause of death lawyer.
a problem with the system regulating the hormones in the blood stream.
this is the birthday of the world where we celebrate the mighty creator and his wonderful creation.
e.g. down's syndrome is trisomy of chromosome 21
the sperm and egg each have half of the genes (chromosomes) needed.
they claim that this is why they have evolved  sharp incisor teeth.
this is usually done only by simple single  celled creatures.
there are about 650 muscles in the human body.
i tried doubling in size so that i could split in two and reproduce.
travel short distances.
therefore, a fish can give birth to a  frog!
production of fats, cholesterol, bile, vitamin d, red blood cells, some hormones and neurotransmitters.
absorbed by ozone nonionizing radiation ionizing radiation long wavelength red orange yellow green blue indigo violet short wavelength 100km - 1mm 30cm-1mm 1mm-750 680 660 580 570 460 430 410 400 - 10 10 - .003  mach 1 hypersonic: >
b2 riboflavin metabolism of carbohydrates, protein and fats for energy.
acardius-acephalus (parasitic twin).
god also gave names to each of his creation, setting up the possibility of personal communication.
there are 88 constellations.
plants take in co2 and release oxygen into the air.
motor homunculus 5f primary somatosensory cortex touch signals.
we send and receive information with signals using frequencies that cannot be interpreted by the eyes and ears.
she seals herself off in the nest to lay eggs and to rear the first brood of workers.
the right side has three lobes and the left has two.
it consists of billions of argentine ants living in millions of nests that cooperate with each other.
it is like living in a toilet.
it is responsible for the phantom limbs felt by amputees.
important for normal development of fetus during pregnancy.
there may be problems clearing hormones from the blood.
the child of a female lion and a male tiger that is usually a  dwarf that is much smaller than the parents.
this apparently does not work  well with complex creatures.
the child of a female lion and a male tiger that is usually a dwarf that is much smaller than the parents.
the cause of diabetes may be found in the duodenum 4 pancreas insulin manages glucose.
or use the same pattern to appear larger so that no individual stands out.
nerve transmission, red blood cell, normal hair and skin color.
matthew 10:29-31 you were made in my image.
regulates dopamine levels, walking, balance.
peripheral nervous system
digests and absorbs food.
treats diseases and impairments in women obstetrician.
male testicles eggs (sperm) 1a