high plains gardening the gardening website of the texas high plains region december 9, 2011 indoor succulent gardens during these cold winter months, the gardener inside of me still wants to work with plants.
include a rounded or mounding shape ( echeveria or aeonium), with a spiked or pointed plant (aloe,  agave or columinar shaped cactus) with a draping or hanging plant, such as  asedum.
one dual purpose way to display succulents and keep them in  their original container is by grouping them together inside a woolly pocket ( www.woollypocket.com) until the growing season begins again for planting  outside.
some people prefer desert motifs, or just a single succulent in a pot.
a few i bring  inside my home.
include a rounded or mounding shape ( echeveria or aeonium), with a spiked or pointed plant (aloe, agave or columinar shaped cactus) with a draping or hanging plant, such as asedum.
add one tablespoon vinegar (white vinegar will do) or citric acid to 5 gallons of water.
succulents can be wonderful winter houseplants and require light from an  east or south facing window and little care.
the light is low enough in the sky and angles through the south side windows.
often through handling, a leaf will become dislodged.
i favor smooth black  pebbles or colorful glass stones available in most craft and hobby shops.
information about joining can be found atwww.cssainc.org.
if your water is more alkaline than most, adding up to 3 tablespoons of vinegar or citric acid may be required.
this is the closest city to amarillo their convention will probably ever be held.
adding a bit of  acidity to our city water for watering any plants is recommended.
arrangements are only limited by your imagination.
december 9, 2011 indoor succulent gardens during these cold winter months, the gardener inside of me still wants to  work with plants.
they are easy to propagate from leaf cuttings.
here's a potting soil recipe from fine gardening: 5 parts perlite 4 parts bagged potting soil 1 part coarse sand pinch of rock dust top-dress the container soil with small river rock, gravel, aquarium stone, or a fine-grade roofing gravel to keep the crowns of the plants from rotting ( http://www.finegardening.com/how-to/videos/succulent-potting-soil-mix.aspx).
dish gardens, shallow tabletop containers, make wonderful displays of  succulents.
i have a few rooms with good southern exposures that are perfect.
if you are unsure of your water's ph, test with a ph meter, ph strips or call your city water department to find out.
a few i bring inside my home.
from around november 15th until february 15th
this seems like a perfect  arrangement to me.
this seems like a perfect arrangement to me.
becoming a member of the cactus and succulent society will increase your scope and knowledge of succulents around the world leading to an expensive hobby.
the holiday season is a great time to add a few permanent or  temporary houseplants to your home.
warning, you may become hooked on growing succulents.
for the past several years i've been lucky enough to winter them over at the  amarillo botanical gardens in their bright and sunny gallery.
whether it's one echevaria or cactus or a greenhouse full, just have fun.
some people prefer desert motifs, or just a single  succulent in a pot.
if you are unsure of your water's ph, test with a ph meter, ph strips  or call your city water department to find out.
in addition to the usual foliage house plants, typical holiday plants include the favorites: poinsettias, amaryllis, cyclamen and christmas cactus.
succulents will die very fast from over watering during the winter, as their growth is slower.
group several of one type of plant, or a mixture.
the fine gardening site recommends lowering the alkalinity of your water.
even an eastern exposure  unobstructed by trees provide enough light to pull them through the winter.
counter space below a skylight or solar tube works good too.
succulents can be wonderful winter houseplants and require light from an east or south facing window and little care.
these succulents and more are easy to find at nurseries and garden centers  as well as on-line shopping.
dish gardens, shallow tabletop containers, make wonderful displays of succulents.
for most, buying houseplants are for decoration, but for many gardeners like me, it's therapy.
top dressing the container is a fancy term for mulch.
whatever your pleasure, your potting soil needs sharp drainage, that is, avoid soggy soil.
prices range from about $2 on up, depending on  size.
austin, texas will be hosting the 35th biennial ccsa convention on june 15th to 19th, 2013.
one dual purpose way to display succulents and keep them in their original container is by grouping them together inside a woolly pocket ( www.woollypocket.com) until the growing season begins again for planting outside.
i favor smooth black pebbles or colorful glass stones available in most craft and hobby shops.
they require little organic matter.
i grow a lot of succulents that aren't cold hardy in the texas panhandle.
just pot  this up by sticking it in the soil and keep it moist.
i have a few  rooms with good southern exposures that are perfect.
succulents will die very fast from over watering during the  winter, as their growth is slower.
from around november 15th  until february 15th the light is  low enough in the sky and angles through the south side windows.
you don't even need to take a cutting.
becoming a  member of the cactus and succulent society will increase your scope and  knowledge of succulents around the world leading to an expensive hobby.
if your water is more alkaline  than most, adding up to 3 tablespoons of vinegar or citric acid may be  required.
here's a  potting soil recipe from fine gardening: 5 parts perlite 4 parts bagged potting soil 1 part coarse sand pinch of rock dust top-dress the container soil with small river rock, gravel, aquarium stone,  or a fine-grade roofing gravel to keep the crowns of the plants from rotting ( http://www.finegardening.com/how-to/videos/succulent-potting-soil-mix.aspx).
decorating them for the holidays is easy by adding ornaments or winter sprigs to the container.
whatever your pleasure, your potting soil needs sharp drainage, that is,  avoid soggy soil.
follow the guidelines, don't over do it on the vinegar.
euphorbias have a  milky white sap that contains latex and other substances that can be toxic and  a skin irritant.
the cactus and succulent journal reported in the september-october 2008 issue, that by adjusting the water's ph, growth is improved, mimicking the acidity of rain water to around 5.6 ph. they observed better coloring, better leaf structure and flowering in addition to faster growing than with using regular tap water, which is usually more in the alkaline range.
the cactus and succulent journal reported in the september-october  2008 issue, that by adjusting the water's ph, growth is improved, mimicking the  acidity of rain water to around 5.6 ph. they observed better coloring, better  leaf structure and flowering in addition to faster growing than with using  regular tap water, which is usually more in the alkaline range.
just pot this up by sticking it in the soil and keep it moist.
prices range from about $2 on up, depending on size.
austin, texas will be  hosting the 35th biennial ccsa convention on june 15th to 19th, 2013.
decorating them for the holidays is easy by adding ornaments or winter  sprigs to the container.
you don't even need to  take a cutting.
follow the  guidelines, don't over do it on the vinegar.
even an eastern exposure unobstructed by trees provide enough light to pull them through the winter.
cactus  and succulent mixes are available, but you may want to mix your own.
angie hanna, plain old gardener website created by jackrabbit web design
this is  the closest city to amarillo their convention will probably ever be held.
add one tablespoon vinegar (white vinegar will do) or citric acid to 5 gallons  of water.
cactus and succulent mixes are available, but you may want to mix your own.
in addition to the  usual foliage house plants, typical holiday plants include the favorites:  poinsettias, amaryllis, cyclamen and christmas cactus.
angie hanna, plain old gardener admin's blog
for the past several years i've been lucky enough to winter them over at the amarillo botanical gardens in their bright and sunny gallery.
in no time at all tiny root hairs will begin to grow.
the holiday season is a great time to add a few permanent or temporary houseplants to your home.
succulents that are easy to grow inside include members of these plant families: these succulents and more are easy to find at nurseries and garden centers as well as on-line shopping.
in no time at all tiny  root hairs will begin to grow.
group several of  one type of plant, or a mixture.
for most, buying houseplants are for  decoration, but for many gardeners like me, it's therapy.
succulents that are easy to grow inside include members of these plant  families: crassulacea: aeoniums, echeverias, kalanchoes, sempervivums andsedums cactaceae: that is, the cacti with many and varied genera and  species mesembranthaceae: lithops and mesembryanthemums, better  known living stones and look like elephant toes euphorbiaceae, an extremely large family of plants from  pointsettia, crotons, to plants that are cactus look-a-likes, but are not  cactus, such as the pencil cactus,euphorbia turicalli.
adding a bit of acidity to our city water for watering any plants is recommended.