forty percent of bottled water should be labeled bottled tap water because that is exactly what it is.
every year, our water is tested more  than 100,000 times to ensure that it meets or exceeds every standard for safe  drinking water.
the rapid growth in the bottled water industry means that water extraction  is concentrated in communities where bottling plants are located.
the environmental law foundation has sued eight bottlers for using words  such as "pure" to market water that contains bacteria, arsenic and  chlorine.
as further proof that the bottle is worth more than the water in it, starting  in 2007, the state of california will give 5 cents for recycling a small water  bottle and 10 cents for a large one.
this can have a huge strain on the surrounding eco-system.
but even that doesn't dampen the demand.
http://sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/chronicle/archive/2007/02/18/edg56n6oa41.dtl
transporting bottled water by boat, truck and train involves burning massive quantities of fossil fuels.
that  means bottled water may be harming our future water supply.
for the price of one bottle of evian, a san franciscan can  receive 1,000 gallons of tap water.
luckily, there are better, less expensive alternatives: signing on to sfenvironment.org or sfwater.org to register not to buy bottled water for a year enters your name in a drawing to win a free stainless steel water bottle.
the only  difference your company will notice is that you're saving a lot of money.
all this for a product that is often inferior to san francisco's tap water.
as further proof that the bottle is worth more than the water in it, starting in 2007, the state of california will give 5 cents for recycling a small water bottle and 10 cents for a large one.
the federal standards for tap water are higher than those  for bottled water.
in contrast, san francisco tap water is distributed through an existing zero-carbon infrastructure: plumbing and gravity.
even in areas where tap water is clean and safe to drink, such as in san francisco, demand for bottled water is increasing -- producing unnecessary garbage and consuming vast quantities of energy.
in contrast, san francisco tap water is  distributed through an existing zero-carbon infrastructure: plumbing and  gravity.
more than  5 trillion gallons of bottled water is shipped internationally each year.
more than 1 billion plastic water bottles end up in the california's trash each year, taking up valuable landfill space, leaking toxic additives, such as phthalates, into the groundwater and taking 1,000 years to biodegrade.
this can have  a huge strain on the surrounding eco-system.
susan leal is the general manager of the san francisco  public utilities commission.
most of the price of a bottle of water goes for its bottling, packaging, shipping, marketing, retailing and profit.
these are truly the hummers of our bottled-water generation.
near mount shasta, the world's  largest food company, nestle, is proposing to extract billions of gallons of  spring water, which could have devastating impacts on the mccloud river.
has this website been useful?
here  in san francisco, we can buy water from fiji (5,455 miles away) or norway  (5,194 miles away) and many other faraway places to satisfy our demand for the  chic and exotic.
maybe it's because we think bottled water is cleaner and somehow better, but that's not true.
clearly, the popularity of bottled water is the result of huge marketing efforts.
the real cost of bottled water jared blumenfeld, susan leal san franciscans and other bay area residents enjoy some of the nation's  highest quality drinking water, with pristine sierra snowmelt from the hetch  hetchy reservoir as our primary source.
just supplying americans with plastic water bottles for one year consumes more than 47 million gallons of oil, enough to take 100,000 cars off the road and 1 billion pounds of carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, according tothe container recycling institute.
but even that  doesn't dampen the demand.
more than 1 billion plastic water bottles end up in the california's trash  each year, taking up valuable landfill space, leaking toxic additives, such as  phthalates, into the groundwater and taking 1,000 years to biodegrade.
jared blumenfeld is the director of the san francisco department of  the environment.
take the pledge signing on to sfenvironment.org or sfwater.org to register not to buy  bottled water for a year enters your name in a drawing to win a free stainless  steel water bottle.
that means bottled water may be harming our future water supply.
the global consumption of bottled water reached 41 billion gallons in  2004, up 57 percent in just five years.
get a waste counter for your site!
susan leal is the general manager of the san francisco public utilities commission.
the rapid growth in the bottled water industry means that water extraction is concentrated in communities where bottling plants are located.
our water generates clean energy on its way to our tap -- powering our streetcars, fire stations, the airport and schools.
maybe it's because we think bottled water is cleaner and somehow better,
even in areas where tap water is clean  and safe to drink, such as in san francisco, demand for bottled water is  increasing -- producing unnecessary garbage and consuming vast quantities of  energy.
near mount shasta, the world's largest food company, nestle, is proposing to extract billions of gallons of spring water, which could have devastating impacts on the mccloud river.
jared blumenfeld is the director of the san francisco department of the environment.
clearly, the popularity of bottled water is the result of huge marketing  efforts.
transporting bottled water by boat,  truck and train involves burning massive quantities of fossil fuels.
the federal standards for tap water are higher than those for bottled water.
we depend on your support to keep it running!
most of the price of a bottle of water goes for its bottling, packaging,  shipping, marketing, retailing and profit.
at home and in your car, switch to a stainless steel water bottle and use  it for the rest of your life knowing that you are drinking some of the nation's  best water and making the planet a better place.
forty percent of bottled water should be  labeled bottled tap water because that is exactly what it is.
so what is the real cost of bottled water?
find out how you can help us today.
february 18, 2007 san franciscans and other bay area residents enjoy some of the nation's highest quality drinking water, with pristine sierra snowmelt from the hetch hetchy reservoir as our primary source.
find out how you can  help us today.
more than 5 trillion gallons of bottled water is shipped internationally each year.
just supplying americans with plastic water bottles for one year consumes  more than 47 million gallons of oil, enough to take 100,000 cars off the road  and 1 billion pounds of carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, according tothe  container recycling institute.
the global consumption of bottled water reached 41 billion gallons in 2004, up 57 percent in just five years.
bottled water is no bargain either: it costs 240 to 10,000 times more than tap water.
the environmental law foundation has sued eight bottlers for using words such as "pure" to market water that contains bacteria, arsenic and chlorine.
in the office, use a water dispenser that taps into tap water.
luckily, there are better, less expensive alternatives:
and yet we still buy bottled water.
here in san francisco, we can buy water from fiji (5,455 miles away) or norway (5,194 miles away) and many other faraway places to satisfy our demand for the chic and exotic.
so it is clear that bottled water directly adds to environmental degradation, global warming and a large amount of unnecessary waste and litter.
so it is clear that bottled water directly adds to environmental  degradation, global warming and a large amount of unnecessary waste and litter.
our water generates clean energy on its way to our tap -- powering our  streetcars, fire stations, the airport and schools.
every year, our water is tested more than 100,000 times to ensure that it meets or exceeds every standard for safe drinking water.
for the price of one bottle of evian, a san franciscan can receive 1,000 gallons of tap water.
bottled water is no bargain either: it costs 240 to 10,000 times more  than tap water.