before you harvest - conserve by doug pushard water conservation can pay big dividends.
this water is usually either clean, highly processed potable water or well  water pumped from precious underground aquifers.
it is a great solution for cleaning  rainwater.more >> action learning at florida house: a rainwater harvesting case study by  doug pushard the florida house learning center is a  demonstration home and yard featuring an environmentally-friendly building  along with rainwater harvesting and sustainable landscaping materials and  methods.
read in the latest edition of home power (home power 115 october/november 2006) about the exact system i installed in austin, texas.
the authors also collected secondary  data from the internet, including the website of harvesth2o, publicly available  information from the american rainwater catchment systems association (arcsa)  website, and other associations such as those serving manufacturers and  suppliers.>
you can still see the sign for the old gormley's trading goods store on canyon road, where local farmers would drop off their produce for folks from all around the area to buy.
local heroes: albuquerque's aggresive water programs make a difference by steve miller albuquerque, a city in the arid southwestern united  states, has grown by 120,000 residents in the last 20 years butconsumed less  water last year than in any previous year since 1985.
harvesting rainwater offers many advantages: it conserves municipal and well water; it is free; gravity fed systems conserve energy; it is low in salts and good for plants; and it can reduce flooding and erosion.
much has been written on pumps for irrigation systems and for wells, but rainwater harvesting pumps can be markedly different.
it is our most precious resource and it is the base on which our  local economies are built.
in tucson’s 100-plus degree summer days, one well-known harvester has created a natural cooling and humidity system using it.
it remains for others to determine why the copper levels in the rainwater of this waterfront home are insubstantial.>
more is it time to upgrade from rain barrels to tanks?
additionally, this small percentage of the total rainfall would irrigate 18  million hectares of crops.
the foundation works to  preserve and restore the biodiversity of the borderland region between the  united states and mexico through land protection, habitat restoration and  wildlife reintrodion.
rainwater provides an excellent primary, supplementary, or alternative source of water.
the report  “rainwater harvesting in the us: a 2010 industry analysis”  illustrates the sustainedgrowth of the rainwater harvesting market in recent  years, even with the poor economic times.
80% of diseases in the developing countries are caused by  contaminated water.
rain chains ('kusari doi' in japanese) offer a highly attractive and unique alternative to traditional downspouts to harvest rainwater.more >> local pioneer: billy kniffen - the 2 1/2 minute shower man by doug pushard when billy kniffen and his wife, mary, bought their five acre lot in west texas in 2003 with the idea of building their log cabin dream home, there was one basic necessity missing: water - no city water access and ground water of questionable quality.
let’s start with learning how much rain you can collect.
rainwater harvesting: explosive growth across the us by trish donahue  and doug pushard
sally dominguez, ceo of rainwaterhog from sydney, australia, was recently in  the united states promoting her rainwaterhog product line; and took a few  minutes to talk about the differences in the australian and us rainwater  harvesting markets.>
conventional  technologies used to disinfect water are: ozonation, chlorination and  artificial uv radiation.
this, in turn, potentiallywould reduce sewer  overflow events and reduce bacterial and other pollutant concentrations in  receiving water bodies more>> spring harvest: rain barrel programs sprouting across us & canada this spring cities and communities all over the us and canada are rolling  out rain barrel programs.
for those of us paying attention to the weather in santa fe, a question  increasingly coming up these days is when are we going to see watering  restrictions?
floating filters by doug  pushard as the name implies, a floating filter, or extractor, floats in  the water in the tank and its sole purpose is to intake water from the calm,  clean, rainwater that is in the middle of the tank.
it has been utilized for many  centuries.
more asphalt to ecosystems asphalt to ecosystems is a compelling color guidebook for designing and building natural schoolyard environments that enhance childhood learning and play experiences while providing connection with the natural world.
this year’s gathering features the largest, most  jam-packed schedule to date.
not only can it save you money every month, it reduces your impact on the planet and can make you feel better.
the weight of rainwater standing on a  roof has caused many a roof to collapse, so the gutter/drainage system must be  capable of draining the roof fast enough so that the structural limits of the  roof are not exceeded.
well larry gilg did, and he found a way: "i  hooked a water pump to a bicycle trainer and use it to pump water out of my  rainwater system."
conventional technologies used to disinfect water are: ozonation, chlorination and artificial uv radiation.
read how>> rainwater catchment systems may be better than the big pipe!
time to take a closer look at this natural alternative to concrete!more  >>
more >> local heroes: city of olympia water conservation program covers all  bases by doug pushard why would an area that gets over 50 inches  of rain a year, has very mild weather and seemingly ready access to unlimited  water need a water conservation program and promote rainwater harvesting?more  >> rainwater harvesting in taos by doug pushard in the taos area both commercial and private home builders are proactively adoptingrain  catchment systems, reusing greywater and xeriscaping.
one man  leads the charge-dick peterson, environmental program coordinator at  austin energy.more>> austin's zilker park showcases rainwater harvesting by doug pushard zilker park, in the heart of downtown austin, is set to become the prime  rainwater harvesting demonstration site for the city of austin.more>>
clearly, we must look to other solutions to solve our water needs.
the broad and somewhat surprising potential of rain  motivated the creation of the international center for demonstration and  training in rainwater harvesting (cidecalli) and the creation of different size  prototypes to create solutions for local communities in mexico.
it then briefly mentions the need for efficiency and the different  uses of water (i.e. potable and nonpotable), but then quickly dives directly  into the review of the different sources of “new” water (e.g.  graywater, rainwater, air conditioner condensation, mechanical equipment  blowdown, treated wastewater, and desalination).>> more residential gutter sizing by doug pushard gutter sizing is an aspect of rainwater collection that has been studied  extensively and can be calculated based on published guidelines in the plumbing  codes.
one in eight people on the planet lack access to clean water.>>
to the delight of the green building community and many other washingtonians throughout the state, the department of ecology issued a policy statement issued on october 12th clarifying that water rights are not required for either the use of or the on-site storage of rainwater collected by a rooftop system or a guzzler (guzzlers are devices used to catch and store rainwater and dew to provide wildlife or livestock with drinking water.)
however, there are challenges to overcome in the promotion and  implementation of rwh in the uk; it is a relatively unproven technology and  there are still many concerns to be assuaged.
> more harvest rain - the movie review by doug pushard an extremely very well made dvd by the cuenca los ojos foundation highlights the connection of rain, surface water and groundwater; and how rain can actually heal the land if properly managed.
harvesting rainwater from rooftops is one solutions to conserving our precious water, where it can be used instead of municipal drinking water for many non-drinking water (i.e. non-potable) applications (e.g. landscape, toilet flushing) as well as drinking water.
for those of you who emailedharvesth20.com asking us about them, here's a list you can use.see also: worldwaterday2005.org and this article:
this series of articles is aimed at shedding light on the  differences and assisting in properly sizing rainwater pumps.
>>more conveyance - simple or complex by doug pushard conveyance, in a rainwater harvesting system (rwh), carries the rain from  the roof (i.e. the capture system) to the storage tank (i.e. the holding  system).
(pounds per square inch) also  known as your water pressure.
by filtering and purifying  it.>
low-ph water may lead to the dissolution of pipes, particularly copper  pipes.
among the goals of what are called “green” roofs, vegetated roofs or roof-top gardens are reduced building energy costs and reduced urban-heat islanding.
water is local and will remain  local.
by  doug pushard low snowpack levels currently being recorded  through the end of january 2005 across shortages north central idaho and  western montana could forecast water later again this summer.
the average annual rainfall across the entire national territory of mexico  is 1,500 cubic kilometers of water.
additionally, a rainwater harvesting system was designed and installed to collect rain and snowmelt.
a normal pump system is composed of a pump, a pressure tank, a pressure  switch, and a check valve.
first flush or rain diverters, as the name implies, flush off the first  water of a storm before it enters the storage tank.
the most visible aspect of the system is the 20 foot tall, 8,300 gallon galvanized steel tank that dominates the back of the parking lot.
eliminating these contaminants before they enter  into your storage and conveyance system is critical to keeping rainwater clean.
in some areas of the us, farms and livestock consume up to 60% of overall water use.
this has increased businesses related to the rainwater industry and encouraged adoption of rainwater technologies by individuals and commercial enterprises.
water conservation was the  highest priority in this renovation.
rainwater  can be used at multiple scales from residential to commercial and at the  neighborhood or community level.>
rainwater can be used at multiple scales from residential to commercial and at the neighborhood or community level.>
austin is where arcsa  was founded and where its 6th annual conference happens next month.
why gutter protection should be standard  on every home.
the article looks at how safe harvesting rainwater is.
however, san  francisco’s public utilities commission has set the stage for rain to  become an important resource rather than a waste.
traditional infrastructure treats rainwater as a  nuisance that must be disposed of as quickly as possible.
there one several ways to achieve water pressure when you turn on the faucet.
in a third world country it is not uncommon for a person to live on about 5 gallons a day.
this is not a great use for  this water given that a cheaper, better and proven alternative is readily at  hand.
this report is excellent reading for anyone concerned  about or involved in setting water policies.
cross connections are a critical system component that may be a requirement for anyone installing a rainwater system more >> gentle irrigation by ed fenzel
>>more making raingutters work!
this 50+ page market study collected primary data from a survey of rwh installers throughout key states in the us and also conducted informal interviews with a number of rwh suppliers and key stakeholders to validate the findings.
more >> swales & berms vs concrete: low tech solutions for stormwater runoff by doug pushard swales and berms are still used around the world but have been all but forgotten here in the united states as a way to conserve water.
with water weighing over 8 pounds a gallon, it poses a very real threat  to a house and it’s inhabitants.
where do you get the water?
this new, old shed, includes a 1,600 gallon rainwater catchment system.
at stake is a way  to reduce the estimated 2.8 billion gallons of raw sewage and stormwater that  is dumped annually into the willamette river.
oregon school showcases demo rainwater system by doug pushard the davinci living water garden project is a collaboration between davinci arts middle school and urban water works, a non-profit  organization.
however, access to cheap, plentiful water is becoming a thing of the past, not only in the santa fe area, but around the country and the world.
watering his yard, totally for free and getting exercise at the same time.
the critical need for water resources has encouraged educational programs, university extension and research, plus municipal governments to address rainwater harvesting as a viable option to decrease shortages.
eliminating these contaminants before they enter into your storage and conveyance system is critical to keeping rainwater clean.
here's how they did it.more>> extreme swings in climate cycles could jeopardize the socioeconomic  stability in the northern great plains region by joseph littbarski recently completed studies reconstructing the historical climatic trends for  the last 2000 years in thenorthern great plains show that frequent  alternating climatic cycles of drought and wet periods are typical for this  area.
there are two general types of rainwater catchment systems - "active" or "passive".
the foundation works to preserve and restore the biodiversity of the borderland region between the united states and mexico through land protection, habitat restoration and wildlife reintrodion.
more harvesting rain downunder by doug pushard rainwater harvesting is not just a topic of interest in the arid southwest, or even just parts of the united states; it is a topic of worldwide interest.
more water: why care?
but it is only the very tip of the system.>>more rainwater harvesting regulations rainwater harvesting is exploding and so are the cities, states and other entities involvement with it.
here is an overview to help you decide on the type of tank to us, the main factors being the supply of rainwater and your budget.
preserving the natural beauty of the area, the grounds design features  include many outdoor learning spaces and constructed wetlands for water  conservation and filtration of wastewater.more >> rain chains: the art of collecting rainwater by doug pushard
this first article will explain pumps and general pumping concepts>>
trisha macomber at theuniversity of hawaii is the guru of rain harvesting systems in hawaii.
rainwater harvesting is  a critical component in integrated urban water management.
alternatives covered include:  fiberglass, polypropylene  , below-ground polypropylene  , cement  , ferrocement  ,stone  , and wood.
the article includes great schematics and links to suppliers.
it is the rainwater system that really stands out in the remodel.
sounds simple, but it can range from being almost nonexistent to  extremely sophisticated and attractive.>
in the mad dash to stop global warming and increase conservation, people  resort to come crazy ideas.
local pioneer: jody drew's home-made water by doug pushard have you ever dreamed about living off the grid and enjoying a totally  self-sufficient lifestyle in a house you helped build?jody drew is  living her dream, including rainwater harvesting.more >>
all without a major change in your lifestyle.>>
these main components all work together automatically to supply pressurized water to your point of use.
insulation aside, this writer  believes that the most important disadvantage of a vegetated roof is that it is  designed to absorb water that should be collected to meet the needs of the  buildings inhabitants.
in addition to its effects on biological and chemical processes, the  variability of ph affects our decisions in domestic water usage.
this is the water that  could be the the most contaminated by particulates, bird droppings, and other  materials laying on the roof.
this year’s gathering features the largest, most jam-packed schedule to date.
this can be seen through the increase in  membership numbers of the american rainwater catchment systems association  (arcsa) and the increase in the activity through media channels, such as the  new york times, nbc news, national public radio and the associated press.
includes a downloadable schematic: "how to build a rainbarrel" designing a high-tech, hands-off rainwater system by doug pushard even though our yard is planted with native vegetation adapted to our hot austin, texas, climate, it requires some watering to keep it healthy and lush.
conference the texas capital shares another distinction as the indisputable crossroads of america’s growing rainwater harvesting industry.
treatment to control waterborne microbial contaminants by exposure to sunlight in clear vessels that allows the combined germicidal effects of both uv radiation and heat has been developed and put into practice.
it is also good news for those involved in rainwater harvesting as rainwater catchment is seen as one of the solutions to water scarcity.>>more water: why care by doug pushard i must admit i get a lot of blank stares when i start talking about water conservation and rainwater harvesting.
did rainwater harvesting help?
all plumbing fixtures were selected for  their efficiency including waterless urinals, dual flush toilets, and low-flow  faucets.
i get a lot of blank stares when i start talking about water conservation  and rainwater harvesting.
it is a great solution for cleaning rainwater.more >> action learning at florida house: a rainwater harvesting case study by doug pushard the florida house learning center is a demonstration home and yard featuring an environmentally-friendly building along with rainwater harvesting and sustainable landscaping materials and methods.
not among the folks who already do it here in northern new mexico, but from those who don’t.
local pioneer: jody drew's home-made water by doug pushard have you ever dreamed about living off the grid and enjoying a totally self-sufficient lifestyle in a house you helped build?jody drew is living her dream, including rainwater harvesting.more >>
read a comprehensive study on the u.s. water supply done by the  independent environmental working group.more> rainwater harvesting for drylands, volume i rainwater harvesting for drylands, volume 1, is a recently published book  by brad lancaster.
with only 3% of this quantity, there is the  ability to supply 13 million people and 50 million animals with clean water.
there are as many reasons for the growth of rainwater harvesting as there are communities promoting and implementing such programs around the u.s.- from hawaii to florida.more >> op-ed: worldwide water conservation can't wait by doug pushard and christian sarkar americans hear a lot about the drought that we are experiencing in the southwest and other parts of the united states, but we rarely hear about dry conditions in other parts of the world and what others are doing about it.more >>
read a reprint of susan r. ecker excellent article in plumbing engineer to get the full picture.
providing safe drinking water to the people has been a major challenge for governments in developing countries.
we use a drip irrigation system for watering, which is more efficient than using sprinklers, but this small city yard still consumes lots of water during our long, sweltering summers...
more washington state department of ecology clarifies water rights in regards to  rainwater harvesting to the delight of the green building community and many other  washingtonians throughout the state, the department of ecology issued a policy  statement issued on october 12th clarifying that water rights are not required  for either the use of or the on-site storage of rainwater collected by a  rooftop system or a guzzler (guzzlers are devices used to catch and store  rainwater and dew to provide wildlife or livestock with drinking water.)
if you are building or planning to install a rainwater collection system,  water pressure (i.e. water line pressure) is one of the main issues you need to  think about.
abundant water, cheap electricity and a great road system have been the backbone of our economy over the last century.
the secret to successful rainwater harvesting:
austin is where arcsa was founded and where its 6th annual conference happens next month.
>>more conveyance - simple or complex by doug pushard conveyance, in a rainwater harvesting system (rwh), carries the rain from the roof (i.e. the capture system) to the storage tank (i.e. the holding system).
in the united states the average is closer to 80 gallons a day.
in a third world country it is not uncommon for a  person to live on about 5 gallons a day.
uncontrolled water running off the roof and blowing back onto the  exterior surfaces can be damaging in a whole host of expensive ways including:  flooding, foundation settlement, soil erosion, dryrot, paint damage, window,  door and siding damage.
for those of us who love our  amazing vistas and crystal clear blue skies, the solution to our water needs  can’t involve polluting our skies.
most of our state is experiencing a drought, as well as arizona and texas.
it is a powerful and awe  inspiring visual testament to the art of passive rainwater harvesting.
especially since this is the driest it has been in a long time.
more rainwater catchment system pump sizing pumps are an integral part of almost all rainwater catchment systems; however, sizing a pump correctly is not straightforward and installers often fail to make the appropriate calculations.
what questions do you need to answer before you can build the right  system to harvest rainwater?
according to bob boulware, p.e., president of design-aire engineering, inc, board member and chair of the committee for arcsa that is driving these guidelines, the united nations and countries around the globe are concerned that in the next 10 to 15 years, competition from the increase in the world’s population, along with increased pollution of existing water supplies, will put such a demand on the world’s available fresh water that instability of world governments may occur.
however, there are challenges to overcome in the promotion and implementation of rwh in the uk; it is a relatively unproven technology and there are still many concerns to be assuaged.
even so, for most of us, water remains out of sight  and out of mind.
and 10 to 12 gallons per minute as your house water source will meet the needs of most homeowners for a drip system.
we use a drip irrigation system for watering, which is more efficient tha  using sprinklers.
most  professionally installed systems incorporate aspects of both to maximize the  water conserved.>
the article opens by drawing the case for “alternative sources” due to climate change, growing population and current unsustainable groundwater extractions.
-articles -| - resources -| - vendors |- news-|- new products -|
more op ed: the “greenest” roof is white and metallic
though few would argue that downspouts effectively direct water from the gutter  to the collecting tank, would we agree that they add to the aesthetic appeal of  a landscape?
christian sarkar americans hear a lot about the drought that we are  experiencing in the southwest and other parts of the united states, but we  rarely hear about dry conditions in other parts of the world and what others  are doing about it.more >>
a benchmark for zero water use in commercial building: melbourne's 60l by doug pushard
going green is building by doug pushard
rainwater provides  an excellent primary, supplementary, or alternative source of water.
providing safe drinking water to the people has been a  major challenge for governments in developing countries.
abundant water, cheap  electricity and a great road system have been the backbone of our economy over  the last century.
it is worse for albuquerque, which has seen only 0.19 inches thus far this year.
in almost any place in the united states, we simply turn on the faucet and it flows.
everything you need to know about ultraviolet water purification by john mone ultraviolet radiation is capable of destroying all types of bacteria, rapidly and without the use of heat or chemical additives which may undesirably alter the composition of water.
the ancient practice of rainwater harvest is uncommon in urban areas that have municipal water services.
rainwater is free and sometimes very plentiful even in the arid southwest; it is no wonder its use is growing for agriculture and for ranching purposes.
it is also good news for those  involved in rainwater harvesting as rainwater catchment is seen as one of the  solutions to water scarcity.>>more water: why care by doug pushard i must admit i get a lot of blank stares when i start talking about water  conservation and rainwater harvesting.
more pump systems for rainwater catchment by verne wood, ceo of pws, inc, keaau, hawaii understanding how water gets from the catchment tank to the faucet can help people on rainwater catchment systems feel more comfortable with their system and be more self-reliant.
these main components all work together  automatically to supply pressurized water to your point of use.
can i use drip irrigation or soaker hoses with a rainwater? 7.
rain chains ('kusari doi' in  japanese) offer a highly attractive and unique alternative to traditional  downspouts to harvest rainwater.more >> local pioneer: billy kniffen - the 2 1/2 minute shower man by doug  pushard
to determine system sizing alternatives, know the roof size that is to be drained.
as safe as your well or  tap water.
the megadrought paradigm glacial tap is open
the  critical need for water resources has encouraged educational programs,  university extension and research, plus municipal governments to address  rainwater harvesting as a viable option to decrease shortages.
this also means that a child starting school today, by the time he graduates from high school, will have trouble finding a clean glass of drinking water.>
average precipitation for santa fe this time of year is normally 4.81 inches,  and so far we have only received 0.67 inches, or 13.9% of average.
this book documents  exciting green schoolyard examples from almost 150 schools in 11 countries,  illustrating that a great many things are possible on school grounds when they  are envisioned as outdoor classrooms for hands-on learning and play.
let’s start with learning how much rain you  can collect.
the typical response is  “why should i care?
if rainwater  harvesting barrels/collection tanks are widely distributed and used in  conjunction with other water-sensitive development practices such as low impact  development and/or conservation design, a substantial fraction of runoff can be  removed from the drainage system.
there is a one-way valve called a  check valve (also called a foot valve) between the water tank and the pump; >> more alternative water sources an excellent overview article on the different sources of available water  appeared in a recent edition of the environmental building news (ebn).
in drier parts of the country, such as the southwest and parts of the  pacific northwest, freshwater sources are rapidly diminishing.
we should be  extremely concerned about our water situation.>> more water rates
top --------- site sponsors general water news march 2012 gibbs holds hearing to review financing tools for water infrastructure february 2012 water infrastructure bill to top $1 trillion january 2012 'miracle tree' substance produces clean drinking water inexpensively and sustainably could tap water cause lou gehrig's disease?
santa  fe’s water use is now substantially less than the us average, while  albuquerque is likely to fall below the us average soon.
the willow school: teaching sustainability by doug pushard
there is a one-way valve called a check valve (also called a foot valve) between the water tank and the pump; >> more alternative water sources an excellent overview article on the different sources of available water appeared in a recent edition of the environmental building news (ebn).
additionally, this small percentage of the total rainfall would irrigate 18 million hectares of crops.
with water weighing over 8 pounds a gallon, it poses a very real threat to a house and it’s inhabitants.
while it’s true that water does flow easily, it is even truer that we have not yet had to pay the true cost for this precious resource.
we use a drip irrigation system for watering, which is more efficient tha using sprinklers.
harvested rainwater in the u.s. is used mostly for irrigation; however, there is a growing interest in using rainwater for drinking and other indoor uses.
now, with  over 700 members worldwide, arcsa remains dedicated to promoting and educating  the public on the safe harvesting and use of rainwater as an alternative for  treated drinking water.
of course,  this store of bygone times is now a high-end art gallery, and its function has  been replaced by the local farmers' markets.
alternatives covered include: fiberglass, polypropylene , below-ground polypropylene , cement , ferrocement ,stone , and wood.
we use a drip irrigation system for watering, which is more efficient  than using sprinklers, but this small city yard still consumes lots of water  during our long, sweltering summers...
the epa regulates tap water, but how well do they do their job?
as the trend toward environmental awareness continues in both the private and public sector, more and more zero and low-impact buildings are being designed and built.
by  doug pushard in a recent research project by brad crowley, home-based cisterns were  compared against the $1.4 billion “big pipe” program to upgrade the  current portland, or combined storm water and sewer system.
rain gutters are quiet but critical components of a  building’s roofing system.
for those of us paying attention to the weather in santa fe, a question increasingly coming up these days is when are we going to see watering restrictions?
since 1995, albuquerque has reduced per capita use by 36%, santa fe by 42%.
by ksenia prints cup central bureau chief
there is a growing focus on controlling energy and monthly costs in homes  and commercial buildings.
a new mexico family has taken water conservation to a whole new level.
more san francisco welcomes the rain
>> more the good, the bad, and the ugly side of roof runoff one aspect of  green engineering and sustainable design is how man interacts with the  hydrologic cycle.
most of these projects are focused primarily on electrical energy usage, with water use as an afterthought.
more drought, what drought
it is a powerful and awe inspiring visual testament to the art of passive rainwater harvesting.
but it can also be argued, particularly in the “sun  belt,” that excess insulation blocks the advantageous nighttime  building-cooling benefit of a metal roof.
what lessons can we learn  by comparing these cities?>> more safe drinking for all through solar disinfection every 8 seconds, a child dies from water related disease around the globe.
this also means that a child starting school today, by the time he  graduates from high school, will have trouble finding a clean glass of drinking  water.>
this report is excellent reading for anyone concerned about or involved in setting water policies.
i want more pressure, how should i raise it? 10.
based on my experience with rwh during the  past 20+ years, i offer the following strategies that can be utilized to  promote the technology in your respective state or regions.
more>> water activism: organizations making a difference by christian sarkar it's world water day 2005 and what have you done?
water is cheap, and all i have to do is turn on the tap and
earthships and  off-the-grid builders need it to survive.
>>more rainwater harvesting - pumps or pressure tanks by doug pushard
local hero: dick peterson & austin's green building program by  doug pushard austin, the capital of texas, home of the  university of texas and whose unofficial motto is“keep austin  weird”, is the center of the green movement in texas.
50% of people in developing countries suffer from one or more water-related  diseases.
by doug pushard how safe is your water?
since 1995,  albuquerque has reduced per capita use by 36%, santa fe by 42%.
it took an enormous amount of effort working with and speaking to local communities, organizations and state agencies to publicize the need for and benefits of rwh.
this dilemma has influenced the building and design industries to create innovative methods of water conservation or so called ”water-cycle management”more> drinking water, is it safe?
however, san francisco’s public utilities commission has set the stage for rain to become an important resource rather than a waste.
why gutter protection should be standard on every home.
to determine system sizing alternatives, know the roof  size that is to be drained.
now, there is new emphasis on controlling water usage.
the cidecalli prototypes by femke love oldham this paper details efforts in mexico to build prototype systems of various sizes that can supply fresh, clean potable water to households, farms and small communities.
it has been utilized for many centuries.
the first thing that you notice atthe willow school is the closeness of nature to each classroom.
over 46% of the earth’s population doesn’t, and people in developing countries walk an average of 3.7 miles to get access to water.
floating filters by doug pushard as the name implies, a floating filter, or extractor, floats in the water in the tank and its sole purpose is to intake water from the calm, clean, rainwater that is in the middle of the tank.
more the state of rainwater harvesting in the u.s rainwater catchment or rainwater harvesting (rwh) are catch-all terms for  collecting, storing, and later using precipitation from rock out-crops, roofs,  and other surfaces.
former national leaders: water a global security issue imbedded water, increasing costs every drop counts austin water: the high cost of saving low cost filter to provide safe water in a jiffy february 2011 water labeling systems under consideration governor: water crucial to colorado epa to set limits on chemicals in drinking water valuing the water used to generate electricity national study explores the reaction and transport of tungsten in drinking water january 2011 water, climate change, and sustainability in the southwest water, food, and energy shortages pose increasing threat to economic growth, concludes world economic forum report u.s. water infrastructure in trouble epa issues guidance for enhanced monitoring of hexavalent chromium in drinking water new york city adopts water-saving plumbing code atlanta water panel passes new conservation measures 'toilet to tap' wastewater to potable drinking water debacle deals a blow to cdc and epa water consumption: natural gas looks better than coal water in the west fluoride
most of  our state is experiencing a drought, as well as arizona and texas.
more passive versus active rainwater harvesting there is wide spread interest in water conservation and specifically in capturing and reusing rainwater in both residential and commercial buildings to reduce costs, reduce the environmental impact of the building and lessen the load on the municipal sewer and stormwater systems in the arid southwest where droughts are a way of life.
water scarcity, contamination could become wave of the future.
in  tucson’s 100-plus degree summer days, one well-known harvester has  created a natural cooling and humidity system using it.
here's a step-by-step account of how i built myrainwater harvesting system to beat those hot texas summers and kept my garden greenmore>>
how big a yard can i water?
rainwater harvesting: comparing storage solutions by doug pushard storage tanks, usually the most expensive component of the rainwater harvesting system, come in a wide variety of sizes and types.
for both goals, white metals roofs are superior,  particularly in the “sun belt” where cooling is a year-round task.
what questions do you need to answer before you can build the right system to harvest rainwater?
billy gazed up at the sky and the obvious solution sprinkled down on him - harvest rainwater from the sky!more >>
it has been the foundation of the economy for past decades and will continue for decades to come.
>> more potable rainwater: filtration and purification rainwater harvesting is viewed by many, including the epa, as a partial solution to the problems posed by water scarcity: droughts and desertification, erosion from runoff, over-reliance on depleted aquifers, and the costs of new irrigation, diversion, and water treatment facilities.
drinking water from plastic pipes — is it harmful? october 2011 epa develops new planning approach to improve water quality in u.s. cities september 2011 water authors forum will feature discussions on solutions, future challenges for water and energy, "it's complicated.
it remains for others to determine why the copper levels in the rainwater  of this waterfront home are insubstantial.>
it is estimated that already one in five homes have some type of water  filtration or purification system installed.
designed to be a "model florida yard," florida house  showcases the use of native and drought-tolerant plants, xeriscaping, rainwater  harvesting, pervious walkways, and other ways to reduce detrimental run-off  into florida's estuaries and bays.
it is our most precious resource and it is the base on which our local economies are built.
this is not a great use for this water given that a cheaper, better and proven alternative is readily at hand.
a normal pump system is composed of a pump, a pressure tank, a pressure switch, and a check valve.
if you are building or planning to install a rainwater collection system, water pressure (i.e. water line pressure) is one of the main issues you need to think about.
the goal is toteach children about water conservation.
it is a practical guide to holistic rainwater management; featuring not just information on rainwater harvesting, but also covers site planning, water conservation strategies and much, much more.
now, with over 700 members worldwide, arcsa remains dedicated to promoting and educating the public on the safe harvesting and use of rainwater as an alternative for treated drinking water.
first flush or rain diverters, as the name implies, flush off the first water of a storm before it enters the storage tank.
with keynotes by four internationally acclaimed experts, the conference will host over 40 presentations, many on topics never before addressed, and will include another 30+ exhibition booths with the most innovative and advanced products sure to advance our thriving industry.
i get a lot of blank stares when i start talking about water conservation and rainwater harvesting.
this can be seen through the increase in membership numbers of the american rainwater catchment systems association (arcsa) and the increase in the activity through media channels, such as the new york times, nbc news, national public radio and the associated press.
earthships and off-the-grid builders need it to survive.
in the united states the average is  closer to 80 gallons a day.
>> more one way to conserve on the ranch and farm agriculture and ranching consume a substantial amount of potable and pumped water around the country, and to some extent in northern new mexico.
the drying of nevada: conservation key to future by joseph littbarski southern nevada is in the midst of the "ugliest drought"  the colorado river basin had experienced in 1400 years.more>> green banking: new mexico's permaculture credit union by doug  pushard the history of financial institutions is one of focus on the  bottom line which results in overexploitation of the earth's resources.
projects|  blog |  sitemap updated april 2, 2012 first ever us rwh study released rainwater harvesting growing in popularity
as safe as your well or tap water.
more water – another view pumping more water or increasing water transfer from other areas is not going to solve this problem.
in the united states, we are fortunate to have accessible clean water at any price.
first, you need to identify the types of plants in your garden and their wateringrequirements.
conference the texas capital shares another distinction as the indisputable crossroads  of america’s growing rainwater harvesting industry.
the next, and certainly not the  least important, decision is cost.more>> local hero: water conservation -
rainwater harvesting is a critical component in integrated urban water management.
for a water treatment solution to be considered green, it  must meet the criteria of not adding anything to the water and not using any  additional water in the process.
cross connections are a critical system  component that may be a requirement for anyone installing a rainwater system more >> gentle irrigation by ed fenzel
>>more rainwater harvesting and rural development:
under ideal conditions, a 1-inch mainline with 30  p.s.i.
rainbarrel 101: what is a rainbarrel?
sally dominguez, ceo of rainwaterhog from sydney, australia, was recently in the united states promoting her rainwaterhog product line; and took a few minutes to talk about the differences in the australian and us rainwater harvesting markets.>
more water is local water is easy access and this has created an ideal for communities and local agriculture.
to the extreme by doug pushard how low can you go?
more how safe is drinking water from a tank?
the city-wide initiative has  all the expected features - discounted rain barrels, how-to guides, and  workshops – but that’s just the beginning.
how safe is rainwater compared to  alternatives.more> free rain by doug pushard high tech, hands off rainwater collection even though our yard is planted with mostly native vegetation adapted to  our hot austin, texas, climate it requires watering to keep it healthy and  lush.
by filtering and purifying it.>>
the reported ph of the annual test  samples taken from an inside faucet has always been greater than 7, which could  be attributed to the concrete tank.
billy gazed up at the sky and the obvious  solution sprinkled down on him - harvest rainwater from the sky!more >>
over 50% of household water is used indoors; bringing rain indoors could save the expense and environmental costs of treating and transporting water.
time to take a closer look at this natural alternative to concrete!more >>
the goal of the project is to educate students and citizens about storm water runoff and water quality, while also using the arts to celebrate the aesthetic properties of water.
the next, and certainly not the least important, decision is cost.more>> local hero: water conservation -
both have made tremendous strides in conserving life-giving water.
in a typical home with two slopes, each side will have gutters and be sized separately.>
> more harvest rain - the movie review by doug pushard an extremely very well made dvd by the cuenca los ojos foundation  highlights the connection of rain, surface water and groundwater; and how rain  can actually heal the land if properly managed.
what lessons can we learn by comparing these cities?>> more safe drinking for all through solar disinfection every 8 seconds, a child dies from water related disease around the globe.
water conservation was the highest priority in this renovation.
harvesting rainwater offers many advantages: it conserves municipal and  well water; it is free; gravity fed systems conserve energy; it is low in salts  and good for plants; and it can reduce flooding and erosion.
it is estimated that already one in five homes have some type of water filtration or purification system installed.
it has been the foundation of the economy for past decades and will  continue for decades to come.
average precipitation for santa fe this time of year is normally 4.81 inches, and so far we have only received 0.67 inches, or 13.9% of average.
food vs. water: high commodity prices ancient droughts, modern dilemmas december 2011 the age of thirst in the america west
read a reprint of susan r. ecker excellent article in plumbing engineer to  get the full picture.
this  is especially so for commercial buildings - with one noteable exception: the 60l office building in melbourne, australia, which was designed with  water efficiency as an integral part of the design.more >>
each room has its own door so children can move outside at a moment's notice, and the ample windows draw the outside into the room.
in western europe, the average is about 60 gallons  a day.
most of these projects are focused  primarily on electrical energy usage, with water use as an afterthought.
in the mad dash to stop global warming and increase conservation, people resort to come crazy ideas.
a rain barrel is a system that collects and stores rainwater from your roof that would otherwise be lost to runoff and diverted to storm drains and streams.
in santa fe, where i live, on garcia street and the surrounding areas used to be farms not long ago.
is rainwater really safe?
next, you need to map out the irrigation zones by plant type and function - tree, shrub, groundcover - then note the category - ornamental, native, edible, or container plant.
public officials have also laid the foundation for rainwater catchment to play a much bigger role in the city.>> more good water company just got better good water company, founded in santa fe, nm in 1988, is the oldest independent water company in northern new mexico.
that does not explain why there seems to be  no substantial copper leached from the gutters, since they are upstream of the  tank.
>> more water purification technology: what is "green" & what is not what constitutes sustainable or "green" technology in water purification systems?
>>more local pioneer: free rain, free watering and exercise all in one by doug pushard always looking to do more with less?
but it can also be argued, particularly in the “sun belt,” that excess insulation blocks the advantageous nighttime building-cooling benefit of a metal roof.
more pump systems for rainwater catchment by verne wood, ceo of pws,  inc, keaau, hawaii understanding how water gets from the catchment tank to the faucet can help  people on rainwater catchment systems feel more comfortable with their system  and be more self-reliant.
additionally, a rainwater harvesting system was designed and installed  to collect rain and snowmelt.
in the 1980s and early 90s, most people, especially in urban areas were unaware of what rainwater harvesting (rwh) meant and why there would be a need to collect rainwater.
so, you're catching rainwater into barrels, helping the environment, and  saving a bit of money on your monthly water bill as an added bonus.
the goal of the project is to educate students and citizens about  storm water runoff and water quality, while also using the arts to celebrate  the aesthetic properties of water.
the epa regulates tap water, but how well do they  do their job?
by  investigating products and working closely with the contractor, the  700-square-foot (65-m2) home office now is in business.
read in the latest edition of home power (home power 115 october/november  2006) about the exact system i installed in austin, texas.
the article includes  great schematics and links to suppliers.
green banking: new mexico's permaculture credit union by doug pushard the history of financial institutions is one of focus on the bottom line which results in overexploitation of the earth's resources.
even so, for most of us, water remains out of sight and out of mind.
at hps we receive a lot of requests for information about gutters and how  to best take care of them.
the first thing that you notice atthe willow school is the closeness of  nature to each classroom.
is there one perfect type of first flush device?
if gravity does not work for you, you will need to install a pump and there are several options to consider, some new and some old.>>more rainwater harvesting & plumbing codes ever wonder why solar panels and solar hot water systems are growing at a much faster rate than rainwater harvesting systems.
the epa classifies ph under unregulated secondary drinking water  standards and recommends a range between 6.5 and 8.5 ph units.>>
based on my experience with rwh during the past 20+ years, i offer the following strategies that can be utilized to promote the technology in your respective state or regions.
increased pumping and transferring water from  further locations increases the need for more power generation and this  directly translates into more power plants.
at hps we receive a lot of requests for information about gutters and how to best take care of them.
not among the folks who already do it here in  northern new mexico, but from those who don’t.
in a typical home with two slopes, each side will  have gutters and be sized separately.>
with continued  population growth and strained water supplies it is likely to become even more  so.
more a simple rainwater harvesting design australia mandates it.
while it’s true that water does flow easily, it  is even truer that we have yet to pay the true cost of for this precious  resource and that cost will only increase in the years to come.>
the results of this study suggest that this region islikely to  experience a significant drought within the next few decades.
under ideal conditions, a 1-inch mainline with 30 p.s.i.
the ancient practice of rainwater harvest is uncommon in urban areas that  have municipal water services.
more rainwater catchment system pump sizing pumps are an integral part of almost all rainwater catchment systems;  however, sizing a pump correctly is not straightforward and installers often  fail to make the appropriate calculations.
the cidecalli prototypes by femke love oldham this paper details efforts in mexico to build prototype systems of various  sizes that can supply fresh, clean potable water to households, farms and small  communities.
we will not sell, rent or share your name with anyone.
in new  mexico, however, we found a new kind of financial institution, one dedicated to  green banking.more>> global warning: ecosystem changes worsen,  putting development goals at risk by christian sarkar a  landmark study released today reveals that approximately60 percent of the  ecosystem services that support life on earth – such as fresh water,  capture fisheries, air and water regulation, and the regulation of regional  climate, natural hazards and pests –are being degraded or used  unsustainably.more>> marking world water day, un to launch water for life decade by  michael nettles to spur efforts by governments and civil society to  meet agreed targets on halving the number of people lacking access to safe  drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015, the united nations is launching  the internationalwater for life decade on world water day- 22 march,  2005.
here's a step-by-step account of how i  built myrainwater harvesting system to beat those hot texas summers and  kept my garden greenmore>>
this amazing infrastructure was built over the last century and has supplied us cheap, plentiful water for decades.
that does not explain why there seems to be no substantial copper leached from the gutters, since they are upstream of the tank.
when billy kniffen and his wife, mary, bought their five acre
> more rainwater harvesting system integrated into home design this rainwater harvesting (rwh) system, with an above-ground, 7,500 gallon (usable) poured-concrete cistern, used for both potable and nonpotable purposes, was designed and constructed in 2001 as an integral part of a new single-family home in key largo, florida.
rain is collected from a 1,700 square-foot white galvalume roof and gathered in six-inch copper gutters with spash shields at roof valleys for occasional heavy downpours.
harvested rainwater in the u.s. is used mostly for irrigation; however,  there is a growing interest in using rainwater for drinking and other indoor  uses.
for those of us who love our amazing vistas and crystal clear blue skies, the solution to our water needs can’t involve polluting our skies.
it is worse  for albuquerque, which has seen only 0.19 inches thus far this year.
if you ask  old-timers and the native americans here in new mexico, they’ll tell you  it is nothing new but merely coming to forefront as we take greater care to use  our local resources in economical, sustainable ways.
they have the important job of capturing  rainwater at the roof edge then controlling and directing it away from the  structure.
now, there is new emphasis on controlling water  usage.
it then briefly mentions the need for efficiency and the different uses of water (i.e. potable and nonpotable), but then quickly dives directly into the review of the different sources of “new” water (e.g. graywater, rainwater, air conditioner condensation, mechanical equipment blowdown, treated wastewater, and desalination).>> more residential gutter sizing by doug pushard gutter sizing is an aspect of rainwater collection that has been studied extensively and can be calculated based on published guidelines in the plumbing codes.
how do you make it safe for indoor use?
here's how they did it.more>> extreme swings in climate cycles could jeopardize the socioeconomic stability in the northern great plains region by joseph littbarski recently completed studies reconstructing the historical climatic trends for the last 2000 years in thenorthern great plains show that frequent alternating climatic cycles of drought and wet periods are typical for this area.
catchment pump systems draw water from the tank, pressurize it, and store it in a pressure tank until you need it.
the typical response is “why should i  care?
>>more local pioneer: free rain, free watering and exercise all in one by  doug pushard always looking to do more with less?
a good place to start is the capture system.>
not only does using rainwater save processing and/or transporting water; it also saves energy and helps the environment.>
more rainwater harvesting and rural development:
this beautiful 30-minute movie, is great for all ages,  and depicts the changing of the land with the introduction of passive rainwater  catchment, not in decades, but in just a few years.
by doug pushard water quality is an extremely hot topic these days.
with keynotes by four internationally acclaimed  experts, the conference will host over 40 presentations, many on topics never  before addressed, and will include another 30+ exhibition booths with the most  innovative and advanced products sure to advance our thriving industry.
by investigating products and working closely with the contractor, the 700-square-foot (65-m2) home office now is in business.
there are two general types of rainwater  catchment systems - "active" or "passive".
not among the folks who already do it,  but from those who don’t.
more harvesting rain downunder by doug pushard rainwater harvesting is not just a topic of interest in the arid southwest,  or even just parts of the united states; it is a topic of worldwide interest.
not only does using rainwater save processing and/or transporting  water; it also saves energy and helps the environment.>
the following article is an excerpt of an article that appeared in the fall  2007 edition of on tap magazine.
for  those of you who emailedharvesth20.com asking us about them, here's a  list you can use.see also: worldwaterday2005.org and this article: water scarcity, contamination could become wave of the future.
local hero: hawaii's guru of water catchment - trisha macomber by doug pushard
harvesting rainwater from rooftops is one solutions to conserving our  precious water, where it can be used instead of municipal drinking water for  many non-drinking water (i.e. non-potable) applications (e.g. landscape, toilet  flushing) as well as drinking water.
includes a downloadable schematic: "how to build a rainbarrel" designing a high-tech, hands-off rainwater system by doug pushard even though our yard is planted with native vegetation adapted to our hot austin, texas, climate, it requires some watering to keep it healthy and  lush.
treatment to control waterborne microbial contaminants  by exposure to sunlight in clear vessels that allows the combined germicidal  effects of both uv radiation and heat has been developed and put into practice.
>> more american rainwater catchment systems association and the dynamics of the us rainwater industry as the united states is being highly affected by the global recession with many industries shrinking in size; one industry is gaining momentum, that being the rainwater industry.
of course, this store of bygone times is now a high-end art gallery, and its function has been replaced by the local farmers' markets.
the results of this study suggest that this region islikely to experience a significant drought within the next few decades.
increased pumping and transferring water from further locations increases the need for more power generation and this directly translates into more power plants.
this beautiful 30-minute movie, is great for all ages, and depicts the changing of the land with the introduction of passive rainwater catchment, not in decades, but in just a few years.
catchment pump systems draw water from the tank, pressurize it, and store  it in a pressure tank until you need it.
this series of articles is aimed at shedding light on the differences and assisting in properly sizing rainwater pumps.
watering his yard, totally for free and getting  exercise at the same time.
santa fe’s water use is now substantially less than the us average, while albuquerque is likely to fall below the us average soon.
updated april 2, 2012 in the news: first ever us rwh study released new tank sizing calculator new vendor - applied water technologies, inc. more news >> _______________________________________________________________ first ever us rwh study released first ever us rainwater market study published.
for some communities these are new programs while for others they are part of standard water conservation efforts.
this water is usually either clean, highly processed potable water or well water pumped from precious underground aquifers.
>> more the capture system by doug pushard you have decided to invest in a rainwater harvesting system, but where do  you start?
>> more ten strategies to promote rainwater harvesting
this artilce provides a state by state listing of  past and current efforts dealing with rainwater and greywater.
as the trend toward environmental awareness continues  in both the private and public sector, more and more zero and low-impact  buildings are being designed and built.
water is local and will remain local.
the energy-water integration act american water offers top ten water conservation tips
the following article is an excerpt of an article that appeared in the fall 2007 edition of on tap magazine.
we should be extremely concerned about our water situation.>
yet their approaches to saving  this precious resource in the arid southwest are different.
this artilce provides a state by state listing of past and current efforts dealing with rainwater and greywater.
>>  more american rainwater catchment systems association and the dynamics of the us  rainwater industry as the united states is being highly affected by the global recession with  many industries shrinking in size; one industry is gaining momentum, that being  the rainwater industry.
did rainwater  harvesting help?
rainwater is free and sometimes very plentiful even in the arid  southwest; it is no wonder its use is growing for agriculture and for ranching  purposes.
oregon school showcases demo rainwater system by doug pushard the davinci living water garden project is a collaboration between davinci arts middle school and urban water works, a non-profit organization.
the weight of rainwater standing on a roof has caused many a roof to collapse, so the gutter/drainage system must be capable of draining the roof fast enough so that the structural limits of the roof are not exceeded.
across the globe, rainwater is used for many purposes,  including drinking water, irrigation, aquaculture, air conditioning,  groundwater recharge, and fire fighting.
the article  looks at how safe harvesting rainwater is.
(pounds per square inch) also known as your water pressure.
here are some resources...
in addition to its effects on biological and chemical processes, the variability of ph affects our decisions in domestic water usage.
the technical considerations  for a drip system are: i) existing pipe size 2) gallons per minute available  (also known as your water volume), 3) p.s.i.
more water is local water is easy access and this has created an ideal for communities and  local agriculture.
local hero: hawaii's guru of water catchment - trisha macomber by  doug pushard
santa fe has not seen this little precipitation since records have been kept.
over 50% of household water is used indoors; bringing rain indoors could  save the expense and environmental costs of treating and transporting water.
in a water-scarce world, wind power shrugs agriculture, people, and ecosystems compete for limited supply sharing key to west's water future, report says moulton niguel water district's new tiered-rate system with water budget water sustainability march 2011 valuing water: how can businesses manage the coming scarcity?
can i water my grass with rainwater?
>> more potable rainwater: filtration and purification rainwater harvesting is viewed by many, including the epa, as a partial  solution to the problems posed by water scarcity: droughts and desertification,  erosion from runoff, over-reliance on depleted aquifers, and the costs of new  irrigation, diversion, and water treatment facilities.
yet a simple green building initiative called  rainwater harvesting helps brings us one step closer to a vibrant and  ecological landscape.>
in the united states, we are fortunate to have accessible clean water at  any price.
this dilemma has  influenced the building and design industries to create innovative methods of  water conservation or so called ”water-cycle management”more> drinking water, is it safe?
both have made  tremendous strides in conserving life-giving water.
not among the folks who already do it, but from those who don’t.
for summer students receive rain water harvesting grant too little water, too much rainwater harvesting increasing in u.s. may 2011 water economy addressing the water energy nexus epa releases searchable website for drinking water violations portable tech might provide drinking water, power to villages walking for water epa, army corps expand clean water act coverage epa launches new strategy to promote use of green infrastructure for environmental and economic benefits interior releases report highlighting impacts of climate change to western water resources april 2011
by jim graves a rain  barrel is a system that collects and stores rainwater from your roof that would  otherwise be lost to runoff and diverted to storm drains and streams.
however, access to cheap, plentiful water is becoming a thing  of the past, not only in the santa fe area, but around the country and the  world.
it cannot be manufactured offshore, nor can it be outsourced.
where do i put a first flush on my rainwater catchment system?
low-ph water may lead to the dissolution of pipes, particularly copper pipes.
though few would argue that downspouts effectively direct water from the gutter to the collecting tank, would we agree that they add to the aesthetic appeal of a landscape?
more >> local heroes: city of olympia water conservation program covers all bases by doug pushard why would an area that gets over 50 inches of rain a year, has very mild weather and seemingly ready access to unlimited water need a water conservation program and promote rainwater harvesting?more >> rainwater harvesting in taos by doug pushard in the taos area both commercial and private home builders are proactively adoptingrain catchment systems, reusing greywater and xeriscaping.
rainwater harvesting: explosive growth across the us by trish donahue and doug pushard
it cannot be manufactured offshore, nor can it be  outsourced.
msu professor launches new field of water research record percentage of united states experiences 'exceptional drought' july 2011 three books on water, its importance and its future conservation helps cause indiana-american to seek water rate increase texas-sized challenges facing lone star state water june 2011 'coated sand' excels at water purification water for future generations
montana, idaho drought to continue… could harvesting rain help?
> more the tale of two cities – billions conserved albuquerque and santa fe have had water conservation programs for well over  a decade, and both have been very successful.
this includes how stormwater runoff is managedand whether  runoff is viewed as a waste product or an opportunity.
>>more on the verge of water scarcity a call for good governance and human ingenuity a 2007 paper published by the stockholm international water institute overviews the current state of water around the world and recommends policies that governmental and private water companies should embrace to address our emerging water crisis.
the typical response is “why should i care?
you can still see the sign for  the old gormley's trading goods store on canyon road, where local farmers would  drop off their produce for folks from all around the area to buy.
and 10 to 12 gallons per minute as your house water source will meet the  needs of most homeowners for a drip system.
with this book, danks broadens our notion of what a well-designed schoolyard should be, taking readers on a journey from traditional, ordinary grassy fields and asphalt, to explore the vibrant and growing movement to "green" school grounds in the united states and around the world.
more asphalt to ecosystems asphalt to ecosystems is a compelling color guidebook for designing and  building natural schoolyard environments that enhance childhood learning and  play experiences while providing connection with the natural world.
with this  book, danks broadens our notion of what a well-designed schoolyard should be,  taking readers on a journey from traditional, ordinary grassy fields and  asphalt, to explore the vibrant and growing movement to "green"  school grounds in the united states and around the world.
teach your children: santa fe children's museum by doug  pushard the santa fe children's museum features a water play  set, a water garden, water fountains and an extensive water catchment system.
if gravity does not work for you, you will need to install a pump  and there are several options to consider, some new and some old.>>more rainwater harvesting & plumbing codes ever wonder why solar panels and solar hot water systems are growing at a  much faster rate than rainwater harvesting systems.
in the marketplace, there is an abundance of "greenwashing" of conventional technology and often a failure to disclose all the parameters of a purification system touted as being environmentally responsible.>
while it’s true that water does flow easily, it is even truer that we have yet to pay the true cost of for this precious resource and that cost will only increase in the years to come.
>> more the good, the bad, and the ugly side of roof runoff one aspect of green engineering and sustainable design is how man interacts with the hydrologic cycle.
here is  an overview to help you decide on the type of tank to us, the main factors  being the supply of rainwater and your budget.
the 181 page manual is jammed packed with examples, stories, data and illustrations.
>> more water purification technology: what is "green" & what is not what constitutes sustainable or "green" technology in water  purification systems?
the reported ph of the annual test samples taken from an inside faucet has always been greater than 7, which could be attributed to the concrete tank.
a pdf download written by australia's john payne, the founder of enviro-friendly products.
local hero: dick peterson & austin's green building program by doug pushard austin, the capital of texas, home of the university of texas and whose unofficial motto iskeep austin weird, is the center of the green movement in texas.
if rainwater harvesting barrels/collection tanks are widely distributed and used in conjunction with other water-sensitive development practices such as low impact development and/or conservation design, a substantial fraction of runoff can be removed from the drainage system.
how safe is rainwater compared to alternatives.more> free rain by doug pushard high tech, hands off rainwater collection even though our yard is planted with mostly native vegetation adapted to our hot austin, texas, climate it requires watering to keep it healthy and lush.
more the importance of ph
uncontrolled water running off the roof and blowing back onto the exterior surfaces can be damaging in a whole host of expensive ways including: flooding, foundation settlement, soil erosion, dryrot, paint damage, window, door and siding damage.
everything you need to know about ultraviolet water purification by john  mone ultraviolet radiation is capable of destroying all types of  bacteria, rapidly and without the use of heat or chemical additives which may  undesirably alter the composition of water.
the  article opens by drawing the case for “alternative sources” due to  climate change, growing population and current unsustainable groundwater  extractions.
but it is only the very tip of  the system.>>more rainwater harvesting regulations rainwater harvesting is exploding and so are the cities, states and other  entities involvement with it.
rain gutters are quiet but critical components of a building’s roofing system.
>> more the capture system by doug pushard you have decided to invest in a rainwater harvesting system, but where do you start?
this is especially so for commercial buildings - with one noteable exception: the 60l office building in melbourne, australia, which was designed with water efficiency as an integral part of the design.more >>
what is the best way of harvesting rain?
according to bob  boulware, p.e., president of design-aire engineering, inc, board member and  chair of the committee for arcsa that is driving these guidelines, the united  nations and countries around the globe are concerned that in the next 10 to 15  years, competition from the increase in the world’s population, along  with increased pollution of existing water supplies, will put such a demand on  the world’s available fresh water that instability of world governments  may occur.
if you live in hawaii, you're lucky.
all plumbing fixtures were selected for their efficiency including waterless urinals, dual flush toilets, and low-flow faucets.
can rainwater be made safe to drink?
more first flush devices - a review by doug pushard what is a first flush?
the technical considerations for a drip system are: i) existing pipe size 2) gallons per minute available (also known as your water volume), 3) p.s.i.
fortunately, for people who wish to transcend  function for form, there is another option.
how do you harvest rainwater?
designed to be a "model florida yard," florida house showcases the use of native and drought-tolerant plants, xeriscaping, rainwater harvesting, pervious walkways, and other ways to reduce detrimental run-off into florida's estuaries and bays.
if you ask old-timers and the native americans here in new mexico, they’ll tell you it is nothing new but merely coming to forefront as we take greater care to use our local resources in economical, sustainable ways.
more passive versus active rainwater harvesting there is wide spread interest in water conservation and specifically in  capturing and reusing rainwater in both residential and commercial buildings to  reduce costs, reduce the environmental impact of the building and lessen the  load on the municipal sewer and stormwater systems in the arid southwest where  droughts are a way of life.
the report “rainwater harvesting in the us: a 2010 industry analysis” illustrates the sustainedgrowth of the rainwater harvesting market in recent years, even with the poor economic times.
on the verge of water scarcity a call for good governance  and human ingenuity a 2007 paper published by the stockholm international water institute  overviews the current state of water around the world and recommends policies  that governmental and private water companies should embrace to address our  emerging water crisis.
traditional infrastructure treats rainwater as a nuisance that must be disposed of as quickly as possible.
the epa classifies ph under unregulated secondary drinking water standards and recommends a range between 6.5 and 8.5 ph units.>
lot in west texas in 2003 with the idea of building their log cabin dream home,  there was one basic necessity missing: water - no city water access and ground  water of questionable quality.
more cross connection by caigan mckenzie
the broad and somewhat surprising potential of rain motivated the creation of the international center for demonstration and training in rainwater harvesting (cidecalli) and the creation of different size prototypes to create solutions for local communities in mexico.
this has  increased businesses related to the rainwater industry and encouraged adoption  of rainwater technologies by individuals and commercial enterprises.
santa fe has  not seen this little precipitation since records have been kept.
yet a simple green building initiative called rainwater harvesting helps brings us one step closer to a vibrant and ecological landscape.>
nevertheless, the situation is  beginning to change with welcome moves coming from the government, the ukrha  and housing developers themselves, in response to an increasingly challenging  water resources situation.>
the 181 page  manual is jammed packed with examples, stories, data and illustrations.
50% of people in developing countries suffer from one or more water-related diseases.
this 50+ page market study collected  primary data from a survey of rwh installers throughout key states in the us  and also conducted informal interviews with a number of rwh suppliers and key  stakeholders to validate the findings.
sounds simple, but it can range from being almost nonexistent to extremely sophisticated and attractive.>
in the 1980s and early 90s, most people, especially in urban areas were  unaware of what rainwater harvesting (rwh) meant and why there would be a need  to collect rainwater.
in terms  of quality, it generally falls between groundwater and surface water.
the most  visible aspect of the system is the 20 foot tall, 8,300 gallon galvanized steel  tank that dominates the back of the parking lot.
a pdf download written by  australia's john payne, the founder of enviro-friendly products.
by doug pushard low snowpack levels currently being recorded through the end of january 2005 across shortages north central idaho and western montana could forecast water later again this summer.
local heroes: albuquerque's aggresive water programs make a difference by steve miller albuquerque, a city in the arid southwestern united states, has grown by 120,000 residents in the last 20 years butconsumed less water last year than in any previous year since 1985.
they have the important job of capturing rainwater at the roof edge then controlling and directing it away from the structure.
in the marketplace, there is an  abundance of "greenwashing" of conventional technology and often a  failure to disclose all the parameters of a purification system touted as being  environmentally responsible.>
if needed, the insulating properties of a vegetated roof can generally be provided underneath the roofing layer with radiant barriers or other insulation.
how big are rain barrels?
in santa fe, where i live, on garcia street and the  surrounding areas used to be farms not long ago.
this amazing infrastructure was built over the last century and has  supplied us cheap, plentiful water for decades.
it is a practical guide to holistic rainwater management;  featuring not just information on rainwater harvesting, but also covers site  planning, water conservation strategies and much, much more.
more>> more articles >>
this is the water that could be the the most contaminated by particulates, bird droppings, and other materials laying on the roof.
by ksenia prints cup central  bureau chief
more>> rainwater harvesting in the uk - current practice and future trends rainwater harvesting (rwh), where nunoff from roofs and impervious areas is collected and utilised, is receiving renewed attention as an alternative water source.
water is cheap, and all i have to do is turn on the  tap and it flows.”
there is a growing focus on controlling energy and monthly costs in homes and commercial buildings.
> more rainwater harvesting system integrated into home design this rainwater harvesting (rwh) system, with an above-ground, 7,500 gallon  (usable) poured-concrete cistern, used for both potable and nonpotable  purposes, was designed and constructed in 2001 as an integral part of a new  single-family home in key largo, florida.
fortunately, for people who wish to transcend function for form, there is another option.
more>> rainwater harvesting in the uk - current practice and future trends rainwater harvesting (rwh), where nunoff from roofs and impervious areas is  collected and utilised, is receiving renewed attention as an alternative water  source.
do i need pumps to harvest rainwater? 6.
one man leads the charge-dick peterson, environmental program coordinator at austin energy.more>> austin's zilker park showcases rainwater harvesting by doug pushard zilker park, in the heart of downtown austin, is set to become the prime rainwater harvesting demonstration site for the city of austin.more>> the drying of nevada: conservation key to future by joseph littbarski southern nevada is in the midst of the "ugliest drought" the colorado river basin had experienced in 1400 years.more>>
>> more washington state department of ecology clarifies water rights in regards to rainwater harvesting
this article covers green technologies  currently available and the contaminants for which green purification  technologies are, and are not, an option.
there one several ways to achieve water pressure when you turn on  the faucet.
public officials have  also laid the foundation for rainwater catchment to play a much bigger role in  the city.>> more good water company just got better good water company, founded in santa fe, nm in 1988, is the oldest  independent water company in northern new mexico.
why should i harvest rainwater?
it is the next renewable revolution: rainwater harvesting.
yet their approaches to saving this precious resource in the arid southwest are different.
so, you're catching rainwater into barrels, helping the environment, and saving a bit of money on your monthly water bill as an added bonus.
copper plumbing  is used throughout the house as well.
rainwater catchment systems in north america are  rapidly increasing in popularity.
among the goals of what are called “green” roofs, vegetated  roofs or roof-top gardens are reduced building energy costs and reduced  urban-heat islanding.
first, you need to identify the types of plants in your garden and their  wateringrequirements.
in drier parts of the country, such as the southwest and parts of the pacific northwest, freshwater sources are rapidly diminishing.
in a recent research project by brad crowley, home-based cisterns were compared against the $1.4 billion “big pipe” program to upgrade the current portland, or combined storm water and sewer system.
well larry gilg did, and he found a way: "i hooked a water pump to a bicycle trainer and use it to pump water out of my rainwater system."
there are as many reasons for the growth of  rainwater harvesting as there are communities promoting and implementing such  programs around the u.s.- from hawaii to florida.more >> op-ed: worldwide water conservation can't wait by doug pushard and
the average annual rainfall across the entire national territory of mexico is 1,500 cubic kilometers of water.
more bringing green home converting a shed to a home office in santa  fe, n.m., took time, research and planning, but was worth the effort.
in almost any place in the united states, we simply turn on the faucet and  it flows.
with continued population growth and strained water supplies it is likely to become even more so.
insulation aside, this writer believes that the most important disadvantage of a vegetated roof is that it is designed to absorb water that should be collected to meet the needs of the buildings inhabitants.
in terms of quality, it generally falls between groundwater and surface water.
next, you need to map out the irrigation zones by plant  type and function - tree, shrub, groundcover - then note the category -  ornamental, native, edible, or container plant.
80% of diseases in the developing countries are caused by contaminated water.
high-ph water often tastes bitter and may be an indication of the scaling potential of the water.
most professionally installed systems incorporate aspects of both to maximize the water conserved.>
for some communities these are new programs while for  others they are part of standard water conservation efforts.
much has been written on pumps for  irrigation systems and for wells, but rainwater harvesting pumps can be  markedly different.
who’s up for drinking some rain?
in some  areas of the us, farms and livestock consume up to 60% of overall water use.
in western europe, the average is about 60 gallons a day.
the authors also collected secondary data from the internet, including the website of harvesth2o, publicly available information from the american rainwater catchment systems association (arcsa) website, and other associations such as those serving manufacturers and suppliers.>
rainwater harvesting structures help improve water table portable rainwater harvesting and filtration prototype supplies  clean drinking water effect of first flush on storage-reliability-yield of rainwater  harvesting new tank sizing calculator new vendor - applied water technologies, inc. more news >> _______________________________________________________________ first ever us rwh study released first ever us rainwater market study published.
the city-wide initiative has all the expected features - discounted rain barrels, how-to guides, and workshops – but that’s just the beginning.
while it’s true that water does flow easily, it is even  truer that we have not yet had to pay the true cost for this precious resource.
montana, idaho drought to continue could harvesting rain help?
maybe it is due to  standardized electrical codes that provide consistency and training to  thousands of electricians across the country; no similar standards exists for  rainwater catchment systems.
more bringing green home converting a shed to a home office in santa fe, n.m., took time, research and planning, but was worth the effort.
with only 3% of this quantity, there is the ability to supply 13 million people and 50 million animals with clean water.
" sacrifices and restrictions as central texas town copes with drought vegas tries to kick its water addiction august 2011 water for future generations heat pops pipes nationwide; brace for higher bills revealing water's secrets toilet water into tap water?
maybe it is due to standardized electrical codes that provide consistency and training to thousands of electricians across the country; no similar standards exists for rainwater catchment systems.
it took an enormous amount of effort working with and  speaking to local communities, organizations and state agencies to publicize  the need for and benefits of rwh.
clearly, we must look to other  solutions to solve our water needs.
across the globe, rainwater is used for many purposes, including drinking water, irrigation, aquaculture, air conditioning, groundwater recharge, and fire fighting.
more water – another view pumping more water or increasing water transfer from other areas is not  going to solve this problem.
each room has its own door so children can move  outside at a moment's notice, and the ample windows draw the outside into the  room.
trisha macomber at theuniversity of hawaii is the guru of rain harvesting  systems in hawaii.
> more the tale of two cities – billions conserved albuquerque and santa fe have had water conservation programs for well over a decade, and both have been very successful.
like help the environment and getting  exercise at the same time?
water is cheap, and all i have to do is turn on the tap and it flows.”
this book documents exciting green schoolyard examples from almost 150 schools in 11 countries, illustrating that a great many things are possible on school grounds when they are envisioned as outdoor classrooms for hands-on learning and play.
but the water will run dry november 2011
>> more one way to conserve on the ranch and farm agriculture and ranching consume a substantial amount of potable and pumped  water around the country, and to some extent in northern new mexico.
over 46% of the earth’s population doesn’t, and people  in developing countries walk an average of 3.7 miles to get access to water.
this, in turn, potentiallywould reduce sewer overflow events and reduce bacterial and other pollutant concentrations in receiving water bodies more>> spring harvest: rain barrel programs sprouting across us & canada this spring cities and communities all over the us and canada are rolling out rain barrel programs.
rainwater catchment systems in north america are rapidly increasing in popularity.
preserving the natural beauty of the area, the grounds design features include many outdoor learning spaces and constructed wetlands for water conservation and filtration of wastewater.more >> rain chains: the art of collecting rainwater by doug pushard
like help the environment and getting exercise at the same time?
if needed, the insulating properties of a vegetated roof can generally be  provided underneath the roofing layer with radiant barriers or other  insulation.
teach your children: santa fe children's museum by doug pushard the santa fe children's museum features a water play set, a water garden, water fountains and an extensive water catchment system.
more the state of rainwater harvesting in the u.s rainwater catchment or rainwater harvesting (rwh) are catch-all terms for collecting, storing, and later using precipitation from rock out-crops, roofs, and other surfaces.
in new mexico, however, we found a new kind of financial institution, one dedicated to green banking.more>> marking world water day, un to launch water for life decade by michael nettles to spur efforts by governments and civil society to meet agreed targets on halving the number of people lacking access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation by 2015, the united nations is launching the internationalwater for life decade on world water day- 22 march, 2005.
in water linked to lower iq in children waterways contribute to growth of potent greenhouse gas old water news >>
for a water treatment solution to be considered green, it must meet the criteria of not adding anything to the water and not using any additional water in the process.
rain is collected from a 1,700  square-foot white galvalume roof and gathered in six-inch copper gutters with  spash shields at roof valleys for occasional heavy downpours.
this includes how stormwater runoff is managedand whether runoff is viewed as a waste product or an opportunity.
this first  article will explain pumps and general pumping concepts>>
for both goals, white metals roofs are superior, particularly in the “sun belt” where cooling is a year-round task.
copper plumbing is used throughout the house as well.
read a comprehensive study on the u.s. water supply done by the independent environmental working group.more> rainwater harvesting for drylands, volume i rainwater harvesting for drylands, volume 1, is a recently published book by brad lancaster.
high-ph water  often tastes bitter and may be an indication of the scaling potential of the  water.
not only can it save you money  every month, it reduces your impact on the planet and can make you feel better.
this article covers green technologies currently available and the contaminants for which green purification technologies are, and are not, an option.
rainwater harvesting: comparing storage solutions by doug  pushard storage tanks, usually the most expensive component of the  rainwater harvesting system, come in a wide variety of sizes and types.
more >> swales & berms vs concrete: low tech solutions for stormwater runoff by doug pushard swales and berms are still used around the world  but have been all but forgotten here in the united states as a way to conserve  water.
nevertheless, the situation is beginning to change with welcome moves coming from the government, the ukrha and housing developers themselves, in response to an increasingly challenging water resources situation.>
at stake is a way to reduce the estimated 2.8 billion gallons of raw sewage and stormwater that is dumped annually into the willamette river.