our take on the sonos® play:3 (s3) by tara w. all the music you want anywhere in your home access pandora® internet radio, rhapsody®, spotify, iheartradio, last.fm, napster®, siriusxm, and 100,000 free internet radio stations — no matter where you are in your home.
was  this review helpful?
note: for optimum performance, maintaining more than 1" clearance around the back of the unit is recommended.
i found this system and it gives you such a wide range of options and flexibility for listening.
truely glad we made the purchase  and crutchfield's was so speedy and completely professional.
you can also mute or adjust the volume of each of your players.
with the touch of a  few buttons, you'll be playing music all over the house in minutes.
simply, place a play:3 in any room where you want music, plug it in and enjoy.
sonosnet 2.0, a proprietary wireless mesh network technology,  provides superior wireless range for whole-house coverage, ensures synchronous  music playback, and avoids sources of wireless interference.
your ipod touch, iphone, or ipad must have ios 3.0 or later installed.
scour through a library of 13 million songs.
simple wireless setup: no technical or wireless expertise is required to install the sonos play:3.
monster cable dl net6 advanced high-speed ethernet cable (12 feet) also available in: open box: $34.99 $39.95 in stock extras tablets a free downloadable app from the android market turns your android tablet into a very nice controller for your sonos system.
the sonos wireless dock 100 lets you play music from select ipods or iphones on  a sonos wireless multi-room music system throughout your home.
read our review  guidelines for more information.
just type in the name of  your favorite artist or track and start listening to a recent release or a  classic from high school; it's all there in napster's massive music library.
to stay in the know about the music that is playing, simply touch the info view button and get artist bios, photos, projects, album reviews, and more.
i love this little player--its good qualities far  outweigh its cons.
read our review guidelines for more information.
i control it all from every network connected device.
you can wirelessly play all the music that's stored or playing (including many music apps) on your ipod or iphone in all the rooms of your home or office where you have sonos.
fantastic product, simple set up, really compliments the play 5 we already have.
note: be sure the wall mount bracket you purchase will  support at least 10 lbs.
when your advisor asks you to refresh your browser, you can simply click this link.
truely glad we made the purchase and crutchfield's was so speedy and completely professional.
great for  radio (especially those of us who have no reception over the air).
1 star:  (0) review this product thanks for taking the time to share your experiences about this product.
chat with a crutchfield advisor or call 1-800-320-6609.
discover new music and rediscover old favorites with top 100s, napster playlists, radio, charts, and more.
and because sonos connects directly to the internet for all of these music services, you don't even have to turn on your pc.
the sonos wireless dock 100 lets you play music from select ipods or iphones on a sonos wireless multi-room music system throughout your home.
it also sounds good in my  larger family room, as long as you intend for it to be ambient music at a  moderate volume.
it has revolutionized the way we listen to music in my house.
chat recently viewed items multi wedge trim panel tools set of six (flexible and rigid) tools helps remove trim and door panels boom mat 6-1/2" speaker baffles protect your speakers regular and slim-line sizes (regular: 3" depth) dynamat 10435 xtreme door kit with four 12" x 36" sheets covers two doors the crutchfield gift card prepaid amount of $25, $50, $75, $100, or $250 ($25 gift card)
note: previously purchased apple "fairplay"  drm-protected songs may need to be upgraded.
in a wireless multi-room music system, the music players in each room communicate using a wireless home network.
do not submit videos that contain music, video or visuals that are  copyrighted and belong to someone else.
it is so easy to use; seriously it's great.
yes  |no 5  out of 5 written by hannah1787, berlin, ma on friday, february  17, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
a bass radiator produces powerful low notes while, two mid-range drivers and one tweeter fills out the sound.
if you do not have one, you will need to buy and install a network interface card (nic) before setting up your system.
online music services: a music service is an online music store or online service that sells audio on a per song, per audiobook, or subscription basis.
she turns it down from her i pad... up, down, up, down.
you can even add to it to favorites so it's easy to find the  next time.
play lots of music and let the listener choose the  playlist based on their personal taste.
you are able to search for songs and stations, choose the music, and  control the volume.
napster 8 million songs at your fingertips.
you can also check out what  other listeners have been listening to the most, or look at your own recent  listening history.
scour through a library of  13 million songs.
product reviews review summary average customer review: 19 people say: 5 star: (14) 4 star: (5) 3 star: (0) 2 star: (0) 1 star: (0)
sonos® play:3 (s3) sonos® play:3 (s3) compact wireless music player for any room in your home zoom black video loading and will display in just a moment.
please use the email address that is associated with your order.
if you don't have a controller  (iphone etc) the sonos controller makes the price prohibitive.
a free software update adds support for apple airplay ®.
audiobooks must 1st be imported into itunes (9.0.2, mac  os tiger 10.4.11)--syncing & playback of this content via sonos app is not  intuitive.
system requirements: in addition to the above-described  hardware, your computer must have the following: compatible operating systems: windows xp (sp2) and  higher, macintosh os x (10.4 and higher) cpu: 500 mhz processor or better ram: 128mb ram minimum/256mb ram recommended automatic software updates: once the sonos play:3 system  has been registered, sonos will automatically notify you when software updates  are available.
note: download the apps for free on the itunes app store or android market.
tune in to live radio shows on everything from politics to sports to entertainment, catch up on what you missed with podcasts featuring the best of previous shows, or see what is playing soon.
it is not designed for a dial-up system.
all stations are streamed in high-quality aac format.
fm simply enter the name of your favorite artist or genre and last.fm will create personal radio stations based on your musical tastes.
i listen to my favorite radio stations.
music libraries: the sonos play:3 wireless music system  can play music from any computer or network-attached storage (nas) device on  your home network where you have shared music folders.
recommended accessories see more accessories your featured item sonos® play:3 (s3) compact wireless music player for any room in your home $299.00 in stock expand your sonos system sonos® connect (zoneplayer 90)
iheart radio provides  song & artist  information, as well as album art.
* your rating * please select a rating click on a star to rate the overall product on a scale of 1-5 1500 characters left *
in stock connect to your home network sonos® bridge (zonebridge 100)
no 5  out of 5 written by , massachusetts on monday,  february 13, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
note: be sure the wall mount bracket you purchase will support at least 10 lbs.
sonos® bridge (zonebridge 100) wireless bridge for sonos music system also available in: open box: $39.99 $49.00 in stock after $50.00 price break monster® powernet 200 starter pack use your home's electrical wiring to pass ethernet signals $149.99 in stock after $50.00 price break channel master cm6000 internet-to-tv coaxial adapter kit also available in: open box: $161.49 $169.99 in stock channel master cm 6100 ethernet-over-powerline adapter kit also available in: open box: $94.99 $99.99 in stock show more items power protection protect all the parts of your investment from power surges and interference.
once the system is set up, all  you need to do is choose your music, choose your zone, and press play.
note: when creating a stereo pair, it is best to place the  two sonos components 8' to 10' away from each other, angled inward to form a  triangle with your favorite listening position.
the wireless music system provides pure, clean  sound that is perfect for bringing room filling music to a kitchen, bedroom,  office, or just about any room in your home.
you can also listen by genre with tag radio, discover  new music based on your past listening with recommendations radio or explore  what other last.fm users with similar tastes are listening to with neighborhood  radio.
search over 3,500 concerts featuring over 40,000 songs from the last 50 years - from miles davis to the who.
video: free sonos app for android video: free sonos app for android video guest 5/11/2011 based on 2 ratings (2 comments) shawn, senior product advisor at crutchfield, was a beta tester for the sonos controller app for android.
search over 3,500 concerts featuring over  40,000 songs from the last 50 years - from miles davis to the who.
other than this omission, i  think it is a wonderful product.
its compact size makes it easy to  place the play:3 on your desk, the kitchen counter, on your nightstand, or  carry it out to the patio with you.
no 4 out of 5 nice little unit written by e6, alexandria, va on monday, march 26, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
fm simply enter the name of your  favorite artist or genre and last.fm will create personal radio stations based  on your musical tastes.
expand to any (or every) room place sonos players, like the play:3 and the larger play:5, in every room where you want to listen to music.
multi-zone compatibility: you can place a play:3 in each zone where you want to listen to music.
controller apps: the sonos play:3 can be controlled from your ipod touch, iphone, ipad, or android smartphone.
she would rather play that then our $2000 surround sound system in the family room.
audio section 3 driver/3 amp speaker system: the sonos play:3 uses three  state-of the-art digital amplifiers individually coupled with three speakers to  deliver great sound to any room.
review this product thanks for taking the time to share your experiences about this product.
2-way ethernet port: when wirelessly connected to a sonos bridge or another sonos component, you can use the ethernet port on the back of the play:3 to bring standard internet connectivity to your satellite/cable set-top box, dvr, pc, game console, or network hard drive.
in stock monster power av 600 power protection save 10% with select home a/v gear $19.95
needs a 'lock out the wife button'.
download owner's manual - wireless powered speaker (play:3) - 6' ac power cord - 59" ethernet cable - setup cd + user guide - quickstart guide - important product information booklet our product research team at crutchfield, you'll get detailed, accurate information that's hard to find elsewhere.
deezer offers access to 6,5 million tracks.
rate songs as they play by choosing thumbs up or down on your sonos controller and pandora will adapt the station on the fly based upon your feedback.
great for radio (especially those of us who have no reception over the air).
if you don't have a controller (iphone etc) the sonos controller makes the price prohibitive.
the  controller communicates with the nearest sonos player through sonosnet, a  secure, peer-to-peer wireless mesh network, allowing you to extend the range of  the controller to any room in your house, even outside.
no 4  out of 5 written by e6, alexandria, va on monday, march 26,  2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
the sonos play:3 can  play music stored on up to 16 pcs, macs or nas (network attached storage)
wma lossless format not currently supported.
rhapsody enjoy instant access to rhapsody's catalog of millions of songs and ad-free music channels, right from the palm of your hand.
itunes play your entire itunes library stored on any computer.
your location * please include your location (e.g., charlottesville, va)
video not found we are sorry, but the video is currently not available.
however, consider well what you want to use it for before  you purchase (sonos and crutchfield customer service are both excellent).
or create a custom playlist based on any  artist or song with napster automix.
because it communicates  with the nearest sonos player, rather than through one distant control point,  the system avoids sources of wireless interference.
e.g., http://www.youtube.com/v/o79twhh598u - only submit videos that you made or are authorized to use.
the sonos play:3 indexes your music folders so you can view your music collection by categories (such as artists, albums, composers, genres, or tracks).
please see our review guidelines for more information.
tara w. 7/15/2011 based on 31 ratings (2 comments)
music streaming music streaming: the sonos play:3 lets you play your entire music library, listen to your online music services, and get thousands of free radio stations worldwide.
no 5 out of 5 sonos® play:3 (s3) written by , massachusetts on monday, february 13, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
network requirements hardware: in order to play the digital music files stored on your computer throughout the sonos digital music system, you must meet the following hardware requirements: - ethernet: you must have an ethernet network interface connection in your computer.
and build your own library of favorites and create custom playlists so  you can listen again and again.
adjust volume by  individual zone or by groups of zones.
napster 8 million songs at your  fingertips.
works  seamlessly with your pandora iphone app so you can create stations when you are  out on the town and then come home and listen on the couch.
deezer deezer is a music streaming service based in paris, france.
mog mog on-demand listening service provides access to a deep library of over 11 million songs and a million albums.
this was my first introduction to the sonos system, and i must say that i am a big fan.
sonos controller: the sonos zone controller (616cr200, sold separately) works exclusively with the sonos digital music wireless systems, and allow you to control and view all of your music and all of your zones wirelessly from the palm of your hand.
(also, cheaper than a hard wired multi room system which gives you less options) pros: easy to set up.
in stock free crutchfield lifetime tech support free shipping your price $299.00 available options: white-$299.00 black-$299.00 add to cart + add to wishlist | email me alerts for this product see related offers and ways to save - special financing available get everything right and save time 068360824
500 characters left pros *
network requirements wireless technology sonosnet 2.0 wireless mesh network: the sonos play:3  brings great sounding music wirelessly to any room in your house, without a big  wiring project.
cons: biggest cons:  terribly expensive controller if you don't have smart phone, etc.; no input  port.
sonos® play:3 wireless music player with built-in speakers sonos® play:5 wireless music player with built-in speakers sonos® connect connect to an audio system sonos® connect:amp connect to speakers from the manufacturer highlights: - three built-in amplifiers and three built-in speakers (two midrange drivers and one tweeter) - communicates with other zoneplayers via proprietary sonosnet 2.0 wireless technology, or wired ethernet connections - sonosnet 2.0 features a greater wireless range than previous version - control your sonos system with your iphone, ipod touch, ipad, or android phone free download available - plays mp3, wma, aac, wav, flac, aiff, and ogg vorbis files (firmware is upgradable to support future audio formats) - compatible with protected wma files from napster, urge, aol, and many other music download sites - not compatible with protected aac files from itunes - plays mp3 and wma streaming internet radio stations - plays songs from rhapsody® digital music service subscription required after free 30-day trial - plays songs from siriusxm internet radio subscription required after free 30-day trial - plays personalized internet radio stations from pandora® and last.fm - multi-zone synchronous playback (same music plays in multiple zones simultaneously) or multi-stream playback (music individually selected for each player) - top controls for volume and muting - bass, treble, balance, and volume controls accessible via remote - compatible with windows® (xp or higher operating system) - compatible with mac® (os x 10.4 or higher operating system) - ac adapter included - 10-1/2"w x 5"h x 6-1/4"d - warranty: 1 year - our 60-day money-back guarantee hands-on research from the crutchfield labs (what are the labs?)
learn what to look for when... visit our learning center to learn more about sonos music systems accessories accessories we recommend expand your sonos system
display name (e.g., johnd) your review will be signed using the display name and location *
at any time, simply touch the info view button to find out more about  the music that's playing, like detailed artist bios, tags, and upcoming events.
network range is not quite as good as with my computers but still excellent.
online music services: a music service is an online music  store or online service that sells audio on a per song, per audiobook, or  subscription basis.
i have been shopping around for quite a while.
siriusxm internet radio lets you listen to over 120 channels of commercial-free music, talk radio, news, sports, and more.
gives you unlimited, ad-free access to their extensive music library on a wide range of devices including sonos® network music players, samsung tvs, your computer, ipad®, iphone®, and android devices.
2-way ethernet port: when wirelessly connected to a sonos  bridge or another sonos component, you can use the ethernet port on the back of  the play:3 to bring standard internet connectivity to your satellite/cable  set-top box, dvr, pc, game console, or network hard drive.
controller apps: the sonos play:3 can be controlled from  your ipod touch, iphone, ipad, or android smartphone.
was this review helpful?
fantastic product, simple set up, really  compliments the play 5 we already have.
hi-fi - computer speakers - digital-to-analog converters - network music players - all computer & itunes hi-fi - headphones - all headphones - noise-canceling headphones - in-ear headphones - audiophile headphones - wireless headphones - headphone amplifiers - bose headphones - beats by dr. dre headphones - sennheiser headphones - accessories - ipod cables & adapters - ipod/iphone/ipad and usb car adapters - usb cables - wireless ipod transmitters - ipod docks - ipod extras - shopping tools - outfit my car - cexchange® - trade in your gear - specials - ipod & headphone specials - tvs & video - tvs - all televisions - led tvs - lcd tvs - 3d tvs - plasma tvs - wi-fi tvs - projectors - projection screens - video components - blu-ray & dvd players - digital video recorders (dvrs) - media servers - tv sound solutions - sound bar speakers - home theater systems - easy three-speaker systems - custom flat-panel tv speakers - accessories - tv wall mounts - furniture - hdmi cables - a/v cables & installation - home remote controls - tv antennas - power protection - 3d glasses - apple tv - specials - tv & video specials - shopping tools - tv recommender - blu-ray player recommender - mount finder® - tv fit finder - cexchange® - trade in your gear - cameras & camcorders - digital cameras - digital slr cameras - point-and-shoot cameras - hybrid cameras - all digital cameras - digital photo printers - camcorders - all camcorders - hd camcorders - pocket camcorders - extreme sports camcorders - professional camcorders - accessories - lenses - lens filters and protectors - picture storage solutions - memory cards - camera bags - batteries - all digital camera accessories - all camcorder accessories - specials - camera & camcorder specials - cexchange® - trade in your gear - specials free shipping on everything.
- bill crutchfield our story founder and ceo awards & recognition careers at crutchfield community outreach latest news & press re-use & recycle free catalog signup
millions of tracks ready to play instantly.
free sonos controller  apps for android, iphone, ipod touch, and ipad let you control your zone  players, music on the internet and your computer right from the palm of your  hand.
the sonos play:3 supports the following audio file formats - mp3 (compressed), wma (compressed), aac (mpeg4), itunes, ogg vorbis, audible (format 4), apple lossless, flac (lossless), wav (uncompressed), and aiff (uncompressed).
simply choose a location that's close to an electrical outlet, taking care to avoid heat, steam, dripping water or hidden wiring, and follow the instructions included with your wall mount kit.
you can select available stations from  favorites, featured, local stations, all cities, national stations, genres, and  personalities.
audio section 3 driver/3 amp speaker system: the sonos play:3 uses three state-of the-art digital amplifiers individually coupled with three speakers to deliver great sound to any room.
2 midranges: two dedicated mid-range drivers ensure the  faithful reproduction of midrange frequencies crucial for accurate playback of  vocals and instruments.
pros: simple set up, and you can  move it anywhere you want it.
you can even add to it to favorites so it's easy to find the next time.
it includes easy-to-use wizards for setup and music sharing so the music folders on your hard drive can be shared across all your sonos players.
you probably already own a sonos controller
listen to music online based on your tastes and preferences or use our  one-of-a-kind 'mood tuner' to fit how you're feeling.
other than this omission, i think it is a wonderful product.
no 5  out of 5 written by chrispa, easton, pa on saturday, january 28,  2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
you can select available stations from favorites, featured, local stations, all cities, national stations, genres, and personalities.
you can also add internet radio stations and set preferences for online updates.
the volume and sound quality are good enough to enjoy the full range of sound when playing music and to surmount the noise of housework, paper shuffling, etc.
if you notice any discoloration or distortion of your picture quality, simply move the play:3 further from the television.
- modem: it is highly recommended that you have a dsl/cable modem, or lan-based high-speed internet connection.
the sound is good for such a small device and it is versatile enough  to use anywhere in the house.
we reserve the right  (but are not obligated to) review all submissions and edit or remove any review  in any manner which we deem necessary.
create customized playlists on the fly for individual rooms or for playback over your entire sonos system.
even better, my wife (who avoids technology)loves it.
note: download the apps for free on the itunes app store  or android market.
- please see our review guidelines for more information.
the range of the sonosnet  is 50 to 100 feet, a range similar to that of an 802.11g wireless access point.
rate songs as they play by choosing thumbs up or down on your sonos controller  and pandora will adapt the station on the fly based upon your feedback.
pros: simple set up, and you can move it anywhere you want it.
that's because we have our own in-house product research team — they open the box, verify contents, check the owner's manual, and record dimensions, features and specs.
you can  wirelessly play all the music that's stored or playing (including many music  apps) on your ipod or iphone in all the rooms of  your home or office  where you have sonos.
connect an apple airport express ® to any sonos zoneplayer... video:
i have this speaker in my  kitchen, a bridge, a zone player attached to my home theater and putting the  larger speakers elsewhere.
tunein helps listeners quickly and easily find their favorite radio stations  and personalities plus discover new ones.
by donaldlinda@comcast.net, woburn,ma on monday,  april 02, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
product reviews from the crutchfield labs product reviews from the crutchfield labs(what are the labs?)
pros: the  whole package
setup was easy -- less than 5 minutes from opening the box to  listening to my mp3 collection and iheartradio.
the eq automatically adjusts so the sound you hear is always  great, not matter what orientation you use.
1-10 of 19 items >> 10 per page 20 per page 50 per page sort results by: date reviewed | rating | helpfulness 5 out of 5 sonos play3 written by donaldlinda@comcast.net, woburn,ma on monday, april 02, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
we listen to a french children's radio show, a canadian classical station, and, of course, pandora.
was this review  helpful?
it is so easy to use; seriously it's  great.
since 1974, the crutchfield catalog has set the standard for accurate, helpful presentations of electronics.
i bought a foreclosed home in which they took all components of a wired multi room system including the speakers.
at any time, simply touch the info view button to find out more about the music that's playing, like detailed artist bios, tags, and upcoming events.
how does the sonos play:3 sound?
the range of the sonosnet is 50 to 100 feet, a range similar to that of an 802.11g wireless access point.
but i would still have to fiddle with the surround sound system manually.
optional ipod dock: dock, charge and wirelessly play the music from an ipod or iphone with the sonos dock (616wd100, sold separately).
cons: i turn the volume up from my droid...
the convenience and variety of music available, especially when paired with a spotify membership, is simply amazing.
bass radiator: a bass radiator is tuned to use the  energized air volume inside of play:3 to provide deep, clean and surprisingly  powerful bass from such a small package dsp circuitry: from the recording studio to your home, the  music is reproduced as the artist intended.
if you have your router in a room where you won't have a sonos player, use abridge to connect to your network.
sonosnet 2.0, a proprietary wireless mesh network technology, provides superior wireless range for whole-house coverage, ensures synchronous music playback, and avoids sources of wireless interference.
you are able to search and find any song, album or artist, and start listening immediately.
every sonos system includes free 30-day trials of these two services, so you can start listening the moment you take it out of the box.
sonos works seamlessly with anubis.fm, aupeo!, deezer, iheartradio, itunes, last.fm, mog, napster, pandora, rdio, rhapsody, siriusxm, spotify, stitcher smartradio, tunein, wolfgang's vault, and downloads from any service offering drm-free tracks.
wolfgang's vault listen like you were there, with performances from the world's  largest collection of live concerts.
how to choose a network music player how to choose a network music player jim richardson 9/16/2011 based on 4 ratings a network music player connects you to a vast assortment of tunes on the internet and lets you access the music stored on your computer from any room in your home.
mog — millions of songs, available instantly mog is an up-and-coming online music service with one of the largest and best-sounding streaming catalogs in the industry.
crutchfield customer review the reviewer purchased this item from us, verified by the email address on the order.
your review should be posted within  seven days.
product reviews review summary average customer review: 19 people say:  5 star:  (14)  4 star:  (5)
i have new favorite radio stations i never new existed.
i was commenting to my wife last evening that the  sonos was the best thing we have ordered that has enhanced our home's ambiance  probably ever.
please include your email * please enter a valid email address.
love the system, so easy to set up!
if you have a cable or dsl modem connected  directly to your computer, you should have a router connected between your  modem and your computer to maintain your computer's security.
tune-in radio tunein is the global leader in delivering free local, international and internet radio.
* your rating  * please select a rating click on a star to rate the overall product on a  scale of 1-5 1500 characters left *
and build your own library of favorites and create custom playlists
now i am listening to cds i never would have pulled out.
players, music on the internet and your computer right from the palm of your hand.
wish there were a sonos that could replace that boat anchor of a surround sound system.
you can then create and share your  playlists.
horizontal/vertical mounting: position the play:3 in a horizontal or vertical orientation to make a perfect fit into tight spots around you home like on bookshelves, nightstands, corners, or just about anywhere else.
please use the email address that is associated  with your order.
the  sonos play:3 indexes your music folders so you can view your music collection  by categories (such as artists, albums, composers, genres, or tracks).
modem: it is highly recommended that you have a dsl/cable  modem, or lan-based high-speed internet connection.
i rated it a "4" because i think it really needs an "audio in" port like the play:5.
audiobooks must 1st be imported into itunes (9.0.2, mac os tiger 10.4.11)--syncing & playback of this content via sonos app is not intuitive.
its compact size makes it easy to place the play:3 on your desk, the kitchen counter, on your nightstand, or carry it out to the patio with you.
network requirements hardware: in order to play the digital music files stored  on your computer throughout the sonos digital music system, you must meet the  following hardware requirements: ethernet: you must have an ethernet network interface  connection in your computer.
when her birthday came she half heartedly suggested a sonos:5 for the deck.
copyright ©1996-2012, crutchfield new media, llc all rights reserved.
i am using it in my kitchen, and it provides plenty of  sound and plenty of bass for my needs in the kitchen.
setup was easy -- less than 5 minutes from opening the box to listening to my mp3 collection and iheartradio.
she loves it and plays them both all the time.
watch our video review below.
i can buy the sonos:connect.
going for :5 written by kayakor, downingtown, pa on monday, january 23, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
no 5 out of 5 sonos play: 3 written by jim m, blairsville, pa on monday, april 02, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
no 5 out of 5 added sonos:3.
player for sonos multi-room music system $349.00
get new album and playlist recommendations based upon the music you have chosen.
your review * please write  your review *
as a result, we offer  over 100 compilation genre channels, as well as thousands of artist channels.
pros: the whole package cons: none was this review helpful?
to get started, you must wire one play:3 or a sonos bridge (616br100, sold separately) to your router to access your home's network; via standard ethernet cable (included).
no 5 out of 5 sonos® play:3 (s3) written by steve, alexandria, va on sunday, january 29, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
system requirements: in addition to the above-described hardware, your computer must have the following: - compatible operating systems: windows xp (sp2) and higher, macintosh os x (10.4 and higher) - cpu: 500 mhz processor or better - ram: 128mb ram minimum/256mb ram recommended automatic software updates: once the sonos play:3 system has been registered, sonos will automatically notify you when software updates are available.
if you don't have  a router, you will need to buy and install one before setting up your system.
controllers system control: the sonos zone play:3 provides control of  your music using a sonos controller (sold separately), ipod touch, iphone,  ipad, android smartphone, or desktop controller software.
instantly access any itunes library stored on any computer or network attached storage.
great flexibilty, great apps for ipods/iphones.
with the touch of a few buttons, you'll be playing music all over the house in minutes.
sonos® connect (zoneplayer 90) player for sonos multi-room music system $349.00 in stock sonos® play:3 (s3) compact wireless music player for any room in your home (white) also available in: open box: $284.05 $299.00 in stock sonos® play:5 (s5) wireless music player with built-in speakers (black) also available in: open box: $379.05 $399.00 in stock sonos® connect:amp (zoneplayer 120) amplified player for sonos multi-room music system also available in: open box: $474.05 $499.00 in stock sonos® play:5 (s5) wireless music player with built-in speakers (white) also available in: open box: $379.05 $399.00 in stock sonos® play:3 (s3) compact wireless music player for any room in your home (black) $299.00 in stock sonos® controller cr200 touchscreen controller for the sonos music system also available in: scratch & dent: $314.10 $349.00 in stock sonos® wireless dock 100 wirelessly play music from an ipod® or iphone® throughout your home also available in: open box: $113.05 scratch & dent: $107.10 $119.00 in stock show more items connect to your home network connect your sonos system to your home computer network.
contact us with your web id: 888-477-8156 chat share this product: - overview - details - staff reviews - customer reviews - category info - accessories
1-10 of 19 items >> 10 per page 20 per page 50  per page sort results by: date reviewed | rating | helpfulness 5   out of 5 written
3 star:  (0)  2 star:  (0)
with a directory of over 50,000 am/fm  and internet only radio stations listeners can experience the whole world of  radio within a single application at home.
rhapsody enjoy instant  access to rhapsody's catalog of millions of songs and ad-free music channels,  right from the palm of your hand.
iheartradio can also randomly select stations for you.
easy to use from computer, ipad and droid.
you can listen internationally or locally; just tell it where you live and it will give you all the local radio stations streaming on the internet.
crutchfield is a trademark of crutchfield new media, llc.
the unit supports mp3 and wma internet streaming.
- class-d amp: the play:3 employs state of the art, great sounding amplifiers that are lightweight, powerful, and very energy efficient in standby and use.
please limit comments to 1500 characters attach a youtube review crutchfield video review guidelines submit the url of your youtube™ video review or product demonstration.
note: previously purchased apple "fairplay" drm-protected songs may need to be upgraded.
go email me exclusive offers, deals and expert reviews ordering info - how to order - financing - my account - order status - shipping - outlet - policies & guarantees - corporate sales - trade in your gear - contact us additional info - tech support - learning center - forums - gift cards - retail stores - ca privacy rights - rewards - international - español - terms of use - privacy policy - sitemap - popular searches - - pioneer in dash - 1 2 6 speaker - bose speakers in-ceiling - focal speakers - kenwood car audio - 40 inch samsung t.v. - custom car speaker enclosure - hd tv flat screen - in ceiling audio speaker - chrysler 300m stereos and speakers - chevrolet prizm stereos and speakers web id: 068360824
pros: nice sound, easy to move, easy to set up, easy to use, iphone app cons: wish it was a little easier to play podcasts from my itunes 1 out of 1 people found this helpful was this review helpful?
setup was easy (but be sure you insert the sonos end of the a/c fully--until the "shoulder" of the cord is flush or below the casing or you will have intermittent function!).
e.g.,  http://www.youtube.com/v/o79twhh598u 500 characters left pros *
other: no easy way to stream podcasts, etc., directly from browser or browser download, no way i've found to stream content stored on iphone, etc., to play3 without a networked, awake computer (if i've missed something here, i'd love some advice).
stitcher smartradio create your own personalized list of  podcasts and tune in to the most up-to-date content in business, sports,  politics, and entertainment from brands like npr, cnn, bbc, adam carolla and  more.
top-panel controls: the play:3 provides quick access to  volume and mute controls when you don't have a remote controller in hand.
create custom playlists, and share with your friends.
sonos is one outstanding system.
learn about what you need to create a connected system.
cons: was this review  helpful?
1 out of 1 people found this helpful was this review helpful?
- do not submit videos that contain music, video or visuals that are copyrighted and belong to someone else.
now we are buying and storing our online purchases there.
overview: the sonos play:3 is a wireless hifi speaker system that lets you stream your entire music library, music services, and internet radio stations from your wireless home network.
the wireless music system provides pure, clean sound that is perfect for bringing room filling music to a kitchen, bedroom, office, or just about any room in your home.
with multiple zones, you can play the same song in different rooms, or different songs in different rooms.
cons: none was this review helpful?
discover new music and rediscover old favorites with top 100s, napster  playlists, radio, charts, and more.
i love this little player--its good qualities far outweigh its cons.
you are able to search  and find any song, album or artist, and start listening immediately.
pull together your favorites from over 5000 podcasts, radio shows and stations to create a custom playlist, or allow stitcher smartradio to recommend shows based on past listening.
creating a connected system tara w., video guest 6/18/2009 based on 20 ratings (1 comment) hdtvs, blu-ray players, gaming systems, and more — a lot of audio/video gear can connect to the internet.
wireless technology audio section music streaming controllers mounting options network requirements wireless technology sonosnet 2.0 wireless mesh network: the sonos play:3 brings great sounding music wirelessly to any room in your house, without a big wiring project.
if desired, you can easily wall mount the play:3 using a suitable mounting bracket (sold separately).
the play:3 creates room-filling, high-performance sound using an integrated three-way speaker system driven by three built-in digital amplifiers.
i was pleasantly surprised.
class-d amp: the play:3 employs state of the art, great  sounding amplifiers that are lightweight, powerful, and very energy efficient  in standby and use.
i look forward to hearingyour comments.
it also sounds good in my larger family room, as long as you intend for it to be ambient music at a moderate volume.
and i have  the zone player hooked into the tv
the sound from the sonos play:3 is good.
siriusxm siriusxm  internet radio lets you listen to over 120 channels of commercial-free music,  talk radio, news, sports, and more.
add  concerts and tracks to your personal playlist to play anywhere in your home.
sonos adds apple airplay and android app sonos adds apple airplay and android app jim richardson 4/19/2011 based on 1 rating big news for fans of the sonos wireless multi-room music system .
simply, place a play:3 in any room  where you want music, plug it in and enjoy.
easily synced to most itunes content.
your review should be posted within seven days.
wireless bridge for sonos music system also available in: open box: $39.99 $49.00 in stock after $50.00 price break power protection panamax md2 space-saving surge suppressor with two outlets save 10% with select home a/v gear $39.99
hi-fi - tv sound - sound bar speakers - home theater systems - all home theater & tv sound solutions - accessories - all headphones - hdmi cables - power protection - furniture - a/v cables & installation - home remote controls - specials - home audio specials - help for diyers - a/v design group - ipods, tablets & headphones - ipod - ipods - ipod speakers - tablet pcs - tablets - computer & itunes
yes |no 5 out of 5 love sonos!
this small one sits on my kitchen counter
i am using it in my kitchen, and it provides plenty of sound and plenty of bass for my needs in the kitchen.
it's perfect for small rooms and cozy corners, and setup is as easy as pushing a button.
no 5  out of 5 written by gfg, western north carolina on  wednesday, january 25, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
network range is not quite as good as with my  computers but still excellent.
care should be  taken if placing the sonos play:3 close to an older crt television.
simply press one button and your system updates itself.
easily navigate and search through playlists and tracks stored on your computer, or select an internet radio station.
turn on "scrobbling" and get the most relevant music recommendations based on your listening habits.
no 5 out of 5 opens the world!
you can also check out what other listeners have been listening to the most, or look at your own recent listening history.
yes | no 1-10 of 19 items >>
the idea is  very simple - aupeo!
wolfgang's vault listen like you were there, with performances from the world's largest collection of live concerts.
shawn tells us how the free app works and how he uses it with his sonos system.
sign in to your account | sign up for a new account | rewards program 0 item: $0.00 go to cart site navigation shop the outlet return to the main store - email feedback to bill crutchfield - community forums chat email 1.888.955.6000
rdio also provides artist, album, and song  information; as well as album art.
browse by artist, genre, specific concert, or search bill graham's personal archives.
2 out of 2 people found this helpful was this review  helpful?
the players connect to the internet and communicate with each other using sonos' proprietary wireless network.
instantly access any itunes library stored on any computer or network attached  storage.
- tweeter: one tweeter creates a crisp and accurate high frequency response.
learn more about sonos music systems learn more about sonos music systems wireless multi-room music systems wireless multi-room music systems tara w. 7/8/2011 based on 56 ratings (3 comments)
it is not designed for a  dial-up system.
you can even get a text or a call on your iphone or android smartphone and the music will keep playing.
devices on your home network, supporting the most popular audio formats.
simply choose a  location that's close to an electrical outlet, taking care to avoid heat,  steam, dripping water or hidden wiring, and follow the instructions included  with your wall mount kit.
panamax md2 space-saving surge suppressor with two outlets save 10% with select home a/v gear $39.99
the desktop controller is compatible with windows xp and higher, as well as macintosh os x (10.4 and higher) operating systems.
the  desktop controller is compatible with windows xp and higher, as well as  macintosh os x (10.4 and higher) operating systems.
works seamlessly with your pandora iphone app so you can create stations when you are out on the town and then come home and listen on the couch.
rubber feet: integrated rubber feet protect your furniture  and keep the play:3 secure.
wall-mount (optional): the sonos play:3 has a 1/4"-20 integrated, threaded mounting hole.
mog mog on-demand  listening service provides access to a deep library of over 11 million songs  and a million albums.
the sound is good for such a small device and it is versatile enough to use anywhere in the house.
it's a new kind of radio; personalized just for you, playing only the music you love.
pandora create  custom stations based on your favorite artists and songs with pandora.
it's the only service to offer all of its music in the 320 kbps mp3 format — that higher bit rate translates to better sound.
multi-zone compatibility: you can place a play:3 in each  zone where you want to listen to music.
tune-in radio tunein is  the global leader in delivering free local, international and internet radio.
browse by  artist, genre, specific concert, or search bill graham's personal archives.
sirius internet radio gives you access to over 80 channels of programming.
stitcher smartradio create your own personalized list of podcasts and tune in to the most up-to-date content in business, sports, politics, and entertainment from brands like npr, cnn, bbc, adam carolla and more.
internet radio (100,000 free stations included): tune in  to 100,000 internet radio stations, shows & podcasts; free of charge and  pre-loaded on the sonos play:3.
stereo pairing: the stereo pair setting allows you to group two play:3s in the same room to create a wider stereo experience.
the controller communicates with the nearest sonos player through sonosnet, a secure, peer-to-peer wireless mesh network, allowing you to extend the range of the controller to any room in your house, even outside.
free sonos controller apps for android, iphone, ipod touch, and ipad let you control your zone
pull together your favorites from over 5000 podcasts, radio shows and  stations to create a custom playlist, or allow stitcher smartradio to recommend  shows based on past listening.
in a multi-room sound system, the first play:3 is connected to your home network via ethernet or using the sonos bridge (616br100, sold separately), and each subsequent play:3 can be wired or completely wireless.
rdio rdio give you access to over 8 million songs.
rdio will even recommend music for you, based on your previous music listening.
so i can hear my tv from my kitchen without blasting the folks in the family room.
protect your gear with an extended warranty add 3 year warranty square trade warranty $38.99
no 5 out of 5 great system written by chrispa, easton, pa on saturday, january 28, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
tara had the chance to take the new music  player home and put it through its paces.
the basic concept is based on personal  music dna, which allows you to 'love' or 'ban' songs.
all stations are streamed in  high-quality aac format.
in fact, we use it frequently in the crutchfield labs to test high-end audio gear.
please limit comments to 500 characters * agree to terms by checking this box you agree your review becomes the property of crutchfield, that you are over 18 years of age, that you own or have owned this product, and that you are located within the united states or its territories.
your ipod touch, iphone, or ipad must have ios 3.0 or later  installed.
note: the sonos play:3 is not water-resistant; do not  leave it outside during a rain storm or position it near water.
your review * please write your review *
rubber feet: integrated rubber feet protect your furniture and keep the play:3 secure.
a sneak peek at the sonos play:3 (s3) tara w.  7/15/2011  based on  31 ratings  (2 comments)
spotify the  award-winning music service that's taken europe by storm has now come to united  states.
music service description aupeo!
if desired, you can easily wall mount the  play:3 using a suitable mounting bracket (sold separately).
creating a connected system video:
care should be taken if placing the sonos play:3 close to an older crt television.
the basic concept is based on personal music dna, which allows you to 'love' or 'ban' songs.
top-panel controls: the play:3 provides quick access to volume and mute controls when you don't have a remote controller in hand.
please limit comments to 500 characters 500 characters left cons *
play lots of music and let the listener choose the playlist based on their personal taste.
simple wireless setup: no technical or wireless expertise  is required to install the sonos play:3.
browse by genre or check out the charts.
i have this speaker in my kitchen, a bridge, a zone player attached to my home theater and putting the larger speakers elsewhere.
iheart radio provides song & artist information, as well as album art.
in this configuration, one unit serves as the left channel and the other serves as the right channel.
you can  search music by new releases and chart toppers.
in addition, you can even create your own music collection or make your own playlists.
please limit comments to 500 characters * agree to terms by checking this box you agree your review becomes the property of  crutchfield, that you are over 18 years of age, that you own or have owned this  product, and that you are located within the united states or its territories.
note: for optimum performance, maintaining more than  1" clearance around the back of the unit is recommended.
to get started, you must wire one  play:3 or a sonos bridge (616br100, sold separately) to your router to access  your home's network; via standard ethernet cable (included).
i plan on adding at least two more units.
it's a  new kind of radio; personalized just for you, playing only the music you love.
mog's "primo" service ($9.99/month)
recently viewed articles recycling your electronics video: free sonos app for android with us, you get the whole package.
controllers system control: the sonos zone play:3 provides control of your music using a sonos controller (sold separately), ipod touch, iphone, ipad, android smartphone, or desktop controller software.
the sonos play:3 can play music stored on up to 16 pcs, macs or nas (network attached storage) devices on your home network, supporting the most popular audio formats.
no 4 out of 5 sonos play3 written by lc, trumansburg, ny on monday, january 30, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
because it communicates with the nearest sonos player, rather than through one distant control point, the system avoids sources of wireless interference.
the sonos digital music system can  accept up to 32 players.
you can listen internationally or locally; just tell  it where you live and it will give you all the local radio stations streaming  on the internet.
just type in the name of your favorite artist or track and start listening to a recent release or a classic from high school; it's all there in napster's massive music library.
you can use an iphone®, ipod touch®, ipad®, or android™ phone to control any and all sonos players.
i was commenting to my wife last evening that the sonos was the best thing we have ordered that has enhanced our home's ambiance probably ever.
compact and unobtrusive.
in this  configuration, one unit serves as the left channel and the other serves as the  right channel.
you can even get a text or a call on your iphone or android  smartphone and the music will keep playing.
all filter settings, active equalization, and time-alignment are done in the digital domain through state-of-the-art dsp circuitry so there's absolutely no loss of audio quality or energy.
personal radio, you can listen to free music on the web.
crutchfield customer review the reviewer purchased this item from us, verified by the email address on  the order.
play your entire drm-free itunes library, not just what fits on your ipod.
sound from the :3 is weak compared to the :connect.
in-depth notes product research product research what's in the box?
desktop controller software: the supplied setup disc  contains the software for the desktop controller, which allows you to control  the sonos digital music system from your home computer.
get new album and playlist recommendations based upon the music you have  chosen.
wall-mount (optional): the sonos play:3 has a 1/4"-20  integrated, threaded mounting hole.
personal radio is a music streaming service based in berlin that is available worldwide.
that's the beauty of napster and sonos.
all filter settings, active  equalization, and time-alignment are done in the digital domain through  state-of-the-art dsp circuitry so there's absolutely no loss of audio quality  or energy.
note: the sonos play:3 is not water-resistant; do not leave it outside during a rain storm or position it near water.
and i have the zone player hooked into the tv
a sneak peek at the sonos play:3 (s3)
you can browse endlessly or type in the call letters or name of your favorite station or host and hit search.
add concerts and tracks to your personal playlist to play anywhere in your home.
turn on "scrobbling" and get the most relevant music recommendations  based on your listening habits.
adjust volume by individual zone or by groups of zones.
submit  the url of your youtube™ video review or product demonstration.
however, consider well what you want to use it for before you purchase (sonos and crutchfield customer service are both excellent).
tone controls: optimize sound performance using zone-specific bass, treble, balance, and loudness controls.
once the system is set up, all you need to do is choose your music, choose your zone, and press play.
it has  revolutionized the way we listen to music in my house.
* please include your email * please enter a valid email address.
no 5  out of 5 written by steve, alexandria, va on sunday,  january 29, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
optional ipod dock: dock, charge and wirelessly play the  music from an ipod or iphone with the sonos dock (616wd100, sold separately).
please limit comments to 1500 characters attach a  youtube review  crutchfield video review guidelines only submit videos that you made or are authorized to use.
pros: great sound, portable.
listen to jazz in the den while your spouse plays rock music in the kitchen, or pump a single playlist of songs throughout the entire house during a party.
the  sonos play:3 supports the following audio file formats - mp3 (compressed), wma  (compressed), aac (mpeg4), itunes, ogg vorbis, audible (format 4), apple  lossless, flac (lossless), wav (uncompressed), and aiff (uncompressed).
desktop controller software: the supplied setup disc contains the software for the desktop controller, which allows you to control the sonos digital music system from your home computer.
the transmitting range of the play:3's built-in wireless system is approximately 100 feet, depending upon your home's layout.
the highly advanced  software then remembers this and adjusts as necessary.
then the sonos system setup software provides simple on-screen prompts on any sonos controller, computer, ipod touch, iphone, ipad, or android.
sony tablet s, 16gb tablet with 9.4" touchscreen $399.99 out of stock add selected to cart for a more in-depth review and enhanced detailed information on the sonos® play:3 (s3), please visit the crutchfield website product page (/p_616zps3b/sonos-play-3-s3-black.html ).
deezer  offers access to 6,5 million tracks.
the transmitting  range of the play:3's built-in wireless system is approximately 100 feet,  depending upon your home's layout.
tone controls: optimize sound performance using  zone-specific bass, treble, balance, and loudness controls.
learn about how to create your own wireless music system.
cons: biggest cons: terribly expensive controller if you don't have smart phone, etc.; no input port.
rhapsody®, pandora®, sirius, and more at your fingertips the sonos system works seamlessly with a host of internet-based digital music services, including rhapsody, pandora, last.fm, napster®, and sirius internet radio.
yes | no 4  out of 5 written by lc, trumansburg, ny on monday, january 30,  2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
- bass radiator: a bass radiator is tuned to use the energized air volume inside of play:3 to provide deep, clean and surprisingly powerful bass from such a small package dsp circuitry: from the recording studio to your home, the music is reproduced as the artist intended.
i continue to be  impressed by how easy it is to use and how good it sounds.
i continue to be impressed by how easy it is to use and how good it sounds.
with some trepidation i bought the sonos:3 for the kitchen (there is no space in the kitchen for the :5.
with a directory of over 50,000 am/fm and internet only radio stations listeners can experience the whole world of radio within a single application at home.
your email won't be visible.
spotify the award-winning music service that's taken europe by storm has now come to united states.
your smartphone must have android 2.1 or up installed.
the compact sonos play:3 lets you enjoy music from the internet as well as songs stored on your home computers — without filling your room with audio gear.
you can then create and share your playlists.
so you can listen again and again.
no 5  out of 5 written by jim m, blairsville, pa on monday, april 02,  2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
details about crutchfield because my name is on the business, i work hard to make sure you get the best possible shopping experience.
easily  synced to most itunes content.
if you  notice any discoloration or distortion of your picture quality, simply move the  play:3 further from the television.
was up and running in a matter of  minutes.
iheartradio iheartradio delivers access to  over 750 clear channel local radio stations in both am and fm, as well as  commercial-free and artist-programmed channels.
the eq automatically adjusts so the sound you hear is always great, not matter what orientation you use.
mounting options versatile placement: you can place the sonos play:3  wherever you find the sound most enjoyable.
the sonos play:3 works seamlessly with the complete range of sonos products.
written by hannah1787, berlin, ma on friday, february 17, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
was up and running in a matter of minutes.
i put a 2 terabyte networked hard drive on the network and loaded every cd i ever bought and more on it.
you can also view song and artist information, as well as album art.
still would like a :5 for the deck this summer.
if you do not have one, you will need to buy and  install a network interface card (nic) before setting up your system.
iheartradio iheartradio delivers access to over 750 clear channel local radio stations in both am and fm, as well as commercial-free and artist-programmed channels.
internet radio (100,000 free stations included): tune in to 100,000 internet radio stations, shows & podcasts; free of charge and pre-loaded on the sonos play:3.
bookmark songs as they play in case you want to download them later.
you are able to search for songs and stations, choose the music, and control the volume.
display name (e.g., johnd) your review will  be signed using the display name and location *
in stock add selected to cart close x can we help you find something or answer a question?
i rated it a "4" because i think it really  needs an "audio in" port like the play:5.
rdio will even recommend music for you, based on  your previous music listening.
you can browse endlessly or type in the call  letters or name of your favorite station or host and hit search.
if you don't have a router, you will need to buy and install one before setting up your system.
you can also listen by genre with tag radio, discover new music based on your past listening with recommendations radio or explore what other last.fm users with similar tastes are listening to with neighborhood radio.
we live in an old house, and it's hard to put speakers where you want with these crazy plaster walls - but sonos makes it easy, and the sound on the 3 speaker is plenty big for us.
tara had the chance to take the new music player home and put it through its paces.
cons: wish it was cheaper but its still less expensive than a home wired system.
rhapsody offers instant access to millions of songs and ad-free radio stations.
you can even view album art.
music libraries: the sonos play:3 wireless music system can play music from any computer or network-attached storage (nas) device on your home network where you have shared music folders.
expand your sonos system you can have up to 32 zoneplayers in your sonos system, and each one can play an independent selection of individual tracks or playlists.
personal radio is a  music streaming service based in berlin that is available worldwide.
sonos controller: the sonos zone controller (616cr200,  sold separately) works exclusively with the sonos digital music wireless  systems, and allow you to control and view all of your music and all of your  zones wirelessly from the palm of your hand.
the convenience and variety of  music available, especially when paired with a spotify membership, is simply  amazing.
crutchfield  customer review the reviewer purchased this item from us, verified by the email address on  the order.
in addition, you can even create your own music collection  or make your own playlists.
tunein helps listeners quickly and easily find their favorite radio stations and personalities plus discover new ones.
pros: nice sound,  easy to move, easy to set up, easy to use, iphone app cons: wish it  was a little easier to play podcasts from my itunes 1 out of 1 people  found this helpful was this review helpful?
pandora create custom stations based on your favorite artists and songs with pandora.
other: no easy way to stream podcasts, etc., directly from browser or  browser download, no way i've found to stream content stored on iphone, etc.,  to play3 without a networked, awake computer (if i've missed something here,  i'd love some advice).
please wait while loading video.
product reviews from the crutchfield labs product reviews from the  crutchfield labs(what are the labs?)
i  bought a foreclosed home in which they took all components of a wired multi  room system including the speakers.
you can expand your sonos music system to as many as 32 rooms, simply by adding wireless music players.
note: to get started, you must wire either one sonos play:3 or sonos bridge (sold separately) to your home network using a standard ethernet cable (included).
- 2 midranges: two dedicated mid-range drivers ensure the faithful reproduction of midrange frequencies crucial for accurate playback of vocals and instruments.
find what you love by typing in the name of your favorite artist, album, composer or track.
it includes easy-to-use  wizards for setup and music sharing so the music folders on your hard drive can  be shared across all your sonos players.
the sound from the  sonos play:3 is good.
we stay on top of new products and technologies to help people make informed choices.
note: service availability varies by region.
please be sure to focus your comments on the product itself.
find  what you love by typing in the name of your favorite artist, album, composer or  track.
our advisors use web id numbers to direct customers to specific pages on our site.
written by gfg, western north carolina on wednesday, january 25, 2012 crutchfield customer review (what's this?)
as a result, we offer over 100 compilation genre channels, as well as thousands of artist channels.
review title * email
then the sonos  system setup software provides simple on-screen prompts on any sonos  controller, computer, ipod touch, iphone, ipad, or android.
setup was easy (but be sure you insert the sonos end of the a/c fully--until  the "shoulder" of the cord is flush or below the casing or you will  have intermittent function!).
the highly advanced software then remembers this and adjusts as necessary.
cons: wish it was cheaper but its still less expensive than a home wired  system.
60-day money-back guarantee | lifetime tech support home » home audio » all multi-room audio » sonos music systems »
in stock ethernet cables make your internet connection more efficient with better cables.
the idea is very simple - aupeo!
stereo pairing: the stereo pair setting allows you to  group two play:3s in the same room to create a wider stereo experience.
music streaming music streaming: the sonos play:3 lets you play your  entire music library, listen to your online music services, and get thousands  of free radio stations worldwide.
listen to music online based on your tastes and preferences or use our one-of-a-kind 'mood tuner' to fit how you're feeling.
2 out of 2 people found this helpful was this review helpful?
you can search music by new releases and chart toppers.
if you have a cable or dsl modem connected directly to your computer, you should have a router connected between your modem and your computer to maintain your computer's security.
mounting options versatile placement: you can place the sonos play:3 wherever you find the sound most enjoyable.
tweeter: one tweeter creates a crisp and accurate high  frequency response.
a bass radiator produces powerful  low notes while, two mid-range drivers and one tweeter fills out the sound.
photos videos item# 616zps3b offer details item# 616zps3b review summary 19 people say
we're here to help [hours] advisors ready to help shop navigation - car audio, video & gps - build your system - find what fits your car - car stereos & components - car speakers - car subwoofers - amplifiers, eqs & processors - find solutions - gps navigation - video - ipod/iphone/ipad and usb car adapters - satellite radio - hd radio - bluetooth - factory radio improvement - security and convenience - car security & convenience - radar detectors - batteries & power - floor liners and mats - automotive accessories - thule roof racks - specialty vehicles - marine audio - rv & big rig truck - classic car - motorcycle - specials - all car specials - home audio - receivers & components - home theater receivers - stereo receivers - integrated amplifiers - preamps & power amps - sonos music systems - multi-room receivers & amps - all multi-room audio - turntables & accessories - cd players - speakers - floor-standing speakers - bookshelf speakers - surround sound speaker systems - center channel speakers - powered subwoofers - in-ceiling speakers - in-wall speakers - outdoor speakers - ipod speakers - all home speakers - computer & itunes hi-fi - computer speakers - network music players - digital-to-analog converters - all computer & itunes
the  volume and sound quality are good enough to enjoy the full range of sound when  playing music and to surmount the noise of housework, paper shuffling, etc.
note: when creating a stereo pair, it is best to place the two sonos components 8' to 10' away from each other, angled inward to form a triangle with your favorite listening position.
the sonos play:3 lets you use your ipod touch, iphone, ipad, or any sonos controller (616cr200, sold separately) to control your music.
rdio also provides artist, album, and song information; as well as album art.
pandora and last.fm create customized internet radio streams just for you all you have to do is enter the name of your favorite song or artist.
you can also add internet radio  stations and set preferences for online updates.
a free download turns your smartphone and tablet into a full-fledged sonos controller.
the sonos digital music system can accept up to 32 players.
we reserve the right (but are not obligated to) review all submissions and edit or remove any review in any manner which we deem necessary.
horizontal/vertical mounting: position the play:3 in a  horizontal or vertical orientation to make a perfect fit into tight spots  around you home like on bookshelves, nightstands, corners, or just about  anywhere else.
to stay in the know about the music that is  playing, simply touch the info view button and get artist bios, photos,  projects, album reviews, and more.
i found this system and it gives you such a  wide range of options and flexibility for listening.
so i can hear my tv from my kitchen without  blasting the folks in the family room.
we listen to a french children's radio show, a canadian  classical station, and, of course, pandora.
sonos works seamlessly with anubis.fm, aupeo!, deezer,  iheartradio, itunes, last.fm, mog, napster, pandora, rdio, rhapsody, siriusxm,  spotify, stitcher smartradio, tunein, wolfgang's vault, and downloads from any  service offering drm-free tracks.
in stock ethernet cables monster cable dl net6 advanced high-speed ethernet cable (12 feet) also available in: open box: $34.99 $39.95 in stock
tune in to  live radio shows on everything from politics to sports to entertainment, catch  up on what you missed with podcasts featuring the best of previous shows, or  see what is playing soon.
or create a custom playlist based on any artist or song with napster automix.
we live in an old house, and it's hard to put speakers where you want  with these crazy plaster walls - but sonos makes it easy, and the sound on the  3 speaker is plenty big for us.
you can also view song and artist information, as well as  album art.
with multiple zones, you can play the same song in  different rooms, or different songs in different rooms.
this was my first introduction to the sonos  system, and i must say that i am a big fan.
wma lossless format not currently  supported.
first i connected the sonos connect to my bose bookshelf speakers in my library/office.
your location *  please include your location (e.g., charlottesville, va)