potable water: water that is safe to drink after the raw  water has gone through the filtration and treatment process.
you can use them to learn new words as you read the  educational stories on this web site.
water pollution: usually referring to the introduction of  a harmful substance into the water supply as a result of human actions.
intake: the part of a surface water treatment facility where water from a lake, river or stream is drawn into the plant for filtration, treatment and distribution to customers.
back to top drought: a period of lower-than-normal precipitation that  can lead to a water shortage.
recharge area: an area of land that allows rainwater to percolate into the earth's surface to replenish groundwater sources.
transpiration: the process by which plants produce water vapor which is released into the atmosphere.
private well: a well that is intended to provide water to a single home or building.
the process by which substances are added to  the water in order to make it safe to drink or look and taste better.
water meter: a device that records the amount of water being used in your home.
chlorine: one of the most common chemicals used in the treatment of public water supplies because it is highly effective in killing harmful microorganisms.
public water supply: water provided to a group of homes or  an entire city through a water utility via underground pipes and water mains.
filtration: the process by which organic and inorganic  particles are removed from the raw water.
your water utility checks your water meter regularly  because your water bill is based on how much water you use.
aquifer: an underground rock formation that can hold water.
intake: the part of a surface water treatment facility  where water from a lake, river or stream is drawn into the plant for  filtration, treatment and distribution to customers.
public water supply: water provided to a group of homes or an entire city through a water utility via underground pipes and water mains.
private well: a well that is intended to provide water to  a single home or building.
your water utility checks your water meter regularly because your water bill is based on how much water you use.
hardness: the texture of water that contains high levels of harmless metals such as magnesium and calcium.
filtration: the process by which organic and inorganic particles are removed from the raw water.
contamination can  occur naturally or by the hands of humans.
acid rain: rain water that has a lower ph (acidic) as a result of sulfur gases being released into the atmosphere from the burning of coal, gasoline and other fossil fuels.
back to top drought: a period of lower-than-normal precipitation that can lead to a water shortage.
well: a deep hole in the ground that is dug in order to  gain access to groundwater sources.
hardness: the texture of water that contains high levels  of harmless metals such as magnesium and calcium.
contamination can occur naturally or by the hands of humans.
acid rain: rain water that has a lower ph (acidic) as a  result of sulfur gases being released into the atmosphere from the burning of  coal, gasoline and other fossil fuels.
water stories | water words | water technology | using  water wisely groundwater | lehigh river watershed | for kids only a selection of useful water words and definitions are listed below in  alphabetical order.
sometimes a reservoir will be open, like a man-made lake, or it may be a fully enclosed tank, either above-ground or underground.
after a period of rain, snow, sleet or hail, water will flow through soil and rock to reach underground aquifers.
the process by which substances are added to the water in order to make it safe to drink or look and taste better.
precipitation: any form of water falling from clouds down  to earth, which replenishes water supplies.
back to top percolation: the process by which precipitation replenishes groundwater sources.
an older home containing lead pipes could contribute to increased lead levels in the home's tap water.
water main: the underground pipe used to transport potable water from a water utility to your home.
well: a deep hole in the ground that is dug in order to gain access to groundwater sources.
back to top percolation: the process by which precipitation  replenishes groundwater sources.
potable water: water that is safe to drink after the raw water has gone through the filtration and treatment process.
recharge: the increase in groundwater levels after rainwater soaks into the ground and into an aquifer.
the process by which chlorine is added to water during treatment in order to kill harmful microorganisms.
raw water: the water from a surface water or groundwater source prior to filtration or treatment.
after a period of rain, snow, sleet or hail,  water will flow through soil and rock to reach underground aquifers.
contamination: the introduction of a harmful substance  into the water either at the supply or during distribution.
service lateral: a pipe that runs underground from a home  or building to a water utility's water main in order to provide that home or  building with public water.
this is the natural cycle of water, including evaporation, transpiration, condensation, precipitation and percolation.
water pollution: usually referring to the introduction of a harmful substance into the water supply as a result of human actions.
recharge: the increase in groundwater levels after  rainwater soaks into the ground and into an aquifer.
transpiration: the process by which plants produce water  vapor which is released into the atmosphere.
conservation: methods of using water wisely with the minimum amount of water being wasted.
this is the  natural cycle of water, including evaporation, transpiration, condensation,  precipitation and percolation.
conservation: methods of using water wisely with the  minimum amount of water being wasted.
watershed: also called a drainage basin.
the term called "hard water" is used because it's "hard" to get lather from soap and shampoo when using this water.
a device used within the home to reduce the hardness of the water.
service lateral: a pipe that runs underground from a home or building to a water utility's water main in order to provide that home or building with public water.
sometimes a  reservoir will be open, like a man-made lake, or it may be a fully enclosed  tank, either above-ground or underground.
water meter: a device that records the amount of water  being used in your home.
contamination: the introduction of a harmful substance into the water either at the supply or during distribution.
the term called "hard  water" is used because it's "hard" to get lather from soap and  shampoo when using this water.
raw water: the water from a surface water or groundwater  source prior to filtration or treatment.
surface water: any source of water that is found on top of  the earth's surface, such as a lake, river or stream.
chlorine: one of the most common chemicals used in the  treatment of public water supplies because it is highly effective in killing  harmful microorganisms.
and of course you cancontact us if you have questions or want to learn more!
any source of water that is found beneath the  earth's surface in an aquifer.
this is an area of land that allows rainwater to flow into creeks, streams and rivers.
the process by which water from the earth's  surface is transported into the atmosphere as it turns from liquid to gas.
a device used within the home to reduce  the hardness of the water.
hydrologic cycle: also called the water cycle.
this is an area  of land that allows rainwater to flow into creeks, streams and rivers.
contaminant: any substance found in water that may be  harmful to water consumers.
lead: a metal that is harmful to infants and children if swallowed.
lehigh valley water suppliers, inc. | p.o. box 3348 | allentown, pa  18106-0348 questions: email us | copyright © 2000-2001.
lead: a metal that is harmful to infants and children if  swallowed.
this includes rain, snow, hail, sleet and freezing rain.
contaminant: any substance found in water that may be harmful to water consumers.
the process by which water from the earth's surface is transported into the atmosphere as it turns from liquid to gas.
the process by which chlorine is added to  water during treatment in order to kill harmful microorganisms.
precipitation: any form of water falling from clouds down to earth, which replenishes water supplies.
any source of water that is found beneath the earth's surface in an aquifer.
an older home containing lead pipes could contribute to increased  lead levels in the home's tap water.
you can use them to learn new words as you read the educational stories on this web site.
condensation: the process by which water vapor collects  into clouds of tiny water droplets in the cooler atmosphere.
condensation: the process by which water vapor collects into clouds of tiny water droplets in the cooler atmosphere.
back to top reservoir: a man-made storage area for water.
recharge area: an area of land that allows rainwater to  percolate into the earth's surface to replenish groundwater sources.
surface water: any source of water that is found on top of the earth's surface, such as a lake, river or stream.
and of course you cancontact us if  you have questions or want to learn more!
water main: the underground pipe used to transport potable  water from a water utility to your home.
water stories | water words | water technology | using water wisely groundwater | lehigh river watershed | for kids only a selection of useful water words and definitions are listed below in alphabetical order.
this includes rain, snow, hail,  sleet and freezing rain.