dozens of scientific studies have shown water fluoridation to be safe and effective.
in a 2004 survey of charleston water system customers, 49% reported drinking tap water only, 41% drink a combination of tap and bottled water, and 10% said they drink bottled water only.
how do water utilities control the levels of lead in water?
however, recognizing the importance of this issue, charleston water system had its source water and treated drinking water tested for a variety of these compounds.
other resources consumer reports rates water filtration system and bottled water.
according to the cdc, about 66% of communities in the us have fluoridated drinking water.
peeling paint inside homes built in the 1950s or earlier and paint chips in dust and soil can easily be swallowed by a child.
charleston water system will test your water free of charge.
as a result, studies have found that trace amounts of these compounds are turning up in our nation's water bodies, and potentially, in our drinking water.
lead is a soft, malleable metal that was used in everything from gasoline to water pipes before its health effects forced the federal government to limit its use in the 1980s.
in fact, studies show exposure to these compounds exists in many food and beverage products at higher levels.
the rule requires  utilities to test tap water from a certain number of homes that have lead  plumbing.
before its toxic effects were  widely known, many water utilities used lead water lines in their distribution  systems.
these products contain a wide variety of chemical compounds--compounds that wastewater treatment plants are not designed to remove.
lead pipes are more commonly found in older cities, where lead service  lines were installed before the health effect of lead were known.
it was once celebrated for its many uses, but today, lead is best known for its health risks.
every year, charleston water produces awater quality report that is mailed to  all customers in the may or june water bill showing the results of the sampling  results throughout the year.
fluoride is a naturally occurring mineral that when consumed at the recommended level, helps prevent tooth decay in children and adults.
under the authority of the safe drinking water act, the us epa has set standards for approximately90 contaminants in drinking water in it's national primary drinking water regulations.
however, you may follow these tips to further protect yourself: lead poisoning in children is almost always caused by exposure to lead-based paint.
the effects of  long-term exposure to elevated levels are more serious, and may include stroke,  kidney disease, and cancer.
it was reduced to 0.7 ppm to prevent overexposure to fluoride, as many children receive fluoride through toothpaste, mouth rinses, etc. charleston water system's target concentration of fluoride is 0.7 ppm.
if the lead levels are higher than 15 parts per billion (ppb) in more than 10% of the homes sampled, then the utility must take certain actions, including public notification, and efforts to reduce the corrosiveness of water.
this will flush out standing water in your home’s pipes.
it was also used to build  water pipes.
there are a variety of systems on the market that are designed to remove different contaminants from the water, and they vary in price—from $25 for a simple faucet filter to several thousand dollars for systems that treats water as it enters a home’s plumbing system.
lead was widely used in ancient rome to make everything from  make-up to pottery glazes and wine preservatives.
water utilities no longer use lead pipes, but some plumbing fixtures, such as brass faucets, by law may contain up to 8% lead.
of the 36 compounds tested for, only three were shown to be present in charleston's treated drinking water at the parts-per-trillion level: caffeine, phenol (a compound in wood and cleaning products), an tdcpp (a flame retardant compound).
what you need to know about lead.
lead does not occur naturally  in water.
other resources american waterworks association national sanitation foundation (nsf) international bottled water association bottled water basics, an epa publication (pdf file) us food and drug administration
(opencube  inc. - http://www.opencube.com)
lead and drinking water it was once celebrated for its many uses, but today, lead is best  known for its health risks.
only use cold water for cooking and drinking.
every year, charleston water produces awater quality report that is mailed to all customers in the may or june water bill showing the results of the sampling results throughout the year.
the epa  estimates that 20% of human exposure to lead is attributable to drinking water.
while fluoride occurs naturally in some water sources, in many communities, such as charleston, it’s also added during the water treatment process.
about charleston's tap water charleston's tap water is clean and safe to drink.
charleston's tap water is clean and safe to drink.
lead pipes are more commonly found in older cities, where lead service lines were installed before the health effect of lead were known.
the hhs updated this recommended level in january 2011 (learn more ).
there are more than 700 brands of bottled water in the united states.
what is the risk of exposure through drinking water  and what does charleston water do to keep lead out of the water?
water samples taken from charleston homes with lead plumbing showed lead levels of 4 parts per billion, well below the epa limit of 15 ppb.
the effects of long-term exposure to elevated levels are more serious, and may include stroke, kidney disease, and cancer.
charleston water  system adds a compound called orthophosphate to water during the treatment  process, which prevents corrosion by forming a molecular barrier between the  pipe and the water inside.
other resources annual water quality reports the water treatment process history of charleston water system did you know...?
these guidelines are from the office of national drug control policy and are supported by sc dhec.
if you’re concerned about lead plumbing in your home… even if you have lead plumbing, compounds added to the water at the treatment plant will prevent lead from leaching into the water.
charleston  water system meets--and in many casesexceeds the water quality  standards set by the us epa and scdhec.
charleston's tap water comes from the edisto river  and the bushy park reservoir.
advances in technology now enable laboratories to detect these compounds in water at incredibly small levels---down to parts pertrillion.
water samples taken from charleston homes with lead plumbing showed lead  levels of 4 parts per billion, well below the epa limit of 15 ppb.
one way that trace amounts of pharmaceuticals end up in the water environment is from leftover drugs being flushed down the toilet.
homes built before 1986 may have plumbing materials such as solder containing a higher percentage of lead.
these are enforceable standards that may include a legal limit on the level of a contaminant or the requirement of a specific treatment technique to remove a particular contaminant.
charleston water system meets--and in many casesexceeds the water quality standards set by the us epa and scdhec.
for more information about water fluoridation, please visit the web sites  listed below.
it's treated at the hanahan water treatment  plant, which produces an average of 55 million gallons of clean drinking water  every day.
fluoride information sc department of health and  environmental control centers for disease control
these are just a few of the common questions many customers have about their tap water.
how does lead get into drinking water?
how you can help: proper disposal of prescription medicines
many communities add fluoride to drinking water, a practice that began in 1945 and is widely supported by public health organizations such as the american dental association, the centers for disease control, and the sc department of health and environmental control.
you can help prevent this by properly disposing of prescription medications.
lead is a soft, malleable metal that was used in  everything from gasoline to water pipes before its health effects forced the  federal government to limit its use in the 1980s.
for more information, please visit us environmental protection agency web siteand the american water works association web site.
charleston water system's target concentration of fluoride is 0.7 ppm.
here are some facts to consider.
lead pipes and solder were also used in home plumbing systems.
yes, lead in drinking water  is regulated by us epa through thelead and copper rule.
for more information about water fluoridation, please visit the web sites listed below.
****javascript based drop down dhtml menu generated by navstudio.
water utilities no longer use lead pipes, but some plumbing  fixtures, such as brass faucets, by law may contain up to 8% lead.
what about  pharmaceutical compounds in drinking water?
short term exposure to high levels  of lead can interfere with normal development in babies and young children, and  may cause slight increases in the blood pressure of some adults.
it  was reduced to 0.7 ppm to prevent overexposure to fluoride, as many children  receive fluoride through toothpaste, mouth rinses, etc.
peeling paint inside homes built in the 1950s or earlier and  paint chips in dust and soil can easily be swallowed by a child.
many communities add fluoride to drinking water, a practice that  began in 1945 and is widely supported by public health organizations such as  the american dental association, the centers for disease control, and the sc  department of health and environmental control.
if the lead levels are higher than 15 parts per billion (ppb) in more  than 10% of the homes sampled, then the utility must take certain actions,  including public notification, and efforts to reduce the corrosiveness of water.
the facts about filters pharmaceuticals in drinking water did you know...?
lead poisoning in children is almost always caused by exposure to  lead-based paint.
fluoride is a naturally occurring mineral that when consumed at the  recommended level, helps prevent tooth decay in children and adults.
to learn more, click one of the links below.
before you buy, here are some facts to consider: did you know...?
a blood test  can screen a child for lead poisoning.
these are enforceable standards that  may include a legal limit on the level of a contaminant or the requirement of a  specific treatment technique to remove a particular contaminant.
in fact, the word plumbing comes from the latin word for lead,  plumbum.
do i need a filter for my faucet?
it's treated at the hanahan water treatment plant, which produces an average of 55 million gallons of clean drinking water every day.
the rule requires utilities to test tap water from a certain number of homes that have lead plumbing.
the optimal concentration of fluoride, as recommended by the cdc and  us department of health and human services (hhs), is 0.7 parts per million  (ppm).
**** what we do commissioners board meeting  info departments honors & awards faq service area water treatment water  distribution water quality partnership for safe water homeland security history  faq service area wastewater collection wastewater treatment storm water drainage history faq wastewater tunnel replacement project protecting our environment  iso 14001 & environmental management system environmental policy  environmental impacts recycling conservation regulatory requirements general  information annual financial reports news & public notices press releases  education & community outreach kids korner information requests  specification documents backflow prevention regulations purchasing department  becoming a registered vendor
today,  many of these lead lines have been replaced, but some are still in use, and new  plumbing materials and brass fixtures may legally contain up to 8% lead.
however, you may follow  these tips to further protect yourself: if you haven’t used tap water in several hours, let the cold water  faucet run for one minute before using the water.
fluoride in drinking water is bottled water better?
but for people who live in areas served by a water utility such as cpw that meets drinking water standards, is paying a dollar or more for a bottle of water worth it?
bottled water sales are driven in part by marketing strategies that tout bottled water as cleaner and safer to drink than tap water.
there is no evidence of any impact on human health at this level, and federal and state regulations do not require testing for these compounds or establish limits in drinking water.
it gets into drinking water by leaching from lead pipes or plumbing materials.
fluoride information sc department of health and environmental control centers for disease control american dental association us environmental protection agency american academy of family physicians american water works association studies show that people buy bottled water for a variety of reasons: it’s convenient, it’s a healthier option than sugary sodas or fruit juices, it tastes good—the list goes on.
water that meets these standards is safe to drink, although people with  severely compromised immune systems and children may have special needs.
fluoride in  drinking water
other resources history of charleston water system did you know...?
the centers for disease control (cdc) estimates that access to fluoridated tap water reduces incidence of tooth decay from 18 to 40 percent.
previously, the optimal level was a range between 0.7 ppm and 1.2 ppm.
about charleston's tap water pharmaceuticals in drinking water did you know...?
these are just a few of the common questions many customers have about  their tap water.
lead does not occur naturally in water.
try refrigerating a pitcher of tap water for a more refreshing drink.
it is important to note that charleston water system meets or exceeds all regulations for drinking water, and is closely following the research on this topic.
should i be concerned about lead pipes?
here’s what you need to know about lead.
because  lead leaches into water by the corrosion of lead pipes in homes, utilities  control lead levels by reducing the corrosiveness of water.
charleston's tap water comes from the edisto river and the bushy park reservoir.
the epa estimates that 20% of human exposure to lead is attributable to drinking water.
a blood test can screen a child for lead poisoning.
cold water has less of a taste than warm water.
according to the cdc, about 66% of communities in the us have  fluoridated drinking water.
before its toxic effects were widely known, many water utilities used lead water lines in their distribution systems.
dozens of scientific studies have shown water fluoridation to be safe and  effective.
while  fluoride occurs naturally in some water sources, in many communities, such as  charleston, it’s also added during the water treatment process.
because lead leaches into water by the corrosion of lead pipes in homes, utilities control lead levels by reducing the corrosiveness of water.
yes, lead in drinking water is regulated by us epa through thelead and copper rule.
access to safe drinking water is one of the  most significant public health advances of the twentieth century?
the optimal concentration of fluoride, as recommended by the cdc and us department of health and human services (hhs), is 0.7 parts per million (ppm).
what are the health effects of lead?
what about pharmaceutical compounds in drinking water?
homes built  before 1986 may have plumbing materials such as solder containing a higher  percentage of lead.
boiling water for at least one minute is effective at sterilizing water against bacteria.
charleston water system adds a compound called orthophosphate to water during the treatment process, which prevents corrosion by forming a molecular barrier between the pipe and the water inside.
short term exposure to high levels of lead can interfere with normal development in babies and young children, and may cause slight increases in the blood pressure of some adults.
it gets into drinking water by leaching from lead pipes or plumbing  materials.
call  727-6800 to request a testing kit.
the most common lead exposure is ingestion of dust or particles containing  lead-based paint.
what is the risk of exposure through drinking water and what does charleston water do to keep lead out of the water?
do i need a filter  for my faucet?
water that meets these standards is safe to drink, although people with severely compromised immune systems and children may have special needs.
access to safe drinking water is one of the most significant public health advances of the twentieth century?
the purchasing process laws, regulations &  procedures helpful hints open bids & proposals purchasing faq positions  employment application benefits faq tap water and your health
is bottled water healthier than tap water?
national sanitation foundation (nsf) from antibacterial soap to prescription and over-the-counter medications, almost everyone uses pharmaceuticals and personal health care products, called ppcps.
under the authority of the safe drinking water act, the us epa has set  standards for approximately90 contaminants in drinking water in it's national  primary drinking water regulations.
if you’re concerned about lead plumbing in your home… even if you have lead plumbing, compounds added to the water at the treatment  plant will prevent lead from leaching into the water.
does the government regulate lead levels?
for those who don’t want to buy bottled water, home water purification systems, called point-of-use (pou) devices, are a popular alternative.
the most common lead exposure is ingestion of dust or particles containing lead-based paint.
today, many of these lead lines have been replaced, but some are still in use, and new plumbing materials and brass fixtures may legally contain up to 8% lead.
about charleston's tap water lead and drinking water
lead leaches more easily  into hot water.