is it ok to drink this rainwater?
in light of the announcement on the log page entitled "response to some misleading claims about our measurements", could someone from the team comment on the points here?
would not this sludge contain higher radiation as it did in places like scotland?
did it not drop into reservoirs where we will eventually be drinking tapwater that is made of rainwater?
i am sure a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall is anyone on the team willing to tackle this problem?
the rainfall in the sierra may not have even reached the water sources constituting the tap water tested; for example, the recent rains may still be unmelted snow; 2.
bottom line, depending on where your  water comes from, you could be getting water that is closer to the rain water  than the drinking water figures here.
i use solar power and rainwater for a lot of my h2o needs.
i hope someone knowledgeable responds to some of these questions.
i am sure a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local  reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall response?
the rainfall in the sierra may  not have even reached the water sources constituting the tap water tested; for  example, the recent rains may still be unmelted snow; 2.
thanks ucb for this data and your hard work.
uc berkeley • college of engineering • contact campanile photo courtesy ofandrew p. keating
sources of tap water vs. rainwater submitted by anonymous on tue,  2011-04-05 11:44 berkeley radiological air and water monitoring forum first, great appreciation to the staff for all your work in keeping the  public informed.
thanks again for your good work.
agreed submitted by anonymous (not verified) on wed, 2011-04-06  08:57.
submitted by anonymous (not verified)  on tue, 2011-04-05 11:59.
this is an incredible public service.
comment from the team?
› this seems to be a valid question.
regarding the validity of tap water measurements: as best i can determine,  ucb gets it's tap water from ebmud, which gets its water from sources far from  berkeley.
although inconvenient, a more valid comparison would be to take samples  from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall.
i just feel that discarding the highest measurement, the one  found in rainwater to be flip.
i use solar power and rainwater for a  lot of my h2o needs.
what about  sludge that is collected from water treatment plants after a rain.
› this seems legit submitted by anonymous (not verified) on thu,  2011-04-07 07:08.
would it help if someone brought  you samples?
regarding the validity of tap water measurements: as best i can determine, ucb gets it's tap water from ebmud, which gets its water from sources far from berkeley.
how about after  tonight/tomorrow morning's predicted rains?
on thu, 2011-04-07 00:24.
the sources are apparently in the sierra nevada mountains, where  there is record snow pack this year.
many communities in the bay area, from the  central valley and walnut creek to mill valley to san jose do not get their  water from the far away frozen sierras.
the rainfall a hundred or more miles away may not have  the same content as that in berkeley.
this raises a couple of problems in comparing berkeley rain water with tap water.
although inconvenient, a more valid comparison would be to take samples from local reservoirs (marin county has several) to compare to air/rainfall.
can i bathe in it if i collect rainwater?
the amount of dilution  is impossible to tell, as there may be a delay in transport (water "in the  pipeline"); and 3.
why is rainwater not important?
submitted by anonymous (not verified) on wed,  2011-04-06 21:44.
how about after tonight/tomorrow morning's predicted rains?
is anyone on the team willing to tackle this problem?
in light of the announcement on the log page entitled "response to  some misleading claims about our measurements", could someone from the  team comment on the points here?
i just feel that discarding the highest measurement, the one found in rainwater to be flip.
many communities in the bay area, from the central valley and walnut creek to mill valley to san jose do not get their water from the far away frozen sierras.
i don't see diatribes or conspiratorial  rants.
i am a little confused by the  update today as well where you state that tap water is what we should be  focusing on.
or at least acknowledge that there is a disconnect between local rainwater measurements and distant tap water measurements.
i was lulled into a faulse sense of security by the numbers reported here.
i hope someone knowledgeable responds to some of  these questions.
can you test any local reservoir water (or even lake temescal or grand lake for that matter)?
taking one sample from one location can be very misleading.
gerry ‹ email warning of radioactive rain was released by fire  department but later labeled as hoax email  cs-134 and cs-137 in milk?
or at least  acknowledge that there is a disconnect between local rainwater measurements and  distant tap water measurements.
first, great appreciation to the staff for all your work in keeping the public informed.
valid comparison submitted by newport beach houses (not verified)
submitted by anonymous (not verified) on  wed, 2011-04-06 07:07.
would it help if someone brought you samples?
this is a very good point.
what about sludge that is collected from water treatment plants after a rain.
the rainfall a hundred or more miles away may not have the same content as that in berkeley.
i was lulled into a faulse sense of  security by the numbers reported here.
the sources are apparently in the sierra nevada mountains, where there is record snow pack this year.
i see legitimate questions.
i don't see diatribes or conspiratorial rants.
did it  not drop into reservoirs where we will eventually be drinking tapwater that is  made of rainwater?
anyone care to answer?
can you test any local reservoir water  (or even lake temescal or grand lake for that matter)?
gerry‹ email warning of radioactive rain was released by fire department but later labeled as hoax email cs-134 and cs-137 in milk?
my area has a lake/reservoir system that was mostly recarged by the recent heavy rains.
what about people who had to work in the rain?
bottom line, depending on where your water comes from, you could be getting water that is closer to the rain water than the drinking water figures here.
this raises a couple of problems in  comparing berkeley rain water with tap water.
would not  this sludge contain higher radiation as it did in places like scotland?
my area has a lake/reservoir system that was  mostly recarged by the recent heavy rains.
i am a little confused by the update today as well where you state that tap water is what we should be focusing on.
this seems to be a valid question.
the amount of dilution is impossible to tell, as there may be a delay in transport (water "in the pipeline"); and 3.