you'll be surprised at how much  running water is wasted.
www.naturalcollection.com 6.
not only is eating less meat good for your health, the water and energy saving is very high.
tel: 020 7490 15555 www.foe.co.uk water aid - prince consort house, 27-29 albert  embankment, london, se1 7ub.
these are put into landfill sites, and can take up to 500  years to decompose.
flushing  the loo accounts for over a third of our water use.
if you have a bath, make sure you  re-use the water.
by these figures, producing one kilogram of beef uses  as much water as: 40 baths, 300 toilet flushes, and 100 times the clean water  needed by an individual according to unesco since a large percentage of the crops we feed to our farmed animals are  grown on 'ghost acres' in developing countries, this wasted water is coming not  just from our own reserves but from the very countries where drinking water is  most scarce.
machynlleth, powys,  sy20 9az tel: 01654 702 400.
www.changeanappy.co.uk women's environment network - po box 30626.
9574615.www.waterwise.org.uk funded by the norfolk independent waste trust and cobb charity copyright © 2012
don't contribute to water pollution try out some detergent-free ‘eco-balls' and natural soap pods in your  washing machine.
tel: 01452 770629.www.greenshop.co.uk 4.
re-use household water and use water sparingly.
office of water services, centre city tower, 7 hill street, birmingham, b5 4ua.
by reporting all such infringements, you can encourage prosecution of offenders and force an improvement in the quality of tap water (contact ofwat for details).
as well as reducing the volume of water that we use, we must also ensure that water pollution is tackled effectively.
the impacts of climate change are likely to affect the people who have the least responsibility for carbon emissions, and very little capacity to respond to the major droughts, floods and increasing climatic disruption.
you'll be surprised at how much running water is wasted.
water companies are legally obliged to state when levels of contaminants in tap-water breach european community limits.
as well as reducing the volume of water that we use, we must also ensure  that water pollution is tackled effectively.
contact your waste disposal or environmental health department and ask if there is such a service in your area.
these are put into landfill sites, and can take up to 500 years to decompose.
pre-soak washing, water the garden with the water, or use it to wash the floor or windows.
www.vegansociety.com people for the ethical treatment of animals - peta - po  box 36668, london, se1 1wa.
in other words, the livestock population is expanding at a faster rate than the human population.
the average person in the  united kingdom now washes away a staggering 1,000 litres of water a week.
(numbers in the phone book under the name of your local authority).
natural collection - mail order - detergents, nappies and  green goods - eco house, monmouth place, bath, ba1 2dq.
these groups can help you save money and reduce the amount of  resources wasted in producing and washing nappies.
find out if there is a local nappy exchange.
often, all that a dripping tap needs is the washer replaced - yet this simple step can stop up to 5 litres of water leaking away each day.
the directors and management on their environmental performance.
if we use water more  sensibly we can significantly alter the situation.
in some areas of the united kingdom, more than a third of our water supply  is being lost through leaky pipes.
if you cannot have one of these installed, try carefully putting an insoluble object in the cistern to reduce the amount of water used in each flush.
the chartered institution of water and environmental management has pointed out the substantial fuel costs, and thousands of tonnes of harmful emissions involved in transferring over 22 million tonnes of bottled liquid from country to country every year.
fill up a mug with water and use it to clean your teeth, rather than leave the tap running.
building more reservoirs and transporting water causes environmental problems such as loss of habitats and damage to fragile eco-systems.
flushing the loo accounts for over a third of our water use.
if you're not sure what it is or what it does,  and the manufacturer won't give you clear answers - don't use it!
the chartered institution of water and environmental management has pointed  out the substantial fuel costs, and thousands of tonnes of harmful emissions  involved in transferring over 22 million tonnes of bottled liquid from country  to country every year.
it takes 500 litres of water to produce 1kg of potatoes, 900 litres per kg of wheat, 3,500 litres per kg of digestible chicken flesh and a massive 100,000 litres for 1kg of beef.
give up or eat meat as a real treat it takes 500 litres of water to produce 1kg of potatoes, 900 litres per kg  of wheat, 3,500 litres per kg of digestible chicken flesh and a massive 100,000  litres for 1kg of beef.
natural collection - mail order - detergents, nappies and green goods - eco house, monmouth place, bath, ba1 2dq.
if you don't feel you have got an adequate response from your water company  or ofwat, you could consider buying a single share in the water company for a  few pounds and then go along to the company agm to ask questions and challenge
avoid disposable nappies and use real nappies and your local nappy  exchange disposable nappies form 4% of household waste in britain costing the tax  payer £40 million each year to dispose of them.
a cow will produce  120kg of methane per year, which as a powerful greenhouse gas, is the  equivalent of 2.8 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
tel: 020 7793 4500www.wateraid.org.uk centre for alternative technology.
add a fine spray attachment to your  shower so that you use even less water.
this will protect both our health  and the wider environment.
2.4 billion people on our planet do not have access to safe water and 2  billion lack adequate sanitation or water to grow crops.
repair all leaks and drips immediately, install a low-flush toilet and  ensure that your water company is maintaining adequate standards and not  wasting water often, all that a dripping tap needs is the washer replaced - yet this  simple step can stop up to 5 litres of water leaking away each day.
as climate change accelerates, rainfall patterns will alter and, in some areas, water supplies will become depleted.
www.ofwat.gov.uk your local water supplier - see your local telephone  directory.
www.wen.org.uk buy re-usable nappies that you can wash.
as climate change accelerates, rainfall patterns  will alter and, in some areas, water supplies will become depleted.
tel: 01452 770629.www.greenshop.co.uk water the garden with your bath water and washing up water (let it cool and make sure your detergents are eco-friendly).
we take fresh water very much for granted.
real nappy association uk nappy helpline: 01983 401959 -  www.realnappy.com
world meat production has quadrupled in the past 50 years and livestock now outnumber people by more than 3 to 1.
the greenhouse  trust.
many of the water companies provide suitable bottles and bags.
tel: 0161 925 2000 - www.vegsoc.org further information friends of the earth - 26 -28 underwood street, london,  n1 7jq.
vegan society - donald weston house, 7 battle road, st.leonards-on-sea, east sussex, tn37 7aa.
nearly three quarters of the surface  of the planet is covered by water and planet earth might be better described as  planet water.
(numbers in the phone book under the name of your local  authority).
by  reporting all such infringements, you can encourage prosecution of offenders  and force an improvement in the quality of tap water (contact ofwat for  details).
in other words, the livestock population  is expanding at a faster rate than the human population.
in contrast, tap water is provided by a comparatively  efficient infrastructure of underground pipes and plumbing.
home  saving water saving water water is life.
if you don't feel you have got an adequate response from your water company or ofwat, you could consider buying a single share in the water company for a few pounds and then go along to the company agm to ask questions and challenge the directors and management on their environmental performance.
www.peta.org vegetarian society - parkdale, dunham road, altrincham, cheshire, wa14 4qg
make the most of rainy days by collecting rain-water invest in a rainwater collection system to flush your toilets, you will  substantially reduce the volume of treated water used.
real nappy association uk nappy helpline: 01983 401959 - www.realnappy.com many local councils' support and subsidise nappy washing services.
contact  your waste disposal or environmental health department and ask if there is such  a service in your area.
the cost to the environment is even greater: in the uk alone, we discard 9 million soiled nappies every day.
vegan society - donald weston house, 7 battle road,  st.leonards-on-sea, east sussex, tn37 7aa.
green shop - mail order - rain/grey-water equipment -  bisley, stroud, gloucester, gl6 7bx.
water the garden with your bath water and washing up water (let it cool and  make sure your detergents are eco-friendly).
the impacts of climate  change are likely to affect the people who have the least responsibility for  carbon emissions, and very little capacity to respond to the major droughts,  floods and increasing climatic disruption.
not only is eating less meat good for your health, the water and  energy saving is very high.
you will often find that other share-holders will have similar concerns.
www.vegansociety.com people for the ethical treatment of animals - peta - po box 36668, london, se1 1wa.
a cow will produce 120kg of methane per year, which as a powerful greenhouse gas, is the equivalent of 2.8 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
a five-minute shower consumes approximately thirty-five litres of water, half the amount of water - and energy - that a full bath takes.
just stop for a moment and think what life would be like if you had to walk  for two hours to a well and carry each bucket of water back to the house
pre-soak washing, water the garden with the water, or use it  to wash the floor or windows.
invest in a rainwater collection system to flush your toilets, you will substantially reduce the volume of treated water used.
turn on the tap - and there it is.
site created by nick bearman.
installing a low-flush  toilet means that you have a choice of two flushes - a long one or a short one  - and this greatly reduces the amount of water used.
drink tap water not  bottled water.
it is insane to pay  to throw away a plastic bottle when tap water is often of better quality.
in some areas of the united kingdom, more than a third of our water supply is being lost through leaky pipes.
national association of nappy services - tel 0121 6934949
if you have a bath, make sure you re-use the water.
find out from ofwat what your water company's record is.
the heavy usage of the water table is disrupting the natural systems and  affecting plants and animals.
check loo cleaners and household products for ingredients that might damage water organisms.
many of the water companies  provide suitable bottles and bags.
you will often  find that other share-holders will have similar concerns.
building  more reservoirs and transporting water causes environmental problems such as  loss of habitats and damage to fragile eco-systems.
fill up a mug with water and use it to clean your  teeth, rather than leave the tap running.
if it's bad, write and insist they invest more of their  profits in water conservation.
the average person in the united kingdom now washes away a staggering 1,000 litres of water a week.
the cost to the  environment is even greater: in the uk alone, we discard 9 million soiled  nappies every day.
many local councils' support and subsidise nappy washing services.
www.ofwat.gov.uk your local water supplier - see your local telephone directory.
it is easy to forget how precious water is.
joomla! is free software released under the gnu/gpl  license.
just stop for a moment and think what life would be like if you had to walk for two hours to a well and carry each bucket of water back to the house
water companies are legally obliged to state  when levels of contaminants in tap-water breach european community limits.
if we use water more sensibly we can significantly alter the situation.
if you're not sure what it is or what it does, and the manufacturer won't give you clear answers - don't use it!
installing a low-flush toilet means that you have a choice of two flushes - a long one or a short one - and this greatly reduces the amount of water used.
the heavy usage of the water table is disrupting the natural systems and affecting plants and animals.
these groups can help you save money and reduce the amount of resources wasted in producing and washing nappies.
a five-minute shower consumes approximately thirty-five litres of water,  half the amount of water - and energy - that a full bath takes.
if it's bad, write and insist they invest more of their profits in water conservation.
green shop - mail order - rain/grey-water equipment - bisley, stroud, gloucester, gl6 7bx.
we waste and contaminate it at our peril.
office of water services, centre city tower, 7 hill  street, birmingham, b5 4ua.
add a fine spray attachment to your shower so that you use even less water.
it is insane to pay to throw away a plastic bottle when tap water is often of better quality.
in contrast, tap water is provided by a comparatively efficient infrastructure of underground pipes and plumbing.
2.4 billion people on our planet do not have access to safe water and 2 billion lack adequate sanitation or water to grow crops.
world meat production has quadrupled in the past 50 years and livestock now  outnumber people by more than 3 to 1.
if you cannot have one of  these installed, try carefully putting an insoluble object in the cistern to  reduce the amount of water used in each flush.
find out from ofwat what your water  company's record is.
and five minutes is a long time in the shower!
check loo cleaners and household products for ingredients that  might damage water organisms.
try out some detergent-free ‘eco-balls' and natural soap pods in your washing machine.
www.naturalcollection.com disposable nappies form 4% of household waste in britain costing the tax payer £40 million each year to dispose of them.
www.cat.org.uk water wise - 1 queen anne's gate, london, sw1h 9bt.
turn on the tap - and there it  is.
and five  minutes is a long time in the shower!
this will protect both our health and the wider environment.
find out if there is a local nappy  exchange.
tel: 0161 925 2000 - www.vegsoc.org funded by the norfolk independent waste trust and cobb charity
by these figures, producing one kilogram of beef uses as much water as: 40 baths, 300 toilet flushes, and 100 times the clean water needed by an individual according to unesco since a large percentage of the crops we feed to our farmed animals are grown on 'ghost acres' in developing countries, this wasted water is coming not just from our own reserves but from the very countries where drinking water is most scarce.