bathroom tips check regularly for any leaks and fix them.
using a bucket with a sponge plus a trigger nozzle on the hose will save water.
it can save about half the amount of water you typically use in the shower, while still providing a refreshing, cleansing shower.
- use the minimum amount of water needed for a bath by closing the drain and the filling the tub only 1/3 full.
most common bathroom leaks are found in faucets and in and around toilets.
rain water is actually better for your plants as it does not contain any chlorine and is at ambient temperature.
fill the basin or a pan with water to wash fruits and vegetables.
car washing using a running hose to wash your car can waste water.
collect rain water in an old barrel or other large  container that is outfitted with a tap and a suitable cover, and use the water  on your garden.
give plants only the amount of water that they need.
- turn the tap water off while brushing your teeth, shaving, or washing your face.
it can save about half the amount of water  you typically use in the shower, while still providing a refreshing, cleansing  shower.
install a low-flow showerhead.
wash only full loads in the clothes washer.
greater soil depth will increase the ability of the soil to retain moisture.
use native and adaptive plants; they will use less water and be resistant  to local plant diseases and pests.
city of corner brook 5 park street , p. o. box 1080, corner brook,  nl canada, a2h 6e1 tel: 709-637-1500, fax: 709-637-1625
you will get hot water faster plus avoid  wasting water while it heats up.
use this water as an alternative to turning on the hose for  newly transplanted material, window boxes, flower pots and container gardens.
when washing dishes by hand, fill one sink or basin with soapy water.
encourage your friends and neighbours to be part of a water-conscious  community.
if it seeps into the toilet bowl, you have a leak.
- be sure your hose has an automatic shutoff nozzle to ensure water is not wasted when the hose is left unattended.
when washing dishes by hand, fill one  sink or basin with soapy water.
check your sprinkler or irrigation systems regularly for any leaks, and  fix them.
- insulate your water pipes.
ecoscaping combines  healthy soil with native and drought-tolerant plants, trees and shrubs to  create attractive, low maintenance, and water efficient landscapes which leave  a small environmental footprint.
cook food in as little water as possible.
- use a rain barrel -
even if savings are small,  every drop counts!
- use native and adaptive plants; they will use less water and be resistant to local plant diseases and pests.
- when buying a new dishwasher, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
- do not overwater your landscape.
in the summer, lawn watering and other outdoor uses can account for a  large percent of home water use.
this will also retain more of  the nutrients.
rain water is actually better for your plants as it does not contain any  chlorine and is at ambient temperature.
bathroom tips - check regularly for any leaks and fix them.
- soak pots and pans before washing.
greater soil depth will increase the ability of the soil to retain  moisture.
make suggestions to your employer to save water (and dollars) at work.
keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator rather than running tap water  until it is cool enough to drink.
you will get hot water faster plus avoid wasting water while it heats up.
in the summer, lawn watering and other outdoor uses can account for a large percent of home water use.
- cook food in as little water as possible.
- make suggestions to your employer to save water (and dollars) at work.
- take a five-minute shower.
replace older, larger-use toilets with the newer ultra-low or dual flush  models.
studies show that as much as half of this  outdoor use is wasteful.
- encourage your friends and neighbours to be part of a water-conscious community.
- replace older, larger-use toilets with the newer ultra-low or dual flush models.
set sprinklers to water the lawn, not sidewalks and driveways.
wash only full loads in the dishwasher.
teach your children to turn the faucets off tightly after each use.
we are more likely to notice leaky faucets indoors, but do not forget to  check outdoor faucets, pipes, and hoses for leaks.
- encourage your school system and local government to help develop and promote a water conservation ethic among children and adults.
even if savings are small, every drop counts!
use the minimum amount of water needed for a bath by closing the drain  and the filling the tub only 1/3 full.
most common bathroom leaks  are found in faucets and in and around toilets.
do not overwater your landscape.
it can cause yellowing leaves or poor  plant health.
insulate your water pipes.
city of corner brook 5 park street , p. o. box 1080, corner brook, nl canada, a2h 6e1 tel: 709-637-1500, fax: 709-637-1625 search ~ site map newfoundland website design by: immediac in association withyield communications
- teach your children to turn the faucets off tightly after each use.
using a bucket  with a sponge plus a trigger nozzle on the hose will save water.
laundry room tips - when buying a new clothes washer, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
car washing - using a running hose to wash your car can waste water.
- set sprinklers to water the lawn, not sidewalks and driveways.
- check your sprinkler or irrigation systems regularly for any leaks, and fix them.
keep your rain barrel covered to prevent mosquitoes breeding and for safety reasons.
take a five-minute shower.
use a broom instead of a hose to clean your driveway or sidewalk and save  water every time.
use this water as an alternative to turning on the hose for newly transplanted material, window boxes, flower pots and container gardens.
home > residents > environment > water conservation > household water conservation tips household water conservation tips kitchen tips install a low-flow faucet aerator, which can cut water use in half.
bizpal business directory business districts community profile economic strategy infrastructure/services investing incentives labour force land & real estate projects photo contest spotlight on business start/
turn the tap water off while brushing your teeth, shaving, or washing  your face.
- install a low-flow showerhead.
planting - add two to four inches of organic material, such as peat or compost, to the soil.
put food coloring in your toilet tank.
ecoscaping combines healthy soil with native and drought-tolerant plants, trees and shrubs to create attractive, low maintenance, and water efficient landscapes which leave a small environmental footprint.
- keep a pitcher of water in the refrigerator rather than running tap water until it is cool enough to drink.
be sure your hose has an automatic shutoff nozzle to ensure water is not  wasted when the hose is left unattended.
- wash only full loads in the dishwasher.
residents > environment > water conservation > household water conservation tips - animals - building & development - community groups/events - education - environment sustainable developmentcity hallcommunity educationwaste mangementwater conservation household water conservation tipshousehold leak detection partners for climate protectionanti-litter campaignbuy local transportationenvironmental contactsgreen tips - fire/emergency services - garbage & recycling - health services - municipal police - newcomer's guide - parks & recreation - property & land - roads - sewer & wastewater - tax - transit - water - forms and applications household water conservation tips kitchen tips - install a low-flow faucet aerator, which can cut water use in half.
- we are more likely to notice leaky faucets indoors, but do not forget to check outdoor faucets, pipes, and hoses for leaks.
soak pots and pans before washing.
collect rain water in an old barrel or other large container that is outfitted with a tap and a suitable cover, and use the water on your garden.
- use a broom instead of a hose to clean your driveway or sidewalk and save water every time.
- think about ecoscaping your yard.
keep your rain barrel covered to  prevent mosquitoes breeding and for safety reasons.
do one thing each day that will save water.
put food coloring in your  toilet tank.
when buying a new dishwasher, consider purchasing a water-saving model.
expand a business support agencies tax transportation accommodations arts and culture attractions explore the region fast facts & history festivals and events getting around getting here meetings & conventions parks and trails recreation restaurants shopping tours guides charters tourist information access to information budget bylaws city departments council election email updates human resources legislation news releases notices planning & development policies projects & initiatives tenders & rfp animals building & development community groups/events education environment fire/emergency services garbage & recycling health services municipal police newcomer's guide parks & recreation property & land roads sewer & wastewater tax transit water forms and applications - home - contact - residents - business - visitors - city hall local: (709) noskype 637-1500 quick links contact mayor or council find a business find a staff person get a building permit get travel information search home >
laundry room tips when buying a new clothes washer, consider purchasing a water-saving  model.
encourage your school system and local government to help develop and  promote a water conservation ethic among children and adults.
this will also retain more of the nutrients.
- wash only full loads in the clothes washer.
- do one thing each day that will save water.
think about ecoscaping your yard.
studies show that as much as half of this outdoor use is wasteful.
- fill the basin or a pan with water to wash fruits and vegetables.
planting add two to four inches of organic material, such as peat or compost, to  the soil.
it can cause yellowing leaves or poor plant health.