select no region you are in: pacific northwest
learn more watch the latest from over 200 how-to videos from all of our expert  gardening resources.
the  pacific ocean provides stable temperatures with an average difference of only  30 degrees between winter and summer highs.
this region is a mostly hot, dry climate, with a dry summer and a  (comparatively) rainy winter.
the mid-south has mild winters and hot, humid summers.
coastal  areas are slightly warmer than the interior cities.
central florida is flat with an almost subtropical  climate.
you are in: central florida central florida includes orlando, the tampa bay area, sarasota and west to  the cape canaveral area.
southern california includes the los angeles metropolitan area south to san diego.
gardening buying guides
central florida includes orlando, the tampa bay area, sarasota and west to the cape canaveral area.
long, hot, and humid summers and temperate winters characterize this region.
the panhandle area of oklahoma is also included in this region.
when mulch is spread out in a 2-4-inch layer on top of a  garden bed, it will protect against erosion, help prevent pests from invading  and conserve moisture, saving you time and money spent on repairs to your  garden later.
short summers and  long winters characterize alaska gardening.
the pacific ocean provides stable temperatures with an average difference of only 30 degrees between winter and summer highs.
the northeast region includes the new england states and eastern upstate new york.
the southern florida region includes fort meyers, naples, miami, fort lauderdale and the florida keys.
when mulch is spread out in a 2-4-inch layer on top of a garden bed, it will protect against erosion, help prevent pests from invading and conserve moisture, saving you time and money spent on repairs to your garden later.
this region extends from the deserts of southwestern california through las  vegas and reno, nevada, through arizona, new mexico, and the western texas  cities of midland and lubbock.
by selecting no region, you are choosing to receive our national content.
summers are hot, humid, and rainy.
the northeast has long, cold winters and warm, humid summers.
learn more plant library browse our library and use your plant tags to receive even more details  about your planting projects.
encompassing most of virginia, maryland, eastern pennsylvania, delaware, new jersey and new york city and long island, cool winters and exceptionally humid summers are characteristic of this region.
ft. brown mulchmargo garden products sku# 133614 $2.97 2 cu.
you are in: southern california southern california includes the los angeles metropolitan area south to san  diego.
high altitudes, snow, cold winters, and hot summers  characterize this region.
areas of the state near the water  have more moderate climates than interior areas.
the wind, salt from the  ocean, and volcanic soil are all challenges for hawaiian gardeners.
you are in: southern coast the southern coast covers coastal regions of texas, louisiana, mississippi,  alabama and the panhandle of florida.
you are in: carolina coast the carolina coast includes the outer banks of north carolina, south to  wilmington, myrtle beach and charleston.
learn more get professional answers to your lawn and garden questions within 24 hours.
the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio, michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
you are in: desert southwest
major metropolitan areas of this region include denver, kansas city, st. louis, des moines, and lincoln.
the southern florida region includes fort meyers, naples, miami, fort  lauderdale and the florida keys.
you are in: alaska the alaska region includes the entire state of alaska.
you are in: hawaii hawaii gardeners in honolulu and other cities have similar challenges to  gardeners in more rural areas of the hawaiian island.
often described as "mediterranean" in nature, native as well as plants from around the world thrive in northern california gardens.
an expert get professional answers to your lawn and garden questions within 24 hours.
mulch in various forms can also be used tocreate a soft path or an affordable patio area, help keep weeds at bay and finish the area  under trees where most plants can't grow.
cold winters, hot summers, and low rainfall challenge gardeners of the central great plains.
sandy soil, tidal marshes and a climate influenced by the gulf of mexico affect gardeners in the southern coast region.
rainy winters and clear, dry summers in this area mean that plants grow year-round.
mulch in various forms can also be used tocreate a soft path or an affordable patio area, help keep weeds at bay and finish the area under trees where most plants can't grow.
learn morehow-to videos watch the latest from over 200 how-to videos from all of our expert gardening resources.
you are in: mid-atlantic encompassing most of virginia, maryland, eastern pennsylvania, delaware,  new jersey and new york city and long island, cool winters and exceptionally  humid summers are characteristic of this region.
the desert southwest region has mild winters, blazing hot  summers, and low humidity.
gardeners in bismark, fargo, grand forks, rapid city, and minneapolis are used to cold, windy winters and warm, dry summers.
it's available in many forms, from shredded wood and bark nuggets to  rubber and stone.
for more tips on fending off weeds,  check outeasy weed management for your flower beds.
this region includes the coastal areas of washington and oregon.
winters are mild and dry.
for more tips on fending off weeds, check outeasy weed management for your flower beds.
once chosen, you will receive gardening articles, advice and information both nationally and specific to your location.
rainy winters and clear, dry  summers in this area mean that plants grow year-round.
switch the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio,  michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
mild winters and hot, humid summers combined with sandy soil present challenges for garden and lawn care.
the wind, salt from the ocean, and volcanic soil are all challenges for hawaiian gardeners.
it's available in many forms, from shredded wood and bark nuggets to rubber and stone.
this region is a mostly hot, dry climate, with a dry summer and a (comparatively) rainy winter.
the carolina coast includes the outer banks of north carolina, south to wilmington, myrtle beach and charleston.
from monterey county to the state border and from san francisco to san jose and sacramento to lake tahoe, the climate of northern california is widely varied.
gardeners in bismark, fargo, grand forks, rapid city, and  minneapolis are used to cold, windy winters and warm, dry summers.
high altitudes, snow, cold winters, and hot summers characterize this region.
long, hot, and humid summers  and temperate winters characterize this region.
you are in: northeast the northeast region includes the new england states and eastern upstate  new york.
shop now shop nowtop 1 yd brown mulchsku# 130807 $38.95 27 cu.
you are in: mid-south the mid-south region stretches from oklahoma through arkansas, tennessee,  kentucky, and most of north carolina.
you are in: northern california from monterey county to the state border and from san francisco to san jose  and sacramento to lake tahoe, the climate of northern california is widely  varied.
often described as "mediterranean" in nature, native as well  as plants from around the world thrive in northern california gardens.
you are in: deep south eastern texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, georgia, and south carolina  combine to form the deep south gardening region.
learn more the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio, michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
coastal areas are slightly warmer than the interior cities.
areas of this region near the  atlantic are more temperate and warmer in the winter.
this region extends from the deserts of southwestern california through las vegas and reno, nevada, through arizona, new mexico, and the western texas cities of midland and lubbock.
eastern texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama, georgia, and south carolina combine to form the deep south gardening region.
you are in: central great plains from denver, colorado, west to eastern missouri, the central great plains  region includes eastern colorado, nebraska, iowa, missouri, and kansas.
ask fellow garden club members to help you identify your mystery plants.
sandy soil, tidal marshes and a climate  influenced by the gulf of mexico affect gardeners in the southern coast region.
nature scapes advance brown mulchscotts sku# 246246 $4.97
learn moreplant care guides boost your plant knowledge with over 100 easy-to-use guides to our most popular plants.
rocky mountains gardening advice for the rocky mountain region covers eastern washington  and eastern oregon, idaho, montana, wyoming, western colorado, utah, and  northern nevada.
central florida is flat with an almost subtropical climate.
areas of this region near the atlantic are more temperate and warmer in the winter.
hawaii gardeners in honolulu and other cities have similar challenges to gardeners in more rural areas of the hawaiian island.
my region we’ve recognized your region as: great lakes not your region?
the southern coast covers coastal regions of texas, louisiana, mississippi, alabama and the panhandle of florida.
by selecting no region, you are choosing to receive  our national content.
major metropolitan areas of this region include denver, kansas city,  st. louis, des moines, and lincoln.
gardeners  living in chicago, indianapolis, evansville, milwaukee, madison, columbus,  cleveland, and springfield will find information for success with gardening and  lawn care.
once chosen, you  will receive gardening articles, advice and information both nationally and  specific to your location.
the panhandle area of oklahoma is also included  in this region.
the mid-south region stretches from oklahoma through arkansas, tennessee, kentucky, and most of north carolina.
you are in: great lakes the great lakes region includes illinois, wisconsin, indiana, ohio,  michigan, west virginia, western pennsylvania, and western new york.
read my monthly to-do list please select your region on the map.
gardeners living in chicago, indianapolis, evansville, milwaukee, madison, columbus, cleveland, and springfield will find information for success with gardening and lawn care.
cold  winters, hot summers, and low rainfall challenge gardeners of the central great  plains.
learn more boost your plant knowledge with over 100 easy-to-use guides to our most  popular plants.
you are in: southern florida
mild winters and hot, humid summers  combined with sandy soil present challenges for garden and lawn care.
the northern great plains region includes south dakota, north dakota, and minnesota.
areas of the state near the water have more moderate climates than interior areas.
the alaska region includes the entire state of alaska.
one of the most beneficial and affordable treatments for your garden is mulch.
red mulchsku# 131704 $38.95 1 yd black mulchsku# 131833 $38.95 1 yd cypress mulchsku# 131899 $43.95 2.0 cu.
this is a true subtropical gardening region with long, hot, rainy summers and dry, mild winters.
gardening advice for the rocky mountain region covers eastern washington and eastern oregon, idaho, montana, wyoming, western colorado, utah, and northern nevada.
this is a true subtropical gardening region  with long, hot, rainy summers and dry, mild winters.
from denver, colorado, west to eastern missouri, the central great plains region includes eastern colorado, nebraska, iowa, missouri, and kansas.
short summers and long winters characterize alaska gardening.
the overall yearly temperatures vary only 40 degrees from winter to summer.
join now >forgot your password?
choosing the right mulch made easy send  to a friend x close one of the most beneficial and affordable treatments for your garden is  mulch.
more there are no polls available right now.
my monthly to-do list regional gardening map please select your region on the map.
the desert southwest region has mild winters, blazing hot summers, and low humidity.
learn moreplant library browse our library and use your plant tags to receive even more details about your planting projects.
the overall yearly temperatures vary only 40 degrees from winter to  summer.
the mid-south has mild winters and hot,  humid summers.
you are in: northern great plains the northern great plains region includes south dakota, north dakota, and  minnesota.