help: product enquiry price match contact us send to a friend product options market price: $94.02 save 15% sale price: $79.92 shipping cost: free shipping today sku coll-br-44 weight 5.00 lbs ships within 3 to 5 business days multiple sizes yes material polyester capacity 44 gallons capacity 58 gallons overall size 24"h x 24"dia, 28"h x 24"dia shipping method ups shipping time 1 to 5 business days warranty 1 year manufacturers warranty availability in stock available sizes 44 gallon capacity 58 gallon capacity quantity 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50
a 44 gallon or 58 gallon size is available.
assembly, transport, and storage is made easy with the six detachable heavy duty resin legs.
see all products from jj international, inc. collapsible rain barrels  sku: coll-br-44
itscompact size and versatile design allows it to  be used with your gutter downspout or with a rain chain.
the barrel features an overflow tap that can be used to link two barrels together.
the barrel is supported by six heavy duty resin legs.
our many years of experience has given us time to improve our products to high standards while offering competitive prices.
this rain barrel is made from flexible  laminated polyest.......continued product reviews:
it describes one's personality, which is a crucial element of impression.
about the features manufacturer details - collapsible for simple storage and transport - made of three layered flexible laminated polyester - pvc coating provides uv resistance - included filter keeps out debris and insects - overflow tap can also be used to link two barrels - water tap features on/off valve - valve fits standard ¾ hose - two-way zippered top - reinforced stitching and welded seams - available in 44 or 58 gallon sizes - 44 gallon dimensions: 24h x 24diameter - 58 gallon dimensions: 28h x 24diameter jj international, inc. at jj international, inc., we understand that a home is an important part of a person's life.
about the materials each collapsible rain barrel is made of  three layered, flexible laminated polyester with a pvc coating.
home  » rain barrels » collapsible rain barrels collapsible rain barrels click on  thumbnails below to enlarge image description our collapsible rain barrel allows you to reuse  rain water that is perfect for gardening as it is better for your plants than  tap water.
the zipper top featuresreinforced stitching and all seams are welded to prevent tearing.
see all products from jj international, inc. collapsible rain barrels sku: coll-br-44
very good good fair poor review title: your name: your message: add ratings and review information about simplyrainbarrels help center glossary knowledge database customer service contact us order status gift certficates low price protection rewards points shipping & returns shipping rates no hassle return guarantee delivery times security & privacy privacy policy safe & secure shopping terms & conditions satisfaction guarantee special become a supplier quote request buy rain barrels and tanks, on sale and shipped quickly to you | copyright © 2005-2012 simplyrainbarrels
these  products have served our customers well in the past years, and we are still  commi...
also included is a water tap on the front  of the barrel with an on/off valve and a removable quick release hose  attachment.
the collapsible design allows the barrel to be easily moved and stored.
about the materials each collapsible rain barrel is made of three layered, flexible laminated polyester with a pvc coating.
24”diameter 58 gallon dimensions: 28”h x 24”diameter manufacturer  details jj international, inc. at jj international, inc., we  understand that a home is an important part of a person's life.
collapsible rain barrels collapsible rain barrels click on thumbnails below to enlarge image our collapsible rain barrel allows you to reuse rain water that is perfect for gardening as it is better for your plants than tap water.
assembly,  transport, and storage is made easy with the six detachable heavy duty  resin legs.
included filter keeps out debris and insects overflow tap can also be used to link two barrels water tap features on/off valve valve fits standard ¾” hose two-way zippered top reinforced stitching and welded seams available in 44 or 58 gallon sizes 44 gallon dimensions:
the zipper top featuresreinforced stitching  and all seams are welded to prevent tearing.
a 44  gallon or 58 gallon size is available.
about the design the collapsible rain barrel is perfect for  smaller garden areas.
these products have served our customers well in the past years, and we are still commi...
theincluded filter keeps out debris and insects.
this  product is part of the collapsible rain barrel collection view items  customers purchased with this item
this product is part of the collapsible rain barrel collection view items customers purchased with this item - made of three layered flexible laminated polyester - collapsible design allows for easy storage - available in 44 or 58 gallon size - included filter keeps out debris and insects - easy assembly, just insert the legs our collapsible rain barrel allows you to reuse rain water that is perfect for gardening as it is better for your plants than tap water.
itscompact size and versatile design allows it to be used with your gutter downspout or with a rain chain.
the valve fits a standard ¾” diameter hose.
this is why jj  international, inc. has been working over 22 years to furnish homes with  outstanding quality products.
view cart :: checkout :: order tracking :: your account :: help center customer service: 800.448.2870 mon - fri 9am to 9pm / sat & sun 10am to 5pm est order online anytime - home - rain barrels - rain tank systems - rain barrel and tank accessories - rain barrel accessories - rain tank accessories
within 3 to 5 business days customers also bought customers who bought this item also bought...
the barrel is supported by six  heavy duty resin legs.
made of three layered flexible laminated polyester collapsible design allows for easy storage available in 44 or 58 gallon size included filter keeps out debris and insects easy assembly, just insert the legs our collapsible rain  barrel allows you to reuse rain water that is perfect for gardening as it is  better for your plants than tap water.
rts flat back rain barrel-mud brown 55 gallon usa rain barrel rate and review
ratings rating excellent!
this is why jj international, inc. has been working over 22 years to furnish homes with outstanding quality products.
this uv resistant material provides durable outdoor protection and will not puncture if used under normal conditions.
- waterflow controllers - garden accessories - compost bins - composter accessories - hose holders - planters - window boxes - watering cans - rain chains - rain chain leaders - birdbaths - garden tanks - water fountains - shopping cart - contact us - knowledgebase - help center home »
our many years of experience has given us time to  improve our products to high standards while offering competitive prices.
the barrel features an overflow tap that can  be used to link two barrels together.
this product usually ships
it describes  one's personality, which is a crucial element of impression.
this uv  resistant material provides durable outdoor protection and will not puncture if  used under normal conditions.
the  collapsible design allows the barrel to be easily moved and stored.
the valve fits a standard ¾ diameter hose.
about the design the collapsible rain barrel is perfect for smaller garden areas.
theincluded filter  keeps out debris and insects.
also included is a water tap on the front of the barrel with an on/off valve and a removable quick release hose attachment.
this rain barrel is made from flexible laminated polyest.......continued product reviews: read all customer reviews customers rate this: (6 ratings)
this rain barrel is made from flexible laminated polyester which provides superior strength, durability, and resistance to weathering.
about the features collapsible for simple storage and transport made of three layered flexible laminated polyester pvc coating provides uv resistance