before the meet began, coach meg kaplan stressed to the swimmers that this meet could be tough mainly because all of suffern’s relay teams were ranked with faster times than greeley’s.
all three categories may be entered, but no more than one submission per category will be accepted, so submit your best work.
established in 2002 in an effort to  revitalize the area following the september 11th attacks, mhs is an inclusive  college preparatory high school that provides a rigorous liberal arts academic  program in a responsive and flexible learning environment.
in addition to the celebration of lyndall boal, the event will feature paired wines, creative cuisine, a fabulous silent auction and many more exciting and very special surprises.
is must be nice living minutes from your store, did you close your store in bedford hills because your commute was too far?
the final dagger came on a byram hills three with under a minute left, resulting in the 58-54 win for the bobcats.
“but i’d rather live another year with shabby sidewalks and get some confidence back from customers,” lupica concluded.
see more photos in “read more…” monday, january 23, 2012 by bruce yablon
jan. 17: if you schedule an orientation before january 21, you’ll be in time to attend two saturday training sessions on january 21 and 28.
i truly enjoy the hands-on aspect of fixing and/or building something.
teacher diana walker, a new castle resident, says that by the end of the winter session students will have the basics of spanish conversation.
not necessarily, but i do really get the warm fuzzies when a customer walks in and says they are a total “paper person” and they really get what i’m trying to do here!
get tools including mower blade sharpened.
every ticket you buy—$12 for adults, $10 for kids—supports quality library programs.
once the crust gets to be a nice golden brown carefully flip the fillets over and add the lemon juice to the pan.
rest assured football/super bowl fans, we will be loaded up for the big game.
however, progress has been made.
wood, clay, paint, architecture ...
i donate 100% of the proceeds of our february 12 zumba sessions to the spca of westchester.
according to town clerk and receiver of taxes jill simon shapiro, the 10% penalty that attaches on february 1 to any late payment has been arrived at gradually.
each child attending will meet the quakers and the lady quakers and receive individualized attention from the quaker hoopsters, while concentrating on the fundamentals and mechanics of the game.
benjamin mark van doren
of course, all of the above would work just as well for those (like me) who will be settling into another episode of downton abbey instead of watching football… see you at the market!
why “terrorism is easy.
~ laverne srinivasan
”eviction in progress” that powerful interests understand ows to be an unacceptable threat to the status quo—socialism for the super-rich, sink-or-swim capitalism for everyone else—was made clear a month and a half later when cities across the country launched a coordinated campaign to crush the (mostly) peaceable occupy assemblies, which had spread rapidly after the mass arrests that day on the bridge.
of the 197 candidates who applied for the roaring brook opening, 56 were sitting principals, 80 were “other administrators,” and 61 were designated as “other.”
all camps are licensed by the department of health and adhere to all regulations set by the county and state health departments.
and, yes, richie is a better skier.
how are assignments made?
davis wertheimer research project: “implicit processes in conscious problem-solving” science research teachers: ms. naomi cook and dr. trudy gessler mentor: professor kenneth kotovsky from the psychology department of carnegie-mellon davis wertheimer how did you choose your research subject?
have you always been so active with community events?
pascale ledraoulec is director of the chappaqua farmers market
however, i need challenges to keep going, doing better and making real contributions.
marriage is complicated”?
superintendent mckay to recommend robert rhodes as next principal of  horace greeley high school current millennium high school principal offers expertise in  professional, team, program and communal development.
scott wymbs stole the show once again beating a connecticut state runner-up in the finals.
see our quick list of offerings below.
high school winners are announced at the spring awards assembly.
awards athletic honor roll boys soccer ceremony cross country fall sports honorees football girls soccer swimming the slideshow requires javascript and flash town hall will be open from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.; pay online till 11:59 p.m. january 30, 2012 by christine yeres bright green postcards went out two weeks ago to the 2200 residents who had not yet paid the second half of their school taxes, which must be postmarked or received by the tax office by close-of-business on tuesday, january 31.
design new beds, determine which plants are needed and make a list of all the requirements to get things ready as soon as the ground thaws in spring.
give elbow grease or donate money those interested in assisting the local team by supporting the purchase of building materials for the project can make donations through paypal on the osh web site:www.onesmallhouse.org/ or by check payable to one small house, 5001 stonecrest drive, brewster, n.y. donations by check must be accompanied by a form downloaded from the osh web site.
i would imagine it’s tough to compete with nationwide companies.
more photos in “read more…” and in photo gallery monday, january 30, 2012 sculpture in the garden
it is a highly regarded text that our administrative team and board of education will be reading and discussing in january.
instead of using your window space to highlight your merchandise, you have photos of all the greeley teams, do your customers appreciate that?
when i called the number listed in the magazine for subscriptions, i was informed that the subscriptions were ordered through a publisher clearing house or magazine subscription service.
town justice judge david zuckerman – town justice michael kaplowitz – county legislator wednesday, january 4, 2012 7:00 pm town hall 200 south greeley avenue chappaqua, ny december 30, 2011
make your reservations now.
sign up for this class and receive a free personal assessment to outline your areas of strength and weakness.
the starkness of certain spots are simply in obvious need of something to beguile the winter weary heart .
please call or e-mail emily at (914) 375-2151 with any questions or if you are interested in organizing an additional date for your group.
in its january 31 meeting, the board of ed heard updates on the searches from paul citarella, interim assistant superintendent for human resources, grafflin principal mike kirsch and westorchard principal jim skoog.
i’m not quite sure where i’ll stand on future plans in two years, but right now i am considering pursuing a graduate degree in musicology, law, or perhaps eventually teaching at the collegiate level.
but at the same time, they don’t realize it.
ask yourself: what happens when a not-quite separated husband goes on a blind date behind his wife’s back, and meets a beautiful terrorist obsessed with cupcakes?
this requires that habitually shod runners learn to change their foot-strike patterns from a heel-strike to a toe-strike technique.
in order to graduate, students must complete three exhibitions, one per year.
they will also receive four fewer hours of music instruction, and two hours less of all other non-core classes in exchange for an additional 48 hours of instruction in their four core classes (math, science, english, and social studies).
their fan base is growing as quickly as august potted basil!
how often do the college kids and elementary kids meet?
rising 10th grade rising 11th grade rising 12th
bing bing xie, 120 pounds, just came back from a knee injury to wrestle one of port chester’s toughest wrestlers.
he wrestled his heart out and had his opponent on his back several times but could not put him away.
the “i” in the text refers to you, a putative obama supporter; and your pre-assigned role in the 2012 election drama is to express solidarity with the most powerful person on the planet—a man who isn’t even looking in your direction.
the chappaqua turf committee’s expanded plans additonal fees (not shown) are associated with each • reconstruct the running track—$380,000 • replace tennis court lights (with same as on football field, directed downward)—$110,000 • resurface the tennis courts—$30,000 • concession stand, mechanical room, restrooms—$40,000 • entrance plaza and walkway to the field—$210,000 • correct drainage to visitor side of the field—$20,000 • construct restrooms—$104,000 • septic and sewer—$20,000 • scoreboard matrix—$90,000 • press box renovation (at the top of the home bleachers)—$25,000 • move the handicap ramp to the bleachers (they now prevent access to the ground floor storage under the press box)—$8,000 registration for summer camps begins on monday february 6
taking third for the greeley was alex conta (75lbs), and aaron wolk (100lbs).
greeley responded in the third period with aggressive defense, two quick reverse layups by teddy graves, and a rebound hoop by brett klein forcing harrison to call timeout with greeley storming to a 26-22 lead.
because it is their first experience with the exhibition process, we have created some special systems to support them.
in addition to the suggestion to raise the commercial tax base, the following items were suggested as possible sources of revenue for the district.
our present location is by far the best and we are here to stay.
the quakers closed the quarter on a high note, with brown making a layup, ciero nailing another three and brown tipping in a shot off a missed jumper.
volunteers under 16 years of age must be supervised by an adult.
“three parents and a teacher are summarizing our work to date,” wrote mckay in an email, “which we will put on the website.
“yes,” mckay responded.
sure, a ten percent discount for the next week.
their other concern is board members’ inability to judge whether boces’ plan is fiscally sound.
i’m not against all non-native plants.
is this a book board members will read over the holiday and discuss at the january 31 meeting?
it’s a completely different running style.
last winter’s frequent snow storms gave our wovel a run for the money.
to remember that both plants and humans are highly resilient and will therefore surmount crises such as storms, pests or hangovers.
“from budgeting and long-term planning to curriculum design and professional development, he is well versed in the many facets of school operations and has a proven track record of putting students first and creating a learner-centered environment where everyone can succeed.”
they can be “hard” works of art made of wood, metal or stone or “soft,” when plants are shaped into topiaries.
weadock, whose daughter was diagnosed at four years old with a severe sensory integration disorder, became fascinated with the effects multi-sensory experiences had on her child’s ability to understand, accept and adapt to her world.
to catch up on school board matters, visit ncnow’s “schools” page.
nature herself provides endless choices: the gardener simply has to plant well.
and to laugh and applaud at the athleticism, tricks, and ball-handling wizardry of the amazing harlem wizards.
nothing less, nothing more.
wouldn’t that be an interesting departure from chicken wings on sunday?
tributes to bingham ray, 1954 - 2012 below are links to several of the articles and tributes that have been written about bingham upon his untimely death.
higher than normal temperatures meant their vital winter slumber was disturbed.
what’s the definition of success?
how long has your store been a member of our community?
greeley hockey has improved greatly this year but the depth and talent of the rye team was simply too much.
if a water hose is close at hand, spray the coyote with water in the face.
what do you think the town could do to make conditions better for business?
________________________ visit ncnow.org’s business section to see other “merchant of the week” pieces by rob greenstein.
this, combined with my experience with my mother, leads me to suspect the subscription service companies target elderly to “dump” subscriptions in order to increase circulation.
sales have been increasing.
we had been operating the bedford hills store for six years with nine years still left on our lease.
allisa harvey, the king’s scribe photos by kevan full, atkevanslens.com; see more in photo gallery february 3, 2012 by rob greenstein with valentine’s day approaching, i dropped in to the king’s scribe to see how to score some points with my wife.
the ceff committee has chosen three action items.
for the last two years, stoltz has been interviewing men and women in new york’s faith-based homeless shelters and translating their stories into visual fiber art panels that make up the interior walls of the structure.
where did you get the teaching bug?
this room is equipped with massage chairs and ipads for parents to chat, read, watch movies or catch up on the latest breakthroughs in children’s learning patterns and learning disabilities.
ten balls-and-boxes variations were solved over three trials to determine subjects’ relative proficiency rates in successive tasks.
sigmon and his wife, paula wiles sigmon, are part of the first trip—along with dave dobson, team leader and fellow pcmk member.
cheryl jacobs ehrlich is on the board of the friends of the chappaqua library and a contributor to newcastlenow.org.
items mentioned at the café include: * seek efficiencies in transportation, reduce number of buses, eliminate short routes.
somatosensory stimulation was delivered to the left and the right hands.
how is running a store with your wife?
i had about three minutes in which to observe this well-planned, extremely efficient operation before i was spotted by a cop, who made it clear that what i was doing—standing on a public sidewalk, filming public employees from across the street as they performed public business in a public park—was not allowed, not tonight.
with zuccotti and the other centralized occupy camps shut down one by one, these sorts of demilitarized zones within the economic war of all against all—where the spirit of cooperation and sharing survives amid the general reign of greed and fiscal austerity—are free to proliferate.
always a fun and heartwarming evening, this annual fundraiser helps to “make up the difference” for greeley graduates who need financial assistance in order to make their dream of attending college a reality.
they can be heard howling and yipping at night, or even during the day in response to sirens and other loud noises.
the film that resulted is a cinematic quest that takes viewers from the bayous of louisiana to the deserts of namibia, from the beaches of brazil to the mountains of bhutan.
although attempts have been made to keep the identities of the finalists confidential, as board member jeffrey mester noted, once candidates appear for rounds in the schools, confidentiality is breached.
earning decisions for greeley were: bing bing xie (120) 3-2 over stephen paternostro and mitchell klein (138) 7-5 over thomas marrone.
marci garson’s report of the evening follows.
though i expected a bit of a lull after december, i’m actually busier than ever with wedding invitations and bar and bat mitzvahs.
while this is bringing the district supposed savings of approximately $500,000 per year (though it could actually be less as seven bridges may need to hire one or two new teachers), i immediately questioned how this will impact the students.
having been practicing all of the above for some years now, in no way makes me smug.
“i’m new,” said greenberg, “but i feel as though it’s so hideous down at our end of the street, with no lighting or anything and a landlady who won’t do anything
you may see a coyote in the daytime.
i know you have expressed interest in working with the turf committee to help raise money, why is that so important to you?
both pantries distribute fresh produce once/month.
the storm one week ago, on january 21, was the first for which crews laid down a pre-application of brine.
as it did with the parking lot redo behind the south greeley shops, the town is attempting to accomplish the most dramatic of the repairs to lower king during the summer months, when the population is low.
or, imagine coming upon a lovely work of art in the middle of a quiet woodland.
teachers from across the chappaqua school district!
whether it’s coaching sports or donating to local charities and schools, we always make time to help out.
hope to see you at camp!!
rebuilding has begun, and some people have moved out of their temporary quarters and returned home.
think how interesting are the barks of birch, acer, plane or shag.
how long have you and your store been part of our community?
this was the first game for both teams after the school recess and both harrison and greeley started slowly in the first half, with points coming at a premium.
the benefits will not be realized for many years, but the district/town must start exploring options at once.
travel expenses can be reimbursed.
for some students, this is the first time they will get to work with the professional team assembled by the theater company: director kevin kearins, chorographer linda sabatelli-carelli and musical director john bowen.
install perimeter fencing and exterior motion sensor lighting around yard areas!
teams participating in this event include the horace greeley quakers, the eastchester eagles, the yonkers bulldogs, the ossining indians, the north rockland huguenots, the mount vernon knights, the new rochelle panthers, the scarsdale raiders and the beacon bulldogs.
since he worked six days a week, this construction project went on for quite some time.
we finished 18-6 for the season and finished second in the league behind state-ranked fox lane.
maybe now is the time to change our name togreeley ez sports.
all new students are assigned to an advisory that remains together through 12th grade.
113-pounder kirby atlas stepped on the mat and beat senior, captain joey rodriquez 3-2.
all activities are permitted seven days a week during daylight hours only.
photos by kevan full, at kevanslens.com; see more in photo gallery february 10, 2012 by rob greenstein
we carry a wide variety of “the perfect gift” items ranging from exotic candles to outdoor statuary.
author/foodie pascale ledroulec is director of the chappaqua farmers market.
she will be doing a cooking demo at the market this week using fresh fish fillets from pura vida, encrusted with cilantro and sea-salt onion cashews from tierra farms and topped with a savory jam from renee’s jams (also here this week).
scott continues to dominate at the 195-pound weight class.
“i would love a beautiful little park at the end of the street.
each year the friends of the chappaqua library sponsors the young writers contest, to find and recognize writing of merit in the community.
(these are the five parallel whitish tracks that appear on road surfaces as the brine dries.)
she confirmed that engineers have judged south greeley to be the more urgent case, to be tackled in 2013.
~robert b. cumming iris publishing group
we believe if you treat your employees like family they will take care of your business like they are part of your family and—most importantly— take care of our customers like they are part of our family.
in 1972 she co-founded ms. magazine and the following year she became the founding president of the ms. foundation for women.
rhodes is the founding and current principal of millennium high school in lower manhattan’s financial district.
if the news networks weren’t going to provide live coverage of hundreds of people being arrested over the course of several hours on the brooklyn bridge, ordinary people would step up and do it themselves.
scoring wins by forfeit were: scott wymbs (195) and billy marino (220).
in avenging its only two league losses from last year, the greeley boys’ varsity basketball team rumbled past the port chester rams on wednesday evening, 62-42.
i loved working at the store, whenever needed.
january 2, 2012 by matt nordt along with middle school coaches jeff knisley (seven bridges) and jason lummel (bell), the new castle rec department is starting a bowling program for grades 6-8 to replace the one that was cut from schools.
as i moved to comply, several police officers clad in riot gear carried a non-resisting young woman by her limp limbs toward the same barricade and placed her safely behind the metal barriers, where a now-former occupier helped her to her feet.
january 13, 2012 by pascale ledraoulec on an impulse, and because my contractor friend had some free time on his hands, i decided to remodel my kitchen during the holidays.
they have a patch of white fur around the lower jaw and neck.
his was transported to the hospital with a fractured skull.
whether you’re a beginner or a devoted practitioner—come join me for one, two, or all three sessions of zumba!
a coordinated effort by town and business groups to “lure” businesses to town is needed.
maria can also answer any ingredient or cooking questions you may have while shopping.
interesting fountains, sundials and birdbaths do double duty.
on wednesday, february 1st, the greeley wrestling team will honor its seven seniors and their parents during their match against pleasantville.
amy: when you live and work in your community it’s important to be involved in what’s going on.
we sent vibrations mainly to the right hand, then occasionally to the left instead, then analyzed the data.
in its application to the nys education department for the required approvals for the fields project, the board will include needed roof repairs to the greeley gym.
all tickets are $12 (plus a small transaction fee if purchased online) and are available for purchase through the seven bridges pta website: http://www.chappaquapta.net/sbhome.php largest cast in the history of the seven bridges pta theatre program all four grades at seven bridges are well represented in the cast.
the greeley 200 freestyle relay team won their event as well.
last year, when my husband threatened to buy a snow blower, i took swift and decisive action.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash next home game: wed. feb. 1, main gym, against pville brent lobien; more photos inside january 20, 2012 by coach mike debellis horace greeley came out victorious in a close match against league rival port chester, 39-37 on thursday evening to secure second place in the league.
january 2, 2012 by christine yeres youth basketball begins saturday, january 7.
this is just an opportunity for the board to, should they even chose to do so, initiate a brief discussion regarding whether or not to pursue the possibility of beginning to draft a 3rd strategic question.
in freshman year i sustained an injury in cross country, tendinitis in my knees.
data were collected and averaged over the 2nd, 4th, and 6th minute of each trial.
clients often have existing pots that we will come and plant, or we order them the containers they choose.
life is like that after all, setbacks and surprises are all part of it.
their primary foods include small rodents, rabbits, birds, deer, insects, frogs and snakes, and fruit and berries.
we’ve been here since march 2005.
i spoke with another former occupier who fled the park shortly before the police arrived out of fear that they would use tear gas; she had severe asthma, she said, and was afraid that she might have a potentially life-threatening asthma attack amid the confusion.
“having seen a number of [such reports], i think some points in the report are relatively self-evident.”
we have donated gift certificates, trays of food and advertise in school programs for plays and sports.
the second new section in putnam county connects tilly foster in putnam county to its new terminus on route 6, only one mile from the brewster train station.
girls’ cross country julia fortier all-league alexandra herzog all-league marissa rifkin all-league katherine rosenberg all-league jennifer taylor all-league, all-county boys’ cross country kolbe jendzejec all-league james lafortezza all-league, all-county matthew taylor all-league football jordan levy all-league tyler ferguson all-league alex scott all-league theodore graves all-league cory ekstrom all-league brent lobien all-league justin ciero all-league, all-section field hockey jillian green all-league, all-elite, all-section vaishali kumaraguru all-league, all-elite honorable mention, golden dozen sarah jane weill all-league olivia harris all-league girls soccer kaitlin mak all-league, all-section jennifer mak all-league melissa ardizzone all-league isabella berkey all-league, all-section, league player of the year olivia kerester all-league, all-section nicole levy all-league girls’
ncnow: that same january 31 meeting lists “board discussion: third strategic question.”
later in the discussion, visser provided an example.
now a senior in high school, she has already been accepted to college and hopes one day to write a book about her life “so that other kids like me won’t feel so alone.”
the interfaith emergency food pantry in pleasantville counts about 100 people among its regular clients, who come twice a month for non-perishables.
he also suggested that rather than spend $3 million to upgrade an existing therapeutic pool, boces consider constructing a pool that would be of use to its member districts’ swimming programs (for which many pay for use of outside pools).
kirby busted his lip in the second match of the day and continued to wrestle strong throughout the day despite extreme pain.
there are ways to observe and measure.
______________ related:  new: a peek at  lower manhattan’s millennium high school through its website, ncnow.org,  2/16/12.
strategic question 1 (budget/operations)
eighteen habitually shod recreational runners ran for three separate seven minute trials, including shod heel-strike, barefoot heel-strike, and barefoot toe-strike conditions.
greeley regained control of the game with its own 16-2 run.
we will be giving out horace greeley bandanas to the first 25 students to the match.
greeley continued its ability to control play against weaker teams with a 7-2 victory over byram hills on friday night.
board members are still unhappy that the formula used to calculate its share of the $18 million makes use of property value and enrollment numbers yet ignores usage of the programs, which is low for ccsd.
the top four place finishers in each weight class will earn the right to compete for the sectional title the following weekend at clarkstown south on saturday (february 11th) and pace university on sunday (february 12th).
all this to say that these days i’m keeping the cooking really simple.
any discount or giveaway for newcastlenow readers who mention this article?
in 1993, he joined school of the future’s humanities department and five years later transitioned to the administration team serving as assistant principal.
* several advisory sessions are be devoted to teaching and reviewing skills students may need to meet the standards of the project.
we need to figure out how to go forward.”
at halftime, the quakers were still down three, 30-27.
success at lowering the tax levy will have the perverse consequence of further limiting the expenditures for the following year.
the class will meet mondays, january 23, 30, february 6, 13, 27, march 5, 12 and 19 ( february 20 is a school holiday).
as founding principal, rhodes was instrumental in reaching out to and creating an advisory board composed of students, parents, community members, local business officials and politicians; recruiting all staff and students; articulating curriculum in all subject areas; securing millions of dollars in grant funding; and he even had a hand in the school’s layout and design.
this size group, supervised by two counselors, allows for lots of opportunities for relationships to build through shared activities.
buy tickets for $20 in advance and $25 at the door.
pps consultants walked the millwood hamlet with town planner david brito and several members of the millwood task force over the summer.
access also from saw mill river road (ardsley side).
barbara kornreich is president of the new castle community media center (nccmc).
onsaturday, february 4, come to ourcampapalooza!
for further information please contact the chappaqua continuing education office at 914-861-9421 or.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address).
exhibitions about exhibitions at mhs sophomore year marks the commencement of the mhs exhibition process.
this sunday, make yourparty spread local, too!
next up was undefeated rye, the fifth ranked team in ny state division 2 schools.
according to david hayes, public information office for ccsd, the knowledge café being facilitated by the members of the chappaqua education for the future (ceff) committee scheduled for february 15 has been rescheduled for wednesday, april 25 “so the ceff committee has more time to plan and prepare.”
they always have such beautiful steaks and this week they are bringing lots for those of you who plan to grill for your valentine.
in the meantime, browse our catalog: town camps 2012 february 3, 2012 by sheila bernson and jennifer mebes flagg tim bloom, an 11th grade student at horace greeley high school, has been chosen by the league of women voters of new castle to attend this year’s students inside albany conference, organized by the league of women voters of new york state.
our next home meet is on wednesday, february 1st at 4:30 p.m. in the main gym against our rival pleasantville.
the work will be shared in january through the ccsd electronic newsletter and will highlight the three areas of focus that we will move forward.
“all this is already happening,” said kiesel, fresh from the board’s walking tour of westorchard elementary (which they found very exciting, they all reported earlier in the meeting), “when they read big al [a children’s book by andrew clements, in which a big, scary-looking fish has trouble making friends with handsome little fish] and learn not to judge someone by their looks.
not only did we have our own district administration working to devise options for the new schedule, but the district even paid to have an expert come in and work with us to come up with the best possible options for our schools.
students may only make up two (2) classes in summer school.
tickets can be purchased at auntie penny, drug mart and marmalade – local community merchants who consistently support csf.
your name will then be on a list at the door on the day of the event.
protect your vegetable garden and produce!
as of today, the town has spent $83,256 for 46 hours of crew work and 666 tons of salt on 17 inches of snow.
the fighter: bingham ray (1954 – 2012) by eugene hernandez, the director of digital strategy for the film society of lincoln center and a co-founder ofindiewire; posted 1/24/12 on the film society of lincoln center blog sundance 2012: bingham ray remembered by kenneth turan, the film critic for the los angeles times and director for the los angeles times book prizes; posted 1/23/12 on thelos angeles times online the bingham ray film 101 syllabus by sasha bronner, who worked for bingham from 2008 – 2010.
according to linda paver, assistant executive director, child abuse prevention center, the majority of the people who go through the training program at the child abuse prevention center find it rewarding and useful in their own lives.
from a merchant point of view, what changes have you noticed over the years?
clicking the button will take you to a secure donation page.
being apart of the community here is very rewarding.
see photos below—and remember that ncnow welcomes additional photo submissions.
we’ll be swimming, going on exciting trips, holding some great special events and hosting some great entertainers.
tfa’s mission is built upon a very similar premise, and i’m really excited to do my best to make an even larger impact over the next couple of years.
sixth grader julia dalrymple, who portrays the young kangaroo, is “so excited to have a lead part.”
• millwood is an extremely wealthy community.
“i don’t think we necessarily succeed in our mission statement,” said mester.
no prior experience is necessary and volunteers are welcome from throughout westchester and surrounding counties.
whether to add a “third strategic question” • ceff knowledge cafe rescheduled for wed., april 25 • parent permission slip and driving form for saturday, february 11 winter dance • parents of seven bridge student struck by truck sue driver, ccsd, town and county • ceff knowledge cafe re-scheduled for wednesday, april 25
legal question: can the district still pay the salaries and other costs of the program, or do those costs have to be paid by a separate non-profit entity?
the young writers contest entry form and the official rules can be found on the friends’ page of the library’s website, at the bottom, or in the teen section.
the weather might still get harsh.
properly installed fencing will deter coyotes from entering these areas.
even a hedge trimmed to sharp edges and right angles can lend a contemporary air.
the clean, cool anise flavor makes it a natural for dips like taiim’s creamy hummus.
i fully recognize the problems and challenges we all face in today’s world, and i know that changes need to be made in the way education is funded and delivered in our district.
watch the happy trailer: happy trailer from monday, january 30, 2012 by ellen davis
must have facility with dialects and be able to radically change character on a dime.
weigh the trade off under their current contract teachers are required to teach up to 225 minutes per day.
development of bike trail seen as big economic boost the pps report had much to say about the economic advantages of developing the county bike trail as a defining feature of millwood.
he was down by several points with a minute left in the match and turned his opponent to his back for the pin.
of course, this is not to say that there is no longer any opportunity for students to find extra help after school.
i applied to teach for america (tfa) mainly because of a long-held passion for teaching.
there are five new businesses on lower king, so there will be an impact.”
since the season has been relatively snow-free, use this as an opportunity to keep tidying the garden by picking up fallen twigs and such.
various suggestions were made for increasing revenue.
the eviction has compelled the occupiers to extend their organizational reach and their demands for economic justice outward, into the very neighborhoods that have been hardest hit by the economic crash.
rich: after several years of working as pharmacists in new york city, we decided to open up our own store.
“isn’t that like asking ‘who’s for lower taxes?’” said mester.
for more information on the program please send an email to lea barth at .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address).
“the kids thought i was a ‘cool mom’… their parents thought i was nuts!!”
do you see the clearly empty spaces and wonder what can be done about them?
winners will be selected based on rigorous judging sessions and announced at a black-tie gala award ceremony at the national building museum on march 13.
all students must complete 1 semester of government, 1 semester of economics, 1 year of physics, and 1 year of algebra ii or equivalent.
teaches basketball: “president’s week” hoops (basketball) grades: k – 2 day & time: tuesday - friday, 9:00 am – 12:00 pm dates: february 21 - 24 fee: $160 location: grafflin elementary school or grades: 3 – 8 day & time: tuesday - friday, 9:00 am – 2:30 pm dates: february 21 - 24 fee: $200 location: bell middle school teen activities: february break teen treks **winter break special** snowtubing at tuxedo ridge grades: 5 – 8 program #: 490608 day & time: february 21, 9:45 am – 3:00 pm fee: $40 ice skating at bear
also inspired by jewish sources, stoltz decided to use the traditional jewish symbol of a sukkah as the vehicle for the art.
event-related potentials (erp - automatic, event-driven brain responses) were recorded and measured using high- density eeg covering the entire scalp.
the fourth period was a see-saw battle.
new castle recreation, in cooperation with cssd, offers camp programs in chappaqua schools: tots camp at roaring brook, on-the-go and camp adventure at seven bridges.
enjoy guided and independent eagle viewing, raptor shows, bus tours, storytelling, engaging children’s programs and activities, bird walks and displays from 30 local organizations.
i know who’s a better skier but who’s a better pharmacist?
on the board of ed’s january 31 meeting agenda is an item called “book study.”
the horace greeley scholarship fund ensures that no greeley graduate who needs financial assistance for college will be turned away and with your support we will continue to be able to “deliver the dream.”
the lights will allow night practice during hot weather days.
when bloomberg said two weeks later that the nypd was his “private army,” everyone who witnessed the zuccotti eviction knew that he was only half-joking.
you can purchase a ticket online here.
you can also sign up for instant alerts to your email or cellphone by subscribing to one of the three mailing lists.
for more information about the antiques lecture and appraisal series, please call the new castle historical society at 238-4666.
going into the tournament, we did not know what to expect.
my favorite local beer is captain lawrence on tap, as well as captain’s imperial reserve in a bottle.
all advisors have 15 to 20 students in their advisory and remain with their group for the four years.
by the end of the meet, the greeley aquamen had achieved a winning score of 95 to 83.
multiple proposed strategies are available for implicit solution, but previous studies couldn’t reveal which, if any, were predominant.
at the community center on senter street, from 11:00 a.m to 3:00 p.m. we’ve invited all of our day camp administrative staff, art camp, our sports camp staff and our specialty camp staff to speak with you and give out information.
does that word evoke images of marble statuary so typical of old, majestic italianate gardens or of the gnomes and jockey class of kitsch?
you can donate on “the chappaqua turf committee” web sitehttp://www.chappaquaturf.org.
to download a printable registration form for programs and classes, click here to visit the rec page of the town website, click here.
so excited, in fact, that she learned all of her lines before rehearsals even started!
the boys had been working five days a week getting ready for youth sectionals and it paid off.
wood ash from the fireplace can be applied anywhere the soil needs ‘sweetening’ that is, where the acidity must be reduced.
i’m always trying to find fun and different items to offer our customers.
suzi is the co-coordinator of gardens in chappaqua at the volunteer ambulance corps and in mt. kisco at the marsh sanctuary.
afterward, conditions became immeasurably worse.
this wacky snow removal device performs equal to or better than a snow blower, and doesn’t hurt your back at all.
the next event was the 200 freestyle where greeley’s risten clarke took the win.
the book’s title isgetting to yes, negotiating agreement without giving
occupying several floors of an office building near wall street,inside schools notes, the school has no gym; students “take physical education either in the fitness center or the multi-purpose room that also doubles as an auditorium.”
the idea is that with knowledge about this transition, people will take it in increments, not just go out and run five miles barefoot, but instead maybe run half a mile barefoot and the rest in shoes.
but because teachers are contractually limited to only 225 minutes, this does mean that any time that teachers spend at school after 2:40 pm will be their own time, unpaid, volunteering to help their students.
if possible, take care of matters right away.
email.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) to request authorization for your email address to both access the report and to comment on it.
they were asked, in the course of their in-school visits, to produce an on-demand writing sample and to explain a previous project or initiative they had worked on.
greeley was paced by 11 points by justin ciero and a long-range bomb by connor domershick.
every ticket comes with one free mini-cupcake.
cindy lupica of marmalade, in business for eight years, begged board members to spare lower king merchants the disruption.
if you put away bulbs for cooling in late fall, check the dates and start the process of forcing them.
eastchester high school: brian christopher mcgovern edgemont high school: vikrampal alexandar bhandari-young and apoorva ganjam talanki horace greeley high school: davis wong wertheimer ossining high school: amelia lyn clements, evan daniel olin, emily katherine prentiss and frances corene russell.
) state d.o.t handles all issues * state route 120 (between armonk and millwood town lines) - snow control plowing & sanding only new york state d.o.t. office (katonah); 914-232-3060 westchester county roads; * seven bridges road (from route 120 to yorktown line) - snow control plowing & sanding only * pines bridge road (between yorktown and ossining lines) - snow control plowing & sanding only * south greeley avenue (between north greeley avenue and pleasantville town line) - snow control plowing & sanding only * washington avenue (between south greeley avenue and pleasantville town line) - snow control plowing & sanding only * north state road (between route 100) and briarcliff town line) - snow control plowing & sanding only westchester county d.o.t. : 914-995-4951 town of new castle department of public works 914-238-3968 with 47 comments since publication january 13, 2012 by william gerrard
and i’m especially excited to do so in new york city, a place i’ve come to know and love so much.
provide adequate water, light, warmth and humidity.
there’s been a lot of attention in the media on, for example, vibram five fingers, minimalist footware that’s essentially the same as barefoot running.
anyone wishing to make a donation to the san francisco film society in honor of bingham ray should visit the sffs homepage,http://www.sffs.org. monday, january 30, 2012 from the friends of the chappaqua library seeking experienced actors for auditions for a staged reading of a new comedy, the cupcake conspiracy, by c.j. ehrlich and philip j. kaplan.
mike orbeta at 145 pounds had a tough loss by decision 7-12.
the core 9/10 academic sequence includes english, biology/chemistry, global history, math, foreign language, as well as physical education/health and art.
journal news, the parents of the student (age 14 at the time) struck by a truck on his way to seven bridges school filed suit in november in state supreme court in white plains against the truck driver, the school district, the town and county, “saying that the governments,” according to ganga, “all had a duty to provide safe routes to school and to install traffic-control devices and a crosswalk.”
“i’m all for beautification,” she said.
gather up the seed and plant catalogs.
both sides run up the score in the fourth during the fourth quarter, baskets came quickly for both sides with greeley relying heavily on brown inside and ciero from the outside.
these areas provide cover for coyotes and their prey.
why send your child away for the summer when there is so much to offer here?
the slideshow requires javascript and flash next home meet: 4:30 p.m. wednesday against fox lane more photos in “read more…” monday, january 9, 2012 by coach mike debellis kirby atlas, billy marino, matt mercer, and scott wymbs propelled greeley to a 7th place finish at the chad antoch tournament in westerly, rhode island on saturday, january 7th.
in the 200 individual medley, greeley’s ian cooper took second place.
a gigantic heart on her porch marks the spot.
the evening includes great food and drink, music, a terrific silent auction and a few surprises.”
both are 17-year-old seniors.
students created their own research questions based on their experiences in school.
[the mhs website lists pdfs for summer assignments in the following areas:] ap art ap language ap literature incoming 9th
one of the first things i was told was that the district had decided upon the new schedule for the middle schools—next year students will have six 55-minute classes each day instead of the current schedule of eight 40-minute periods.
owen gatto created many opportunities for his teammates, gathering 3 assists.
the poster makes no mention of whether he has our back; whether, for example, heavily indebted americans might one day receive the same kind of “bailout” protection against catastrophic financial loss as do rich, well-connected firms like goldman sachs and citigroup.
westchester county parks for skiing and sledding and skating as winter arrives and temperatures start to drop, westchester residents can get ready to head out for some great winter fun at locations all over the county.
for more updated information, check out our camp website at www.ncdaycamps.com.
the yard waste drop off area, farther north on hunts lane, will remain open from monday through saturday from 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. continuously.
this orientation will be followed by a choice of two six-hour training date sessions, next offered on saturday, january 21 and saturday, january 28, from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash.
this is our store’s 20th year.
do barefoot runners sustain fewer injuries?
“how do we know that in ten years we won’t be asked again?”
below, see officialschool profiles for mhs and hghs.
while at the conference, students will join their peers in a hands-on learning experience about how state government works.
reprinted with permission.
yes, we make fabulous fruit baskets with fruits that are in season, local gourmet products like bobbysue’snuts and tate’s cookies from southampton as well as great local honey to make things more unique and memorable.
several merchants, in response, asked that the town commit to educate the town’s residents— their customers—well in advance of any major disruptions.
in 1993, he joined school of the future’s humanities  department and five years later transitioned to the administration team serving  as assistant principal.
to engage the chappaqua school community in exploring budgetary ideas.
students will progress more quickly in a foreign language if engaged with it every day even if during shorter class periods than they would if given longer classes less frequently.
it is a yearlong campaign during which bricks can be purchased for $100 and $200, and a tree can be bought for $5,000.
ncnow: how many applicants for the two principal spots have you received so far?
once the snow hits, the brine works on the snow or ice from below as plowing and salting goes on above.
we will ask for community input.”
[related article: merchants fret that planned repairs to lower king will hurt business, ncnow.org, 1/20/12] open saturdays 9 am to 1:30 pm at st. mary’s next to bel l january 27, 2012 by pascale ledraoulec i’ve been making my own pesto for years—with everything from arugula to nettles—and so have most of my friends, so when i first discovered buddhapesto and brought it to market, people wondered what all the fuss was about.
pelham memorial high school: katharine winifred costantini scarsdale high school: gibran mian white plains high school: benjamin mark van doren january 13, 2012 by christine yeres at 3:00 p.m. on wednesday intel science talent search 2012 announced the names of the 300 semi-finalists who will compete for $1.25 million in awards.
what subject or grade will you teach?
instead, i’m seeing this as an adventure and i just know there’ll be lessons to be learned come spring.
set the mower blade at a height of three and a half to four inches.
“i don’t think we’re talking about detailed values.
i know that i will be teaching in new york city, but i don’t yet know which school.
take a turn around the property and ensure that everything that needs securing (rose limbs and other climbers, gates) or protecting (evergreens like boxwood) are addressed accordingly.
it may be the most exciting thing that’s ever happened to him, if he can keep his wife out of it!
two consecutive steals led to easy points for the quakers, one by brown and another by teddy graves, bringing greeley to within three points of the lead.
erin tracy, head coach of the girls’ soccer team was named the league’s coach of the year.
so get ready to join horton, mayzie, jojo, the cat in the hat and the inhabitants of whoville for three out-of-this-world performances!
this study aimed to evaluate the biomechanical risks during the initial transition from shod to barefoot running.
_____________________ visit ncnow.org’s business section to see other “merchant of the week” pieces by rob greenstein.
coyotes, as well as other wildlife, are continuously adapting to living with people and are opportunistic in finding foods and resources that are available.
journal news as the section one swim coach of the year and erin tracy, head coach of the girls’ soccer team was named the league’s coach of the year.
be sure to attend the friends’ upcoming fundraising, a staged reading of a new comedy, on march 3, 2012.
after connor domershick hit a three, josh rosen converted a layup off a steal and then hit a three to tie the game with a minute and a half left in the third quarter.
these sessions were never required of teachers, but they were “recommended,” and teachers were more than willing to spend the extra time.
sectional winner by a substantial margin!
each student will complete one math or science and one humanities (english, spanish, history, art) exhibition before preparing a final project in 12th grade.
we think: what can i, one person, do?
so this challenge is an ongoing one but, it never hurts to remind oneself.
it is so nice to be coaching a team that has this attitude.
the name and number i was most frequently given was that of national publishers exchange.
advisory an important part of life at mhs is its advisory system.
they are getting tougher and tougher as the year progresses.
the positive atmosphere, the fun and exciting activities, and the group camaraderie of summer camp help children make friends and enjoy time together.
none of these programs would be possible without events like the “tree” fundraiser and volunteers like lisa golomb, who taught a photography class that tahitia enrolled in and is now the teen’s mentor.
i had one cup my freshman year at boston university to wake me up for an early class.
we have everything you need to shop.
bring money for lunch at the food court.
will i feel awful if my bulbs fail to put up the expected show?
january 20, 2012 greeley controlled the action most of the game in a 3-1 victory over fox lane.
see more photos in “read more…” and inphoto gallery
in addition to food drives and generous donations from member religious institutions, scout groups and so on, both pantries depend on cash donations to purchase the majority of their food from the westchester food bank.
gathered for a fundraiser in temple beth el’s in social hall on january 7, supporters of the school heard children themselves tell their heartbreaking stories.
it seems that all or most of the town merchants were residents of new castle and there was a bond between merchants and their customers.
david hayes is public information officer for the chappaqua central  school district.
we are kicking off the 2012 season with a meeting and workshop on starting seeds indoors onsunday, february 12 from 3:30 to 5:00 pm at the children’s program room in the chappaqua library.
will administrators present an ball-park budget or just discuss process?
4-5:30pm clay creations: tues.
pineapple habanero sauce pineapple-habanero jam, renee’s jams and jellies ½ -1
aimee gautreau, chair of the seven bridges theatre company, noted that, “seussical jr. brings to life many of dr. seuss’ more memorable characters like horton the elephant, the cat in the hat, gertrude mcfuzz, lazy bird mayzie and a little boy with a big imagination named jojo.”
trees and shrubs are naturally sculptural.
greeley takes off a week and is back on the ice on friday feb 3 in a rematch at sport o rama in monsey, ny against pearl river, who defeated greeley earlier in the season 3-2 and then shepaug at brewster at 6:10 pm on saturday feb 4.
[see below for full text]— and existing two strategic questions [also below] covered the purposes of the proposed third, social-emotion-physical question well enough.
i’m really conscious of the fact that people communicate in a different way now, and it’s important for me to keep up with that.
when you see any of the above behaviors, please notify the new york state department of environmental conservation (nysdec).
why did you apply to teach for america?
for example, we have a super bowl sunday special, $25 all you can eat buffet, starting at 6:00 p.m., cash bar (no regular dining service after 6:00 p.m.—only super bowl special).
i was in india a couple of weeks ago and there too it has been a much colder season.
guests are encouraged to also bring non-perishable food items to help stock the pantries’ shelves.
carpenter responded, “this is the type of thing we need to hear from you.
because of their thick fur, they often appear heavier than they really are.
february 10, 2012 by pascale ledraoulec for valentine’s day, big girl bakery is bringing some heart-healthy treats for your sweetheart like their bittersweet chocolate bark with dried cherries and pistachios.
the units will count toward the 750 units of fair and affordable housing the county is required to produce by 2016.
does running the restaurant with your daughter and son-in-law affect your management style?
we will meet on the south county trailway, a three-minute walk north of the parking lot.
one day i’m taking a high school biology class with amy—the next day she’s my pharmacist!
around $650,000 has been allocated for the changes.
the spring season honor ceremony is held during june.
coyotes are active year-round and do not hibernate.
for more information new york state department of environmental conservation 21 south putt corners road new paltz, new york 12561 environmental conservation office—845-256-3013 · new york state department of environmental conservation, publication “coyote conflicts”, available on website, www.dec.ny.gov/animals · urban coyote ecology and management, the cook county, illinois, coyote project, bulletin 929, 32 pages, available on website,www.urbancoyoteresearch.com · project coyote, a wealth of articles and tips on living with coyotes, has a coyote news fact sheet, see websitewww.projectcoyote.org/resources.html this publication “the eastern coyote—co-existing strategies” was produced in response to increasing concerns regarding coyote sightings throughout new castle neighborhoods.
and for your barbecuing we carry weber grills, parts and accessories.
you can register on-line at www.ccsd.ws/continuinged or by mail.
bigger isn’t always better.
what other sources of revenue could they think of, and 3) what is a long-term financial issue that the school district must begin to address now?
also find a concise explanation of the town’s millwood design guidelines, 1993, amended 1999 on p. 16 and f.p. clark’s 2009millwood hamlet center zoning analysis and area site plan study on page p. 17 monday, february 13, 2012 by brina goldstein join horace greeley scholarship fund supporters at the crabtree kittle house onthursday, march 15, from 6:30 to 9:00 p.m. for a fabulous fundraiser and celebration of lyndall boal, long a beloved social worker at seven bridges and robert e. bell middle schools and the recipient of hgsf’s third annual ed habermann award.
resolving conflicts with coyotes
the other is that i’ll be able to share more with friends.
greeley outscored harrison in the third 17-11 and led 35-31 after the period.
therefore, habitually shod, heel- striking runners who choose to transition into a barefoot, toe-strike technique must undertake the process cautiously and with knowledge on proper toe-strike mechanics to avoid increasing their risk of injury.
contrary to what the temperatures have been, itis still winter and anything can happen!
the chappaqua school foundation’s annual contest between the harlem wizards and the chappaqua challengers in which ccsd students come out the big winners played yesterday to a sold-out house.
sincerely, henry koster horace greeley ‘10 thursday, february 16, 2012
he was surrounded as well by friends and colleagues in the film industry and was in the midst of doing what he loved to do best, scouting new independent films.
good condiments make such a difference!
you must have full class schedules for 9th-11th grades and you may have one free in 12th grade.
by going online, where you’ll be asked to log in with facebook: www.refresheverything.com/mkcccscholarships4kids for more about mkccc, which has provided high-quality childcare to a diverse group of children in safe, healthy and developmentally appropriate programs since 1971, clickhere, or visit its website, http://www.mkccc.org/. december 23, 2011 by joseph enzweiler because we wanted much that year and had little.
looking for something for your child to do when schools out for the president’s week february break?
such transformations also disrupted otherwise significant correlations among individual subjects’ performances.
the following student-athletes and coaches achieved post-season honors for the fall 2011 season.
iris press had the privilege of publishing his last three collections of poems.
on tuesday, january 10, the greeley quakers traveled to armonk to take on the bobcats.
bird girl number 7, gina bueti, also an eighth grader pointed out: “seussical jr. starts simply and suddenly the story comes together and it’s so exciting.”
we also try to keep the store well organized and clean, making it an welcoming environment.
he also spent a month in minnesota training with legendary wrestling coach j. robinson.
in celebration of the campus’ 100th anniversary the non- profit jcca also launched “paving the way: the cottage schools brick campaign” at the “tree” event.
in [first published in 1981].
“i’m not convinced,” said carpenter, “that the report’s particular view of what comes next will work in millwood.
you are the only full-service florist in chappaqua.
greeley’s alex smith winning the 100 butterfly at the tappan zee meet monday, january 23, 2012 by jared krosser the greeley “aquamen” have had an extremely successful season thus far.
we find that any way we prepare salmon it is always a big hit.
amy: he’s trying to redeem himself.
there were eight other people with me in that little security pen, some of them wearing press passes and complaining that the police were preventing them from doing their jobs.
compare and contrast i’m beginning to get a tad anxious about this winter.
kitchawan preserve, route 134,
“from budgeting and  long-term planning to curriculum design and professional development, he is  well versed in the many facets of school operations and has a proven track  record of putting students first and creating a learner-centered environment  where everyone can succeed.”
background the saw mill river coalition and the new york state department of transportation, in conjunction with the westchester county department of parks, recreation and conservation support the free-a-tree project, which supports volunteers in their efforts to remove the invasive vines that are strangling trees and shrubbery along the saw mill river.
if you already have things blooming in the garden, just bring the flowers indoors and enjoy them.
tulips require a couple of weeks longer.
i’m fairly tall, and with barefoot strides, you take a shorter stride because of a change in the ankle.
all work must be original and the writer’s own.
for nyc corps members, that institute begins in late june.
roses can be pruned towards end of the month.
marriage is complicated.”
over the four years of middle school, these lost hours add up to the equivalent of a full quarter of a school year.
use feeders designed to keep seed off the ground as the seed attracts many small mammals that coyotes prey upon.
in 9th & 10th grades you will take english, global history, math, biology/chemistry, foreign language, art, phys ed, health, and advisory.
the first hour was devoted to disseminating budget information to participants and the second hour was devoted to small group work sessions to solicit answers to the following three questions: * expenditures – what can we give up and what are the tradeoffs – give examples?
the bobcats extended their lead to 16-2 before the quakers steadied themselves with a layup by harrison brown.
on february 10-12, the seven bridges theatre company will present seussical jr., a show that is perfect entertainment for the whole family “no matter how small.”
parents and students:
but by the end of two quarters, the peekskill red devils had drawn to 35-30.
“not just teaching them to do well in school—good grades, good sat scores—but to become successful human beings in the world.
3rd annual great saw mill river clean-up!
the athletes, representing every fall season sport, were present to receive their post-season all-league, all-county and/or all-section honors.
“because saturday is by far the biggest day for recycle visits,” explained recycling foreman bart carey.
bingham’s wife, nancy king, and their three children, nick, annabel and becca, were with him when he died.
are you affiliated with any network?
i don’t like to think of “competing” with the digital age.
brent shot a great double leg in the first period and put christian zamano on his back and pinned him in 1:09.
the median household and per capita incomes are significantly higher in the area immediately surrounding millwood than in weschester county,” with “a predominance of families with young children.”
so much so that for the  2011-12 school year, 5,300 eighth-graders applied for only 150 openings, and  several schools based on rhodes’ model now are opening throughout the  city.
so bundle up when you come to shop and have a cup of hot coffee or hot chocolate on us.
but, the indulgence from such efforts surely permits a clearer conscience and a special joy in living in the moment.
the former occupier shielded her after the blow and held her for a brief moment as she recovered.
mountain grades: 5 – 8 program #: 490609 day & time: february 23, 9:00 am – 3:00 pm fee: $35 looking for some fun outdoor activities during winter break?
the administration of the camp is made up of highly skilled social service and educational professionals, each of whom has at least 20 years of experience with children.
january 20, 2012 by christine yeres on wednesday, chappaqua crossing announced that it has signed a long-term lease for 24,000 square feet of space in building 400 of its office campus with weezee world of
these systems usually use an auditory or visual alert.
but it should be thoughtfully designed, especially considering the importance of such an event as a bar mitzvah or special anniversary.
true food of nyack also has plenty of gluten-free options, in addition to their flavorful (and righteous) burritos and pot pies filled with local meats and vegetables and their light yet so satisfying salads like kale and chickpea or wheatberry.
culinary classes include demonstrations by chefs from moderne barn, susan lawrence, myong, café of love and stone barns among others.
greeley had the heart to win, but did they have the times?
ms. marvin, our biology teacher, would be proud.
and “is it the school’s place to cover them?”
he also established a four-year student/teacher advisory program, all of which has resulted in steady 98% graduation and college placement rates.
unfortunately, we’re confined by our space.
should the board of education approve superintendent mckay’s recommendation, there will be opportunities in the near future for the chappaqua community to meet mr. rhodes and to welcome him to the district.
for the first time this week, sunny and mark will be preparing their popular pork tacos at the market with pork from stone barns.
the rec department has scheduled ski and snowboard trips for kids in grades 6 to 12 for january 7 and 21, and for february 4 and 11 at mountain creek, march 3 at jiminy peak.
i had supported the protesters from the sidelines before the march, despite (or perhaps because of) how flailing they appeared at first—but i might not have been inspired to come out to the bridge that day had it not been for the infamous video of deputy inspector anthony bologna pepper spraying non-violent female protesters a week earlier.
but prepare to start seeds indoors as appropriate.
the property’s 16,617 square feet includes around 2,000 square feet if right-of-way that the town intends to sign over to conifer to provide more leeway to a property with little room for setbacks.
in tuesday’s 7:45 p.m. town board meeting, the presentation by conifer follows announcements and reports by the town supervisor and administrator.
the lawsuit says neither the children nor their parents were ever told not to walk.”
the green of daffodil leaves spearing through the earth are one of my favorite sights but not i discovered if its happening by end of december.
“we turned our home into a desensitizing “fun zone” for all.
i do, however, love their frozen hot chocolate.
tom shadyac, producer/director of such films as bruce almighty, liar liar and patch adams, read an article in the new york times that ranked the u.s. 23rd on its list of happiest countries.
at brewster ice arena on thursday night horace greeley hockey skated to a 3-1 victory over fox lane.
rec department office hours are 8:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. monday through friday.
and roaming angus carries many of them!
we will all miss him greatly.”
the first floor will be dedicated to parking, with four floors of residential above it.
yes, this is a field that is still dominated by men.
this study used mismatch negativity (mmn) as a change detection measure in conjunction with stimuli delivered through an oddball paradigm, in which a stream of standard frequent stimuli is interrupted with a deviant infrequent stimulus.
is must be tough competing against the big chains.
the greeley sports booster honor board houses a plaque for each athlete on the gymnasium wall.
nowadays, there are a lot of absentee landlords.
we appreciate their support and permission to adapt their information for this publication.
if not, both revenue and expenditure get removed from the district budget.
will the group continue after you’ve left columbia?
kolbe had the match of his life.
harrison brown and justin ciero led the greeley scoring with 21 points and 12 points, respectively.
there is a direct correlation between how and what i do and the health of the garden.
your achievements on behalf of greeley athletics not only deserve recognition, but also a thank you from the community for your athleticism, sportsmanship and dedication and for representing the best of horace greeley high school as scholar-athletes.
if the small dog does not submit, it could result in the dog eventually being killed.
once you fill out the first page, there is room for comment, where you can write “in honor of bingham ray.”
feb. 4 9am to 5pm @ hghs gym ben perlmutter; more photos by kristen atlas in “read more…” february 3, 2012 by coach mike debellis the horace greeley wrestling team honored its seven seniors before their match against pleasantville on wednesday evening.
suzi novak is a board member of intergenerate.
there are lessons to be learned ...
she was shocked by the number of magazines in her aunt’s house.
and if you want things to change, as howard beale says innetwork, mad is the first thing you’ve got to get.
it is crucial however to have far more indigenous plants than those that are not.
we will teach basic skills, foster creative and critical thinking, and provide a foundation for life-long learning.
usually, students take exams as per the following schedule: students with disabilities may qualify for a local diploma by passing the required regents exams with scores of 55-64.
january 20, 2012 by christine yeres with 36 comments since publication
monday, january 9 by christine yeres there are still spots available for cce’s winter session of beginning spanish class on mondays, from 7:00 to 8:30 p.m. at horace greeley high school, beginning monday, january 23.
so take nepperhan and be careful for a few more years.
there is no fee to enter.
fast-growing, tenacious vines are among the worst of the foreign plants that threaten to overwhelm local habitats.
consistent with other healthcare professionals employed by access nursing, all weezee volunteers, interns, villagers and employees seeking to be involved in this exciting new adventure in learning, will be subject to an extensive background check.
mother’s day was a fantastic time to have a grand opening, and i’m looking forward to another busy mother’s day coming up.
by new i mean new to my garden.
visit our website at www.groundworkhv.org.
trawick scored 37 points shooting 19 for 23 from the field.
no ski or skate rentals are available (except at the indoor playland ice casino).
brian rosen is the father of josh rosen, a senior member of the 2011-12 greeley boys’ varsity basketball team.
according to superintendent lyn mckay, they are: (1) moving forward 21st century skills in our schools, (2) supporting the social and emotional needs of our students, and (3) exploring ways to ensure students learn in an environment in which they are motivated to take risks.
the relatively large household size would indicate a predominance of families with young children.
he lives in brooklyn and has two children.
conifer is known for managing and maintaining the housing it constructs.
please plan accordingly.
sounds a little suspicious?
the seniors wrestled strong and helped propel their team to a 45-27 win.
also, plant only non-invasive ‘foreigners’.
it’s truly a wonderful and rewarding experience for all.”
for more recycling info, visit the department of public works page of the town website by clickinghere.
a tangy, pantone-red hot sauce from guyank brand would also work…they will be at the market this week so stock up on their various flavors of sweet heat… happy valentine’s day and…see you at the market!
saturdays at st. mary’s next to bell.
keep compost piles in containers designed to contain but vent the material.
but i also hope we have developed a reputation that you can come to us with your project, no matter how big or how small, and we will have what you need and show you how to use all of it.
in fact, with 97 performers, seussical jr. has the most participants in the history of the seven bridges pta theater program.
vegetable and fruit peelings and scraps, egg shells and torn up paper cartons, coffee grinds and tea bags, and garden waste all produce the finest food for the plants.
please read and discuss them together and then sign the back of the pre-purchased ticket indicating that you have done so.
the games begin at 1:30 pm at the horace greeley high school gym.
january 27, 2012 by christine yeres
if coyotes have direct access to human food, they can become habituated and may become more aggressive around people.
there will be an alcohol detection device on hand at the dance which can be used in the event there is suspicion that a student is under the influence.
if you arrive during this lunch period on wed-thu-fri, the big blue book bins are always there to browse through.
bizzers gather to remember bingham ray; impromptu sundance gathering draws tears, stories, by josh l. dickey in variety, 1/23/12 donation information anyone wishing to make a donation to the jacob burns film center in honor of bingham ray should visit the jbfc homepage,http://www.burnsfilmcenter.org/. you will find a “tribute to bingham ray” on the homepage as well as a ‘donate now’ button, a red rectangle on the far right.
on p. 12, see a list of suggested uses and goals, and on p. 13 an extensive list of “primary destinations in the area.”
all have worked with diverse populations in their careers, and all provide expert guidance for the children and the staff to insure a successful camp.
“joe enzweiler passed away in his sleep at 2:00 in the morning of april 16, 2011 at the age of 60 after a long and courageous battle with brain cancer.
“so what is the difference,” asked tipp, “between having it [already] in the mission statement and putting it into a third strategic question?
and under next year’s schedule, students will receive 8 or 10 (i’ve seen differing numbers) fewer hours of instruction in their language of choice in the form of longer classes held only two out of every three days.
this center millwood population is described as “highly educated.
based on changes observed, it’s more likely that a runner would experience an injury before they acclimate to barefoot running.
are you active in the community?
police brutality at protests has been a dominant topic in the ows conversation, and in one sense that’s unfortunate: as individuals, the police have a lot more in common with the protesters than with pension-defrauding bankers and corrupt politicians.
board member randy katchis posited that the ccsd mission statement—which includes the language, “we will help [students] learn how to manage freedom and to act ethically”
your web site is a great resource.
check on plants being overwintered indoors.
go to thechappaqua library homepage.
east elevation, viewed from across the railroad tracks february 12, 2012 with 27 comments since publication by henry koster, 2010 since last year’s budget debates, and my contribution to the discussions that year (see ,“don’t cut teachers at the high school ,” 3/25/12)
weezee will be open from 8:00am to 9:00pm seven days a week.
identifying plants given to me by other gardeners is rather special so i enjoy paying it forward.
while coyotes may occasionally take free roaming domestic animals and deer, diet studies confirm that rodents, rabbits, insects, fruit and carrion make up the bulk of their diet.
to that end, i’m starting right away with an american winterberry shrub.
ncnow interviewed ms. prentiss over the weekend about her research project.
bloomberg spared ows a potential napoleonic-style winter retreat, and handed them an alamo around which to rally.
the january 10 meeting will be to discuss the process and to take a look at where things currently stand since there are still many ‘unknowns’ such as teachers retirement system (trs), transportation costs, special education placements, state aid, assessed tax value, tax certiorari settlements and the tax cap number.
snowdrops, still enjoying a fabulous run this so-called “winter” february 3, 2012 things to do in february 1.
well, there is something you can do to help.
i used an electroencephalogram (eeg) to monitor the brainwaves of seven normal adult subjects as they watched a movie.
the population in the primary trade area is highly educated.
“this favorite community event has been a regular sell-out, enticing hoops fans of all ages to come out and root for their favorite teachers . . .
electromyography (emg), tibial shock, and knee flexion angle were monitored using bipolar surface electrodes, an accelerometer, and an electrogoniometer respectively.
let the coyote know it is unwelcome in your area.
for example, if you’re hearing a regular “beep,” “beep,” “beep,” going on and then instead a “boop” occurs, your brain notices the change.
“i was looking in terms of how to teach self-confidence, resilience, to be a contributing member of society.”
students may not walk to or from the dance and they may not arrive or leave by taxi.
matt mercer started on varsity as a junior and posted 18 wins.
the nypd was creating a de facto media blackout, which they clearly felt allowed them to operate with impunity.
location: white plains bowling alley fee: $270.00 payable to town of new castle buses will depart from bell ms (2:45) and seven bridges (3:00) and travel to white plains bowling alley.
different strategies were applicable to different variations, making them harder or easier to solve given previous learning.
we see amuso’s son, joe jr. at home onfriday when we host a dual meet against division 2 powerhouse pawling.
i was simply not in the moment
still, she admitted that by age 10 she had started smoking and drinking in order to fit in with the other kids in her rough bronx neighborhood.
it provides good exercise and at the same time there is no increase in noise or air pollution.
parking might disappear for a time, but there would always be through-traffic.
what did you learn from your research?
but we adapt and always pull it off.
below are highlights from the facilitator and tablecloth notes, which were collected at the knowledge café.
“it’s quite a treat for the production team to work with such talented students.”
this contraption was named time magazine’s best invention of 2006.
additionally, boys’ head coach dave fernandes and girls’ head coach john alkalay will assist with the clinic and share their thoughts about the game in general and greeley basketball in particular.
i’m now joyously embracing the gentle winter.
both access and weezee were founded by briarcliff resident louise (nickname:
this class is a must for any athlete looking to play a spring sport.
some clippings can also be used to stake floppy plants.
january 27, 2012 by christine yeres last night the majority of the merchants on lower king street—and several of their landlords—came to the community center to learn whether the town board intends to conduct a major overhaul of their street this summer.
luckily a change in the county board allowed the work to be done.
she speaks about sustainable food and helps establish community gardens.
the basic premise is simple: local artists collaborate with local merchants and community organizations to host an empty bowls event.
on the surface, the two words seem to imply the same thing.
they even have a store design division.
the advisor is the student’s advocate in the building and functions as the primary contact with parents.
______________________________________________________________________________________________________ for more information, contact: conservation board, attn: stephen coleman, environmental coordinator, town of new castle 200 south greeley avenue, chappaqua, new york 10514 or phone (914) 238-4723, email .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address)
for the barefoot toe-strike condition, subjects were instructed on proper technique.
the four-day conference provides students with the information, motivation, and skills to become informed voters and engaged citizens.
what is the empty bowls movement all about?
so many sports are no longer a one-season commitment, which is good and bad.
we had been told that the bike trail would be built when the new route 9a bypass was built in greenburgh to relieve traffic on route 9a, but such major new construction projects do not seem achievable for the forseeable future.
• does the $3.1 million rollover budget figure include last year’s $4+ million of reserves?
lucky for me, i stocked up on some of renee’s savory jams, like pineapple habanero, and some of bombay emerald’s plum chutney last month.
i found out that what we call intuition is primarily deductive.
“we do have a student code of conduct,” mckay reminded them.
and as i firmly believe that american teachers (and ours are no exception) are underpaid for the work that they do, why should they help students outside scheduled classes out of the goodness of their hearts?
directions from saw mill river parkway going south, exit 11, left on tompkins avenue to saw mill river road and turn left.
for inspiration, visit the pepsi sculpture gardens in purchase.
in the 50 freestyle, greeley’s henry simon took another second place, finishing right behind tappan zee’s swimmer.
wrestling will be going on throughout the day.
rich: it’s true the bedford hills commute was twice as long as millwood’s (four miles as opposed to two) but that’s not the reason we sold the store.
young then announced the name of each athlete from the team standing and cited her or his accomplishments and awards.
these changes will eliminate a critical resource currently offered to middle school students.
guests are not permitted.
articulation policy:
make up dates if needed will be tuesday, march 6 and 13.
january 20, 2012 by christine yeres in their january 10 meeting, board of education members voted “no” to send a no-confidence message to boces and its proposed $18 million capital improvement project, for which the ccsd, one of 18 member districts, would be billed a $1.5 million share.
there are three rounds to the process.
to route 119 where the main section of the south county trail starts adjacent to pete’s tavern.
to have economies of scale, these students might need to be housed in one building.
2012 will be an exciting year to attend our camps.
observing what is going on and being fully present.
a separate application form is required for each submission and please make sure your name does not appear anywhere on the manuscript.
the 14 westchester county intel semi-finalists byram hills high school: sammi cannold, jesse aaron honig and aurora xu.
auditions will be held thursday, feb 2, 6-8 pm, and sunday, feb 5, 3:30-5:30 pm, at the chappaqua library theatre.
for more information about classes, visit http://recreation.mynewcastle.org or call 238-3909.
when typically the bitingly cold wind and icy roads would have me hurrying to get back home, here i was not in any rush to end the walk.
having lived in the community for 50 years, i’ve always loved greeley sports.
“of course we’re for it.”
two pre-schoolers playing together and one says to the other, “so, who shaves the fennel in your family?”
but only so much will fit.
it’s speculated, but research needs to be done.
in his draft budget for 2012-2013, superintendent for business john chow provided a rollover figure—the increased cost of continuing the current program—of $2.8 million.
when they tasted their artfully displayed samples—a dollop of the electric green sauce on a thin slice of bread alone baguette - they clammed right up and bought multiple tubs.
if you have any questions please call melissa tepé, 914-773-7663 ext 436.
what’s the secret of your success?
board president alyson kiesel weighed in.
rich: as far as our success, my dad always says, “customer service is the bottom line”.
and, when conditions permit, ice skating is permitted at the following locations: • blue mountain reservation, welcher avenue, peekskill •
there is no denying that climate change is a foot.
farhan chaudhry has been sidelined most of the season with a nagging shoulder injury but has started on varsity since he was a freshman.
i have several friends currently in the program, and all encouraged me to apply.
this season had a record number of greeley athletes receiving awards – 46 in all.
risten clarke triumphed again, this time in the 100 freestyle.
over the summer, we hope to do an interior remodel.
in two highly competitive games, the greeley quakers played the byram hills bobcats on tuesday, january 10 and the fox lane foxes on friday, january 6, but came up short 58-54 and 74-64, respectively.
training, tools, and refreshments will be provided.
february 12, 2012 by christine yeres this week, second-round interviews for the two greeley and three roaring brook principal candidates concluded and third-round interviews began.
“ok,” she asked, “no drinking for the football team?”
the center will use the money to provide scholarships for low income children to attend mkccc.
or you’re in a room and someone touches you from behind.
first indoor sensory playspace in westchester to open in march in chappaqua “weezee…world of
when i was in southern italy a few years back, i got used to eating raw sliced fennel after dinner and before dessert, as a palate cleanser that also helped digestion.
the elmsford section, which ends at warehouse lane and requires traveling on either 9a (dangerous) or the commercial area to its west on nepperhan avenue (watch for glass and nails!!)
stoltz, who worked as the community service coordinator for stephen wise free synagogue, spent time speaking with the ten men who stayed in the synagogue’s faith-based shelter five nights a week.
with the number of people who have been illegally thrown out of their homes potentially in the tens or hundreds of thousands, ows will have plenty to do through the winter.
many other scavenger animals such as foxes, crows and hawks, benefit from coyote predation on other animals through increased food availability.
he also  established a four-year student/teacher advisory program, all of which has  resulted in steady 98% graduation and college placement rates.
“they haven’t presented a long term plan to us,” said board member karen visser.
the police parted the barricades for us, warily but dutifully.
our next home meet is on wednesday against fox lane, coached by hall of fame coach joe amuso, sr..
our staff training includes specific games to help build relationships among the children and encourage new friendships.
pocket park plan for end of lower king dawn greenberg, the owner of aurora, the very last store on lower king, and susan maher, who owns breeze, the shop next door, share a landlord.
they communicate with each other by vocalizing, and scent marking of trails.
we wish all of the boys who are advancing on to the new york state finals great luck.
the new section meanders through parkland and travels under tuckahoe road, which is far safer than crossing a dangerous intersection.
let’s get on with it.
matt mercer had the best tournament of his career placing third out of 16 guys in his 138-pound weight class.
the project, supervisor susan carpenter informed them, has been put off for two years and will most likely be undertaken in 2014.
they also have great plump roaster chickens (frozen), ground lamb and those amazing eggs in the sunny carton.
the wovel is super green, it is recognized by co-op america and national green pages™ for its positive, pollution-free environmental standards and zero carbon footprint in usage.
red meat would totally qualify and we’ve got plenty of it at the market this week with roaming angus paying us a visit.
please make your check payable to mt. kisco interfaith food pantry and mail to: empty bowls, c/o anne gans, 15 glen terrace, chappaqua ny.
nick scaglione, a first-year swimmer, raced in the 500 freestyle and survived!
but the quakers hung tough and at the end of the third quarter still led, 49-48.
the first new section in yonkers, from dunwoodie park to tuckahoe road is approximately 1.75 miles long and eliminated a dangerous descent on mile square road to tuckahoe road.
tuesday, january 17, 2012 by rob greenstein last week, i spoke with millwood hardware owner joann virag, who took over the store from her father in the late 80’s.
coyotes will raid open trash materials and compost piles.
“we want the sensory adventures and social relationships discovered inside weezee to inspire each child to believe, “yes i can”!!!
part 1: brooklyn bridge http://bambuser.com/channel/wgerrard/broadcast/2012554; part 2: zuccotti park eviction http://bambuser.com/channel/wgerrard/broadcast/2128706; part 3: foreclosure tour http://bambuser.com/channel/wgerrard/broadcast/2187799 tuesday, january 17, 2012 by christine yeres editor’s note: after publishing two new castle high school seniors are intel semi-finalists last friday, ncnow made a big discovery: among the ossining high school intel semi-finalists, there was a third new castle resident, 18-year-old senior emily prentiss, pictured above (second from the right) with classmates amelia clements, evan olin (also of new castle) and frances russell.
is it more actionable if it’s a strategic question?”
however, i’m not here to debate this topic.
i offer shipping services via ups at a rate below standard retail and i will pack and ship your packages anywhere.
although it looks as though the tax cap allows $1.9 million additional dollars in the 2012-2013 budget, i’m still confused about the $3.1 rollover budget figure john supplied to ncnow, and about how the administration arrived at the $1.8 million figure for cuts, since a provisional dollar amount for reserves use hasn’t yet been supplied.
it’s tough for kids to play multiple sports.
stop by her table for a taste and a copy of the recipe (reprinted below).
february 3, 2012 by rachel rosin fiber artist heather g. stoltz tells the stories of homeless men, women and children through her installation piece temporary shelter.
the child abuse prevention center of new york, located in white plains, is calling for parent aide volunteers to assist parents “at risk” for abusing their children.
(and feel free to make additional, lavish donations.
the new section avoids the heavily traveled sections of route 6 and contains a beautiful section that crosses the reservoir.
garson moved to chappaqua in 1995 to raise her two boys.
“weezee is a family’s fantasy come to life,” says founder louise weadock, a registered child psychiatric nurse, graduate of johns hopkins school of public health and owner of the 27 year old, access nursing & healthcare services, based in pleasantville, ny.
trust me, you would never know her teacakes and lemon bars are “missing” anything.
humans are not the only ones getting confused by this thus far mostly mild winter.
contrast ows’ manner of speaking to people—and of encouraging them to speak for themselves—with that of the modern political campaign.
brewster to the nyc subway: 47.2 miles it will now be possible to travel from brewster to the new york city line at van cortlandt park for a total of 47.2 miles on bicycle trails other than the 1 mile detour in elmsford!
the pension contribution system, unfunded and under-funded state mandates, the tenure system and the triborough amendment were all repeatedly cited.
the risk, though, he added, is that “with rain and freezing rain (depending on road temperatures) the brine treatment can easily wash away.”
billy marino brent lobien jon russo kirby atlas kolbe jendzejec january 20, 2012 by brian rosen
when i first proposed the millwood portion of the bike path in 1989 and the yorktown section in 1993 i heard the same arguments from residents of millwood and later in yorktown when we extended the path to yorktown heights!
click here to download our brochure with a form to reserve your place, or mail a check payable to mt. kisco interfaith food pantry for $25 per person with your name, email and phone number to: empty bowls, c/o anne gans 15 glen terrace chappaqua, ny 10514 questions?
we have always believed in using a more family oriented-management style versus a corporate philosophy to run our business.
so good, a few of us ate some raw at the market last saturday!
an original opening of 10,000 square feet in armonk had been planned for weezee, but an expanded design and additional features made it necessary for the company to seek space that included more square footage and an open air concept.
is it an opportunity to taste some delicious cupcakes?
they present big challenges, not solvable by local board of education action alone.
in addition, there will be an extensive volunteer program that provides opportunities to work with children who need extra support.
in a non-stick pan heat 1-2 tablespoons of olive oil over medium high heat.
the brochure can also be downloaded on-line at www.ccsd.ws/continuinged.
so i listened, and am thankful i did.
tickets are $10 for adults—significantly less than the $29 to attend the event in nyc.
breeding season is in february with 4-8 pups born in a den in april/
my assignment is “general education, special education, or els” in any grade, k-12.
after a huge win against tappan zee on tuesday, december 20, 2011, the greeley boys’ swim team was at it again on thursday, december 22, 2011, this time against westlake high school.
working with tfa, the principals choose which corps members they want in their school.
or, they can be positioned amidst plants in beds and borders where everything works together to tell a gentle story.
of that, the district is allowed a budget increase of around $1.4 million (labeled “tax cap limit” in chow’s presentation), leaving administrators and board of ed members to find $1.3 million in reductions, which may include up to five full time teaching positions.
please come out and support the quakers.
“you are your own media.”
“wetry to keep it confidential,” said mckay.
“so do we need to put [these intangibles] into a third strategic question,” asked tipp, “or continue to embed them in the current questions?
there are so many newly engaged couples around the holidays who begin their wedding planning in the new year!
my best is not your best and may not reach the final goal but there is much satisfaction in knowing i tried my hardest.
students apply for admission, and preference is given to those living below houston street.
amy: we also accept every major prescription plan and the co-pay is the same as what you pay at the chain pharmacy.
in a sense our customer base is a large part of our extended family.
the money raised is donated to an organization working to end hunger.
rich: it’s always an honor being recognized by your peers and community.
(8) do you do a lot of special orders?
take a look around what you already own.
open saturdays, from 9:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. at st. mary’s, next to bell friday, february 17, 2012 by pascale ledraoulec did you see the great cartoon in the new yorker last week?
supervisor susan carpenter told the three women that “at some point you have to worry about whether the infrastructure will hold—if we have breaks, it reallywill put you out of business.”
eviction in progress!”
the bleakness of a garden in winter begs for the addition of interesting structure, something to break up the visual blandness.
in 9th grade, advisory focuses on creating a community and how to be successful in high school.
the screening will take place at 4:00 pm at new castle community media center, 400 king street, suite 1.
by being in the audience and laughing (or not), you’ll help the playwrights fine tune the play.
they just assume they’re getting more familiar with the problem.
people thought it would diminish their property values rather than increase values by providing such an amenity.
the 32nd annual young writers contest is now open for entries.
leading the way for greeley were the ferreira boys, nathan (75lbs) and jacob (120lbs) capturing section 1 titles in their respective weight classes.
twin lakes park, california road, eastchester ice is checked daily at all locations; look for a “skating today” sign posted that indicates safe conditions for that day.
yes i can” gets ready to open almost 25,000 square feet at chappaqua crossing chappaqua, ny – westchester’s first indoor sensory playspace and the largest facility of its kind in the country, weezee… world of
they are known to prey upon unprotected pets, including cats and small dogs.
both metro-north trains and the subway are easily accessible from the van cortlandt park terminus.
it does break my heart a little (ok, a lot) when people tell me they are going to send an evite for their kid’s bar mitzvah.
but the payoff was grand.
having the opportunity for students to meet one-on-one or in small groups with teachers to go over material that they didn’t fully understand during class is something that we cannot afford to do without.
too busy to make soup or chili?
however, until now the middle school schedule has worked in such a way that they only teach 200 of those minutes.
our house salmon burger, home-made, has some very loyal fans.
greeley led 11-10 after one period but trailed at the half by 2 points, 20-18.
“how do you ensure that?”
[seniors are allowed to take three (3) classes].
performances are friday, february 10 at 7:30 p.m., saturday, february 11 at 7:30 p.m. and sunday, february 12 at 2:00 p.m.
new: greeley boys’ basketball team wins barnburner in overtime against peekskill, 76-75 by brian rosen
if the district is very successful at raising one-time funds in a given year, the short-term benefit may be a reduced tax levy for that year.
the student was, she wrote, “carrying a lacrosse stick and wearing earphones, ran out from behind a stopped suv and was hit by the truck.
not having to shovel snow as often as we did last year is a relief.
(my girls think it’s really cool that our fridge is in the living room).
saturday night the jcca sold 100 bricks and one tree, a great beginning for this new project.
the team will need to score more goals if they are to advance deep in the playoffs next month.
the median household and per capita incomes are significantly higher in the area immediately surrounding millwood than in westchester county, with the highest income households in the primary trade area.
the market runs every saturday from 9am to 1:30pm at st. mary’s, next to bell.
i dropped the class and stopped drinking coffee.
deadline for submissions is march 30, 2012 february 6, 2012 by cheryl jacobs ehrlich winter’s wonky this year!
hayes: applications for our principal positions as of 9am on wednesday, december 21st: hghs – 70 rbs - 95 ncnow:
pamper yourself by putting feet up for hours at length.
if you have any questions or comments, feel free to contact matthew nordt, recreation supervisor, at 914-238-7289.
* long term – what is a long-term financial issue that the school district must begin to address now?
in her article, ganga writes, “the lawsuit argues that the school district should have known that [the student, who lives nearby] and other students walk to school.
the district administration has been so focused on cutting expenditures that they have shown little regard for the effect it would have on students.
at this point in the meet greeley’s lead had crept from two points to six points, 44 to 50.
suzie (20s-30s), a hedge fund analyst; bold, commanding, yet insecure actors must be experienced, and available for two to three rehearsals, with performances saturday, feb 25th, 2 pm (new rochelle), and saturday, march 3rd, 7 pm (chappaqua).
evan olin research project: “the initial transition from shod to barefoot running generates increased tibial shock and muscle activation” science research teachers: mr. angelo piccirillo and ms. valerie holmes mentor: dr. gregory m. gutierrez from the physical therapy department of nyu steinhardt evan olin, second from left how did you choose your research subject?
as symbolically important as the occupation was, it was also a liability to the movement going forward: small business owners in the neighborhood were mobilizing their own protest against the constant disruptions; a few reports of crime within the encampment were creating negative publicity; and a punishing new york winter, perhaps only weeks away, threatened to thin the ranks of the occupiers.
this information hopes to assist homeowners with living with coyotes and other wildlife.
read more about the international empty bowls initiative atwww.emptybowls.net.
the friends of the library raise funds which sponsor many library programs, including book groups, lecture series, children’s events, the mark twain festival, and the annual young writers contest.
it just protects you from rocks and nails.
the shot drove the hometown crowd into pandemonium.
1) pursue a paradigm shift toward a focus on 21st century skills 2)
reservations are first-come, first-served and must be made in advance.
screenings are scheduled to take place in places as diverse as cambodia, brazil and nepal, as well as in cities across the u.s.
if you do not have a gmail account, email.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) and we’ll provide you with an address and password to use.
so be eco-aware of such matters.
the grass is still vulnerable.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash friday, february 17, 2012 by coach mike debellis eleven horace greeley youth wrestlers have earned spots at the new york state youth championships being held in bay shore, long island on march 3rd, and 4th.
be careful to not walk too much on lawn areas.
several merchants had asked in the weeks before that they be spared such disruption so soon after the inconvenience of bridge construction.
this struck a chord with board member robin stout.
all the way up to now, i’ve been carrying around a sense of foreboding.
customers can refill prescriptions, you have a drug & health center, recipes & even e-coupons.
the fox lane senior power forward hit jumpers, layups and did everything else necessary to secure the 10-point victory.
register at the new castle town hall - recreation dept., 200 s. greeley ave.
weadock was to have opened both businesses last october in armonk’s labriola court, but found she needed the greater space available at chappaqua crossing.
parents will be called from the dance and asked to come to school to pick up their children.
greeley hosts nys championship divisionals sat.
then when i bought my first home, i intended to just do a little remodeling but ended up gutting the house.
the paper is based on a question the student chooses to answer and includes evidence from a variety of sources.
seek special education efficiencies * reduce staff: increase class size, reduce course offerings, consolidate/reconfigure schools, on-line courses * reduce professional development *
lack of snow implied there was nothing coddling the plants.
during the winter, there isusually a need for ice melt, snow shovels, and fireplace supplies.
fact: c.j. ehrlich and philip j. kaplan are both known playwrights who collaborated on this comedy of mistaken identity and terrorism.
forms are on the back page of the brochure.
use this free water to feed thirsty plants.
since the large population of men, women and children who are homeless is a difficult number to grasp, stoltz hopes that those who view her piece will see that statistics are made up of individuals each with his or her own personal journey.
did you request nyc or was it randomly chosen for you?
sixteen years later, and following the growth of her successful regional healthcare personnel company, access nursing & healthcare services; weadock is launching what will become the largest and most cutting-edge indoor play space for cognitive development in westchester county and the entire new york region.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash more photos in “read more…” january 6, 2012 by rob greenstein
so if you pay the same, wouldn’t you want great service too?
weadock said that “similar to the way fitness clubs improve physical capability by focusing on muscle tone and flexibility, weezee seeks to improve cognitive capability by focusing on the senses to challenge intellectual curiosity in children of all abilities, ages 1-12.”
it can also be picked up from the library circulation desk, or from middle school and high school english departments.
also scoring pins for greeley were: kirby atlas (113) over steven montes in :38 seconds and liam mercer (160) over mike nuccio in 3:55.
susan maher, proprietor of breeze, asked whether she would have to wait for the overhaul to have the “do not enter” sign at the curb—smack in front of her shop window—moved.
editor’s note: we first published “christmas 1963” in december of 2008, with permission from joe enzweiler himself.
who’s afraid of the cupcake conspiracy?
our staff are courteous, professional and always looking out for the well-being of the campers.
then citarella and mckay will meet with candidates to discuss salary and personnel issues, and finally mckay will make her recommendations for each position in late february or early march.
who are the challengers?
three merchants from lower king attended the meeting and gave differing input to the board.
if the district wanted to restore district control of the program in the future, it would likely create a tax-cap issue.
billy marino, 195 pounds, wrestled up a weight class for the team and placed third in the 220-pound weight class.
bridge- supervised play ii-conventions café of love-
the form advises that parents and students “read and discuss [the rules and expectations] together.”
while you’re there, print out the recipe for the earthy lamb and white bean chili.
although the potters are still busy making lots of unique and beautiful handmade bowls, registration will have to be limited by the number of bowls available!
there will be capability to shop online and i will ship globally.
mastering the summer dinner party sushi the moderne barn- gravlax and bellini understanding opera understanding the new estate tax laws watercolor women’s volleyball yoga therapeutics a yoga therapeutics b zumba february 10, 2012 by christine yeres at its work session last tuesday, the town board members began their discussion of the newly-completed project for public spaces (pps) preliminary report on suggested improvements to the millwood hamlet.
i own the restaurant with my daughter kelly and her husband tim sullivan, a/k/a “sully.”
is your main customer base the creative community?
“how do you measure such a thing?” asked katchis.
i could see that the number of viewers watching my live feed began to rise: slowly at first, by the dozens, then by the hundreds.
in order to score even more points with my wife, after picking up a hand-crafted valentine’s day card at the king’s scribe on lower king, i decided to order some flowers at beth hungden’s whispering pines at the top of the hill.
but my passion is just trying to remind people of the impression that hand-written correspondence still makes, and remind people that certain sentiments just can’t be expressed with a text message or email.
* top with sauce and serve immediately.
coyotes will often use crawl spaces for resting and raising young.
with only seven seconds remaining, greeley enjoyed a three-point lead.
before *sabrina could get up the nerve to tell her life’s story at saturday night’s fundraiser for the pleasantville cottage schools, she hid in the ladies room.
a fun youth friendly environment • make new friends that last a life time, plus a little fun competition • enjoy a sport that will take him/her into adulthood and beyond • quality coaching by jeff knisley and jason lummel • transportation to and from the alley after school contact matthew nordt, recreation supervisor at 238-7289 or .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) for more information.
photos of the game can be seen at by clicking here.
each of the 300 semi-finalists receives a $1,000 award, each school $1,000 for each of its semi-finalist students.
horace greeley scholarship fund annual fundraiser at crabtree’s kittle house date thursday march 15th, 2012 time 6:30-9:00 p.m. tickets are available!
this kind of extra help is a central part of education even at the collegiate level offered in the form of professors’ office hours.
unfortunately, he lost by pin in :55 seconds.
liam mercer also had a hard fought battle at 152 pounds and lost by decision 4-16.
on the day-of, there are so many things that can happen!
so when i came home from college recently for a short break before the start of my spring semester, i was sure to ask my family about the newest developments.
at the risk of being politically incorrect, i think it’s safe to say that you’re in a field mostly dominated by men, what sparked your interest in this area?
february 6, 2012 by christine yeres •
little croc bakery (gluten-free) and big girl bakery are also here this week to satisfy all your sweet tooth needs.
although no snow fell on january 16—and temperatures had begun to rise, resulting rain-only—freezing temperatures in the days before the rain of january 16 required all-out salting on a continuous basis, vaccaro explained, “to ‘burn’ the ice down to the pavement.”
since there was a large amount of information collected, the committee expects to have this process completed sometime in january.
captain jon russo has proven himself again this year riding a 28 win season into the post season.
tonight: friday january 6 at 7:10 p.m. at brewster ice arena
ellen davis is a creative director.
i’m not going to wring my hands in distress over the obvious change in climate when i should be doing what i can to stop it from getting worse.
“i think we have to step back and ask why we do what we’re doing,” said tipp.
january 6, 2012 new year’s resolutions i’m content to know myself well enough that i no longer make resolutions at which i’m certain to fail.
as founding  principal, rhodes was instrumental in reaching out to and creating an advisory  board composed of students, parents, community members, local business  officials and politicians; recruiting all staff and students; articulating  curriculum in all subject areas; securing millions of dollars in grant funding;  and he even had a hand in the school’s layout and design.
the winter session runs about three months and costs $200.
this week, they’ve got two new soups:sweet potato with rosemary and local maple syrup as well as mediterranean chickpea with sundried tomatoes and kale.
come out and support the quakers!
looking for a camp to send your kids to this summer?
please come watch their last varsity home match and support the efforts and sacrifices these young men have made throughout the years.
to propagate more plants.
in truth, i’ve allowed myself to be plagued by worry.
outdoor feeding attracts many wild animals to your door!
to find out more about leasing space within the weezee location at chappaqua crossing, along with memberships and employment opportunities, visit http://www.weezeeworld.com or call 888-840-5653.
do you know other teachers in the program?
the video, from nccmc.org, is embedded below.
for more information, read the rules carefully.
start praying for snow.
everybody loves looking at the pictures in the window.
coyotes are naturally afraid of people and their presence alone is not a cause for concern.
it also enables us to get more competitive pricing as true value has the buying power of 4,000 stores.
on the revenue side, the biggest long-term issue concerns the need to increase the commercial tax base.
because lower king is not a state or county road, the town has authority over the signs planted on it.
there, they will compete for more than $630,000 in awards provided by the intel foundation.
trip to imax and dave & busters grades: 5 – 8 program #: 490613 day & time: wednesday, 10:00 am – 4:00 pm date: february 22
click here for a copy in pdf of the “winter whiteout dance permission slip & driving form” from thehghs website.
“i’m always surprised and ecstatic about the quality of dancing and singing from the students,” commented director kevin kearins.
4-5:30pm middle school ceramics: fri.
what sets us apart is great customer service and our connection with the community.
carpenter encouraged them to organize themselves into one they said existed, sort-of, or to form another.
brian rosen is the father of josh rosen, a senior co-captain of the team.
we have eight large tvs and surround-sound.
so far the greeley boys’ swimming and diving team is undefeated with a 7-0 record for the season.
february 3, 2012 by marci garson editor’s note: the non-profit jewish child care association’s “a tree grows in pleasantville” benefit raises much-needed funds, as well as hope, for neglected children who live and study at the cottage school in pleasantville.
if they’ve been around long enough and are not invasive then they are acceptable.
feel free to attach cv and/or headshot.
this is due to a population that is skewed toward the 35-65 age group, a population that tends to be in the prime of professional life and at the peak of earning potential.
he graduated from horace greeley high school in 2001 and is currently pursuing his mfa in film directing at columbia university’s school of the arts.
there is always more to do.
once prayers have been answered, make sure all walkways, steps and paths are kept clear of ice and snow.
this indicates that subjects relied on implicit deduction performed during trial 1, modulated by familiarity in later trials.
scott recorded the fall in 2:35.
for the past three year whispering pines has had a contract with the town and has planted all of new castle’s town flowerpots.
in addition, the staff reflects the diversity of the children, and model positive relationships among a diverse group of people.
the cupcake conspiracy: “terrorism is easy.
the sidewalks were brined on foot, by a worker with a back-pack container of the solution and a spray wand.
there are a limited number of plots available for the coming garden season; if you are interested in gardening or thinking about renting a plot, join us!
students take english five times a week and read classic books such asfrankenstein, 1984, othello, and the odyssey with the dual goals of understanding complicated narratives and learning how to write traditional literary analysis papers.
chopped up leaves also make good mulch in the garden beds.
the league of women voters, a nonpartisan political organization, encourages the informed and active participation of citizens in government, works to increase understanding of major public policy issues, and influences public policy through education and advocacy.
the 35 different elements of training equipment—designed to strengthen nervous system conduction in a way that improves academic performance, athletic coordination and social connections in children of all ages—includes a rainforest & storm zone (tactile water/wind experience), reaction training & sports enhancement stalls (hand-eye coordination), a vibration station (core stabilization), a cyber-action floor (anticipation in movement), a fiber optic light room (visual optimization), and a state of the art music room (fully-equipped sound studio with karaoke room).
jon also was named all-league last season.
(1) how long have you and your hardware store been a member of our community?
upper house courses upper house course descriptions school profile for millennium high school school profile 2011-12 [editor’s note: from the hghs website, click to see greeley’sgreeley’s school profile updated september 2011.] _______________ related: new: superintendent mckay to recommend robert rhodes as next principal of horace greeley high school, ncnow.org, 2/16/12 photos by kevan full, at kevanslens.com; see more in photo gallery friday, february 17, 2012 by rob greenstein full disclosure: i’ve known rich and his wife amy for 25 plus years.
maher, newest on the block, concurred.
hayes: getting to yes is an excellent resource for people in all walks of life to learn how to better communicate, collaborate, and negotiate.
non-native plants do not invite beneficial insects because the latter have not evolved to recognize them.
the elmsford detour may not be replaced with a bike trail for years because the county transferred ownership of the rail bed to the spca and because a boardwalk will have to be built along and over the saw mill river for 200 yards or so under route 287.
“you’re always welcome at our meetings, and we’ll notify you when these matters that directly effect you come up on our agendas.”
in a game that the quakers expected to win, the busy week ended with greeley losing with 10 seconds to go in overtime to mt pleasant 3-2.
4-5:30pm architecture: thu.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash bingham and his daughters annabel and becca january 27, 2012 new castle resident bingham ray, 57, an industry leader in the distribution of independent films, died monday, january 23, in utah while attending the sundance film festival in park city.
you’ll be able to say that you helped shape the cupcake conspiracy (but don’t try and claim any residuals).
* increase fees: admission to events, parking for hghs seniors * commercial sponsorships – buildings, fields; cell towers, cafeteria items, technology *
although relieved that the digging up of their street and sidewalks is put off, merchants were also disappointed that the planned aesthetic improvements—the re-do of sidewalks and curbs, lighting to match the new lampposts around town, street signs and the fashioning of a small park at the very end of lower king—must also be put off.
what will enable them to succeed, to be resilient, confident, and to cope with stress and have good relationships.
though the pretext for the barriers was that the area was “unsafe,” the police were permitting civilian vehicular traffic to enter—leading one woman within earshot of me to observe wryly that we could all get to the park if we just took taxis.
in the next event, greeley’s jared krosser won the 100 breaststroke.
truth—coyotes are not a significant predator of pets and deer.
she continued, “our parent aide volunteers are an essential and integral part of the center – they usually provide a critical 50% of the support to families.”
the majority were from the tri-state area.
so that pcmk receives credit for the donation, “team pcmk” should appear on the designation line and the trip id march 11 – 90028 should be included.
i frequently hear customers comment about the wide variety of merchandise we carry.
the recent addition of short ribs has many mouths watering.
and i’ve forgotten that advice just as often.
in 11th and 12th grade, advisory focuses on the college process in depth, in addition to helping guide the students through the required exhibitions and supporting academic and social growth.
now in its seventh year, live from ny’s 92nd street y, continues to educate and entertain people throughout north america.
contact: dawn dankner-rosen/leah breyette ddr public relations (914) 747-2500 office (914) 420-8219 cell cindy lupica of marmalade, dawn greenberg of aurora; see plan of park on lower king in “read more…” january 20, 2012 by christine yeres the town board has included in this year’s capital budget funds to repair 100-year-old sewer and water lines under south greeley as well as those under lower king street.
* revenue – how else can we generate additional revenues to support the school budget?
“mr. rhodes has a passion for learning and for teaching students to pursue their own ideas,” commented lyn mckay.
unfortunately, westchester magazine no longer has a best pharmacy category.
as the world grows closer together, people who are open to others with different backgrounds will have an advantage in developing relationships in school, at work, and in society in general.
one small house, based in brewster, n.y., will send three teams in the spring of 2012 to haiti to build simple, decent homes for families displaced by the devastating earthquake of january 2010.one
in 11th and 12th grades students choose thematic elective and/or advanced placement courses that prepare them for the comprehensive english and the u.s. history & government regents exams.
select something whimsical like a wind mobile to introduce movement.
the bowls are being created by all the adult potters working out of the new castle art center.
the paradigm i invented would be ideal for monitoring the recovery process of a stroke patient, for example.
and just maybe i’ll set an example for others.
in our 44 years of being a part of this community, we have developed a lot of friendships.
he rolled his eyes skyward as he watched me assemble this crazy combination of wheel and shovel in our living room.
about 4,000 school tax bills go out to residents in august.
lasdon park, arboretum and veterans memorial,* route 35, somers • lenoir preserve, dudley street off north broadway, yonkers •
winter gardens needn’t look sorry and lonesome.
everything in the store is very unique and representative of who we are.
we are looking forward to working with a group organized by the volunteer center of united way who are volunteering their time in honor of martin luther king day.
expert consultants have warned that both sets are badly in need of replacement within the next two years, but some merchants on lower king are worried that their businesses will suffer.
actually, it’s not as bad as it sounds.
i’m not sure what mystery ingredient the folks at buddhapesto put into their blender to make this pesto so flavor-charged, but it’s working!
“i use the bike trail weekly,” he said, agreeing that “it’s a tremendous resource and we have to figure out a way to beautify it, put more retail and connect it to other retail.”
in that same vein, do plenty of reading in winter as time to read is always short when garden chores seem endless.
third in the series: michael kalesti of kent on mid-century modern monday, january 23, 2012 by susan blumenfeld uncover your hidden treasures!
there’s a distinct way the brain reacts to those changes and we can measure it.
children of different backgrounds learn very quickly to look beyond the visible and social differences and see the person, the friend, standing next to them.
billy marino, 195 pounds, wrestled jimmy lopez and pinned him in 3:36.
because you hit on the ball of the foot, you end up having to cut off a little of the extension you would take to land on your heel.
january 20, 2012 just to remind you what it was like this this time last year, i’m going to share a poem i wrote almost to the date last january.
the other night, my honey made an omelet with stone barn eggs and a medley of madura mushrooms, roughly chopped with some parsley and it was do delicious even my 7-year-old changed her position on all things fungi.
makes about 1 ½ cups, enough for 4 fillets ingredients 1 cup tierra farm organic dry roasted sea salt & onion cashews ¼ cup toasted fresh bread crumbs 2 cloves of garlic, finely minced 3 tablespoons cilantro, finely chopped 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, plus more for the pan zest and juice of 1 lemon, separated kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 4 fish fillets of your choice, about 1 pound pineapple habanero sauce, recipe follows directions pulse the cashews in the bowl of a food processor until finely chopped.
the art piece, which takes the shape of a sukkah (free-standing hut), will travel to temple beth el of northern westchester starting today, february 3.
at the middle school level, where students are learning the groundwork for years of more complex classes to come, it allows students to gain the fullest and deepest possible understanding of topics before the class moves on.
the play will be performed on book, with some blocking.
construction has begun and a grand opening event is scheduled to take place in march.
the extra-help sessions that are currently offered—giving extra help to students who need a little more time to fully grasp a concept, need to make up a test or assignment that they missed, or to get an extra study session before an upcoming exam—fall in this “school-related purposes” category.
quite often they need to chose between football, soccer, lacrosse, field hockey, baseball, hockey and basketball.
to facilitate the planning process, please take a moment to rsvp by monday, february 13th.
not too many independent pharmacies survived.
however, less predictably, the median age is older – 43.7 years in 2010, and compared to 39.9 in westchester county.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash waiting to begin; see more photos in “read more…” january 6, 2012 by christine yeres a full crowd at town hall chatted and noshed as they waited for u.s. congresswoman nita lowey to arrive from albany to swear in new town supervisor susan carpenter, re-elected deputy supervisor elise mottel, town councilman jason chapin, re-elected town justices douglas kraus and david zuckerman and county legislator mike kaplowitz.
republican opponents from november’s election—bob kirkwood, rich diefenbach and kevin moore—and independent rob greenstein attended the ceremony.
“our vision is for weezee to become a fun place where kids can make friends, have unique experiences, expand their imaginations and improve their cognitive performance,” says weadock.
our classes: 30 minute healthy meals acoustic guitar act test and review beading bird watching body hoop class bridge for beginners
if the weber grill you’re looking for is not in the store, we can order the model you want.
photos are by new castle resident kevan full,www.kevanslens.com.
food coyotes are opportunistic feeders, meaning they will feed on whatever is most readily available and easy to obtain.
make sure to pick some up!
“yes, guardrails on the highway,” said katchis.
unless any of those are exactly what you favor, i’m not talking about them at all.
however, i’m certain if that should happen, there’ll be other delights to compensate.
yes, we are all about greeley sports.
once the pipes are replaced, the street itself will be repaired.
the remaining space will provide an office headquarters for weadock’s access nursing & healthcare services, currently located on manville road in pleasantville.
i couldn’t imagine having a store anywhere else.
come meet and greet them.
9:15-10am just wood a: mon.
a lot of the information provided in this publication was adapted from articles provided by the new york state department of environmental conservation, the massachusetts division of fisheries & wildlife, the publication “urban coyote ecology and management”, the cook county, illinois, coyote project, and the “co-existing with coyotes” publication produced by the city of rockville, illinois.
(when we receive your calls for these roads, we report them too to the appropriate agency.)
he ordered me to retreat behind a mini-barricade half a block away.
my motto is we shine together.
why not celebrate waking up next to the one you love on tuesday with some wholesome granola at the market?
other guests joined us periodically, including a female bicyclist whom an officer had placed in a painful headlock, and another journalist whose visible credentials did not spare him from police harassment.
once the process is complete, the themes as well as the raw data will be posted on the ccsd web site, etc. ncnow:
after greeley gave up the first goal of the game nick girardi and sam mishkind found the back of the net a few minutes apart and greeley led 2-1 going into the third period.
add 4 ounces of water.
those savings may be less now that administrators have found that an increase in the student population at seven bridges may require the hiring of two additional core subject teachers.
all incoming tfa corps members attend an intensive five-week summer institute which is meant to prepare us for the upcoming school year.
amy: living in the same community, sharing the same experiences and having a personal relationship with your customers definitely helps.
kolbe is one of those people.
call penny vane at 914-238-0646.
i spend most of my time now focusing on the front end of the store.
january 13, 2012 press release from the town of new castle
“mr. rhodes has a passion for learning and for teaching students to  pursue their own ideas,” commented lyn mckay.
the match started with greeley going down 12-0 due to forfeits in the 99 and the 106 weight classes.
in addition, by displaying the struggles and triumphs of these homeless individuals on the walls, the ushpizin (exalted guests) invited into the space will be the homeless men, women, and children of our city instead of the traditional biblical ancestors.
but the bobcats stormed back, going on an 8-0 run.
they often can have a german shepard-like appearance.
upon learning of the gaps in her film education, he promptly supplied her with a list of must-see films from the 30s, 40s and 50s; posted 1/23/12 onhuff post entertainment.
hugh sigmon is a member of the presbyterian church of mount kisco.
vince canziani, lmsw, is the director of wagon road camp which is owned and operated by the children’s aid society in chappaqua, a non-for profit organization.
check it out:www.drugmarts.com
this is a time when we need to come together as a community and make tough choices about what we can afford and what we might need to do without, but it is imperative that we do so while having complete information so we can make informed, calculated decisions while preserving the tradition of excellence that we all have worked so hard to achieve.
a friend who is giving me some advice on layout dropped by this week and was surprised to smell a stone barns chicken roasting in the oven along with some newgate farms fingerlings and some cumin-dusted cauliflower.
teddy graves continued his strong play contributing 10 points, three steals and five rebounds.
grade [editor’s note: click to see a pdf of the incoming 9th grade summer assignment.]
we carry items for yard work including grass seed, fertilizers, hoses, sprinklers and gardening tools.
it is very rewarding to make people’s holiday season beautiful!
in 2003 he received clark university’s secondary educator of  the year award and in 2008 was awarded a cahn fellowship designed by teachers  college to recognize outstanding principals.
freshman elijah kim filled in at 132 pounds and lost by pin to odell alexander in :49 seconds.
in past years, participants have been delighted to find out how significant historically and monetarily – some of the items turned out to be.
the new castle art center, located at 939 hardscrabble road, still has spaces available for the following fabulous classes: art-merry-go-round: mon.
greeley plays fox lane on friday, january 6th, at 6:45 p.m. at greeley.
the lead allowed some younger players to get some meaningful playing time; jake ault netted the first two points of his varsity career.
the quakers finished the first quarter up 15-4 and widened the gap to 33-16 at the half.
this event is co-sponsored by the chappaqua library is free and open to the public.
training will consist of exercises and drills to improve agility, conditioning and ultimately performance.
the high living fences bordering piet oudolph’s garden in hummelo come to mind.
besides valentine’s day, which is right around the corner, what are you other busy times of year?
there are 3 main options for resolving conflicts with coyotes: exercising tolerance, fencing and good housekeeping practices, and lethal removal.
the store is about 5,000 square feet and we have over 7,000 square feet of storage.
do you do a lot of community events?
1-2:15 saturday morning with dad: sat.
77.8% of the adults over 25 have a college degree and over half of those also have a graduate or professional degree.
december 30, 2011 by christine yeres •
originally from shaker heights, ohio, rhodes graduated from sarah lawrence  college in 1990 with a bachelor of arts degree in social science and in 1997  received a master of science degree in educational administration from fordham  university.
the color of the fur can range from reddish-yellow or tan to gray or black.
dates to remember january 7 youth basketball league play begins 7 ski trip - mountain creek 9 classes begin (unless otherwise noted) 16 martin luther king day – no programs/classes 21 ski trip - mountain creek 23 dance classes begin february 4 campapalooza at the community center 4 ski trip - mountain creek 6 day camp registration begins 11 ski trip - mountain creek 20 president’s day – town offices closed no programs/classes 20-24 winter recess – no programs/classes march
the coyote is a native to north america and have been a part of new castle’s landscape for decades.
the 20-page report is also available in pdf form by clicking project for public spaces phase 1 memo.
(9) any special discounts for newcastlenow readers who mention this article?
you carry so much greeley logo merchandise, as well as uniforms and equipment for greeley sports, have you always been focused on greeley sports?
if you have questions about whether the class is right for you, contact diana walker at.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address), or phone 238-6856.
what i remind people of in reference to the invitation is that this is the preview of the event to come.
there is some concern about the quality of this water as it runs over asphalt roof shingles so don’t use it for the vegetable garden.
*cook’s note: if using very thick filets you may need to finish cooking them in the oven.
what was the tfa application process like?
because a drop of shame burned quietly in the province of love.
the lead changed hands several times during the overtime period and greeley found itself down by two near the end.
a nice blanket of it is very much needed for the spring bulbs and perennials that require a proper state of dormancy in the cold.
then in spring track, stress fractures.
space is limited to 8 students per trip.
i understand that magazines are under siege due to changes in electronic media, but these practices to increase circulation are onerous almost to the point of being predatory when it comes to senior citizens.
since their swimming and diving meet against tappan zee high school on december 20, the swim team has also had meets against westlake high school on december 22, which greeley won 95 to 83; against north rockland on january 3, which greeley won 97 to 84; against ossining high school on january 6, which they won 97 to 67; and against fox lane high school on january 10, which they won 95 to 86.
carry a whistle, shout at them, coyotes do not like loud or sudden movements.
since last appearing before the board, conifer has negotiated funding with the state and county and has performed soil tests on the hunts lane property, which had a previous life as a petroleum storage depot.
words on paper represents time spent, in a sincere way to make a statement.
the town is divided into 17 zones for plowing purposes.
why not choose new castle recreation’s day camp programs?
so you looked at what happens in transitioning from “shod” (with shoes) running to barefoot running.
this favorite community event has been a regular sell-out, enticing hoops fans of all ages to come out and root for their favorite teachers . . .
using such things for larger than typical blooms, unnaturally pristine lawns, quicker than normal growth etc., are all akin to the use of steroids in athletic sports.
chappaqua continuing education session is now open: classes in the mysterious mushroom log, facebook for the clueless, and zumba; one-time trips to stone barns and rocky hills.
then there’s my garden open day in may and at this rate i’m not sure what will be in bloom and how it might look.
”i’ve got his back.”
just who are these people?
rye quickly outskated greeley to start the game but the quakers battled and a goal by sam spar put greeley up 1-0 after the first period.
this will be the kick-off event of temple beth el’s broadcast programs, held in our new social hall and shown on a large theatre screen.
“i really feel you need to give us a chance to get back some traction from customers,” she said.
[the town board’s organizational meeting will have taken place the night before, on tuesday, january 3, from 7:45 to 8:15 p.m.] you are invited to attend the inauguration for susan carpenter – town supervisor elise kessler mottel – town council jason chapin – town council judge douglas kraus –
qualified students may take ap courses.
77% of the adults over 25 have a college degree and over half of those also have a graduate or professional degree.”
use something mild like sand to give traction.
we have a phenomenal executive board in place for next year, and i plan to continue playing a role in expanding the scope of the program over the coming years.
when subjects repeatedly solved the original balls-and-boxes puzzle, their accuracy and speed improved, despite having no awareness of how to solve the puzzle.
playwrights philip j. kaplan, of brooklyn and c.j. ehrlich, of chappaqua have both had numerous productions of their plays all over the country, and in canada.
“how can the district ensure continuing excellence in academic and extracurricular programs while developing a budget that is fiscally responsible?”
with only four more games to go before playoffs the greeley team will need to win its games against pear river and later ryetown/harrison if they are to have a high seed when the playoffs begin.
continue caring for houseplants.
subjects demonstrated significant improvement between trials 1 and 2, unless given a puzzle of different logical operation.
maple moor golf course, north street, white plains • marshlands conservancy, route 1, rye •
all proceeds from the harlem wizards game support csf grants that fund innovative learning opportunities for our children.
ncnow asked raylesberg about the application process and why he applied.
it brought me back to those good ol’ chappaqua school days.
clickhere to download it from ccsd’s website.
the third round ended up being more fun than i expected.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash february 3, 2012 by christine yeres the chappaqua turf committee (tctc) has plans to expand its original $2 million fundraising campaign for turf installation on the greeley competition field to include another $1 million for improvements and additions to the surrounding area.
the match and festivities will begin at 4:30 p.m. in the wrestling gym at horace greeley high school.
most of those uncomfortable feelings,” she continued, “are being judged for my sexuality…i accept, understand and am proud that i am a lesbian.”
during each of our sessions, a specialist leads a discussion on their field of expertise and then offer verbal on-the-spot appraisals of items brought by members of the audience (limit: two items per person.)
most-visited destinations, shops and services that are lacking, suggested goals for the hamlet and a useful summary of the 1999 “millwood design guidelines” are all included in the report.
please dress warmly and bring water.
in lieu of flowers, they request that contributions be made to thejacob burns film center in pleasantville, on whose advisory board bingham served since its inception and where he used to host the jbfc film club, or to the san francisco film society, for which bingham began working in october 2011.
the entire team wrestled extremely well against some high level competition.
indigenous plants attract indigenous insects that not only carry out pollination but also keep pests from proliferating.
speaking of burgers… roaming angus will have some fresh (not frozen) chickens this week as well as gorgeous cuts of beef.
we have to see how we can get that going.”
this twelfth annual students inside albany conference will take place from march 25-28, 2012, and will bring together approximately 40 students from across the state to albany to get a first-hand education about their state government.
at the chappaqua library theatre on saturday, march 3, at 7:30 p.m.—a cupcake to go with every ticket!
the friends sponsor a wide variety of library programs which enrich our amazing community resource.
the pps report included demographic and income data taken from the 2010 census, calling millwood “an extremely wealthy community.
it’s my hope that they will take action to investigate the practices of the magazine subscriber service industry and take action to ensure that their publications are sent only to readers who want to receive them.
* conserve resources, shutter some buildings on weekends * ½ day kindergarten *
harrison attempted to accelerate play with a full court press, but the quakers consistently broke the pressure, leading to uncontested layups by ciero and brown.
see also: traillink.com and westchester county trailways.
may 2012 be the best year yet.
rhodes has worked for 21 years in nyc public schools.
coyotes have a long, bushy, black-tipped tail that is usually carried pointing down.
supervisor susan carpenter agreed.
it’s an all-volunteer effort, so all of the money raised will be given directly to the mt. kisco interfaith food pantry and the interfaith emergency food pantry in pleasantville.
there’s a change in mechanics involved in barefoot running: instead of running with the heel hitting first, the ball of the foot hits first, then you bring down the heel.
don’t hesitate to pick up small objects, such as a tennis ball, and throw them at the coyote.
an appeal from mt. kisco child care center mt. kisco child care center has a chance to win $25,000 from the pepsi refresh project.
this is quite hard for me as its really difficult not to notice what needs doing and get impatient to take care of the problem.
greeley plays fox lane on friday, january 6th, at 6:45 p.m. at greeley january 6, 2012 by brian rosen the greeley boys varsity basketball team started league play on wednesday with a 54-49 over harrison.
people worldwide will participate in the event by watching the film in venues ranging from large public theaters to community centers, schools, houses of worship, libraries and private homes.
gardens offer a marvelous canvas for artwork and creativity so lets take advantage and add something clever to our own stretch of earth.
kolbe jendzejec came to us as a sophomore and is an all-county runner in the fall and spring but wanted to do something different in the winter.
works of nature such as large rocks or abstract forms of driftwood can be all that are needed.
this significantly diminishes the value of wildlife habitat, in terms of food sources and nesting areas, and has a negative impact upon the number of species that use the river corridor.
“it will really hurt my business if you start three months from now.”
all-league tennis all-league fall 2011
“pps’s scope of work was quite limited.
“we teach kids every day resiliency, ‘go to work on these skills,’ ‘get better at what you’re doing.’
in making a resolution, i’ve been given the ultimate goal and not meeting it would mean defeat.
on tuesday, board of education members voted to accept up to $3 million in private donations tctc intends to raise.
keep the shovels, sand and grit handy.
because the winter phone for days stayed silent that would call our father back to work, and he kept silent too with our mother, fearfully proud before us.
i volunteered to make the calls to ensure that she was unsubscribed and not billed.
hyacinths like about fourteen weeks of cooling.
to make sure that even people in need can get fresh food, there is a dedicated giving garden with four beds tended by girl scout troop 2747.
if it’s in stock, we’ll have it in days.
voting ends today, friday, december 30, at 11:59 p.m. and we need your votes!
rich: it’s a pleasure working with her.
we do a lot of special orders.
congratulations to all athletes.
the subscriber customer service information is in a tiny font *
a mushroom sauce would go so nicely with that steak – and you can count on madura to bring a wide variety of culinary mushrooms.
while it has been suggested that barefoot, toe-strike running may ultimately be less injurious, these data indicate that the transition into barefoot running presents a high risk period for musculoskeletal injury to the lower extremities.
in 11th & 12th grades you may request courses in each required subject and electives.
the sidewalk was a great addition to millwood but it would be even better if the loop was completed to connect the town.
we do a lot of patio and pool container plantings.
the cupcake conspiracy is a work in progress.
“we have created a unique environment that offers children a time to play and learn that is unforgettable.”
“live in each season as it passes; breathe the air, drink the drink, taste the fruit, and resign yourself to the influences of each.”
“[the social-emotional considerations] are now a subset of teaching and learning,” said katchis.
we are extremely proud of all our young wrestlers.
look for big girl’s rich, dark brownies and hearty quinoa oatmeal cookies which are completely wheat free!
4-5:30pm wood wood b: fri.
“we wanted to do this first, to jump start it very quickly.
the board of ed’s next meeting is tuesday, february 28, at 8:15 p.m.
don’t forget to buy olives and organic tierra farm nuts!
a student found to be in possession of or under the influence of alcohol or another substance will be suspended from school (including extracurricular activities and athletics).
and i’m happy to report that lasagna preziosa is returning to the market on a once-monthly basis, starting this saturday.
greeley’s aaron saccurato finished first in the next event, the 500 freestyle.
small house has been building homes in rural mexico for the past decade.
preventing conflicts with coyotes—11 easy tips
boys and girls in grades 3-8 are invited to participate.
it’s great to see that public opinion of the bike path has changed and is now viewed as an economic engine.
in an extremely close race, greeley’s alex smith finished first in the 100 butterfly with an awesome performance.
saturdays the office will remain open continuously from 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
the masthead is sometimes buried several pages into the magazine *
* advisors serve as sponsors, meeting with students regularly and closely monitoring student progress.
we are looking forward to working with the turf committee to help raise money.
with a focus on writing, critical thinking, analytical skills, exhibitions,  presentations, and service to community, rhodes has created one of the top  ranked and most sought after high schools in nyc.
mother’s day and valentine’s day are tied, naturally.
too much of anything is not good.
and we believe that helps people feel at home.
you’re invited to join friends and neighbors for a simple soup supper anytime between 5 and 8 p.m. at the first congregational church, 210 orchard ridge road in chappaqua.
she is also the parent of sixth graders, violet and jackson gautreau, who are members of the seven bridges theatre company.
several years ago, my neighbor helped her elderly aunt move to a nursing home.
conflicts between dogs and coyotes occur primarily in the months of march and april when coyotes are setting up territories for raising of their young.
the pictures are a small sampling of what i’ve collected over the years.
as a parent, my child’s social and emotional well-being ismy responsibility.”
a statue can be a surprise element when partially hidden by shrubs in the growing season.
ncnow: at the knowledge cafe on budget, participants were asked to consider: 1)
fourteen intel semi-finalists were from westchester county.
judging from its own website, millennium high school places great emphasis on student exhibitions—for which “students must write a term paper and present their ideas before a committee”—and attaches great importance to its advisory system, in which each advisor acts as an advocate and as primary contact with parents for 15 to 20 students.
crisp geometric structures of boxwood in spheres, cones or cubes can appear very au courant in the right context.
a useful touchstone superintendent lyn mckay and assistant superintendent eric byrne told board members that elevating this third element of student life to the status of “strategic question” would provide the board and administrators with a touchstone against which they could view all their actions or initiatives—in the same way they use the existing two, mckay reminded them—as either promoting the intent of the strategic question or not.
erin knows everyone by name and usually knows what someone will order before they say it.
tuesday, january 17, 2012 by nancy king on a recent visit to my eighty-six year old mother’s residence, she pointed out a pile of magazines (shape, us weekly, country living and w) and complained that she had not subscribed to and didn’t want.
because i was young that morning in gray light untouched on the rug and our gifts were so few, propped along the furniture, for a second my heart fell, then saw how large they made the spaces between them to take the place of less.
you can step in to quaker hill and be reassured that you will know someone working and most likely they will know your name or what you drink
placing fourth was andrei nesbit (98lbs).
greeley boys basketball 1st
whispering pines of chappaqua 91 north bedford road chappaqua, ny 10514 whisperingpinesofchappaqua.com 914-238-5661 _____________________ visit ncnow.org’s business section to see other “merchant of the week” pieces by rob greenstein.
foster risk-taking and creativity…value process and product 3)
she is a member oftransition westchester: from oil dependence to local resilience.
that’shappening , in texts.”
by the end of the meet, greeley had a total of 92 points while tappan zee only racked up 76.
a training clinic designed for baseball, lacrosse and soccer players that will lay the foundation for a successful season.
placing fifth was yan yan xie (77lbs).
the room was silent as sabrina explained how she ended up at the cottage schools, a safe haven for abused and neglected children.
what do you think the town could do to make conditions better for business in millwood?
ward pound ridge reservation, routes 35 and 121 south, cross river sledding is permitted at croton gorge, lasdon park,* ward pound ridge reservation, and dunwoodie, sprain lake, saxon woods, mohansic and maple moor golf courses.
what makes your store different than a box store like home depot?
the next board of ed meeting is “budget preview” on tuesday, january 10, 2012, when the board will discuss “how are we responding to the boe fiscal question?”
as of two week ago, about 90 residents had not yet paid the first half of their school taxes.
the friends also purchase books, dvds, e-books, audio materials, even furniture, and of course, sponsor the young writers contest.
live music by local musicians will add to the festivities.
he was thrown into a guide rail and a stone wall on the side of the road.”
wewant to hear from you.”
according to vaccaro, salt is currently about $12 cheaper per ton than last year—$53 per ton vs. $65 per ton.
playwright c.j. ehrlich is a member of the board of friends of the chappaqua library.
as it turns out, by removing the protesters from zuccotti park, the bloomberg administration may very well have done ows a favor.
think outside the box and you just might come up with something unique to display.
lay the fillets out on a cutting board.
that’s a tough question.
the bobcats proceeded to go on an 11-0 run and regained the lead, 53-49.
i can’t stand the noise and i don’t enjoy breathing in the toxic stinky fumes.
as to ethics and boundaries, “the trouble with those,” said mester, “is that you have to be able to enforce them and consistently apply them.”
we would love to see you there.
temporary shelter is made possible in part with public funds from the manhattan community arts fund, supported by the new york city department of cultural affairs in partnership with the city council and administered by lower manhattan cultural council.
* special education: charge other districts to educate special needs students.
so i was interested in running injuries and started talking to my mentor about this new trend of barefoot running.
many wiped away tears as she stood before the well-heeled crowd gathered in temple beth-el’s brand new social hall and bravely recounted how her stepfather took advantage of her, her mother refused to believe her, how she turned to drugs, and worse, to “make the pain go away… i had what i would call an emotional breakdown.
keep bird feeding areas clean!
establish practices to enhance the social and emotional health of students [in its january 31 meeting, board of ed members will discuss whether to adopted a third strategic question on this subject.
get prepared with all the necessaries such as soil, compost, stakes, ties, etc. 10.
to register for one or more sessions, please call the chappaqua library at 238-4779.
life history an adult male and female will actively maintain a territory that may vary in size from 2 to 30 square miles.
in that vein of thought, here are my 2012 challenges in the garden: 1.
friday, february 17, 2012 by tara rutman registration for the spring 2012
rhodes is the founding and current principal of millennium high school in  lower manhattan’s financial district.
weezee) weadock, a child psychiatric nurse.
i’ve tried it a few times, but it doesn’t really work for the way i run.
next steps from the intel newsroom
so i do carry things like iphone and ipad covers.
what type of services will you offer on your site?
i loved helping him hands-on.
yes i can, has broken ground and plans to open in march.
while it is widely accepted that this function exists, very few studies have ever quantified this function using electrophysiology or mathematical models in the somatosensory domain.
“it’s a great start,” said board member jason chapin.
in my 11 years of running our summer camp at wagon road for the children’s aid society, i have witnessed the joy of friendships created as the children play and grow together.
abstract this study used variations on the balls-and-boxes problem-solving task (kotovsky & simon, 1990) to investigate unconscious processes in conscious thought.
cut back brushy edges in your yard!
brito confirmed that the overall plan includes a stop sign the intersection of king and greeley for traffic coming down the hill.
regents or equivalent exams: to qualify for a regents diploma, students must achieve 65 or higher on 5 required ny state regents exams.
what’s your busiest time of year?
for the last few years i’ve been mindful about introducing natives as replacements or additions.
he was then arraigned before judge david zuckerman, who was presiding at new castle town court, at around 8:00 p.m.
this bode well for the final quarter and the overtime period that followed.
“our parent aide volunteers have all said that the information they picked up at our training sessions actually helped them in situations encountered in day-to-day living.
pascale ledraoulec is director of the chappaqua farmers market.
and it cheers me to see so many people using the path all year round!
i had no control over the weather and yet, i was behaving as though i did.
spring will be here all too soon and you want to be ready and willing.
“i would frame it differently,” said board member jeffrey mester.
she and town administrator penelle paderewski assured the three merchants that if the project plans and consultants can be lined up quickly, the most disruptive work—the tearing up of the street surface—would be accomplished in two months, july and august, effectively done by the return to school in september.
and we’ll be opening for lunch on mondays, starting feb 20th.
leaf bag and recycling bin purchases, mulch delivery orders, and electronics disposal services will not be available during this 45-minute time period.
weezee’s program will also be sensitive to the needs of children with learning -disabilities spanning the spectrum from dyslexia to autism, and will offer them “the most appealing play options,” she added.
upon analysis, we epoched the standard and deviant data (took small sections from continuous data), leaving 100ms of pre-stimulus recording, and 500ms of post-stimulus recording.
the agent at national publishers exchange stated that subscriptions are processed by their company but i would need to contact the subscription service directly.
well, what about the garden and the precious plants?
what do coyotes look like?
in france, fennel is almost always served with fish, usually steamed and doused with some quality olive oil and a squeeze of lemon.
a height of 6 feet is recommended.
“we can actualize each of those questions.
we needed three pins from our last three weight classes to win the match and our heavyweights swept the rest of the way.
both women said that their end of lower king is very dark at night and that they would appreciate some lighting.
the wagon road summer day camp brings together children ages 6-13 from diverse communities in westchester, manhattan and the bronx to play sports, ride horses, garden, dance, cook, act and swim—all the while building understanding and sensitivity that children might not otherwise have.
here are some excerpts from the report: • notably, household size in the primary trade area is significantly larger than in the secondary and tertiary trade areas and even in westchester county as a whole.
see page 17 of the 27-page catalog loaded with activities, available in “read more…” to download the rec department winter catalog of activities, click here.
as a small business with passion and pizzazz, we stay true to the art of floral design tell me a little more about your garden design and installation service, as well as your holiday home decorating service?
the turf committee is working hard to bring the turf field, and lights, to the community.
according to a report by elizabeth ganga in yesterday’s
it would be helpful if a little more emphasis was placed on including businesses at the top of the hill when scheduling events such as sidewalk sale days and community day.
during the second semester, the advisor works with the class on their first of three exhibitions that teach the process of independent research.
we are now a proud carrier of benjamin moore paints, and, of course, we carry true value paints.
[by way of improvements].
call the rec department for more info: 238-3909 or visit the town’s website by clickinghere .
despite pressure on the mt pleasant goaltender, only blake davis and owen gatto were able to score in another disappointing one goal loss.
the highlight for most students will be the opportunity to shadow their senators and their assembly member for an afternoon, with many students getting the opportunity to attend session on the chamber floor.
there was an elite gathering of greeley athletes at the horace greeley gymnasium on saturday morning at 9:30 a.m.
*sabrina and tahitia are not the girls’ real names, but their stories are true and representative of the more than 320 inner city kids who live and go to school at the cottage schools until social workers can either reunite them with their families or find them foster homes.
it should be a fun and exciting week and we hope to see you there.
so we contacted three or four bowling alleys, then put the costs together—andstarting tuesday, january 24, it’s a go!
as far as wine, one of my personal favorites is kali hart chardonnay, which is available by glass or bottle.
it raises the level of awareness.”
it’s based on the idea that it would be less injurious.
the show is cast, rehearsals have started and the excitement builds.
next home game: tonight, friday, january 20, 7:00 p.m. against harrison.
we also carry a wide variety of homewares throughout the year.
i know your web site http://www.kingsscribe.com is near completion.
our goal is to host a safe, fun, and affordable day camp for the residents of new castle.
the company will also monitor income eligibility requirements of applicants and will submit a plan to the town outlining how limitations on rental costs will be calculated over time.
the police reportedly used tear gas toward the end of the raid.
we mailed our yellow brochures last week.
all who knew him will miss his clear and distinctive voice.
the game also marked the return of senior co-captain justin ciero who chipped in with 12 points.
at the same time, the board amended its contract with the wba group to include the additional design and engineering services—all contingent upon receiving the funds from the tctc.
the filmmaker’s goal is for people to come together on the same day, to start a conversation about what makes people happy and how we might begin to live more fulfilling lives.
since many people wait until the end of december to pay the second half, shapiro said, she waits until january to send out the reminder post cards only to the 2200 who have not yet paid the second-half bill.
each advisory plans and completes a community service learning project.
as always, this year’s contest will be judged “blind” by a panel of writing and editing professionals.
every ticket you buy supports quality library programs.
greeley (4-3 on the season) was led by harrison brown and brett klein, each with 14 points.
specializing in high-quality affordable housing, conifer currently manages and owns over 11,000 apartment units in new york, new jersey, maryland and pennsylvania, and has about 25 projects in various stages of development.
though she was kidding, i thought it was actually a pretty good idea, so i jogged around the cordon perimeter and hailed a cab.
the holiday season starts for me with custom photo cards and holiday greetings in october.
there will also be opportunities for medical and academic internships for high school, college and medical school students.
add cilantro to taste and use over the fish.
in the opening minute of the third quarter, a jumper by ciero made it a one-point game, which energized the greeley fans.
admission is free, but because space is limited, pre-registration is required.
known: there will be movement and props, but the actors will be holding scripts and a narrator will allegedly fill in the action.
coyotes are a medium sized predator, an opportunistic feeder and extremely adaptable to a wide range of habitats, quickly adjusting to changes in the landscape and are now found in all areas of the town and region.
january 6, 2012 don’t miss out on the fun!
when pps worked on a plan for the chappaqua hamlet several years ago, they got people to come to visioning sessions at the bell school.
“if you create the question,” said mckay, “we can create measurements.
feeding, whether direct or indirect, can cause coyotes to act tame and over time may lead to bold behavior.
vaccaro attributes this to the fact that temperatures before the october storm were very mild, so there was no frost in the ground; consequently, crews were able to rely on plowing to do most of the clearing, with salting done only at the very end.
although the recycle center yard remains accessible to residents from 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. on monday through saturday, the office is closed on mondays and tuesdays so that staff can sort the cardboard, paper and co-mingle that arrives on saturdays.
hence, a garden with mostly non-native plants will consequently have a bigger problem with pests.
among the 300, chosen from an applicant pool of 1,839 in 2012, are two new castle residents: evan olin of ossining high school and davis wertheimer of horace greeley high school.
so i got to thinking that instead of taking things as they were, i had been so focused on wanting things as they ought to be.
so implementing a tactile alert, such as vibrations in the steering wheel, might be more effective.
a scramble in front of goaltender neil hershman led to a pearl river goal half way through the period and with less than two minutes to go pearl river scored again for a 3-2 victory over greeley.
they are divine…which is why baker suzanne whitney has such a loyal following all over westchester.
many times they referred me back to the publisher or to national publishers exchange.
they are currently in the process of analyzing the information for recurring themes.
this small-batch, organic pasta is intensely flavorful
judges never know the identities of the writers, and vice versa.
* students complete a modified version of the paper that is much longer in their junior and senior years.
topiary, the deliberate shaping of plants is an age old tradition but can be used today in more modern ways.
the outcome of a confrontation between a small dog and a coyote depends upon the dogs behavior.
audition location: the chappaqua library theatre, 195 south greeley avenue, chappaqua, ny.
the top award is $100,000; the remaining top 10 will receive awards totaling $305,000.”
they offer visual stimulation and perform a function.
on average, change detection occurred 172ms after stimulus presentation within the post-central gyrus across all subjects.
matt re for keeping score and taking photos throughout the meet.
so far we’ve had a positive response and we are always looking to improve it.
as she promised she would, mckay has included not only the budget advisory committee’s summary of the results (see below), but also two forms of raw data: the notes taken by facilitators at the knowledge cafe tables and the tablecloth jottings of the resident, parent, teacher and administrator participants (links are below).
in fact, they are drawing up our remodeling plans.
usually, we do have some.
that’s all one can ask for.
community and family are important foundations for our restaurant.
the 9/10 core curriculum establishes a foundation of critical thinking skills and features key content infused into all classes.
this included after school, snow days, vacations and summer breaks.
good alternatives such as your own homemade compost exist.
amy: i think you opened your law office a few months later.
i am ultimately only responsible for my own actions.
one of the most radical gestures of the occupy movement has been to transform everyday spaces—parks, squares, sidewalks, bridges—into empathetic forums where private suffering becomes a public concern.
we really need to get a handle on who uses the hamlet,” she said, “what they use it for, and what they want that they don’t find there.”
the horace greeley ice hockey team skated to a 5-2 win over nyack/tappan zee on wednesday.
board member john buckley suggested the town produce a map of the millwood hamlet “to help focus on what we’re doing” and that the town and millwood task force set up meetings with merchants.
take care to not completely puree them to a paste.
but there’s a difference, at least to me.
the next ceremony will be held in the early spring for the winter season sports after the honors are voted on by the coaches.
indoor ice skating and skate rentals are available at the three-rink, climate-controlled playland ice casino at playland park in rye.
we’re affiliated with teleflora and ftd, but our style shines through our work.
but, she noted, breeze had only just opened in september, so she was less familiar with the disruption caused by the bridge.
see you this saturday!
the booster honor board induction ceremony is open to all.
we had reached him by phone, in alaska, where he lived without a computer and spent time each day cutting firewood to heat his house and whatever hot water he needed.
several publications do not list a telephone number…only website info.
this is only phase 1.
let it give the landscape someoomph, some panache.
they will also be introducing their delicious cranberry merlot sauce which you can drizzle on your favorite greek yogurt, poached pears, or, for something truly decadent, all over their flourless chocolate torte cakes (pick one up early – these sell out quickly!).
zuckerman ordered that guaman-guartambel be held without bail at the westchester county jail.
as merchants in a small community i think we all have the same hope—that people will appreciate the contribution that our businesses make in their town, and consciously commit to supporting us, because itdoes go back into our community via donations, events and other outreach.
greeley continued its comeback in the second quarter with matt xie, in his first game of the season after sustaining a pre-season injury, powering to the hoop for a layup and klein nailing a three to cut the lead to five at 20-15.
that is, there’s a lot of different approaches one can take to solve a problem—pattern-based, self-observation, memory—but it turns out that the way most people solve a problem is by using logical deduction.
for each of the officials, lowey paused after the “i…” and looked expectantly, to hint that they should supply their names; and each then did, as though surprised by the need.
chappaqua actors in the cast include charley riggs, carmel derosa, neil agarwal and chris valenti, a greeley student.
(they are setting up for a concert on saturday evening)
it’s all semantics you might say and you might be right; but this works for me.
and, by the way, more than 45 years later, my dad is still running his store.
also tomorrow, buddhapesto is back with that wickedly good pesto sauce andbombay emerald company is visiting us with a decidedly different “green sauce” which is no less delicious: try their mint chutney on some local lamb!
the soups are being donated by the participating restaurants and caterers.
it sounds as though quaker tavern is like cheers, where everybody knows your name.
“we need to come up with common standards—what we can offer [students] in our schools in terms of a safe environment, not so much values.”
the first half of the current school tax was due by september 30 and on october 1 the penalty on unpaid bills would have been 2%.
the 29-cent reminder postcard is still far less expensive than sending out 4000 tax bills a second time.
fellow board member karen visser was most skeptical of codifying an area in which parents are the prime guardians and guides for their children.
mhs is a public high school of a little over 600 students in grades 9 through 12—less than half of greeley’s current population.
check our website www.quakerhilltavern.com for upcoming specials and holiday events.
they also can be confused with red and gray foxes who have similar coat colorations.
he currently has 14 wins this season.
she encouraged them to add their email addresses to the sign-in sheet she had passed around.
from “nyc bike maps: new york city’s bike paths, bike lanes, & greenways” handmade bowls created by local potters filled with delicious soups donated by local restaurants.
keep yourself inspired by visiting the conservatory at the new york botanical gardens.
a coyote may not be removed simply because of its presence in an area, there must be damage or a threat to human safety by a specific animal.
don’t feed or try to pet coyotes!
the comments from the long term question encompass both expenditures and revenue.
for more information, email suzi novak.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address).
placing sixth was joe sasso (112 lbs).
using the wovel is no more stressful than walking, its easy to use for both young and old alike.
people benefit by catching glimpses of this majestic animal or listening to their amazing vocal display.
rich: as far as who is a better pharmacist, no comment.
several magazines did not list a telephone number, only a website.
after being late to school 106 days and being suspended 6 times in one year, tahitia was sent to the diagnostic program in pleasantville where she claims her social worker “really helped me to loosen up” and credits her therapist with teaching her to “get out my anger and work through some uncomfortable feelings.
the seedpods left deliberately to dance on the tops of grasses and such make for ethereal sculptures.
but just as the tree represents new growth, sabrina attributes her new life to the cottage schools.
we will be wrestling a tough and well-coached pleasantville team.
growing your own vegetables and fruit is so healthy and wholesome.
then, for the remaining lawn, use a push reel mower.
he has proven to be a clutch performer, winning a huge match that put us over the top against rival port chester this season.
each of the the subjects was holding a mechanism in each hand.
she added, “it’s a delightful experience for both performers and audience alike.”
after some thought, we decided to sell the bedford hills store and focus all of our attention on millwood.
how long has the quaker hill tavern been a member of our community?
or you notice the sound of a siren, because it’s unexpected and it occurs in the ambient.
greeley’s aaron wald won the next event, diving.
road trip to armonk ends in disappointment
only now they seemed as though they were danger flags flapping about in warning.
neither of them said anything.
what was i thinking?!?!
those interested in joining a mission trip can register at www.onesmallhouse.org/. help move these families out of tents and into real homes!
please vote today to help us win by sending a text (110389 to 73774) or ...
when did you two open drug mart in millwood?
it imparts a lovely anise flavor to any delicate fish.
not yet counted toward the reductions is the $500,000 in savings expected from the change in middle school schedule—with teachers of core subjects teaching more minutes in periods of 55 minutes.
advisory meets three times per week for all four years of high school.
since the fall of 1959, when my family moved to chappaqua, the major change in sports in town is multi-season and travel teams.
just this saturday, the market is outdoors on the front lawn of the church.
(snow date: sunday, february 5).
you’ll choose your handmade bowl from those on display, then fill it with your choice of one of the delicious soups provided by crabtree’s kittle house, jardin du roi, gail patricks, taylored menus, via vanti, ladles of love and the new king street restaurant & bar.
the park and the surrounding area had already been scrubbed clean of civilians, save for a few street vendors with no customers.
purchase whatever is needed such as seed trays, soil etc.
and, of course, our staff is knowledgeable, friendly and helpful.
try a sample at each and see which one you like best.
peat harvesting has a huge adverse impact on wildlife and the environment.
senior captain jon russo (126) earned a technical fall 16-0 over jose nieves, senior mike orbeta (145) earned a major decision over brandon castro 15-3, and senior ben perlmutter wrestled up a weight class at 152 pounds to pin michael zakher in a 1:19.
february 3, 2012 by peggy raiskums on sunday feb. 12, 2012 4th annual zumbathon® charity event for the society for the prevention (spca) of westchester takes place at dance emotions, 75 south greeley avenue.
mention newcastlenow and receive 20% off all in-store greeley merchandise (no specials orders).
and this is another advantage of being a member of true value, we can order anything out of their catalog.
the outside walls are made up of over 100 small fiber art pieces made by children in the city’s family shelters.
the trails at hilltop hanover farm, hanover street, yorktown heights •
fee: $45 per individual location: palisades mall get out of the house and check out an imax movie and some games.
ez sports is named after my late father ed zimmerman, who taught me the love of sports.
in the board’s scheduled january 10 “budget preview,” its agenda question for that evening is “how are we responding to boe fiscal question?”
do you find yourself drinking a lot of tazza coffee throughout the day?
emily prentiss research project:
as it catapults the snow effortlessly off of your driveway, your tricep muscles get a nice workout.
the store has given me the opportunity to stay involved with greeley sports.
you may report them to the town’s department of public works as well but the state and county respond well to calls from residents and we encourage you to call them.
rich: sure, a free stress ball.
don’t run, but slowly walk away (instinctively, coyotes—and pet dogs—will follow after anything that runs, including a person), make yourself look bigger by putting your arms over your head or opening your jacket.
add bird feeders, bird and bat houses and such to make your garden ‘user friendly’.
january 20, 2012 by hugh sigmon we all have the natural tendency to block out horrible news, political strife and economic corruption.
anyone interested in volunteering should call the child abuse prevention center to schedule an orientation date anytime that’s convenient for them.
you can find some at the bread alone stand, as well as at big girl bakery and true food of nyack.
in 2011, the mkifp distributed 188,727 pounds of food — a 33% increase over 2010.
water used to boil eggs and vegetables can also be used in the garden.
my hardware knowledge and interest comes from helping my father build our family home on his time off.
for some activities you must purchase tickets in advance.
“the brine is very effective,” vaccaro explained, “in preventing ice from bonding to surfaces, and also buys us some time before plows or salting is required.”
february 10, 2012 by suzi novak many of us in chappaqua would like to try vegetable gardening, but have been daunted by too much shade or too many deer.
simply throwing them away was a chore for my mother and, as a child of the depression; the waste of throwing out a perfectly good magazine was difficult.
we do our best to support the community through donations.
should the board of education approve superintendent mckay’s  recommendation, there will be opportunities in the near future for the  chappaqua community to meet mr. rhodes and to welcome him to the district.
tablespoons of cilantro, finely chopped place 2 ounces of jam (½ of the jar) in a glass bowl.
drama and music are offered only after school.
i think it needs to be done.”
the encampment at zuccotti park was barely two weeks old, and there was no broader occupy movement yet to speak of.
check for disease, water regularly, fertilize occasionally, provide adequate light, humidity and warmth.
as we grazed the east side of the park coming down broadway, i slid out the door and started broadcasting with my phone—though by now, at 2:00 a.m., only a handful of viewers tuned in.
there’s still time to schedule an orientation meeting with the center, a prerequisite for attending the workshops.
we have a wide-ranging camp program that values individuality, promotes self esteem and exposes your child to a variety of skills, games and activities.
hundreds of people attended the annual “tree” event this year helping to raise $353,000.
past supervisors polly kuhn, clinton smith, jan wells and barbara gerrard posed with susan carpenter for a supervisors-past-and-present photo.
monday, january 2, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. on wednesday, january 4, newly-elected town board members and justices will be officially inaugurated in a brief ceremony, to be followed by refreshments.
so, she purchased a diverse variety of sensory equipment and created a playground in the basement of her home for all the neighborhood children to enjoy with her daughter.
i plan to write to all these publications as well as to my state and federal representatives enclosing a copy of this letter.
the first event was the 200 medley relay, and with a photo finish the greeley relay touched out suffern’s relay by less than .2 seconds.
but that pepper-spray video, and all of the many images of even worse violence against protesters since then, did get a lot of people mad.
call rec dept at 238-3909 or click here for the list of cool offerings for presidents’ week.
everything depends on whether the plans can be finalized and the consultants and contractors lined up fairly soon, said paderewski.
when i confessed to the driver that my plan was to circumvent the police barricades in order to get closer to the park, he was game to help.
that year the team was 6-10, finished fifth in the league and they collectively scored 11 individual wins for the team.
10th graders begin to prepare their first exhibitions in their spring semester.
jon russo placed fourth in the 126-pound weight class, the toughest weight class in the tournament.
coyotes can be very active during the daytime, don’t assume they have rabies or are sick.
this year, so far, the team is 17-6, second in the league, and they have collectively scored 80 individual wins for the team.
if you want to report road damage (pot holes) on the following roads (county or state roads), please call the numbers that appear below.
to stick to my weeding and general maintenance schedule but not get crazy when the weather precludes the effort.
tolerance—most conflicts with coyotes can be resolved by implementing some of the preventative tips noted above.
it was suggested that the board of education and/or citizen groups lobby albany both independently and in conjunction with other communities.
the final destination of the brooklyn “foreclosure tour” was 702 vermont street, a property vacant for three years—until now, as a homeless family, with the help of ows and other community activists, was moving in without permission of the owner, bank of america.
or, search the internet to check out the chihuly and henry moore exhibits at the new york botanical gardens from the recent past.
manuscripts should be submitted on paper, in quadruplicate.
he is an avid bicyclist and rides the bike path every day all year round.
we will be hosting the new york state championship divisionals thissaturday, february 4th from 9am to 5pm in the main gym at horace greeley high school.
sauté another minute until the fish is cooked through.
sam miskind, nick girardi and soctt jakubowicz also scored as greeley outshot nyack 35-23.
brush with olive oil and season with salt and pepper.
more photos in “read more…” and in photo gallery friday, february 17, 2012 go native, reduce lawn area, compost, grow your own vegetables worrying accomplishes nothing – my grandmother said that a million times.
this waste is further compounded environmentally by the materials and energy consumed in production and shipment.
deadline for entries is friday, march 30, 2012, at the library, by the close of the business day, or 2:00 p.m. at the school english departments.
various groups have suggested over the past years that creating a third question might be relevant.
i bought a wovel online before he could get his act together and purchase a snow blower.
medium and large sized dogs usually have little to worry about because they are of similar or larger size than the coyote.
special thanks to greeley swimming and diving team members sky jarrett and
inside zuccotti, sanitation workers and police were busy breaking down the occupiers’ tents and makeshift structures and throwing them into bins, which were then dumped into a waiting convoy of trucks.
the last time the greeley boys’ swimming and diving team lost a meet, it was to suffern high school two years ago, so the team knew they would need to swim fast to beat this recent section 1 champ.
when a not-quite ex-husband goes on a blind date behind his wife’s back, he finds himself up to his neck in a terrorist plot involving cupcakes - delicious, evil cupcakes.
think of the chappaqua library as artificial turf that even non-athletes can enjoy.)
it would be inexpensive and non-invasive.
and, if we create a third question, are we bound to commit district resources and . . .
the red devils inbounded the ball and hit a three-pointer from the left wing to knot the game and send it into overtime.
the gentle undulations of a well clipped fence of yew while demarcating the external boundary of the garden, also introduces a certain lyrical charm that is striking in all seasons.
willson’s woods park, east lincoln avenue, mount vernon • tibbetts brook park, midland avenue, yonkers •
because we had little that year and were given much.
ironically, the construction of the new yonkers section of the bike path was blocked for many years by its neighbors, who were fearful of crime and didn’t want their personal use of a portion of the trail bed as their backyards disturbed!!
strategic question 2 (teaching and learning) “how can the district ensure that all students think deeply, support their thinking, apply problem-solving skills, and actively participate in their learning as they acquire content knowledge?”
we often get customers who come in to wander as their order is being filled.
school board members randy katchis and karen visser were also present, as were many members of the volunteer boards and advisory committees.
all these are provided below (and can also be found on the district’s website by clickinghere): the district held a knowledge café on december 7, 2011 with the following stated purposes: 1.
all of the money will go directly into the services that protect the residential programs at the cottage schools.
in addition, although the district’s own debt is exempt from the tax cap, board members think it unfair and nonsensical that the debt they incur for the boces improvements is not.
if you have never been to a wrestling match, i guarantee you will have fun.
the way i run, my stride doesn’t really match up.
what’s your personal favorite food and beverage?
i’m hoping its done within the next week or so!
will you teach forever, or do you have some other plan?
i’m able to base it on first-hand experiences.
retail is a new endeavor for me, but i have been a graphic designer and illustrator with an online stationery design business since about 2008.
because the curtained sun rose brightly on our discarded paper and the things themselves, these forty years, have grown too small to see, the emptiness measured out remains the gift, fills the whole room now, that whole year out across the snowy lawn.
current millennium high school principal offers expertise in professional, team, program and communal development.
to add at least three new native plants to the garden.
established in 2002 in an effort to revitalize the area following the september 11th attacks, mhs is an inclusive college preparatory high school that provides a rigorous liberal arts academic program in a responsive and flexible learning environment.
once a year, she leads a zumba session to benefit the spca, this year here in chappaqua at dance emotions.
monday, february 6, 2012 by christine yeres in their work session last tuesday, board of ed members discussed whether to add a third “strategic question” to the board’s existing two (one on balancing an excellent education with fiscal responsibility, the other on ensuring that students think critically and acquire 21st century skills).
state law constraints and mandates cause the greatest pressure on district spending.
also: they sell healthy samosas that are ready to bake and serve.
many of our staff have been working here for a number of years, most notably our manager erin teter.
each year, students are assigned a sponsor who will support him/her through the research, writing and presentation phase of the exhibition.
all campers provide their own lunch and beverages.
because the ‘social and emotional’ impacts on how they perform at school.”
with orders of 150 or more bar mitzvah invitation suites i will give free digital calligraphy on the guest’s envelopes.
come get everything you need for your game-watching party at the farmers market this saturday: pickles, hummus, organic sausages, delicate veal pastrami, artisanal cheeses, and lots of organic, locally farmed meats from both stone barns and gaia’s breath for chilis and stews.
kelly sullivan and manager erin teter; photograph by kevan full, at kevanslens.com january 27, 2012 by rob greenstein this week i stopped in at the quaker hill tavern to sample some chicken wings and beer and talk to judy quinn, co-owner of qht.
take out trash the morning pick up is scheduled, not the previous night.
so far this year the town has seen only three events requiring salting or plowing: the out-of-season october 26 snowstorm that wreaked havoc on trees and powerlines, a freezing rain on january 16 and the one-day-winter-wonderland last saturday.
what do we know about this cupcake conspiracy?
first, a written application, on which i was prompted to write a personal statement.
they will receive an all-expenses-paid trip to washington, d.c. from march 8-13.
oriental bittersweet and porcelainberry, the two most common invaders, crowd out native plants and slowly strangle trees in their upward spiral, eventually shrouding tree canopies from the sun and creating a blanket over under-story plants and shrubs.
blizzard magic snow carpeted roof tops edged in icicle fringe lilacs costumed as pussy-willows hellebore hills, lacy chain-links stepping stones become pillows.
program details: day/time: tuesday’s, 2:45 pm - 6:15 pm dates: january 24 - march 20 (no session 2/21)
several members of the presbyterian church of mount kisco along with interim pastor jack lohr will join the first and second haiti trips, scheduled for march 11-17, and march 25 - 31, 2012.
in a jan. 31 meeting, the board of ed will consider a third “strategic question” on student wellness, both physical and spiritual in its december 15 meeting, the chappaqua education for the future committee settled on three areas for improvement for the school district.
to reserve your time slot email or call me: .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address), 914-960-4097—or contact the spca at 914-941-2896 or email.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) peggy raiskums is is a licensed zumba® instructor and personal trainer.
walker will start with a review of greetings and the verbs “ser” and “estar,” then cover the present tense of regular and irregular verbs.
jared krosser is a senior member of the greeley boys’ swimming and diving team.
she will also be available after the 7:15 pm shabbat service on friday, february 3 to answer any questions people may have.
finally, a few jcca members tracked her down and managed to calm her fears.
when does school start and do you know already that you’re teaching here in new york city?
but since bank of america (along with most of the country’s other largest banks) has been accused of committing mass foreclosure fraud, it felt less like trespassing than like a small step toward restitution.
however, the boys did not let this scare them.
i love when a customer comes in and asks for help.
profund relaxation meditation:full aliveness mixed media art mushroom log myong’s favorites photoshop planning a kitchen renovation powerpoint rocky hills tour sat test and review spanish- continuation spanish for beginners spring cleanse stone barns: tour and taste susan lawrence-
friday, february 17, 2012 by mark tulis over the past winter westchester county and putnam county finished construction on two of the three remaining gaps in the south county-north county -putnam county rail trails located on the old putnam line rail bed.
how my plants—the bulbs in particular—will be affected has been my dilemma.
is this third question related to (or even the same as) the second ceff action item, having to do with “social and emotional health” of students?
not to mention how the roots prevent soil erosion and the other very positive benefits that trees provide in general.
please see entry form for the full rules.
the meeting took the form of a leaderless “general assembly,” ows’s primary vehicle for making decisions, where actions are agreed upon by consensus and all attendees have their own voice—a micro-model of aparticipatory (as opposed torepresentative) democracy.
where there is in other months so much busy-ness with leaves, limbs, flowers and such, it is now possible to observe the true lay-of-the-land.
clippings and limbs from pruning of trees make good kindling and firewood when dried for a while.
although we don’t deliver, we have take out available all day and night.
for full-blown storms, the nine highway department drivers are supplemented by drivers from the town’s recycling, building and water departments.
additional cupcakes can be purchased at intermission courtesy of sweetooth katonah, who are donating profits to the library.
the ceff committee has identified three ideas for moving the district forward that will become its focus.
thus, the results of this study represent an important addition to literature, as they provide both an easily repeated paradigm as well as a definite metric with which to compare healthy automatic change detection with the abnormal processing habits of clinical populations.
we feel the community doubles our support through their patronage at qht.
placing second in the section were nic philips (190lbs), david conta (85lbs), and ethan chin (75lbs).
by the time i arrived downtown, the police had already erected a cordon of metal barriers in a two to four block radius around the park, preventing the hundreds of people who had shown up in solidarity—despite the late hour and lack of forewarning—from getting any closer.
joe’s publisher, bob cumming, gave us permission this year to share this poem again with our readers.
quite frankly, i harbor a deep concern whenever fossil fuels are burned.
according to inside schools, a non-profit group that describes itself as “your independent guide to nyc public schools,” class size at mhs currently operates “close to the contractual limit of 34, especially in the upper grades.”
to check on skiing and skating conditions on weekdays, go to westchestergov.com/parks.
in order to graduate from millennium high school you need four years of english, social studies, mathematics, and science, and at least three years of spanish or mandarin.
luckily for me, that did not stop my father from involving me in the business.
my first reaction was to the diminished time that students will spend learning foreign languages.
we opened seven years ago in a cute little shop on memorial drive, then moved up onto 117 next to quaker hill tavern where we stayed for five years.
town board holds its march 13 meeting at westorchard the town board will hold a joint meeting with the millwood task force on tuesday, march 13, at 7:45 p.m. at the westorchard cafeteria.
the evening includes great food and drink, music, a terrific silent auction and a few surprises.
spring time brings all the merchandise you need for spring clean-up and home repair.
please note that registration is limited by the number of available bowls and reservations must be made in advance.
shewas sure about the difficulty of the street sign that stands at the curb smack in the middle of her front shop window and hoped that in a redo it might disappear.
classes also include units on poetry, the persuasive essay, editorial, and oral history.
reexamine busing – fees for longer routes, out-of-district routes * pay-to-play: charging students for participation in athletics, theater and clubs.
in runners who compete?
to the many students, parents, families, and colleagues she has touched—mrs. boal is known for her extraordinary commitment, spending countless hours as a mentor with an open-door policy and also as a club advisor.
nysdec is the authority concerning wildlife safety issues.
you can take some of their packaged chicken and cheese enchiladas home along with some “cowboy” beans (pinto beans slow-cooked with roasted onions, tomatoes and jalapenos and finished with cilantro and lime.)
(5) does your inventory change a lot with the seasons?
at 138 pounds, kolbe jendzejec came up huge for the team by pinning giovanni borrayes in 5:34.
i have a lot of contact with greeley alumni, maybe they’ll have some suggestions.
hundreds of empty bowls events have now taken place across the united states and in at least a dozen other countries, raising millions of dollars for hunger-fighting organizations.
hubby and the wovel (“wheel” + “shovel”—rhymes with “shovel”)
board members made a point of proposing to meet with boces to provide input along with their “no” vote.
and i didn’t like how it made me feel.
what’s the benefit of your affiliation with true value?
let the fillets sit for a few minutes to bring the crust together.
students may enroll in college classes via the college now program at nyu, pace, baruch and bmcc for simultaneous high school and college credit.
classes in the arts, computers, college prep, cooking, dance and exercise, finance, garden and home, foreign languages, hobbies, self improvement and driver education are also featured.
i and so many students have been blessed with and sometimes take for granted.
the customer comes in, and if it’s not what they want, we’ll simply ship it back—no obligations.
a number of merchants, religious institutions and local organizations are making contributions to materials costs and providing other services for the event.
monday, january 30, 2012 by vince canziani one way to help the children of today succeed in the world of tomorrow is to give them experiences of diversity when they are young.
no student will be allowed to present until s/he meets standards for the written portion of exhibitions.
this allows us to carry a wider breadth of merchandise.
10-11am not just paint: fri.
the paradigm also gives engineers and people designing crash warning systems a useful tool—for example, in fancy cars where they have a crash warning system to tell you you’ve departed from your lane or when you’re too close to another car.
so you really can go light on the sauce.
although i discovered the magazines were promotional and my mother was not expected to pay for them, they were still unwanted.
there and then, with a big exhalation, i let go of my worries over the garden.
the mt. kisco interfaith food pantry serves an average of 175 households per week.
william gerrard is a filmmaker and has been a resident of chappaqua for 24 years.
or, purchase or commission something from an up and coming artist.
hundreds of people joined the march, which paused at boarded up, bank-owned houses along the way so that foreclosure victims could stand before the crowd and share their stories of life in 21st century america: predatory lenders, no health insurance, children killed in iraq.
i’ve already seen forsythia in bloom, daffodils and snowdrops happily piercing through the soil and pansies displaying their smiling faces to anybody who cares to look.
surely you remember his surprisingly light and delicate lasagna bolognese and his pesto lasagna, made with green beans and potatoes, and of course, pesto.
every $1 provides $4 of food that stays in our community to help hungry children and families.
grab your friends and join us for some great outdoor winter fun!!
jon’s wrestling has been improving throughout the season and he is peaking at the right time.
all school policies are in effect during all school activities.
the town’s lack of a vibrant commercial tax base lowers the overall assessed value of the town and shifts a greater percentage of the tax burden to the residential properties.
i quickly learned to expect extended (often in excess of fifteen minutes) hold times.
let the protection (such as burlap ) around the plants be.
ms. steinem will talk about her travels in this and other countries as an organizer, lecturer and frequent media spokeswoman on issues of equality and her work organizing across boundaries for peace and justice.
students must have a purchased ticket, signed by a parent, in order to enter the dance.
keep your knives at home - knife sharpener is back next week (january 21)!
already under construction, by march 2012 weezee will open its 15,000-square-foot indoor sensory playspace which weezee’s website characterizes as “somewhere between a children’s museum, an indoor playground and a children’s learning center – weezee world will offer a host of highly engaging, interactive and imaginative sensory experiences in a safe, supervised environment.”
why set myself up to fail right?
it is a key step in the school’s mission to prepare students for college.
the next scheduled board of education meeting is on tuesday, february 28, when mckay will present a proposed budget to the board.
pps was paid around $6,000 to work up their “phase 1” report.
we will help them learn how to manage freedom and to act ethically so that each may become a responsible, contributing member of society.
i think the greeley wrestlers stepped up to a big challenge and it says a lot about their character.
the 2011-12 greeley boys’ swimming and diving team had beaten last year’s
greg krisberg notched a hat trick and noah ives and jake sandor also tallied for greeley.
that mistake would not be repeated.
in its work session on tuesday, town board members reviewed the town’s plan for improvements to lower king street: redo the four crosswalks of the starbuck’s intersection and add a stop sign, move angled parking from the north side of lower king to the south side, redo sidewalks and curbs, add lighting and create a seating area at the very end of the street.
like other empty bowls events worldwide, this is a collaborative project meant to involve as many people and local organizations as possible.
one can choose traditional or modern works but just be sure they look right in the garden.
sculptures bring shape and texture to a garden.
in past years, the friends of the chappaqua library absorbed the cost of copying each manuscript to distribute to judges; the friends of the library save hundreds of dollars (applied to other programs) when entrants provide the copies.
students will participate in a series of interactive lectures on topics such as the state budget process, the role of lobbyists in the legislative process, citizen rights to access government information, the role of media in politics, and the move to reform state government.
when will the input from the budget knowledge cafe be released? •
while we’ve been surprised, okay even a bit uneasy about our unusually mild winter, various parts of europe are experiencing rather severe cold and snow falls.
and in countries where they don’t have ready access to shoes, like in kenya, they seem to have fewer injuries.
tahitia feels that owning who she is has helped her to take advantage of the many programs the campus offer.
suggested donation for participants in eaglefest is $5.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash january 27, 2012 by coach mike debellis
no wonder sabrina was anxious; she was about to tell a horror story of abuse and sexual molestation that began when she was just 6 years old.
phases 2 and 3 are outlined in the phase 1 report [a link is below], though no cost is specified.
i know you’ve been active with the turf committee, how’s that going?
summer camp is a powerful experience that helps a child grow and mature in remarkable ways.
so different from last winter which had gone to the opposite extreme.
this knowledge café will engage the community in a larger discussion of these ideas.
mottel suggested publishing the report on the town’s website,mynewcastle.org.
so that’s what we mean about values—not religion, but things other than academic skills.”
plans include a community room with computer stations, an exercise room and laundry room on the first floor of the building.
thus far its been mostly like a very cold spring.
for more information, or to schedule an audition slot, email .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address), with cupcakes in the subject line.
greeley fall sports post-season honors
by promoting high expectations, exhibitions also encourage all students to develop themselves as learners.
on february 28, mckay will recommend to board of education members that they appoint rhodes to begin as greeley’s principal on july 1, 2012.
represented in the piece are the stories of homeless new yorkers ages 4 to 75.
i started to cut myself which caused hospitalization four times in three months.”
brine had been applied to roadways the day and night before the january 21 storm and—for the first time—workers applied brine to the town-owned sections of sidewalk, some at the train station, others in the downtown.
i literally put everything in a pan, added salt and pepper, olive oil and cumin, and was done in five minutes.
tctc currently has around a half-million in donations and pledges.
the indoor play space, to include an innovative concept and design, as well as state-of-the-art equipment, will span almost 16,000 square feet with an additional 8,500 square feet set aside for health care and other professionals at the new chappaqua crossing business development located at 480 bedford road in chappaqua, ny.
never liked the taste.
get inspired by the sunshine and start writing!
all students must arrange to be picked up from the dance by 11:00 pm sharp!
the ambulance corps permitted intergenerate to build a fenced-in garden on their property; there are 22 beds that can be rented for $50 per season, which runs from april through october.
please come support our wrestlers!
the pps report will be on the agenda.
then brett klein provided an immediate spark off the bench by taking a charge, and greeley closed the first quarter with a three by justin ciero and a three-point play by brown to narrow the gap to 18-10.
however, a challenge clearly calls for me to just do my best.
this summer camps page will have the latest updates for your camp.
for more information, contact the jcca at www.jccany.org.
what can be done with the knowledge that these changes are measurable?
we’re back inside next saturday, feb 18th.
“whoa,” said visser, “my gut feeling is “this is my job.
we will have lots of lamb at the market this week and this recipe looks like a winner!
he is a great leader and works with our youth every night.
establish practices to enhance the social and emotional health of students [in its january 31 meeting, board of ed members will discuss whether to adopted a third strategic question on this subject.]
a wide variety of classes, including old favorites and exciting new options are featured.
i’m not suggesting anything radical like uprooting all non-native plants.
students may not enter the dance after 9:30 pm.
on the agenda is “budget discussion—school programs and staffing.”
round sectionals 6:00 p.m. game at north rockland • fri.
when a summer camp includes ethnic and economic diversity, the children learn not only about the greater world around them, but also about the accessibility of that world through relationships with others, here and now.
“the initial transition from shod to barefoot running generates increased tibial shock and muscle activation” by evan olin abstract running is a highly injurious activity, and as a potential means to decrease this risk of injury, many runners are transitioning into barefoot running.
on november 15, at 1:03 a.m., i received a text message that read, “urgent: hundreds of police mobilizing around zuccotti.
the saw mill river coalition and the dot instituted this vine removal pilot project in november 2005 to rescue native vegetation, restore the stream buffer, and preserve the area’s biodiversity.
on november 1 it climbed to 5%, then to 7% on december 1 and now, to 10% on february 1.
we have pictures of greeley teams going back to the 1930’s.
if this is what we expect, how can we measure?”
they, too, she asserted, had suffered during the period of bridge construction and needed a respite now.
in recent a “knowledge cafe” discussion of the budget, several parent participants suggested that, to save money, busing routes be changed to enlarge the area surrounding each school that isnot provided bus pick-up because distances are considered walkable.
in order to be promoted from grade to grade, students must earn enough credits for them to be able to graduate in four years.
all levels of gardening expertise are welcome.
the type of garden dictates the style.
“we will not be building temporary shelters, but permanent homes, designed to withstand earthquakes and category 4 hurricanes, and positioned to be at the center of a new community,” says team leader dave dobson and member of the presbyterian church of mount kisco.
lowey began by recommending that the audience listen to the governor’s speech on new york’s economy, jobs and future.
the first time i attended an occupy wall street (ows) protest was the march on october 1, which ended with the arrest of more than 700 people on the brooklyn bridge.
whatever it might be, sculpture should be sized right.
pps identified three trade areas, with millwood as the center (and wealthiest)—containing around 2,000 households with a median household income in 2010 of $177,000 and median per capita income of $77,000—ringed by two others.
“we want to create that environment,” added katchis, “where the [existing] strategic questions can be accomplished to the best of individuals’ ability without creating obstacles we have control over.”
educate your neighbors!
weezee will be open seven days a week, from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. and provide around 100 full- and part-time jobs as well as internships for students.
blake davis led the team with two goals and the defense continued its outstanding play.
to download the complete cce catalog, click here .
they realize they’re improving and becoming more accurate—but they don’t know how.
we will nourish our students’ emotional lives and guide their social development, instilling in them an appreciation of self-worth, of individual difference, and of global interdependence.
lasdon is open 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. only 10:50 a.m.
and, how? the district’s finance advisory committee was then charged with the responsibility of reviewing all comments and providing an executive summary.
“implicit processes in conscious problem-solving” by davis wertheimer
i had to laugh because we’ve been on a crazy fennel kick at my house this winter, eating it raw, steamed, baked and even pureed in soups.
chef david tanis had a great recipe in the new york times this week for hearty fennelal forno—fennel bulbs baked with mozzarella, parmesan and bread crumbs .check it out by clickinghere .
for a modest ticket price, guests share a simple meal of soup and bread, and they are invited to keep their handcrafted bowl as a reminder of all the empty bowls in the world.
motion sensor lights at the edges of the property will also help distract coyotes 11.
it’s really about the way the brain responds to stimuli we’re not really paying attention to.
but it’s got a great assortment of stores….a bank, liquor store, supermarket, dry cleaner, cafe, post office, and, of course, a family owned drug store.
the public is welcome.
so whilst others around me were waxing eloquent about the balmy weather in the middle of what ought to be freezing days, i went about my business glum and concerned.
a state-of-the- art illuminated field at horace greeley high school would be a tremendous asset for our sports programs, as well as our community in general.
see “read more…” for details.
the mmn is rapidly becoming an important tool for the diagnosis and monitoring of certain disorders.
the defense led by owen gatto, greg krisberg, henry girardi and dean klien as well as a group of strong backchecking forwards have kept opposing players and pucks away form goaltender neil hershman this year.
http://library.nycenet.edu/common/servlet/presenthomeform.do?l2m=home&tm=home summer assignments
while the protesters on the brooklyn bridge were still trapped and waiting their turn to be arrested, their comrades were deliberating as a group back at zuccotti park about what could be done to help them.
the presentation offers the student an opportunity to share with a committee his/her reflective process for conducting the research and developing the written piece.
we offer an affordable day camp with all the fun of a private camp.
unlike most things we buy these days, it is manufactured in the usa.
without giving away my age, i’ve worked here my whole life, i took the store over from my dad in the late 1980’s and have been running it ever since.
a small group of four committee members will be working with eric byrne in january to pull together information from the three working groups of the ceff.
advisors remain with their group, meeting three times a week, throughout the four years of high school.
at the end of each semester, students perform in a recital.
after many hours of doggedly calling and calling again, i think all were canceled (but we can expect 3-4 more issues before they actually stop coming).
the holiday season is just as busy—with home holiday decorating both inside and outside.
the quakers raced out to 17-11 lead by the end of the first quarter.
we hope to see you there!
one year ago, the 1,650 tons of salt plus crew members working for 98 hours of snow removal for the six six snowfalls had cost around $173,000.
annual memberships are available.
what specific cuts they would make to arrive at $1.8 million in cuts, 2)
if you are a parent exploring summer experiences for your children and wish to consider including diversity in your plans, here are some things to consider about wagon road: 1.
in the first event, the 200 medley relay, tappan zee got off to a quick head start by taking first place.
the idea is that in developing, human being have run without shoes.
just like that, they can turn a sandwich into a simple pleasure.
he lives in brooklyn and has two  children.
we were approached by our landlord because cvs was interested in moving into the shopping center.
and i certainly don’t miss dodging the dagger like icicles that threaten to impale all who pass under the edge of the roof.
canceling proved to be an exercise in patience.
the third round is a full day interview where i taught a five-minute lesson, participated in a group activity with other candidates, and had a personal interview.
happy was developed under the creative visions foundation, a 501(c)(3) organization that supports creative activists who use the power of media and the arts to affect positive change in the world.
he began his career in education in 1990 as a math teacher at a small alternative high school in jamaica, queens.
don’t let coyotes intimidate you!
[the district’s mission statement and two existing strategic questions are reprinted at the end of this article.
“our engineers tell us it’s not realistic to think the job can be largely finished in july and august,” carpenter announced, “and since we promised you last week that unless we could guarantee a summer finish, we wouldn’t undertake the project,” it’s postponed.
(3) you are next to a new castle landmark—rocky’s—does your location help business?
heather g. stoltz temporary shelter: an art installation about homeless new yorkers february 3 – february 17, 2012 temple beth el of northern westchester 220 s. bedford road, chappaqua, new york monday, january 30, 2012 by christine yeres teatown lake reservation hosts its eighth annual hudson river “eaglefest” onsaturday, february 4, 2012, from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (snow date: sunday, february 5).
when the owners of aurora, breeze and the king’s scribe asked whether they would have to wait three years for lighting at their end of the street, mottel told them that lampposts would indeed have to wait, but that in the meantime, sconces on the buildings themselves had been recommended by consultants who worked on the downtown improvement plan.
increase user fees, rent out excess space *
he ended up losing a close decision 12-15.
several merchants reported that their basements prone to water seepage.
it depends on which principals are interested in hiring me and which positions are in most demand.
scott is currently 26-0.
students may not bring bags of any kind to the dance.
they also help with the purchase of library supplies such as books, audio books, ebooks, dvds and much more.
the season is fleeting so get them while you can.
hire retired staff (no pension pay-in) * reduce number of aides (use parent volunteers) ~ prepared by the finance advisory committee ~ january 20, 2012 editor’s note: from an applicant pool of over 46,000 this year, jason raylesberg, hghs class of 2008, has landed a coveted place with teach for america.
initially, there were three things: tibial shock, muscle activity and knee flexion angle.
whatever your choice, ‘soft’ or ‘hard’, be sure you know everything about the care of the sculpture and that you can handle what is required.
who is involved in this project?
other top six place finishers for greeley were: mike orbeta, mitchell klein, brock cvijanovich, liam mercer, kolbe jendzejec, grady jendzejec, ryan rudinger, anthony sasso, elijah kim, and sammy tugendhaft.
class minimum: 5 participants.
when they presented their budget last fall, town board members expressed their intention to hold off on the south greeley project, since the merchants and their customers had just endured a lengthy bridge construction process on their front sides and parking lot re-do in back.
this knowledge café will engage the community in a larger discussion of these ideas: 1) pursue a paradigm shift toward a focus on 21st century skills 2)
the cheery yellow of forsythia flowers usually recognized as a sign that spring had arrived were now spied in january.
february 17, 2012 by c.j. ehrlich come to a staged reading of a new comedy to benefit the friends of the chappaqua library!
we try to greet each customer that comes in, see what they need help with and then guide them towards a solution.
the complete list of the honorees is at the end of this column, but you should take some time to visit the gym and view the honor board…..it is impressive!
on february 3 and 6, the two finalists for greeley spent 11-hour days, meeting with board of ed members, students, support staff and parents.
fortunately, they granted it to me.
you’ve been involved in greeley sports probably longer than anyone else in town, what changes have you noticed over the years?
friday, january 6, 2012 by christine yeres on new year’s day, new castle police received a call from a 26-year-old woman who works in new castle.
in the end, said board member randy katchis, “we’ll probably end in a ‘yes’ vote, but my ‘no’ will be to start getting representation within that organization and get a process in place.”
so much so that for the 2011-12 school year, 5,300 eighth-graders applied for only 150 openings, and several schools based on rhodes’ model now are opening throughout the city.
my store, the king’s scribe opened on may 1, 2011.
things are just too topsy-turvy for my liking.
mike orbeta has wrestled on varsity since he was a freshman.
to be able to manage their lives in the world: what does it take to do that?
sam tugendhaft received a forfeit at 182 pounds.
it’s worth it to bike the south county trailway!
originally from shaker heights, ohio, rhodes graduated from sarah lawrence college in 1990 with a bachelor of arts degree in social science and in 1997 received a master of science degree in educational administration from fordham university.
how did you measure these changes?
kirby atlas placed third in his 113-pound weight class.
both matches this week will begin at 4:30 in the wrestling gym at greeley.
mix the nuts, garlic, cilantro, zest, olive oil, salt and pepper tossing well to combine.
county legislator mike kaplowitz will sworn in as well.
board members suggested reaching out to such groups in millwood as merchants and condo residents at pheasant run and ledgewood commons.
following the 100 butterfly was the 100 freestyle, where greeley’s risten clarke took second place.
the april 27 gala will take place at the trump national golf club in briarcliff manor.
and to be honest, i’m not entirely sure which possibility is worse: the district being so focused on cutting costs that they didn’t pay enough attention to the ramifications that their changes would have on the quality of education being offered to even realize what they were doing; or the district knowing that this would happen and consciously keeping it hidden from the public because the potential savings were the only priority.
for a schedule and fees, call playland at (914) 813-7059 or go toryeplayland.org.
the fall is for all those projects you put off all summer long, because you were relaxing and enjoying.
the discussion of the third strategic question starts at the 33:00 minute mark in the video of the board’s meeting and lasts about 30 minutes.
the camp program includes swimming, arts and crafts, sports, exciting field trips, special events, drama, reading, and much more.
to understand more about sustainability and organic practices and implement more of the same in the garden.
according to detective sergeant james wilson, she reported that at 12:30 p.m. she was “sexually attacked by someone known to her” inside a residence in the town of new castle.
weadock hopes that these positions can be filled by recent college grads and returning veterans “who are having the hardest time of all finding a job.”
now, everybody wants the bike path!
• parent permission slip and driving form for saturday, february 11 winter dance to enter the saturday, february 11 high school “winter whiteout dance,” greeley students-only (no guests allowed) must have pre-purchased tickets signed by a parent.
rich: millwood has a great mix of stores.
natural history of coyotes the eastern coyote moved back into new york in the 1950’s and has become firmly established and an integral part of our ecosystem.
first and foremost, go organic.
fencing and other good housekeeping practices—also see above preventative tips.
jon russo, 126 pounds, disposed of dan dipippo in 1:26.
, i have remained interested in the challenges that the district faces amid the many changes that have been taking place recently.
checks made payable to the kombine.
as of the time of this writing, the family is still occupying their new home, and more property reclamations are in the works across the country.
the friends of the chappaqua library look forward to seeing the creative talents of the students in the district, and having the opportunity to recognize their original artistic efforts.
not everyone learns at the same rate, and this resource is crucial for leveling the playing field.
in april the fee goes to 12%, then another 1% penalty is added for each additional month.
i’m running three consecutive 50-minute sessions, at 11:00 a.m., 12:00 p.m. and 1:00 p.m.
mountain lakes park, hawley road, north salem • wampus pond, route 128, armonk •
digital photographer intro to email ipad overview italian- beginners italian- intermediate knitting live from 92nd street y- satellite broadcasts mah jongg mediatation i:
compost is in addition, a great weed suppressant.
there are some small items that can be implemented to reduce expenditures by a small amount.
there had been a huge amount of discussion for a long time before that.
all vine-cuttings will be held from 10am-1pm at the farragut avenue restoration site.
“but we didn’t engage them to do that in this report,” said mottel.
standing alone in a well marked spot, sculptures can make bold statements.
tahitia also takes poetry, guitar and african drumming (one of her favorites, she explains, because, “ i got to beat up on something that wasn’t a person”).
by being a member of true value, we’re able to purchase from their warehouse instead of direct from the manufacturers.
seven healthy adult subjects completed the experiment.
thus the garden continues to inform and instruct me on how to cope to the best of my ability.
as would be expected given the relatively large proportion of families with children, the percent of the population of the primary trade area under the age of 18 is greater than in the surrounding areas.
it needs to make a statement—now, that doesn’t mean it needs to be frivolous and expensive.
installation of the turf by fall of 2012 remains tctc’s priority, but additional restrooms, walkways, improvement to the concession stand, the track, and tennis courts are now in the committees sights as well.
here is just some of the things bowlers will enjoy: •
about 10% of its students receive special education services.
by this time last year, says commissioner anthony vaccaro, new castle had weathered six snowstorms totaling 40 inches of snow on 120 miles of road (= 240 lane miles).
the project, called “chappaqua station,” will contain a mix of 24 one-bedroom units and 12 two-bedroom units ranging in size from 669 square feet to 975 square feet.
it all came down to brent lobien at 285 pounds.
february 3, 2012 by pascale ledraoulec our “local” team is going to the superbowl.
“they do an economic analysis and a walk through, but not a lot of questions were answered.
we make it a point to get to know our customers and we believe this is what sets us apart from other places.
being next to rocky’s deli definitely helps!
help us celebrate 7 great careers.
always an exciting event, the series provides the community with the unique opportunity to have their suspected treasures appraised by experts in their respective fields.
to view weezee’s press release, click here.
pizza blend - shaped like a fresh baked pizza!
mike nadler bumped up a weight class to wrestle at 160 pounds and lost by decision 7-12.
the third quarter saw peekskill continue to advance on greeley and actually take the lead on several occasions.
local personal chef maria reina (www.bellacucinamaria.com) is also a big advocate of keeping things simple in the kitchen.
judging from the appearance of some snow drops and forsythia currently in bloom even the garden seems to concur.
and how can residents donate?
the $15 tickets will be on sale in the hghs cafeteria through thursday, february 9.
in my family, we like to buy each other something red on valentine’s day (i’ve gotten a red colander and a red wooly hat in recent years).
that, combined with competitive pricing, has kept our business going for over 16 years.
besides flowers and plants, what other inventory do you carry?
so already students are losing.
a committee of students and teachers assesses the final project.
recently, however, it was announced that the new middle school schedule of 55-minute periods will bring teachers so close (220 minutes) to their contractual daily limit that the tradition of monday/wednesday afterschool help will not continue.
pass this information along since your efforts will be futile if neighbors are providing food or shelter for coyotes.
something placed to highlight the quirky shadows cast by the midday sun would be sufficient to capture the imagination.
this friday january 6 at 7:10 p.m. at brewster ice arena the 7-2-1 greeley team faces off against the 8-1 pearl river pirates in what is expected to be a close game between two of the most improved teams in westchester/hudson valley ice hockey.
we expect students to feel a great sense of pride throughout the process as they become experts in their chosen field of research and as we celebrate their topics in school.
for more information call 914-238-4761 or visit http://www.childrensaidsociety.org/wagon-road-camp/summer-day-camp.
a 10% penalty applies beginning february 1.
(environmental trade-off)
remove feeders if coyotes are regularly seen around your yard.
i am double–majoring in english and music at columbia university.
seeking: max (20s-40), a nervous air traffic controller who steps outside his comfort zone and finds himself way over his head natasha (20s), a silesian terrorist, beautiful but deadly, exotic yet vulnerable (part is performed with some sort of eastern european accent) alvin (20-30), a man of many identities.
“let’s get the names of all the merchants on that side of town so we can keep them in the conversation we’re having.”
hope to see you there!
— henry david thoreau monday, february 13, 2012 by stephen coleman, new castle environmental coordinator coyotes are an important part of a healthy ecosystem and in our area serve as one of the top predators in the food chain.
then josh rosen dribbled around his defender and, with only six seconds left, threw a “no look” pass to brown underneath, who converted the easy lay-up for the lead and the ultimate victory.
the complete set of notes can be read at the following links: knowledge cafe facilitator notes knowledge cafe tablecloth notes long term question
so far, a mild winter crews spent more time (working 19 hours straight) but less salt (120 tons for 12 inches of snowfall, or $6,720) on the october 26 snowstorm than for the january 16 freezing rain, when they worked 11 hours straight and used 252 tons of salt.
he did not reveal whether any candidates were currently working within the ccsd.
richie & amy glotzer millwood drug mart 230 saw mill river road millwood, n.y. 10546 (914) 923-9200 www.drugmarts.com _____________________ visit ncnow.org’s business section to see other “merchant of the week” pieces by rob greenstein.
i know you sell specialty papers and envelopes, is it tough to compete in this computer age?
fitness program: speed & agility training @ kombine grades: 5 – 8 day & time: tuesday – friday, 11:00 am – 12:30 pm dates: february 21 – 24 fee: $100 location: the kombine sports & fitness center get the jump on spring sports the proper way.
we seek to develop each student’s full potential through a challenging curriculum, a diversified faculty, and a commitment to intellectual freedom.
two were new to the block, one has operated there for eight years.
seewhether to specify “social-emotional-physical well-being” as a third “strategic question,” in today’s
so i’d been thinking for a while of investigating how the conscious and the unconscious mind relate to one another and the scientific basis behind it.
no tickets will be sold at the door.
tfa asks you to put down ten preferred regions on the application, and nyc was my first preference.
leaves collected in the fall can be composted and thus saves the bother of bagging them for pick-up.
needless to say, he was extremely skeptical that my new toy would really move the snow out of our driveway.
i admired certain qualities in all of my teachers, from freshman to senior year, and hope to have the same impact on my students that they had on me.
quit using chemicals and products that promise ( and deliver) above average results.
but when you’re driving, you’re already using your ears and eyes and such a warning system might cause you to look to the right or left when you should be looking at the road.
we did not engage them for a full-blast study,” she said.
see the trailer in “read more…” february 10, 2012 by barbara kornreich saturday, february 11, 2012 has been declared “world happy day,” when screenings of happy, the latest film from academy ward nominated director roko belic, will be held around the globe—including here in chappaqua at thenew castle community media center .
i sell greeting cards for all occasions which gets people in the door on a regular basis what would you recommend to make our downtown hamlets more vibrant?
special recognition was given to two coaches - suzanne guziec, head coach of the girls’ swimming and diving team, was selected bythe
below is some information taken from millennial’s website: academic program all mhs students take four years of english, social studies, mathematics, and science, as well as three years of foreign language (currently offered are spanish and mandarin).
they will scavenge on road kills, garbage and pet food containers left outdoors.
the greeley aquamen won many of their events.
greeley dominated play throughout, holding fox lane to just 14 shots on goal while they were able to put 35 shots on the fox lane goaltender.
food writer/author pascale le draoulec is director of the chappaqua farmers market.
i searched for, found, downloaded, and installed bambuser, a free live-streaming app for mobile devices—the whole process took less than a minute—then made my way back to the bridge with a few other volunteers.
“as an athlete, i understood the value that constant training played on increased performance.
we found that the brain responds in 172 milliseconds (one-fifth of a second) after the stimulus is presented.
greeley knew rye would come out flying in the second period and they did, scoring two quick goals and finishing with three more in the period on way to a 7-1 victory over greeley.
angelo piccirillo and valerie holmes mentor: dr. john butler from the cognitive neurophysiology lab at albert einstein college of medicine abstract automatic change detection is a fundamental function of the human brain.
fertilize the lawn with compost only.
freshman brock cvijanovich continues to wrestle like an upperclassman.
suffern, 2009 section 1 champs, took on the aquamen on jan. 12
subjects consistently demonstrated insignificant improvement, even in the absence of any applicable strategy.
flour city pasta is back this week!
pelham memorial high school: katharine winifred costantini scarsdale high school: gibran mian white plains high school:
amy: we have a great shopping center.
hope you can make it to this fun annual event!
for those of you who are trying to eat lighter, theirmoroccan barley salad made dried cranberries, almonds and tangarine zest is as sensible as it is sublime.
ryan lubarsky contributed to the surge, converting a fast break layup and two free throws, and the greeley defense continued its intensity.
during the second quarter, greeley pounded the ball inside to harrison brown and received strong support from a timely brett klein three and aggressive play by teddy graves and cole benack.
lightning, cows and deer pose a greater risk, but acting responsibly is always the key to safety.
brings back memories right?
this match capped off a great year for the quakers.
these college kids (including the executive board) teach one-on-one instrumental lessons while the program provides free tickets to family concerts at the best concert halls in new york and holds workshops for both students and instructors led by columbia professors, phd students, and grammy-winning musicians.
the most popular way we sell wings is by the bucket with medium buffalo sauce, extra homemade blue cheese dressing, celery and carrot sticks.
don’t make any more excuses.
while i’m not a huge fan of winter and snow, i do realize that the cold dark stillness of winter is necessary for a green and vibrant spring.
of course, i put it on everything from scrambled eggs to poached fish to grilled lamb- (or ham-) burgers, too.
pura vida brought a small amount of ridiculously sweet, tiny maine shrimp last week.
from “the man who ordered perch.”
the slideshow requires javascript and flash view from the 120 bridge, south elevation monday, february 13, 2012 by christine yeres on tuesday, february 14, representatives from conifer realty will present town board members with their plan for 36 affordable rental apartments on the 16,617 square foot property where the chappaqua drama group building once stood.
the final quarter started well for greeley with brown hitting a fast break layup and then two free throws, but then it unraveled for the quakers.
help us help our neighbors keep food on their family’s table this winter.
to volunteer or for more information, email .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) or call 914-375-2151.
there was no quit in greeley, though, as brown made a free throw, a driving layup, and then two more free throws, and the quakers only trailed by one, 55-54, with 1:30 remaining.
parent aide volunteers will spend approximately one hour each week supporting an assigned parent, but must first complete a 12-hour training course that provides them with the knowledge they need to become “nurturing, supportive role models to parents who need help dealing with their parenting concerns,” says laura schwartz, executive director, child abuse prevention center.
paderewski confirmed that the town’s new website, due to be unveiled at the end of february, will contain a merchant page.
because it’s so different, it’s something the body isn’t used to and the transition period from one to the other had never been looked at.
math and science courses include algebra 2, precalculus, calculus, advanced biology, advanced chemistry, advanced physics, advanced geology, and anatomy.
proof this captain jon russo mike orbeta ben perlmutter back row: farhan chaudhry, matt mercer, mike orbeta, kolbe jendzejec, ben perlmutter front row: mike nadler, the greeley quaker mascot, captain jon russo monday, january 30, 2012
additionally, the student will be barred from attending future school events.
civilians in afghanistan (and, until recently, iraq) are routinely subjected to surprise night raids by u.s. military forces looking for insurgents—yet there we were, in lower manhattan, in the middle of the night, being treated by a para-militarized domestic police force as if we were potential enemies rather than peaceful citizens.
a third strategic question would not address just social/emotional learning, but the broader realm of wellness and ensuring that students strike a healthy balance in their lives and nourish their bodies and spirits as well as their minds.
friday, february 17, 2012 by penny vane on monday, march 12, the potters of new castle, in collaboration with a number of local merchants and community groups, will host our area’s first “empty bowls” event, part of a global movement to raise awareness and support for organizations working to alleviate hunger.
composting is not difficult or time consuming.
reduce number of administrators *
to earn honors, students must achieve an average of 90 per cent in all exams required for the diploma (either regents diploma with honors or advanced regents diploma with honors).
cross-country in fall and track in spring.
as i said earlier, we try to carry a wide range of products and a blend of what our customers are looking for.
removing coyotes—coyotes are legally protected by new york state and federal regulations and there are specific procedures on how and when a coyote can be removed.
i paid pete zimmerman a visit this week, to ask him about his 50 years in new castle, and his 20 years running ez sports.
i asked bill if he would bump up so the team could score more points and he responded “anything for the team, coach”.
rather than waiting patiently for their wall street-financed leaders to experience saul-to-paul conversions in limos en route to $30,000-a-plate fundraisers, ordinary americans are taking the initiative and finding novel ways to help each other.
messages and questions from viewers started popping up on my screen—“how many arrests?”; “kudos from portugal”; “me too from italy”—to which i could respond by talking into the phone’s mic.
according the the “rules and expectations ” set out in the driving permission form, “students may not walk to or from the dance and may not arrive or leave by taxi.”
how many applicants so far for the two principal positions?
i can and must do more.
meeting, lyn mckay, superintendent of the chappaqua central school district,  will recommend the appointment of robert rhodes as the next principal of horace  greeley high school, effective july 1, 2012.
thursday, february 16, 2012 by christine yeres at 7:30 this morning, superintendent lyn mckay met with horace greeley high school staff in k-110 to announce her recommendation for the school’s principal position: robert rhodes, the founder and current principal of millennium high school of district 2, in the financial district in lower manhattan.
sculptures can suit diverse tastes, budgets and every garden can benefit from having one or two of them.
weezee will offer a host of highly engaging, interactive and imaginative sensory experiences in a safe, supervised environment.
join us at the last of the new castle historical society’s popular annual antiques lecture & appraisal serieson tuesday, january 24, from 10:00 a.m. until 12:00 p.m. at the chappaqua library.
the board turned its attention instead to lower king.
in general, for the safety of your pets, it is best to keep them restrained at all times.
secure your garbage in tough plastic containers with tight fitting lids and keep in secure buildings when possible.
ultimately, the benefits will also be felt in the pocket book.
set up a rain barrel to collect rain water from a down spout.
the slideshow requires javascript and flash february 10, 2012 i’ve decided to stop fretting.
but the quakers were undaunted.
in a jan. 31 meeting, board members will discuss the book getting to yes.
what’s your most popular food, and how do most customers like their chicken wings?
thursday, february 16, 2012 ccsd press release by david hayes chappaqua, n.y.—at the february 28th board of education meeting, lyn mckay, superintendent of the chappaqua central school district, will recommend the appointment of robert rhodes as the next principal of horace greeley high school, effective july 1, 2012.
of 147 who applied for the high school spot, 27 were sitting principals, 75 were “other administrators,” and 43 candidates were “other.”
the suggested donation: $18 for one session $35 for 2 sessions or $50 for 3 sessions a zumba ® fitness workout is “a latin-inspired, calorie-burning dance fitness party” for all fitness levels.
but yesterday, as i went for a walk, i found myself enjoying the ease with which i was able to walk a distance simply because the weather was so comfortable.
plant in those super-helpful trees and shrubs!
habits coyotes are typically shy and elusive, but can frequently be seen individually, in pairs or in small groups where food is commonly found.
despite packed house at january 6 home game, quakers go down in defeat friday night, january 6, before a packed house in the greeley gym, the quakers and the foxes faced off in another rivalry game.
there is a strong emphasis at mhs on reading and writing in all classes with an approach to literacy that begins in 9th and 10th grade.
(reservation information below.)
consider, for example, president obama’s new reelection poster: it’s an image of the back of obama’s head, in front of an old gap commercial-style white void containing the words, “i’ve got his back.”
most recently, the area was used as a staging ground for construction vehicles and materials for the route 120 bridge.
order plants and seeds.
cross-country skiing is allowed at the following locations: • blue mountain reservation, welcher avenue, peekskill • bronx river pathway, valhalla to mount vernon • cranberry lake preserve, old orchard street off route 22, north white plains • croton gorge, route 129, cortlandt • croton point park, croton point avenue, croton-on-hudson • dunwoodie golf course, wasylenko lane off yonkers avenue, yonkers •
mark tulis is a former new castle town supervisor and westchester county legislator and is an attorney and chairman of the board of the westchester medical center.
headquarters for eaglefest is at croton point park, with additional viewing sites along the hudson at croton-harmon train station boat camp, george’s island park in montrose, and riverfront green park in peekskill, kathryn w. davis riverwalk center in sleepy hollow and at the new croton dam in cortlandt.
on december 6th, as part of a national day of action against america’s housing crisis, ows worked with local community activist groups to conduct a “foreclosure tour” through the east new york neighborhood of brooklyn, where the foreclosure rate is five times higher than the state average.
this week they are having a 30-percent-off special on their nutty stella valis tomme cheese.
next come reference checks, checks of previous employment experiences and background checks.
greeley followed the rye loss with an easy 4-3 victory over newburgh free academy, controlling the play of the game throughout.
the 200 freestyle relay followed, and greeley took both first and second places.
if it does not, does that mean that the rollover figure is more like $7.1 million?
understanding opera, bird watching, computer for the digital photographer and live satellite broadcasts from the 92nd street y, are all new offerings this semester.
to be dressed in lighter jackets and shoes is positively delightful.
the cost of the wovel is under $200, if you pay to plow your driveway, you’ll no doubt save more than $200 over the course of a snowy winter visit www.wovel.com to learn more.
they won’t be back until january 28th.
stone barns is continuing with their “barn sale” on everything pork…now is the time to dig into that pulled pork recipe you’ve been wanting to try.
rich: it can be difficult competing with chain pharmacies, but independents can definitely thrive.
• open season for chappaqua continuing education spring classes chappaqa continuing ed brochure for spring classes is now available online.
i’ve seen through my work with musical mentors how powerful and easy it can be to make an incredible difference using resources
whilst our scientists study and find solutions to the problem at large, the rest of us also carry personal responsibility to doing our part in maintaining the wellbeing of our planet.
is your valentine not sweet on wheat?
as a teacher, i hope to channel the infectious enthusiasm of ms. slavinski, doc lucia’s ability to build friendships with his students, and ms. breen’s knack for presenting material as clear as can be.
january 13, 2012 an invitation from “groundwork hudson valley” please join us this saturday, january 14, from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. for our free-a-tree invasive vine-cutting.
with the additional square footage at chappaqua crossing, weadock is creating “a village” of offices to be licensed by sensory-focused and wellness-related, medical, non-medical, social and academic professionals that serve all family members.
“i disagree with the two of you,” said board member elise mottel.
sometimes i cut a bulb in half and bake a whole fish right on top of it—fronds and all!
but sometimes i wish new castle would put more emphasis on millwood, not just chappaqua.
citarella described all five principal candidates as “excellent,” all currently employed, taken from an applicant pool of 147 for the high school and 187 for roaring brook.
once the pan is hot carefully lay the fillets, crust side down, in the pan and leave for 2-3 minutes.
looking for fun activities for next week?
i reach higher and harder and that’s really what matters.
the entire putnam section, which is 11 miles long and parallels route 6, has many breathtaking portions that cross watershed land.
each one of these individuals has done their part to make this team a great success in their tenure.
i’m on the beatification advisory board of chappaqua – that’s a good use of me.
we bring the children together in groups of 12 separated by gender and balanced for different ethnic backgrounds so that no camper ever feels isolated.
in a broader context, human “intuition” in problem-solving is deductive, but inhibited or augmented by separate explicit learning.
never have i been more appreciative of having access to farmers market products on a weekly basis—and in the winter no less!
greeley’s chris koster won the next event, the 100 backstroke.
unsettling it might be but it also has me curious to see what will be the outcome of this unusual weather.
important games can be played at our home field instead of at a rented field in another community.
after a certain point, the live video streams coming from the bridge protesters stopped broadcasting; and since the mainstream media had yet to start paying serious attention to ows, there was no way for anyone who wasn’t standing on or near the bridge to see what was happening.
after coming in second at sectionals last year to tappan zee, the aquamen were ready to “give it all they got” in tuesday’s competition.
the trails at merestead, byram lake road, mount kisco • mohansic golf course, baldwin road off taconic parkway, yorktown heights • mountain lakes park, hawley road, north salem • north county trailway, tarrytown to putnam county line • saxon woods park, mamaroneck avenue, white plains • saxon woods golf course, mamaroneck road, scarsdale • south county trailway, elmsford to yonkers • sprain lake golf course, grassy sprain road, yonkers • tibbetts brook park, midland avenue, yonkers •
so what are you waiting for?
coming up: fox lane thursday at 7:55 pm, byram hills friday jan 20 tuesday, january 17, 2012 by bruce yablon greeley hockey lost three of five games last week beginning with a hard fought battle against pearl river at brewster ice arena.
members realize that their “no” vote may only result in boces returning to answer more questions, since the district is obliged to come up with the funds regardless.
the second round consists of a phone interview and online activity.
i think that’s going on in the district already.”
tuition-based summer program expenditure question
“my point is,” said carpenter, “that we have to have residents engaged and i don’t think they are right now.”
we’ll forgive if you head to fork & glass for some of their crowd-pleasing soups.
about coyotes truth—statistically, coyotes are not a significant threat to your safety.
instead, she explained, the town would now ask its engineering consultant, dolph rottfeld, to draw up plans for both the south greeley / north greeley avenue and lower king street projects, then “chop up” the project into sensible pieces.
“as the project is being staged,” paderewski told the merchants, “we’ll bring you along, bring you in to see the plans so you know exactly what’s happening.”
prior to the 7.0 earthquake that killed an estimated 300,000 in january 2010, haiti was the poorest nation in the western hemisphere.
the greeley quakers won a heart-stopping overtime thriller, 76-75, on saturday january 14 against the peekskill red devils.
please note, coyotes taking pets are not considered an immediate threat to human safety, therefore, the police department is not authorized to remove these wild animals.
send an email from the email account you wish to receive alerts to one of the three lists below: the rec department also offers an extended day program each day from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. for kids from grades 1 to 8.
within half an hour of arriving at the bridge—and having just joined the movement earlier that day—i found myself “reporting” the event for thousands of people.
(my mother did not recall ordering them.)
“we do value the shared services that boces provides,” said board member vicky tipp, “but we have a high level of obligation to our taxpayers and students, so a ‘no’ vote doesn’t mean ‘no’ to contributing to capital improvement, but we have to do our due diligence.”
see more photos below.
this is the third year that the town has sent out one mailing only—on august 30—containing the two halves of the 2011-12 school tax bill.
in 10th grade, advisory follows a similar trajectory with an accelerated timeline.
phone 845-256-3012, environmental conservation office.
i feel we have a lot to offer, and sometimes we’re forgotten.
by doing so, the entire $3 million project—turf field and roof repair—qualifies for state aid of around 30% of the cost, resulting in $900,000 back to the school district, spread out over 15 years.
the right hand knows what the left hand does: high-density electrical recording of human somatosensory change detection science research teachers:
microwave on high for 1 minute.
third-round visits required a walk through the buildings to visit classrooms with mckay and eric byrne, assistant superintendent for curriculum, who, according to citarella, judged “candidates’ ability to observe and pinpoint instruction and curriculum in the classroom, asking candidates what they saw and what they might do in particular situations, and how they might coach teachers.”
out of fairness, the committees were careful to ask the same questions of each candidate.
the new field will be available on an equal basis for all sports.
our house became a place that was always full of kids having the time of their lives while increasing their ability to learn” said weadock.
see more photos from last year’s event in “read more…” january 20, 2012 by laverne srinivasan on january 29, the chappaqua school foundation will once again host the annual showdown between the harlem wizards and the chappaqua challengers.
next to wee-wonz (tot zone)—parents can wait while their children play and relax in the wi-fi, adults-only zen den.
the ceremony was conducted by horace greeley athletic director steve young who asked each of the teams to stand and then spoke about the teams’ seasons to the assembly of parents sitting in the bleachers.
adam santoro (112 lbs) also won a section 1 title for greeley.
hypothesized strategies include deductive, metacognitive, memory-based and pattern-based approaches.
remember: demetra won’t be back before valentine’s day - and a gift of any combination of her luscious oil with either tapenade, or balsamic vinegar, would makemy heart sing.
the game was filmed by msg varsity and will be shown on cablevision msg varsity on friday, at 7:30 p.m., and repeated several times over the weekend.
we opened for business on june 1st in 1995 and moved to millwood just a few months later.
next home game: tonight, friday, january 20, 7:00 p.m. against harrison january 20, 2012 by rich klein and brian rosen
projects that need tending before the cold winter hits.
don’t hesitate to scare or threaten coyotes with loud noises and bright lights.
living with wildlife requires that people be pro-active rather than re-active, in dealing with wildlife situations in their neighborhoods.
jon won 20 matches as a sophomore and 30 as a junior.
for an exhibition, students must write a term paper and present their ideas before a committee.
the students will have an opportunity to tour the state’s capitol.
remove and mix well, allowing it to cool slightly.
the opening of weezee in westchester county will create more than 100 full- and part-time jobs in a variety of different fields including coaching, therapy, education, design and clerical.
things definitely need to improve.
good reading for the community?
since they are such a landmark, many times when people call for directions, we can easily use rocky’s as a point of reference.
do you recommend that community members read the book also?
placing seventh in the tournament was liam lauerman (120lbs), sebation zucker (98lbs), chris sasso (70lbs), mathew schreiber (65lbs), bronson cvijanovich (112), and adam goodman (60lbs).
in it, we had to listen to other candidates’ (fun and interactive) lessons, i.e. to pretend that we were in elementary school, middle school, and high school all over again.
i have coached lacrosse and baseball on and off for 40 years.
female participation in organized sports has certainly increased over the years, which is great.
because they were under their limit, an arrangement was made with teachers to spend an extra two hours per week after school on mondays and wednesdays for various meetings and other school-related purposes.
______________ related: new: a peek at lower manhattan’s millennium high school through its website, ncnow.org, 2/16/12.
for one thing, it’ll be easy on the pocketbook and provide well for the garden.
over the months before the new school year, incoming corps members interview with principals of various under-resourced schools in their assigned region.
besides floral arrangements, i understand you also sell fruit and food baskets?
access currently operates from pleasantville; weezee is a new creation.
coyote behaviors that may indicate that the coyote has lost its fear of people are: 1) a coyote does not run off when harassed or chased; 2) a coyote approaches pets on a leash, and/or 3) approaches and follows people.
starting in september, he’ll teach for two years—whatever subject is needed—in a school with impoverished students in new york city.
the film happy was inspired by a challenge.
happy combines real-life human stories interspersed with interviews of several of the world’s leading experts in the science of happiness and well being, to reveal a deeper understanding of why and how we can live more fulfilling, happier lives.
we are a seasonal business.
coyotes are excellent diggers, so fencing may need to extend into the ground.
see a nccmc video of last year’s camp in “read more…” february 3, 2012 by matt nordt are you looking for some great day camp, sports camps, or specialty camps for your child this summer?
summer camp is one of the best ways to do this, and wagon road’s summer day camp, located on quaker road, does it right here in chappaqua.
i’m so thrilled that they will be joining our market in chappaqua.
even starting the cancellation process could be challenging to a senior citizen in that: *
235 saw mill river rd millwood, n.y. 10546 hours: mon-fri 7:45 am - 6:00 pm sat: 7:45 am - 5:00 pm sun: closed phone: 914-762-2828 website: http://www.millwoodhardware.com/ ________________________ visit ncnow.org’s business section to see other “merchant of the week” pieces by rob greenstein.
“do we have social-emotional issues covered already?”
accepting that there’s nothing i can do about this crazy winter has freed me to enjoy the mild temperatures.
the market runs from 9:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
simultaneous high school credit is offered for college courses at local institutions.
by this time in the meet, greeley was barely beating tappan zee, 30 to 32.
3 ski trip - jiminy creek 9 ice cream bingo january 2, 2012 county press release as winter arrives and temperatures start to drop, westchester residents can get ready to head out for some great winter fun at locations all over the county.
leave grass clippings on lawn.
mike nadler had eight wins last season and stepped his game up to the next level with 15 wins this year.
in the quiet months of winter one can actually scrutinize the garden.
*tahitia, another teen who mustered up the courage to speak saturday night, expressed sadness over not knowing whether she and her mother will ever be “family” again because “i was tired of being screamed at, cursed at and hit.”
i started broadcasting the scene, which quickly escalated as hundreds of marchers arrived to stage a sympathy protest for the arrestees.
anyone who has ever worked in a family business can relate.
amy: sales are starting to pick up and will definitely improve once we finish adding all the gifts and other products we sell.
to try to find out why the u.s. ranks so low, he asked belic to travel the world to investigate the origins of human happiness.
lastly, the aquamen out-swam suffern in the 400 freestyle relay.
finals are tentatively scheduled to start around 2pm.
monday, january 23, 2012 by susan rubin it is 23 days into 2012 and on saturday we finally got some seasonally appropriate weather.
the team has had two winning meets and no losses this season.
he began his career  in education in 1990 as a math teacher at a small alternative high school in  jamaica, queens.
most common sightings are early morning and evenings.
the remaining 9,000 square feet will serve as corporate headquarters of access nursing services, a nursing and home health care aide service operating in new york, new jersey and maryland.
how about basketball at grafflin (k-2) and bell (3-8), snowtubing, ice skating, a trip to palisades for imax and games, kombine speed and agility training.
although free roaming pets are more likely to be killed by automobiles than by wild animals, coyotes do view cats and small dogs as easy prey and are at risk year round.
this version has never been performed in front of an audience.
its been done for centuries all over the world.
our ability to suspend a student does not rely on the use of this device.
in high school i taught saxophone lessons to students at mount vernon elementary school, and at columbia i am co-founder and co-president of musical mentors collaborative, inc., an organization that pairs columbia students with over 30 underprivileged elementary school students.
the strategy effectively in use was determined by measuring relative performances in succession.
a one-way manova revealed that average emg of the medial gastrocnemius (p=0.05), average and peak tibial shock (p<0.01), and the minimum knee flexion angle (p<0.01) all increased from shod (heel-strike) to barefoot (toe- strike) running.
the event will take place at the community center on senter street in the heart of chappaqua.
new york state roads; * state route 128 (between mount kisco and armonk town lines) - snow control plowing & sanding only * state route 117 (between mount kisco and pleasantville town lines) - snow control plowing & sanding only * state route 133 (between mount kisco and ossining town lines) state d.o.t handles all issues * state route 134 (between yorktown and ossining town lines
please include a note with your name, phone and email address so that we can send you confirmation of receipt.
the three categories for submissions are: fiction (short story, drama); non-fiction (essay, journalism, humor, descriptive prose); and poetry first, second and third prizes are awarded in each category, at both the middle school and high school levels.
together we can restore this stretch of precious green space by removing the vines that are killing native trees and taking over the river habitat!
hunger is on the rise everywhere, including right here in westchester.
sheila bernson and jennifer mebes flagg are co-presidents of the league of women voters of new castle.
but that being said, we also need to be sure that we don’t lose sight of what we are all really working towards: the best possible education system that this town can offer for our students.
there is plenty we can do in the various aspects of our lives but i’ll stick to what can be achieved in the garden.
scott wymbs bumped up to 220 pounds and received a forfeit.
the actors, with numerous stage, film and tv credits, come from nyc and westchester.
also, “like” weezee on facebook to learn about special promotions, events and news updates: http://www.facebook.com/pages/weezee-world-the-world-of-yes-i-can.
this height of grass keeps the soil from drying out quickly and that translates to less watering.
rich: the website is a work in progress.
order seeds and plants for the spring.
although greeley started off strong and the game was close throughout, this time, it was just too much trawick, will trawick, that is.
are enough people aware yet?
interim deadlines will be provided so that students can complete components of the project at different times.
the child abuse prevention center is a not-for-profit organization that seeks to significantly reduce the incidence of child abuse and neglect in westchester county, new york.
in the 2008-2009 season, these men started their greeley wrestling careers.
vaccaro learned that there had been a water main break at the intersection of harscrabble and tanglewild, which workers carried through overnight to fix.
the pictures of the sports teams is what i’m all about, promoting the student athletes.
you can pay online until 11:59 p.m. tuesday—but don’t wait that long.
a special opportunity to tour the gardens of rocky hills is another highlight this spring.
inspect for pests or disease.
nothing too large to dominate the entire garden not too small that it’ll be easily overlooked.
sidewalks will match the segment of brickwork on view in front of the gazebo.
“just get it done” greeley basketball t-shirts will be available for a $15 donation.
the following rules and expectations were designed to provide for a safe atmosphere the night of the dance.
thus, this study focused on quantifying this function using electroencephalography (eeg) and an advanced mathematical analysis method, as well as developing a paradigm that would enable us to measure the function exclusively and effectively.
this week greeley skates at brewster against fox lane on thursday at 7:55 pm and on friday jan 20 vs. byram hills.
students are expected to conduct their research outside of school time and to negotiate a schedule to meet with their sponsors.
students are prepared for regents exams, the school’s exhibition process, and for the greater interdisciplinary work of 11th and 12th grades.
i’ve said it a million times, i know, but, truly, fresh, local ingredients are so inherently flavorful they don’t require much fussing in the kitchen.
learning was implicit and unconscious.
most clients of local food pantries are families with children whose parents are out of work for extended periods; elderly people having trouble making ends meet; and those with unforeseen medical issues straining family budgets.
visitwww.teatown.org/eaglefest for program details and weather updates, or call teatown at 914-762-2912, extension 110.
for a quick and easy lunch these days, i’ve been subsisting on sandwiches made with bread alone ciabatta or levain bread with cheese from amazing real live food co.
in fact, we hope to have a fund-raising event here sometime in february.
rich: tazza is great, but i’m not a big coffee drinker.
ccsd mission statement the mission of the chappaqua schools is to create a community for learning, where students, parents and staff are joined in the pursuit of academic excellence and personal growth in a caring environment.
we apologize for the inconvenience.
some merchants there, however, pleaded to have the project to lower king delayed too.
you want to think first about ‘do we want to raise the level of awareness about social and emotional well-being?’
“you are your own media,” he declared to all.
afterward, you can stay and probe the actors for more information.
also back after a long absence is little croc bakehouse!
however, the greeley boys were able to keep the score close by taking second and third places.
all students, grades 6-12, residing in the chappaqua central school district or enrolled in chappaqua schools may enter the contest.
game today at 5: 20 p.m. vs. byram hills at brewster.
when will the information gathered from participants at the knowledge cafe on budget be released?
sell excess property * charge for use of facilities:
do you run barefoot?
the board meeting on february 28th will be the “superintendent’s budget proposal and budget discussion (school programs and staffing)” and at that time we should have a better sense as to what the 2012-13 budget will look like.
several local musicians are donating their time and talent.
tahitia also enjoys a therapeutic horsemanship program where she works closely with a horse named melos whom she gently lulls to sleep as she grooms him.
(resist the urge to move it or poke it with the spatula, you want the crust to set up under the fish.)
we all know that classes build upon themselves and the ones that come before, using previously established ideas to develop and derive more complex concepts.
a student who doesn’t get the help he or she needs to stay with the class will all too quickly find themselves falling further and further behind their peers.
the trail continues through van cortlandt park for an additional 1.75 miles on a dirt trail.
january 23 is the start date.
let’s all celebrate the vision of a better world that martin luther king left us with by pitching in to save our local habitat.
thursday, february 16, 2012 ccsd press release by david hayes chappaqua, n.y.—at the february 28th board of education
the money will be used to create a special family visiting area where a tree-lined brick pathway will lead to a serene park-like setting separate from the rest of the campus.
i had to contact a subscription service and then call customer service to get the name and number of the subscription service.
i’m looking forward to working with the turf committee.
january 24th: mid-century modern michael kalesti, of kent home in chappaqua will lead a discussion about mid century furniture, lighting, and collectibles.
led by owen gatto’s two goals, the team jumped to a quick 4-0 lead and never was threatened.
in 2003 he received clark university’s secondary educator of the year award and in 2008 was awarded a cahn fellowship designed by teachers college to recognize outstanding principals.
see you at the market!
coyotes are very social and will maintain family groups of pups until young adults disperse on their own in late fall.
links to both are below.
we’ve got to find ways to cut our addiction to gas, coal and oil on every level if we care about future generations surviving on our planet.
greeley led 45-40 at the end of the third period.
to answer the board of education’s strategic question – “how can the district ensure continuing excellence in academic and extracurricular programs while developing a budget that is fiscally responsible?”
there’s something kind of humbling—and liberating—about being reduced to sub-flooring and pipes during what’s supposed to be the busiest time of year in the kitchen.
a community garden, made possible by the generosity of the chappaqua volunteer ambulance corps and the leadership of intergenerate, a local non-profit established to give more people access to fresh, healthy food.
the dance is open to greeley students only.
to spend a minimum of one half hour each day simply enjoying the garden.
temple beth el of northern westchester is located at 220 south bedford road in chappaqua.
admission is $25/person.
lisa and ruth are active volunteers with each of the two local food pantries; and anne, ruth, andrea and penny are all teaching potters at the new castle art center.
marci garson is an emmy-award winning television reporter.
when mayor bloomberg and the nypd first tried to clear zuccotti of occupiers a month earlier, they had announced their plan days in advance, giving the ows organizers time to mobilize a large number of supporters and to jam the park with bodies.
but it is perfectly safe everywhere else.
close off crawl spaces under porches and sheds!
so i could end up teaching almost anything, really, from middle school math to 3rd grade general education.
as originally conceived and rendered in plans by architect gary david warshauer of wmw architects in hawthorne, n.y., the third floor lobby of the building (the second residential floor above the ground-level parking) will connect directly with the new bridge by means walkway through a landscaped terrace for residents of the building.
the program is designed to increase high school students’ knowledge about the process by which public policy is proposed and enacted, and awareness of their responsibility in representative government.
yes, i can!, a challenging and appealing play space for children with conditions ranging from dyslexia to autism.
if these can’t be arranged so that the work is finished by end of summer, she told the merchants, then the board would likely put it off.
david hayes is public information officer for the chappaqua central school district.
seasonal soups container vegetable gardening definitions digital photography- beginner and advanced drawing essay review excel facebook for the novice french- beginners french- intermediate french-advanced golf for beginners growing sprouts and shoots indian cooking intermediate word internet marketing intro to computers intro to computers for the beg.
i also know you sell all sorts of invitations - wedding, birth announcements, holiday cards, bar/bat mitzvah, graduation, corporate and birthday parties, baby shower—do you have nightmares about evite?
) state d.o.t handles all issues * state route 100 (between yorktown and ossining town lines
happy new year to one and all!
“on jan. 25, 40 of the 300 semifinalists will be named as finalists.
round sectionals 7:00 p.m. game at arlington • registration for rec department and art center classes is on—and for winter break activities!!
the february 15 knowledge cafe to discuss this issue has been rescheduled for wednesday, april 25.]
take some real time to plan for the seasons ahead.
monday, january 2, 2012 by christine yeres the recycling center yard itself, for residential recycling, will remain open from 7:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m., but starting this week, the recycling departmentoffice will be closed from 11:15 a.m. – 12:00 noon on wednesday, thursday and friday.
some guys just compete better when all the pressure is on them.
we will also have free refreshments, games, raffles and entertainment for the kids at 11:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m.
hmmm….are you sensing a theme here?
susan rubin is a long time chappaqua resident and mom of 3 who is deeply concerned about climate change and resource depletion.
paderewski responded, “i’ll go down with the commissioner of public works and take a look.”
one important factor to consider is not to overuse one-shot revenue items.
our regular line up of vendors will be there, except for the knife sharpener.
the overall score of the meet was 102 to 84, with greeley coming out on top.
you can get a one of a kind piece of art for a reasonable price and support an aspiring artist at the same time.
all-league fall 2011 awards—tennis monday, january 9, 2012 by jim nottingham fall sports athletes inducted; greeley sports boosters honor board
at that time, chow noted that although the three elementaries, bell and greeley all have such areas designated as too-close-for-bus-service, in the case of seven bridges there isno area exempt from bus service.
“i can’t believe you’re cooking when you’re kitchen is gutted,” she said.
this balance between flora and fauna is critical.
after the third period, greeley was up by 26 points, 51-25.
after the break, the quakers continued their play, with graves contributing another layup, and senior co-captain josh rosen intercepting a harrison pass and assisting to brett klein who made the hoop and was fouled on the play.
for 15 years she covered national news on capitol hill and local news in miami, florida, connecticut and new york.
the family plans to hold a memorial service in his honor in early february.
if so, when and how did this issue come to the fore of administrators’ attention?
i knew that any prescribed therapy twice a week was not enough to get my daughter’s nervous system in sufficient sensory-shape to learn!”
divide the nut crust between the 4 filets and pack down well.
in both kinds of runners—those who compete and those who run because their life requires them to run places.
the 24,000-square-foot access and weezee tenants join northern westchester hospital and fiber media, each with 35,000 square feet, mount kisco medical group (40,000 square feet) and government services administration (gsa, 6,000 square feet).
we are a one-stop shop for greeley athletes and fans alike.
on p. 8 of the report, see where you fit in the demographics—and what your group’s characteristics are: • top rung • connoisseur • wealthy seaboard suburbs • urban chic • city lights •
it is inexpensive and reduces the amount of garbage you put out for collection.
food and drinks will be available for purchase.
after listening to the wide variety of backgrounds and life situations which led them to the shelter, stoltz decided to tell their stories through her art.
ben perlmutter has won some big matches for us over the years and continues to be to be a great leader for all of our newcomers.
it may be a very simple, two-home duplex — 14 by 20 feet, poured concrete and block walls with a metal roof — but if you and your family have been living in a makeshift tent city for two years, it is a dream come true.
for more information, visit http://sewingstories.com or contact heather g. stoltz at.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address) or 203-500-5942….or to arrange for a viewing of the installation please contact rabbi geoffrey a. mitelman at temple beth el, (914) 238-3928 or .(javascript must be enabled to view this email address).
to qualify for an advanced regents diploma, students must also achieve 65 or higher on 4 additional exams indicated by * below.
next game: tonight, friday, january 20, 2012, 7:00 p.m. at greeley against harrison.
coyotes that rely on natural food items remain wild and wary of humans.
they help maintain the health of our environment by controlling rodents, woodchucks, insects and other prolific animals and serve as one of nature’s “clean-up services” by removing dead animals and preventing disease.
greeley girls basketball 1st
she advises paying the bill—even if by credit card—by the september 30 due date, since the credit card fee is far less than the 10% late fee the town is obliged to charge.
one thing i dislike more than snow is snow blowers.
last year, i was assistant coach for 3rd grade lacrosse with russell maitland, the chappaqua fire dept chief, who i coached when he played on greeley jv lacrosse team in the early 80s.
i hate to even mention that many of her baked goods are gluten-free and/or vegan because i don’t want to turn people off.
speaking of good condiments, make sure to pick up some guyank brand mango hot sauce this saturday.
coyotes normally will not scale fences unless they have a specific reason.
our next competition will be this weekend in the beacon tournament.
harrison brown finished with 34 points and justin ciero contributed 21.
any special discounts for newcastlenow readers who mention this article?
4-5:15pm youth ceramics: wed. 4-5:30pm lines & colors: tues.
_______________________
stay safe on the roads and come visit us next saturday feb 18th.
one small house work teams will be in haiti, march 11-17, march 25-31 and april 8-14.
last night, ncpd arrested nestor alejandro guaman guartambel, 25, at his residence in ossining.
next came the 200 individual medley, where greeley’s ian cooper and daniel digiacomo tied for first place!
according to ganga, the police determined at the time that the truck driver was traveling south on seven bridges road “below the speed limit and was not at fault.”
with this in mind, we need to be extremely careful of unforeseen consequences when we make decisions regarding scheduling and staffing at our schools.
“there should be a code of conduct for sports,” mester responded.
hopefully the remodel will help us create more shelf space.
the organizing committee includes lisa fitzgerald, anne gans, ruth parnes, andrea samuelson and penny vane.
it’s more about respecting people’s needs and social and emotional development and understand how that interplays with our primary purpose: academic.
clear fallen fruit from around fruit trees and rotted vegetable from your garden 10.
joe died peacefully surrounded by his family.
the unsubscribe page was simple and easy to use, but ineffective because the magazines were not ordered through the regular subscription process.
(removal of expenditure probably lowers tax levy or is replaced by a different expenditure and can’t be added back under the cap.)
lowey as emcee was worth the wait—still beaming after a day that had begun with her attendance at governor andrew cuomo’s “state of the state” address at 1:30 that afternoon in albany and eager to usher into office new castle’s town board members and justices.
check to see if anything needs retying or repairing.
three of olin’s classmates were also semi-finalists this year.
low is now high and high is higher black limbs turned to white crystal berries, snow-cone urns darkness becomes light.
my passion is greeley sports, especially recreation football, grades 4 to 6.
is it a staged reading?
this past sunday, i delighted in being able to work outdoors as i potted up the bulbs i’d been cooling.
chappaqua, mon-fri., 8:45 am - 4:30 pm.
after 30 years, there are some pretty good stories.
a coyote due to its size will expect the small dog to be submissive.
port chester jumped off to a 4-0 lead, but it was all greeley after that.
as for the small print, all manuscripts must be typed, double-spaced, in 12-point type, and no longer than ten pages.
in addition, according to millennial’s website, “each advisory group plans and completes a community service learning project.”
click on the cupcake flyer at the bottom of the front page.
let’s leave it at that.
congratulations on being voted “best of westchester” by westchester magazine and “top 50 independent pharmacies in the country” by drug topics magazine.
this will give us a face lift and hopefully find room for new product lines.
they will also provide professional merchandisers to help with the layout of the merchandise.
although outscored in the quarter, 18-14, greeley consistently broke the red devils’ full court press and aggressively defended and out-rebounded peekskill.
fifty-six members of the community and staff attended the knowledge café.
you must do you lot of parties—bar and bat mitzvahs, weddings and corporate events—any good war stories?
rich, i grew up with your dad’s drug mart in spring valley.
if confrontations occur it will be over territory and coyotes will usually yield yard areas to the dogs.
these are the issues, however, that drive the largest expenditures in the budget and can have the most impact on the tax levy.
it is so easy to feel one is doing enough but that is simply not the case.
this event does sell out.
the contractor has been kind enough to leave my stove and bare-bones sink hooked up during the makeover, even though the rest of my kitchen is now in my dining room.
charged with rape in the first degree, guaman-guartambel was arrested and brought to new castle for fingerprinting and photos.
newcastlenow readers are welcome to stop by, say hello, and if they mention this article, they will receive a free 25 foot tape measure, while supplies last.
just try to keep a larger number of the natives.
the play will be presented on saturday, march 3rd at the chappaqua library theatre—all proceeds to benefit friends of the chappaqua library.
for example, does the $3.1 million figure for rollover assume/include the $4+ million we drew on from reserves last year?
seven bridges principal martha zornow approached us and asked whether we’d be willing to do it.
the ed habermann award was created in partnership with the horace greeley scholarship fund by the late dr. ed habermann’s wife, susan, and is intended to honor a member of the community who embodies habermann’s spirit and dedication to students.
banish peat from the garden.
rich klein is the father of brett klein, a senior player, and brian rosen is the father of josh rosen, a senior player, on the 2011-12 greeley boys’ varsity basketball team.
“and we’ll continue to have meetings like this one as we move forward,” added mottel.
every tree or shrub you plant increases the atmospheric oxygen level.
kontoulis olive oil, a monthly vendor, is also paying us a visit so be sure to bring your home bottles for re-filling or, if you’ve never treated yourself to her shimmering green nectar, take some home and watch it make your salads sing.
friday night football games would be great for our community.
he will highlight reclaiming, repurposing and making something old new again.
if you receive roaming angus’ email, then you learned this week that there are 29 (!) cuts of beef that are just as lean as chicken.
there are two to three hours of homework each night and 20 hours of annual community service to fulfill.
but ever since i decided to stop being anxious about the crazy winter and how it might impact my garden, i’ve been very cognizant of being present in the moment.
american preferred readers, publishers clearing house, direct reader services are a few of the companies with whom i spoke.
the town is in a difficult situation, because they have very little control over the landlords to reshape the retail mix in town.
this is clearly a fundamental flaw with the new middle school schedule for next year, and one that should have been foreseen.
i think a turf field would be great for greeley sports.
and although skeptics might suggest that it is all part of a cyclical pattern seen through the millenia, the work of the human hand at this particular time cannot be ignored.
it felt as though i had entered both a new era of media and a new era of politics at the same time; and it seemed as if those two eras were inextricably linked: a “do-it-yourself media,” with news-event witnesses bypassing corporate editorial biases and providing their own live news coverage, in the service of a “do-it-yourself politics,” with citizens bypassing their unresponsive (or irresponsible) representatives and taking to the streets to represent themselves.
stoltz visited nine family shelters and helped the students create art which expresses their feelings about living in a shelter.
real savings won’t be achieved without changes in albany (as discussed above) and/or major structural changes to how we deliver education in chappaqua, e.g., eliminating programs, significantly increasing class size, eliminating teams, etc.
create and sell curriculum to other districts, on-line courses * fundraisers: kids’ art auctions, branded credit cards, alumni donations, grants *
the task could be administered on a weekly basis.
eighth grader megan warshofsky, bird girl number 1,who loves singing and acting “has worked with kevin since her days at roaring brook.”
the capc provides parents with the tools they need to raise their children to be happy, healthy, and productive members of the community and has an over 90% success record working with families throughout westchester county.
they have large erect ears, weigh between 35-50 pounds.
the athletes stood proudly, but were endearingly humbled by the recognition in front of their peers and parents present.
because our mission statementmeans something.
the aquamen won in many of the events, including the 200 medley relay; 200 freestyle; 50 freestyle, diving; 100 butterfly; 100 freestyle; 500 freestyle; 200 freestyle relay; and the 100 backstroke.
as a solution, a young man suggested that the smartphone users in the crowd download one of the several applications which allow cell phones to broadcast live video, then head to the bridge to establish a feed.
as you can imagine, it is not always easy but the good far outweighs the bad.
the feature length film takes viewers on a journey across five continents in search of the keys to happiness.
to learn more about csf grants, visitwww.chappaquaschoolfoundation.org. be sure to mark your calendars for the 18th annual chappaqua school foundation spring benefit.
while you’re there, have a look too at winter rec programs and at summer camps (registration began february 6 and is on-going).
the child abuse prevention center of ny announces fall volunteer training dates; learn important social skills while helping and empowering parents at risk january 13, 2012
she joined the basketball team, and got involved with the therapeutic arts program.
parents of seniors and their passengers (limited to one other student or sibling) must fill out the driving permission form.
and so low on the carbon footprint index!
roaming angus is also back this week.
for a while i’d been taking meditation classes and have been very interested in the spiritual aspect of the mind.
horace greeley placed 13th overall in the sectional tournament.
please visit www.hgsf.org friday, february 17, 2012 by rachel rosin gloria steinem, influential activist, writer and journalist for the women’s rights movement, will appear at temple beth el onfebruary 28 at 8:00 p.m. live via satellite broadcast from new york city’s 92nd street y.
due to the predicted snow, which impacts many of our vendors who travel to the market, we will be closed tomorrow.
what will be will be.
for more information regarding this event as well as the other broadcasts in this series, please go to our website, www.bethelnw.org.
millwood hardware has been a member of the community since 1968.
is it a benefit for the chappaqua library?
tennis natanie erlikh all-league lauren chu all-league joanna ezratty all-league divya talwar all-league maya talwar all-league alexandra kung all-league rebecca scholl all-league rachel gurman all-league kristen rauch all-league girls’ swimming and diving elizabeth barry all-league kristina barry all-league kathleen duncalf all-league, all-section mary fitzsimmons all-league emma sawkins all-league, all-section erica silverman all-league volleyball alice zylla all-league, all-county phyllis lai all-league boys’ soccer jeremy kesselhaut all-league, all-section josh kogan all-league, all-section honorable mention mitch silver all-league robby attia all-league coaching honors: suzanne guziec, head coach of the girls’ swimming and diving team, was selected by the journal news as the section one swim coach of the year.
“she emotionally supports me,” tahitia stresses, “and makes me have confidence in myself…i don’t know what the future holds for me, but i’m thankful that jcca helped me get where i am today.”
the moment she righted herself, one of the riot police took a quick jab at her face over the barrier as though she were a punching bag, then casually walked away while his fellow officers guarded us.
in addition to their popular hummus, taiim is now selling packages of their delicious house falafel that you can either bake or fry up at home.
here are a few suggestions to make your property less attractive to coyotes.
jack lohr, pcmk interim pastor will go on the second trip.
i’ve lived in chappaqua for 50 years.
any community member who is interested in the fine art of communication might find the book to be an interesting read.
correction: our original piece announced that beginning spanish would start monday, january 9.
“let’s keep meeting like this” carpenter reminded merchants that the town board meets every week, alternating work sessions with regular, televised meetings.
there are two components to earning a diploma from millennium high school: course credits and regents exams.
act right away if treatment is required.
at no other period in the history of the earth has there been so much assorted activity generated by humans.
see “ten questions for a local playwright ,” ncnow.org, 1/28/11 for an interview with authors c.j. ehrlich and philip j. kaplan see team rosters in “read more…” january 27, 2012 by brian rosen this sunday, january 29, the greeley girls’ and boys’ varsity basketball teams will host their annual clinic from 9:30 -11:30 a.m. at the horace greeley high school gymnasium.
students will be supervised at all times!
board members did not specify what advice they would give boces, but in previous discussions katchis has noted that it might be wise for boces to sell its current multiple-buildings campus and buy or lease other space—preferably a single building—that would cost less to maintain.
p. 6 • population in primary trade area: 6,400 in 2,000 households, about 3.09 persons per household [median household income and median per capita income are very close to—approximately the same as—those of chappaqua] median household income in 2010: $177,000 median household income in 2015: $216,000 median per capita income in 2010: $77,000 median per capita income in 2015: $91,500 •
upcoming dates: * saturday 1/14/12 * saturday 2/11/12 * saturday 3/17/12 * sunday, 4/22/12 * saturday, 5/12/12:
see you at the market—and come early if you want some of those stone barns eggs!
she administered the oath of office first to mike kaplowitz, who joked, when she praised him, that he felt as though he was at his bar mitzvah.
the image these words conjured up was in sharp contrast to the temple’s stunning room decorated with an enormous sparkling white tree as its centerpiece.
before the snow comes, workers go out along the roadways in trucks with large plastic tanks distributing liquid brine from five nozzles behind.
tickets are non-refundable and non-transferable.
if you’re a fan of their grass-fed beef, this is your chance to stock up.
since both south greeley and lower king have been diagnosed as urgent cases for repair, the board wants at least one of them to be done this summer.
it is the process by which the brain detects minute changes in ambient stimuli, regardless of where attention is directed.
by now, there was a wall of police blocking the entrance, so we had to stand across centre street, yards away from city hall.
joe was the author of six books of poetry and was at work on a memoir when he became ill.
like the one time my high heel broke and i had to decorate an entire wedding space limping along on only one shoe.
our buffalo wings are a big hit all year long so we always have enough on hand.
“it’s not an easy job,” said dawn greenberg of aurora.
this was greeley’s third loss of the year, each by one goal.
if you are a gmail user, ncnow has reproduced the pps report in google docs, which enables any number of users to read and comment in sidenotes in the text.
but he was also critical of the pps report.
true food of nyack will be serving up their retro pot pies filled with all things local and healthy.
lessons are held weekly, ranging from thirty minutes to an hour.
we will also be honoring our seniors and their parents that night.
it becomes something more striking after the leaves have fallen and offsets the barrenness of winter.
and at no time, they promised, would the entire street be made impassible.
its not that i’ve stopped caring; i’ve just given myself permission to stop feeling i’m responsible for the consequences.
i think what differentiates us from the big box stores is our customer service, our friendliness and our knowledge of hardware.
(a complete list of sponsors will be available on the day of the event.)
their debut was foiled last week by the ill-timed snow storm.
around the holidays, we carry holiday decorations, and everything you need to spruce up your house for guests.
• parents of seven bridge student struck by truck sue driver, ccsd, town and county
he currently has 16 wins and is looking to improve on that mark in the post season.
organic products please!
the 7-2-1 greeley team faces off against the 8-1 pearl river pirates january 6, 2012 by bruce yablon
captain jon russo, mike nadler, mike orbeta, matt mercer, kolbe jendzejec, ben perlmutter, and farhan chaudhry will be honored for their part in turning the horace greeley wrestling team back into a powerhouse.
“i was thinking less of rules with punitive measures,” said tipp.
there are also elective courses in art such as photography, ap studio art, mixed media, yearbook, and graphic design.
in the meantime, superintendent lyn mckay has released the results of the december 7 knowledge café at which 56 participants were asked to brainstorm on ways to reduce the district’s budget by around $1.8 million (now down to $1.3 in chow’s draft budget), to suggest new sources of revenue, and to identify long-term budget concerns (these turn out to be, mainly, unfunded mandates and the paucity of commercial revenue sources in new castle’s tax base).
the information gathered at the budget process knowledge café was turned over to the finance advisory committee.
i love being a part of a small community—this community!
they stopped for lunch, then met with administrators and ended with superintendent lyn mckay.
it takes a village sabrina was far from alone saturday night.
chow’s draft budget—not yet even a “proposed” budget, he emphasizes—also assumes the use of $3 million in reserves.
amy: what—a sport?!?!?
the rules also warn of suspension from school—“including extracurricular activities and athletics” for students who are “found to be in possession of or under the influence of alcohol or another substance”—as well as being “barred from attending future school events.”
by the time lowey got to supervisor susan carpenter, the last one to take her oath, carpenter supplied her name promptly, without the prompt.
next come sidewalks, then the park at the end.
the next event was the 200 freestyle, where greeley had a 1-2-3 finish by risten clarke, aaron saccurato and aaron blacker, respectively.
just a few years ago the district was advocating for as much time spent studying languages as possible, espousing the long-established belief that learning a language requires constant reinforcement and development.
it worked so well that my hubby admitted to me that the wovel was one of my best hare-brained ideas.
a substantial number, said citarella, had applied for both positions.
that said, be judicious in using even the organic products.
this was a great win for greeley, propelling us to a 17-6 record for the year.
• check out ncnow’s calendar page for more.
his family will be informed of your donation, and you will receive an acknowledgment letter by mail shortly after you’ve made your donation.
either way there are deep-seated problems with the way this district is going about the business of trying to save money and cut costs.
“i’m anxious to hear what millwood residents have to say about it and then talk about next steps.”
the sukkah, a temporary hut that reminds jews of the years they spent wandering the desert, seemed like a fitting symbol for a piece about new york’s homeless.
by jared krosser the horace greeley boys’ swimming and diving team was very pumped for their second meet of the season on tuesday, december 20 against tappan zee high school.
do wehave those resources?”
the telephone process was confusing and difficult for me – it would have been impossible for my mother.
last year, the hgsf raised $168,000 and gave donations to 30 students and over the last seven years the hgsf has granted over $1,141,000 to over 197 hghs alumni.
bus will depart wp bowl at 5:30 and return to town hall.
during the clinic the organizers will conduct a raffle and a shooting competition, the winner of which will walk away with a pair of tickets to an upcoming new york knicks game.
with a focus on writing, critical thinking, analytical skills, exhibitions, presentations, and service to community, rhodes has created one of the top ranked and most sought after high schools in nyc.
he has plenty of salt now in his stores.
stoltz’s piece will remain on display at temple beth el through february 17, andstoltz will be speaking at 9:45 am on sunday, february 5 to share the stories she heard and the process leading to the piece.
byram hills took command early and, in the blink of an eye, raced out to a 10-0 lead on two three-pointers and a layup off an alley-oop pass.
they act as a mulch to suppress weeds and quickly break down to enrich the soil.
for more information, call (914) 244-0956.
if you have binoculars, bring them along.
if they just suddenly jump into it, there’s a greater likelihood of injury than if they’d just kept running shod.
(though extra verbiage about reciprocal back-getting would probably have spoiled the poster’s sleek design.)
instead, suffice to say as a gardener, i’m deeply aware of my close but tenuous relationship with nature.
to volunteer, contact linda paver (lcsw-r), assistant executive director by phone at 914-997-2642, or email.(javascript must be enabled to view this email address).
(i had signed up to receive the zuccotti park “eviction defense text blast.”)
technically, said shapiro, the entire school tax bill was due on september 30, but a four-month grace period is allowed in which to pay the second half.
several merchants brought up the subject of a chamber of commerce, or lack thereof.
the plants will arrive closer to planting time.
photos by kristen atlas: kirby atlas, 113-pound weight class matt mercer, 138-pound weight class scott wymbs, 195-pound weight class billy marino, 220-pound weight class kirby atlas, scott wymbs, matt mercer, billy marino photos by kristen atlas
to be admitted to the dance, every student must have a parent signature on the back of his or her ticket.
to register, clickhere .
this was against the law, of course.
i, for one, can’t wait to try some of their pesto on any number of interesting organic small-batch pastas fromflour city pasta.
how’s your online catalog doing?
january 20, 2012 from ccsd’s “highlights” please join lyn mckay, superintendent of schools, and members of the chappaqua education for the future committee (ceff), at a knowledge café onwednesday, february 15th from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. in the bell middle school auditorium (50 senter street.)
coyotes are the size of a medium-size dog (4-5 feet in length), but with longer, thicker fur.
any food and beer specials for big sporting events?
mhs staff support students though this rigorous, independent study project each year in 10th, 11th, and 12th grade.
keep wild things wild!
“maybe putting it in a third strategic question highlights it to the community.”
since retiring from her teaching career at horace greeley she has become passionate about the environment.
rubble has been cleared.
and though some claim that the longer class periods will allow teachers to work more meaningfully with students during the longer periods of the school day, this after-school help is designed for those students who need additional aid, not for the entire class.
it was a well-wrestled match by kirby against a great port chester wrestler.
one needs to notice the sculpture but it should not detract from it’s surroundings.
tomorrow they will be unveiling a new pasta:
also, jeremy kesselhaut played swarming defense during the fourth and helped limit harrison’s leading scorer, coby lefkowitz, to 14 points.
will you describe your research project for us?
confused snowdrops what to do this month 1.
turn left on farragut avenue then turn left into the parking lot.
on january 21, crews began at 3:00 a.m. saturday and worked through to 7:00 p.m. that night.
the five candidates were interviewed at each school by committees of 14 (at greeley) and 12 (at rb) members that included administrators, teachers, staff, parents and—in the case of the greeley search—two students as well.
or the the colored dogwoods and willow.
this week, the district’s public information officer, david hayes, gathered information from several administrators in response to a series of questions from ncnow: ncnow: what will happen next with the ceff committee and its action items?