if you have a water meter, turn all taps off before you go to bed one  night and take a meter reading.
- use a timer with your sprinkler.
weeds compete for water and nutrients.
water wisely to avoid runoff.
if it stays flat it needs watering.
mulches can prevent up to 73 per cent evaporation loss.
if the meter reading has advanced, and no-one used any water during the night, you may have a leaking pipe, tap or toilet cistern.
up to 200 litres of water per day can be lost because of evaporation from a typical ground pool.
many natives are both  attractive and suited to gardens, and thrive with far less watering than do  other species.
front loading machines are generally more efficient than top loaders and  save water and power.
don't let the tap run when cleaning vegetables.
by grouping plants by water usage you can avoid waste on plants that don't need a lot of water.
always remember to turn the tap off when finished in case the pressure build-up causes the nozzle to pop off.
when cooking, use only a little water in the saucepan and keep the lid on.
position your sprinklers so water lands  on the lawn or garden, not paved areas.
dig a small trench around the trees.
this allows you to be in control and water is not wasted when moving the hose around.
check the pool for leaks
always remember to turn the tap off when  finished in case the pressure build-up causes the nozzle to pop off.
just rinse them in a  plugged sink or a pan of clean water.
this enables the grass to become more deeply rooted seeking out any moisture, in turn making the grass hardier.
if without flushing, the colouring begins to appear in the bowl, the cistern should be repaired immediately.
they will often compensate for each other, meaning topping up with the hose can be avoided.
don't water the road or pathways.
lawns a lawn can use more water per square metre than any other area in your garden.
adding cold water to cool too hot water is wasteful.
this increases the moisture holding capacity of sandy soils and  allows better penetration of water into heavy clay soils.
just wet your brush and fill a glass for rinsing.
in the kitchen - when washing dishes by hand, don't rinse them under a running tap.
- don't let the tap run when cleaning vegetables.
- when cooking, use only a little water in the saucepan and keep the lid on.
a forgotten sprinkler wastes more than a  1000 litres per hour.
hot water pipes and systems insulate hot water pipes.
wash the car, boat or caravan on the lawn instead of on the driveway.
this places an additional load on the sewage treatment plants.
outside the house being sensible with use of water in the garden and lawn is important as they are the biggest drain of these resources during hot weather when they are needed most.
water conservation ~ taupo district council tdc sites taupo district council search - taupo visitor information - taupo airport - taupo museum - great lake centre - taupo events centre - ac baths - owen delany park - mangakino - turangi - enterprise great lake taupo - taupo district libraries - eventscapital - home - a-z of services - latest news - policy - projects - visiting taupo - your community - your council home > a-z of services > water & wastewater > water conservation - libraries - public conveniences - taupo super loo - public toilets - rural fire - water & wastewater - application for a water / wastewater / stormwater connection - stormwater - wastewater - water conservation - water consumption - water levels and statistics - water supply water conservation conserve water - outside the house - inside the house -
online - online enquiry/request - fix my street what's on in taupo > event calendar contact your council 07 376 0899 - office contact details - christmas operating hours - online enquiry/request - have your say - projects - jobs at tdc - adopt a dog - impounded dogs see taupo's great venues > taupo venues copyright © 1999-2012 taupo district council
- check your local nursery for a suitable drought tolerant lawn grass for your area.
a timer will allow you to use as much water as is needed  without the threat of wastage.
there is no need to run water down the plughole while brushing your teeth.
this ensures that any runoff water soaks into lower dry areas rather than being wasted.
install a water-saving shower rose.
the garden - use a good mulch.
- plant drought resistant native trees and plants.
swimming pool - cover your pool to reduce evaporation, retain warmth and keep out leaves and dirt.
wait a few seconds, when the bubbles disappear, do the next pot.
wait until the soil dries out before watering and use a plant such as bamboo as an indicator.
this has the additional benefit of reducing your mowing.
reheating the water during the reticulation/spa process reduces water wastage.
- water the roots not the leaves.
if you have two sinks, fill the second one with rinsing water.
water during cooler parts of the day.
soil and dissolved nutrients are carried away with runoff, which increases the need for expensive fertiliser and can pollute nearby streams.
accept some fluctuation in pool level due to  evaporation and rainfall.
water the highest parts of the garden first.
if  it stays flat it needs watering.
- deep soak your lawn.
washing the car, boat or caravan - use a bucket and sponge to wash the car, boat or caravan.
if the meter reading has advanced, and no-one used any water  during the night, you may have a leaking pipe, tap or toilet cistern.
make sure your hot water system thermostat is not set too high.
too many plants are pampered to the point where they are so dependent on water that they do not go out of their way to find any water themselves.
lakecam - credit card payments - building consent search - resource consent search - cemetery search - rating information search - property enquiry searches - taupo library
limit showers to the time it takes to soap up, wash down, and rinse off.
use a timer with your sprinkler.
aerating taps are inexpensive  and can reduce water flow by 50 per cent.
when the rain comes the transformation from brown to green will be dramatic.
- when buying a new appliance that uses water, be sure it has a high water conservation rating.
washing machines use 100 - 200 litres of water per load.
this places an additional load on the sewage  treatment plants.
when the leaves start to droop, then water.
while giving the lawn a quick drink every night may be good therapy for you, it makes the grass shallow rooted and dependent on the meagre amount of water that you provide.
aerating taps are inexpensive and can reduce water flow by 50 per cent.
this has the additional benefit of reducing your  mowing.
this saves water and  ensures pot plants get a thorough drink.
no leaks see the sections below for useful tips on how to conserve water.
also use the sud-saver option when several loads have to  be washed.
when the rain comes the  transformation from brown to green will be dramatic.
use a broom not a hose to clean driveways and footpaths.
limit showers to the time it takes to soap up, wash  down, and rinse off.
aerate the soil to allow water to be absorbed more easily.
toughen up the plants.
deep soak your lawn.
water during cooler parts of the  day.
position your sprinklers so water lands on the lawn or garden, not paved areas.
turn taps off properly and check washers for wear.
traditional toilets can usually be converted to dual flush.
lawns a lawn can use more water per square metre than any other area in your  garden.
this increases the moisture holding capacity of sandy soils and allows better penetration of water into heavy clay soils.
- don't run the automatic dishwasher until you have a full load.
in the laundry - make sure the washing machine's load adjustment is right for the load.
reducing the amount of water used in the home can reduce the cost of  waste water treatment and could delay the increase of the waste water treatment  plant capacity.
new drinking water standards "drinking-water standards for new zealand 2005" were recently adopted, and compliance with this standard is obligatory following the adoption of the new public health bill in 2008.
cleaning a path  with a broom is quicker and more efficient than using a hose, which can waste  up to 1000 litres per hour.
- make sure your hot water system thermostat is not set too high.
taller grass holds water better.
a forgotten sprinkler wastes more than a 1000 litres per hour.
in the laundry make sure the washing machine's load adjustment is right for the load.
a slow drip from a tap can waste more than 200 litres of water per day.
- avoid watering on windy days.
- a slow drip from a tap can waste more than 200 litres of water per day.
garbage disposal units use about 30 litres of water per day and send a lot  of extra rubbish into the sewers.
if you have only one  sink, stack washed dishes in a dish rack and rinse them with a pan of hot water.
a good way to test this is to step on the grass.
many showers put out 20 litres of water per minute, however, 10 litres is enough for a refreshing, cleansing shower.
if you water the leaves water is lost  through evaporation, and any chlorine in the water could damage the leaves.
in the kitchen when washing dishes by hand, don't rinse them under a running tap.
this will give the water a chance to soak in and reduces water lost as runoff.
- wash the car, boat or caravan on the lawn instead of on the driveway.
reduce the lawn area.
fill the sink with a little  warm water for rinsing.
- don't rinse your razor under a running tap.
water a maximum of twice a week, but for a longer period.
if  without flushing, the colouring begins to appear in the bowl, the cistern  should be repaired immediately.
mulches can prevent excessive runoff, restrict weed growth, improve soil  structure and help put valuable nutrients back into the soil.
this is just as effective as running water and far less wasteful.
reheating the water during the reticulation/spa process reduces water  wastage.
a good way to test this is to step  on the grass.
wait a few  seconds, when the bubbles disappear, do the next pot.
- water your pot plants by dunking them in a bucket of water.
use the hose only for rinsing and turn it off between rinses.
- let the lawn go brown during very dry times.
this ensures that any runoff water  soaks into lower dry areas rather than being wasted.
a timer will allow you to use as much water as is needed without the threat of wastage.
- take shorter showers.
mulches can prevent excessive runoff, restrict weed growth, improve soil structure and help put valuable nutrients back into the soil.
- install a water-saving shower rose.
water your lawn only when it needs it.
water your pot plants by dunking them in a bucket of water.
swimming pool cover your pool to reduce evaporation, retain warmth and keep out leaves  and dirt.
let the lawn go brown during very dry times.
if you have a spa, ensure it is well insulated to keep water warm for longer.
- aerate the soil to allow water to be absorbed more easily.
modern toilets give the option to flush  either half or all the cistern's water.
do not mow to a height of less than 2cm.
hot water pipes and systems - insulate hot water pipes.
modern toilets give the option to flush either half or all the cistern's water.
- garbage disposal units use about 30 litres of water per day and send a lot of extra rubbish into the sewers.
this avoids wasting water while waiting for hot  water to flow through and saves power.
if you have a spa, ensure it is well insulated to keep water warm for  longer.
every home should have a compost bin.
this enables the grass to become more deeply  rooted  seeking out any moisture, in turn making the grass hardier.
this avoids wasting water while waiting for hot water to flow through and saves power.
all of the water used in the home, for example, clothes and dish washing,  baths and showers, toilet flushing, leaking taps and toilet cisterns, is  discharged to the sewer for treatment and disposal at the waste water treatment  plant.
water the roots not the leaves.
inside the house the bathroom - install a dual flush toilet.
compost improves the structure of your soil.
accept some fluctuation in pool level due to evaporation and rainfall.
- keep a bottle of drinking water in the refrigerator.
if you have a water meter, turn all taps off before you go to bed one night and take a meter reading.
- use a broom not a hose to clean driveways and footpaths.
this allows you to be in control and water is not  wasted when moving the hose around.
squirting water around can waste up to 1000 litres per hour.
- a continuously running toilet can waste more than 16,000 litres of water per year.
to comply with the new drinking water standards it will be necessary to  build a new water treatment plant, and because of the additional treatment  processes involved treatment costs will rise.
soil and dissolved nutrients are carried  away with runoff, which increases the need for expensive fertiliser and can  pollute nearby streams.
plant drought resistant native trees and plants.
up to 200 litres of water per day can be lost because of evaporation  from a typical ground pool.
check the meter the next morning before any water is used.
cleaning a path with a broom is quicker and more efficient than using a hose, which can waste up to 1000 litres per hour.
fill the sink with a little warm water for rinsing.
- give the lawn a feed but do not over fertilise.
this is just as effective as running water and far less  wasteful.
just rinse them in a plugged sink or a pan of clean water.
- use a trigger hose.
squirting water around can  waste up to 1000 litres per hour.
reducing the amount of water used in the home can reduce the cost of waste water treatment and could delay the increase of the waste water treatment plant capacity.
also use the sud-saver option when several loads have to be washed.
use the hose  only for rinsing and turn it off between rinses.
- every home should have a compost bin.
too many plants are pampered to the point where  they are so dependent on water that they do not go out of their way to find any  water themselves.
a continuously running toilet can waste more than 16,000 litres of water  per year.
take shorter showers.
although there is no shortage of water in the lake it costs money to treat and distribute the water for domestic consumption.
- group plants according to how much water they require.
this saves water and ensures pot plants get a thorough drink.
water a maximum of twice a week, but  for a longer period.
locate the problem and repair it.
keep a bottle of drinking water in the refrigerator.
washing the car, boat or caravan use a bucket and sponge to wash the car, boat or caravan.
don't rinse your razor under a running tap.
- do not mow to a height of less than 2cm.
the garden use a good mulch.
if you water the leaves water is lost through evaporation, and any chlorine in the water could damage the leaves.
remember that shorter showers also save on hot water costs.
compost improves the structure of  your soil.
by grouping plants  by water usage you can avoid waste on plants that don't need a lot of water.
- check the pool for leaks
running the tap until  the water is cool enough to drink is wasteful.
if you  have two sinks, fill the second one with rinsing water.
check your local nursery for a suitable drought tolerant lawn grass for  your area.
to comply with the new drinking water standards it will be necessary to build a new water treatment plant, and because of the additional treatment processes involved treatment costs will rise.
all of the water used in the home, for example, clothes and dish washing, baths and showers, toilet flushing, leaking taps and toilet cisterns, is discharged to the sewer for treatment and disposal at the waste water treatment plant.
running the tap until the water is cool enough to drink is wasteful.
avoid watering on windy days.
outside the house being sensible with use of water in the garden and lawn is important as  they are the biggest drain of these resources during hot weather when they are  needed most.
while giving the lawn a quick drink every night may  be good therapy for you, it makes the grass shallow rooted and dependent on the  meagre amount of water that you provide.
many showers put out 20 litres of  water per minute, however, 10 litres is enough for a refreshing, cleansing  shower.
adding  cold water to cool too hot water is wasteful.
they will often compensate for each other, meaning  topping up with the hose can be avoided.
when buying a new appliance that uses water, be sure it has a high water  conservation rating.
- front loading machines are generally more efficient than top loaders and save water and power.
- reduce the lawn area.
many natives are both attractive and suited to gardens, and thrive with far less watering than do other species.
traditional toilets can usually be  converted to dual flush.
to check for leaks put a little food colouring in the tank.
the yard - discourage games with the hose and sprinklers.
inside the house the bathroom install a dual flush toilet.
give the lawn a feed but do not over fertilise.
wait until the soil dries out before watering and use a plant  such as bamboo as an indicator.
if you have only one sink, stack washed dishes in a dish rack and rinse them with a pan of hot water.
- water your lawn only when it needs it.
although there is no shortage of water in the lake it costs money to treat  and distribute the water for domestic consumption.
- don't water the road or pathways.
the yard discourage games with the hose and sprinklers.
if  there's no load adjustment, wait until you have enough clothes for a full load.
perhaps some of your food scraps could be used in the garden.
locate  the problem and repair it.
don't run the automatic dishwasher until you have a full load.
this will give the water a chance to  soak in and reduces water lost as runoff.
- toughen up the plants.
check the meter the next morning before any  water is used.
- dig a small trench around the trees.
- water wisely to avoid runoff.
new drinking water standards  "drinking-water standards for new zealand 2005" were recently  adopted, and compliance with this standard is obligatory following  the adoption of the new public health bill  in 2008.
group plants according to how much water they require.
if there's no load adjustment, wait until you have enough clothes for a full load.
if it springs back up when you move it doesn't need watering.