hawaii’s thirsty population is now more than double that at statehood, and set to double again in another 60 or so years.
honolulu  water prices will rise 70 percent in the next five years.
hawaii’s thirsty population is now more than double that at  statehood, and set to double again in another 60 or so years.
our readers outpace the average consumer in purchases of big-ticket items, travel, and recreation.
emphasis: “highest priority.”
monitor/control other threats–diseases, predators, fire; 4.
we’ve done so  by failing to adequately conserve our natural watersheds, the mountain forests  that collect and filter the water we drink.
all living things, mankind, plants, animals, are connected by the  waters of life.
these ungulates devastate indigenous plant species, creating puddles that harbor avian mosquitoes and spreading non-native strawberry guavas.
hawaii needs these jobs as much as we need locally grown food and farm income circulating in the islands.
as us department of agriculture secretary tom vilsack recently reminded us, on a national scale, one out of 12 jobs relates to farming.
by paul “doc” berry | mar 28, 2012 cover hawaii’s waters of life, ka wai ola, are the very essence of life and  culture in hawaii, what we survive on and must pass along as a sustainable  legacy.
invaders include: salvinia molesta, a south american water fern which can double its mat in 7  to 10 days.
interconnectedness you and i are roughly 60 percent water, by both volume and weight.
sam ‘ohu gon iii, senior rainforest scientist and cultural advisor for tnc hawaii, says, “our forests are in danger of losing the natural balance that supplies us our water.”
alexander mueller, the un food and agriculture organization (fao) director general of natural resources, projects that by 2050 food demand and water use will both soar by 70 percent.
remove invasive weeds–miconia, strawberry guavas, etc.–and  prevent new invasives; 3.
the silent invasion currently, 11 watershed partnerships effectively protect only 10 percent of  the priority watershed areas, about 90,000 out of 840,000 mauka acres.
support local farmers by buying local and urging the state’s
support local farmers by buying local and urging the state’s agriculture development corp. to increase incentives for more local farming.
moreover, they don’t eat mosquitoes.
grossly  underfunded inspection and prevention measures mean higher watershed protection  costs.
remove invasive weeds–miconia, strawberry guavas, etc.–and prevent new invasives; 3.
other sources say we have at  most seven days of food available should a disastrous earthquake, a tsunami or  a shipping strike stop our regular food imports.
climate change and sea level rise threaten our aquifers with saltwater  encroachment, and there are questions about the sustainable yield in some  aquifers.
our 92 percent imported food (plus nearly 100 percent imported energy) represents a disaster waiting to happen.
in the lyrics to “aloha oe,” queen liliuokalani tells of  the rain falling onto the blossoms of native ohia trees in hawaii’s  mountain forests.
aside from macadamia nuts, according to farmer charles reppun, we plant only 5,000 acres of diversified agriculture to produce food for local consumption.
three mountain alliance kau/south point–12,000 acres present funding for hawaii’s 11 partnerships is an inadequate $1.25  million.
blog comments powered by disqus hawaii’s waters of life, ka wai ola, are the very essence of life and culture in hawaii, what we survive on and must pass along as a sustainable legacy.
here are some of the supporting facts: in december 2011, the us geological survey (usgs) announced that hawaii is in a long-term drought, “severe” and even “extreme” in some parts of the state.
on the water delivery side, honolulu’s board of water supply just announced a major initiative to repair and replace aged water pipes.
concerning annexation, the lahui need to answer clearly what exactly was to be done about the non-native population on the islands back then.
read the bill, then submit your  testimony, live or by email.
hawaii’s watershed partnerships include: 1.
amid this challenging, waterlogged scenario, gleick reminds us that it takes 1,000 tons of water to grow one ton of wheat, a gallon of water to grow the wheat for a slice of bread, 150 gallons to produce a 1/3-pound hamburger and about 70 gallons to produce a glass of beer.
according to a new ulupono initiative survey on local food production, more  than 90 percent of hawaii residents see growing far more of our own food as  either “extremely important” or “important.”
some 3.5 billion people live in 18 countries that are seriously overdrawing their aquifers, countries that include the us, mexico, china and india.
cost, $3 million a year and growing.
retired state forester mike buck puts it bluntly: “our watersheds are  arriving at a tipping point with water the source on which our lives  depend.”
inthe rain  follows plan, dlnr has set a goal of doubling the area of protected  watershed areas in just 10 years.
today, some 71 county, state, federal, private and non-profit entities such  as kamehameha schools and tnc collaborate in partnerships to manage jointly  owned island watersheds.
watershed management tactics the loss of interdependent native rainforest plants can put an entire area  ecosystem’s survival at risk.
strawberry guavas, which grow to 15 feet and now engulf 495,000 acres, causing serious losses of rare endemic flora and fauna, as well as consuming water that never reaches the rest of the ecosystem.
heco implemented a tiered rate structure last year.
“write, email or telephone members of the finance committee telling them you support these watershed protection bills and encourage them to hear them,” says tnc’s mark fox.
resolution 12-25, which proposes to transfer the powers, duties and functions of the board of water supply (bws) to a department of water supply housed under the city’s executive branch, passed second reading at march’s city council meeting.
with a bill on food self-sufficiency currently making its way through the house, the legislature has yet another opportunity to contribute to food security–by funding water security through sbs 2511 and 2782.
in the hawaii watershed guidance final, the hawaii office of planning coastal zone management adds: “traditional hawaiian management adopted a holistic approach that recognized the interconnectedness of land and sea, the interactions among species, the rhythms of the seasons, and the impacts of overuse on resources.”
besides, some key funding for the watershed protection plan may come from a 10-cent surcharge on single-use bags at retail stores.
the second best time is now.”
water needs 50 years from now,” says william tam, deputy director of the  commission on water resource management.
we’ve done so by failing to adequately conserve our natural watersheds, the mountain forests that collect and filter the water we drink.
if you do not wish for your comment to be used in honolulu weekly print issues, please write “don’t print ” at the end of your comment.
hawaii, however,  has a meager 7,500 people employed in farming.
for example, the east molokai watershed partnership includes 15 different state, county, federal, private and non-profit partners including kalaupapa historical national park, kamehameha schools, and tnc.
with seven billion of us now scrambling after the  same water and food resources, scientists tell us we already consume as if we  had 1.5 worlds to draw on.
inthe rain follows plan, he  adds, “hawaiian traditions regard these mauka forests as sacred, and the  plants and the animals within them as our ‘aumakua–our elders and  ancestors.
heavy reliance on imported food means  that, in effect, we also import the water it takes to grow that food, water  from national and world sources now undergoing dramatic changes via global  warming.
water links all of these,” says sen. donovan dela cruz.
they have my total support in this suit.
aside from macadamia nuts, according to  farmer charles reppun, we plant only 5,000 acres of diversified agriculture to  produce food for local consumption.
on oahu, the koolau  mountains watershed partnership has 15 partners ranging from the oahu country  club and bishop museum to the u.s. army, tnc and the u.s. fish and wildlife  service.
coqui frogs, whose sound can reach 90 decibels, and concentration can reach  up to 10,000 per acre.
amid this challenging, waterlogged scenario, gleick reminds us that it  takes 1,000 tons of water to grow one ton of wheat, a gallon of water to grow  the wheat for a slice of bread, 150 gallons to produce a 1/3-pound hamburger  and about 70 gallons to produce a glass of beer.
currently, 11 watershed partnerships effectively protect only 10 percent of the priority watershed areas, about 90,000 out of 840,000 mauka acres.
the legislature is being asked to fund the governor’s new plan  to protect watersheds--the sources of our drinking water.
half of hawaii’s prime watershed forests are gone, and of the 840,000  acres remaining, only 10 percent are now well-protected from serious assaults  by invasive species, dlnr’s plan reports.
establish benchmarks and monitor success; 6.
according to water analyst peter gleick, testifying before congress, “climate changes are increasingly threatening water systems and water resources everywhere,” an opinion supported by more than 60 top international scientific organizations.
all these people in traffic every morning and very late afternoon have something in common: they wouldn’t be in traffic if they didn’t have parking waiting for them at their places of employment.
according to christy martin of cgaps, 200 invasive plants pose serious  threats to the balance of watershed forests.
talk back check out the latest honolulu weekly email newsletters: arts & entertainment food & drink honolulu green signup now to receive these newsletters in your inbox!
wai– fresh water– has always been sacred to the hawaiians, as it was to the greeks, another island people who worshipped springs.
a feral pig can devastate a forest area the size of a football field in a week.
alexander mueller, the un food and agriculture organization (fao) director  general of natural resources, projects that by 2050 food demand and water use  will both soar by 70 percent.
according to recently appointed bws chairman ernest lau, the resolution, “has really got the attention of the board and the department, and we know there are improvements to be made.
the race between available global water and food versus global population has long since set off alarms hawaii needs to heed.
only maui and oahu presently face questions of water scarcity.
hawaii rainforests need more protection all this global gloom obviously argues for a comprehensive effort to grow  far more food here for local consumption, something ancient hawaiians mastered  with their ahupuaa system and comprehensive approach to protecting water  resources.
allocate priorities to native wet and semi-wet forest moisture zones according to land cover type.
this level of partnership management has taken 40 years to develop.
for example, the east molokai watershed partnership includes 15 different  state, county, federal, private and non-profit partners including kalaupapa  historical national park, kamehameha schools, and tnc.
with a bill on food self-sufficiency currently  making its way through the house, the legislature has yet another opportunity  to contribute to food security–by funding water security through sbs 2511  and 2782.
a feral pig  can devastate a forest area the size of a football field in a week.
east molokai watershed partnership–25,000 acres 5.
damage and loss of these forests chips away at the foundation of our cultural identity.”
for questions, e-mail editorial@honoluluweekly.com.
similar surveys show voters supporting more watershed protection just as heavily.
[march 21: “energy vampire”]
without secure water sources, local diversified agriculture can’t expand  to provide better food security.
[feb. 15: “big oil, big money”]
on the other hand, rising population, increases  in visitors, climate change and sea level rise, a long-term serious drought,  and a siege of invasive species threatening our watersheds create a kind of  perfect storm of risks.
our heavy reliance on global food sources puts us at serious risk.
as gov. neil abercrombie put it in announcing the plan, “the best  time to start protecting our mauka watersheds was decades ago.
the human brain is 70 percent water, so here is some water for thought.
buy an ad in theweekly and you’ll be speaking directly to the best audience in honolulu.
inspecting cargo flights to maui, hawaii’s department of agriculture found an average of one new insect species arriving per day.
while submitted letters are often edited for length and clarity, online comments we use are printed entirely as they are written for the website.
here are some of the supporting facts: in december 2011, the us geological survey (usgs) announced that hawaii is  in a long-term drought, “severe” and even “extreme” in  some parts of the state.
in our rush to development, we’ve imperilled this resource that’s essential to all species’ survival, from our own to the ‘iiwi bird that feeds on the nectar of ‘ohia.
“in the long run, how effectively we deal with these invasive species holds a key to our future,” martin says.
beyond fencing out feral animals and hunters, and reducing pigs and other feral ungulates, watershed management experts have gone high-tech, employing helicopters with aerial paintball guns that can deliver herbicide to a specific plant.
what can you do to foster dlnr’s watershed protection plan?
the  human brain is 70 percent water, so here is some water for thought.
“in the long run, how  effectively we deal with these invasive species holds a key to our  future,” martin says.
koolau mountains watershed partnership–9,000 acres 4.
thank you!you will need to enable javascript to viewcomments.
download and read the rain follows the forest plan.
feral pigs spread the guavas.
support hb9 advocating more funding for food security and hb156 preserving agricultural lands.
“we need to be incorporating into our thinking hawaii’s water needs 50 years from now,” says william tam, deputy director of the commission on water resource management.
on oahu, the koolau mountains watershed partnership has 15 partners ranging from the oahu country club and bishop museum to the u.s. army, tnc and the u.s. fish and wildlife service.
“i am here because i eat local,” testified 6-year-old kiana corrie, one of the youngest of 50 or so supporters of hb2703, the hawaii food self-sufficiency bill, at a march 21 hearing before the senate agriculture committee.
asquith told theweekly he is not opposed to smart meters and would be a voluntary participant in kiuc’s pilot project if asked.
read the bill, then submit your testimony, live or by email.
in the lyrics to “aloha oe,” queen liliuokalani tells of the rain falling onto the blossoms of native ohia trees in hawaii’s mountain forests.
the governor added, “investing in the protection of fresh water sources must be the highest priority for hawaii’s public leaders.”
according to water analyst peter gleick, testifying before congress,  “climate changes are increasingly threatening water systems and water  resources everywhere,” an opinion supported by more than 60 top  international scientific organizations.
contact your state representative and senator to advocate funding rain follows.
historically, a single konohiki managed land and resource use in each ahupua’a, a watershed management area defined by geographic features from mountain tops to the sea.
feral pigs reproduce as early as age 6 months; one pig can multiply to as many as 500 in four years.
right now is the crucial  time “to let our legislators know that we support watershed protection  and these bills, because each bill only has one more public hearing to  go–before the house finance committee,” says mark fox, director of  external affairs for the hawaii chapter of the nature conservancy (tnc).
today, some 71 county, state, federal, private and non-profit entities such as kamehameha schools and tnc collaborate in partnerships to manage jointly owned island watersheds.
leeward haleakala watershed restoration partnership–11,000 acres 8.
as gov. neil abercrombie put it in announcing the plan, “the best time to start protecting our mauka watersheds was decades ago.
feral pigs spread the  guavas.
in the hawaii watershed guidance final, the hawaii office of  planning coastal zone management adds: “traditional hawaiian management  adopted a holistic approach that recognized the interconnectedness of land and  sea, the interactions among species, the rhythms of the seasons, and the  impacts of overuse on resources.”
hawaii is fortunate indeed to have our environment protected by the watchful eye, analytic mind and fearless leadership of life of the land’s henry curtis.
why would they even take a bus or rail service if they have parking waiting for them everyday?
moreover, as tested by tnc  kauai director trae menard, new high-resolution cameras can provide aerial maps  with details specifying exactly which plants require removal.
as such, the 11 partnerships offer a  unique model of tactical, localized land and water governance.
strawberry guavas, which grow to 15 feet and now engulf 495,000 acres,  causing serious losses of rare endemic flora and fauna, as well as consuming  water that never reaches the rest of the ecosystem.
in tight budget times for hawaii, some might challenge the timing of a  watershed initiative that will run millions of dollars a year.
very true, and perhaps a bit of an oversight on my part.
promote land-use decision-making protecting watersheds 8.
wai– fresh water– has always been sacred to the  hawaiians, as it was to the greeks, another island people who worshipped  springs.
it is these traditionally sustained interconnections, from the clouds to the mountaintops, through the aquifers and down the streams through our buildings and farms to the sea that we need to retrace and fortify along with our ties as neighbors sharing wai.
with seven billion of us now scrambling after the same water and food resources, scientists tell us we already consume as if we had 1.5 worlds to draw on.
seventy percent of freshwater allocations globally already go to farmland irrigation, and swelling megacities compete for that water.
i have always agreed and disagreed with former-gov. [march 7: “rebuttal rebut”]
watershed-saving partnerships these private/public, non-profit watershed partnership collaborations allow  those who know the land best to develop the most effective remedies for the  unique problems each watershed faces.
hawaiian cultural analyst and practitioner ramsay taum adds an important perspective, “wai, fresh water, carries within it the word for food, ‘ai.
control and eradication costs, $1 million a year.
besides, some key funding for the  watershed protection plan may come from a 10-cent surcharge on single-use bags  at retail stores.
on the water delivery side, honolulu’s board of water supply just  announced a major initiative to repair and replace aged water pipes.
benefits of these partnerships include economies of scale in planning,  fence building, feral animal and invasive plant removal, and efficient uses of  resources and staff–results dedicated funding can generate.
three mountain alliance kau/south point–12,000 acres present funding for hawaii’s 11 partnerships is an inadequate $1.25 million.
these private/public, non-profit watershed partnership collaborations allow those who know the land best to develop the most effective remedies for the unique problems each watershed faces.
[march 7: “stealth gmo lobbyist”] didn’t i read in the newspaper that japan approved importation of gmo papayas, and they’re selling them there now?
waiwai refers to wealth of any kind, to high value, and kanawai  means the law, rules requiring respect.”
to track watershed funding bills and committee hearings, go  to [capitol.hawaii.gov] and under bill status, type in sb2511, sb 2782, or  hb2703 (the food self-sufficiency bill).
gleick goes on to cite a critical  challenge in “inadequate investment in critical water  infrastructure,” i.e., watershed protection.
as such, the 11 partnerships offer a unique model of tactical, localized land and water governance.
weekly readers are premium consumers: educated, affluent, socially active people who work hard, play hard and spend hard.
lanai forest and watershed partnership–3,100 acres, 17.5 miles of fence 6.
miconia calvescens, a 30-50 foot tree producing millions of sand-grain-sized seeds per year, eliminating other plants and keeping the water from reaching the rain forest floor to recharge the watershed.
gleick goes on to cite a critical challenge in “inadequate investment in critical water infrastructure,” i.e., watershed protection.
lester brown in world on the edge puts it succinctly, “we are  one bad harvest away from chaos in world food markets,” those same  markets which you
“we need a comprehensive planning system that incorporates protecting watersheds and water sources, stimulating far more local farming, smart growth linked to transportation and more clean energy.
the governor added, “investing in the protection of  fresh water sources must be the highest priority for hawaii’s public  leaders.”
cost, $3 million  a year and growing.
kauai taro farmer adam asquith has filed a complaint in us district court seeking to halt kauai island utility cooperative (kiuc) from launching its “smart meter” rollout [march 21: “big utility is watching”].
hawaiian cultural analyst and practitioner ramsay taum adds an important  perspective, “wai, fresh water, carries within it the word for food,  ‘ai.
our fresh water supply is declining, according to the  dlnr’s the rain follows the forest plan, which adds: “if this trend  continues, future generations will not have access to water at reasonable  rates, and may face tight restrictions.”
without secure water sources, local diversified agriculture can’t expand to provide better food security.
according to christy martin of cgaps, 200 invasive plants pose serious threats to the balance of watershed forests.
but hawaii grows some 15,000 acres of  genetically engineered seed corn, all for export.
retired state forester mike buck puts it bluntly: “our watersheds are arriving at a tipping point with water the source on which our lives depend.”
invasive feral pigs and goats, plus deer,  feral cattle, and a few feral sheep ravage our watersheds.
as us department of agriculture secretary tom vilsack recently reminded us,  on a national scale, one out of 12 jobs relates to farming.
total annual hawaii losses to invasive species are estimated at $300  million, not counting the loss of water in island aquifers.
kyle smith and gerard jervis are suing mid-pacific country club for its use of pesticides and the impacts they are having on the residential communities nearby.
beyond fencing out feral animals and  hunters, and reducing pigs and other feral ungulates, watershed management  experts have gone high-tech, employing helicopters with aerial paintball guns  that can deliver herbicide to a specific plant.
gov. abercrombie, dlnr water officials, plus 11 existing watershed  partnerships and important contributors, such as tnc and coordinating group for  alien pest species (cgaps), all advocate doubling our rainforest watershed  protection.
in our rush to development, we’ve imperilled this resource  that’s essential to all species’ survival, from our own to the  ‘iiwi bird that feeds on the nectar of ‘ohia.
total annual hawaii losses to invasive species are estimated at $300 million, not counting the loss of water in island aquifers.
east maui watershed partnership–3,500 acres 9.
heavy reliance on imported food means that, in effect, we also import the water it takes to grow that food, water from national and world sources now undergoing dramatic changes via global warming.
we often print online comments in our “letters to the editor” section ofhonolulu weekly.
advertise to reach passionate, active consumers.
as the nature conservancy’s mark fox recounts, priorities dictate first steps: 1.
the hawaii  department of land and natural resources (dlnr) counters that our future is at  stake.
also, i know i’ve read several other news stories in the past about how our papayas were genetically modified because of the ringspot virus, so it’s not like it was a big secret.
only maui and oahu  presently face questions of water scarcity.
the loss of interdependent native rainforest plants can put an entire area ecosystem’s survival at risk.
the rain follows the forest plan, which adds: “if this trend continues, future generations will not have access to water at reasonable rates, and may face tight restrictions.”
mauna kea watershed alliance–512 acres 11.
“and i am here because i would rather see farmlands than buildings,” chimed in kiana’s friend, kalae millikan (age 7, and–full disclosure–this writer’s child).
[feb. 8: “game changer”]
growing our own “we need a comprehensive planning system that incorporates protecting  watersheds and water sources, stimulating far more local farming, smart growth  linked to transportation and more clean energy.
cover story water for thought supplies of drinking water are dwindling  worldwide, but in our remote island state, water security is particularly  crucial.
the world adds 76 million more people a year, the equivalent of hawaii’s population every 6.5 days.
according to a new ulupono initiative survey on local food production, more than 90 percent of hawaii residents see growing far more of our own food as either “extremely important” or “important.”
bread and water about half the calories humans consume globally come directly from grain,  with grain-fed meat and egg products a significant part of remaining calories.
about half the calories humans consume globally come directly from grain, with grain-fed meat and egg products a significant part of remaining calories.
restore and plant native species in priority areas; 5.
islanders use somewhere between 100  and 200 gallons of water apiece daily, with our recent per-capita water  consumption declining slightly.
inspecting cargo flights to maui, hawaii’s department of agriculture  found an average of one new insect species arriving per day.
mueller is signaling us that the era of cheap  food is ending, and that without what he calls “more crop per  drop,” serious water scarcity will likely become the norm.
similar  surveys show voters supporting more watershed protection just as heavily.
some 3.5 billion people live in 18 countries that  are seriously overdrawing their aquifers, countries that include the us,  mexico, china and india.
our 92 percent imported food (plus nearly 100 percent imported energy)  represents a disaster waiting to happen.
it seems the politico-minded gabbards have mounted a quest against plastic bags, and they’ve rallied a large portion of oahu residents behind them.
introduced by sen. usually the one in the hot seat, former-interim executive director for honolulu authority for rapid transportation (hart)
lanai forest and watershed partnership–3,100 acres, 17.5 miles of  fence 6.
feral pigs reproduce  as early as age 6 months; one pig can multiply to as many as 500 in four years.
the second best  time is now.”
add fencing to keep feral animals out, and reduce feral animal numbers significantly; 2.
moreover, as tested by tnc kauai director trae menard, new high-resolution cameras can provide aerial maps with details specifying exactly which plants require removal.
whenever a new food truck sets honolulu lunch-seekers a twitter, it generally does so from a parking space (or two) on a public street.
oh, big oil, cayetano’s backers!
this  level of partnership management has taken 40 years to develop.
hawaii needs these jobs as much  as we need locally grown food and farm income circulating in the islands.
allocate priorities to native wet and semi-wet forest moisture zones  according to land cover type.
agriculture development corp. to increase incentives for more local farming.
support hb9 advocating more funding for food security and hb156 preserving  agricultural lands.
this new revenue source is provided for in sb2511, which, along with sb2782 (authorizing funding for dlnr’s watershed programs), has passed the senate and is now pending in the house.
damage and loss of these forests chips away at the foundation of our  cultural identity.”
huge new deserts are forming in northern china and  africa.
miconia calvescens, a 30-50 foot tree producing millions of  sand-grain-sized seeds per year, eliminating other plants and keeping the water  from reaching the rain forest floor to recharge the watershed.
our fresh water supply is declining, according to the dlnr’s
for 1.36 million hawaii residents plus 150,000 daily tourists, 92 percent of everything we eat is imported.
mueller is signaling us that the era of cheap food is ending, and that without what he calls “more crop per drop,” serious water scarcity will likely become the norm.
as the nature conservancy’s mark fox recounts, priorities dictate  first steps: 1.
on oahu, everyone does not pay the same electric rate.
cover hawaii’s waters of life, ka wai ola, are the very essence of life and culture in hawaii, what we survive on and must pass along as a sustainable legacy.
inthe rain follows plan, dlnr has set a goal of doubling the area of protected watershed areas in just 10 years.
do we have the water needed to grow most of our food?
benefits of these partnerships include economies of scale in planning, fence building, feral animal and invasive plant removal, and efficient uses of resources and staff–results dedicated funding can generate.
if our reps turn him  down, we face a thirsty future.
grossly underfunded inspection and prevention measures mean higher watershed protection costs.
west maui mountains watershed partnership–21,000 acres plus new 10,100 acres 7.
save money and reach a loyal audience of upscale readers.
seventy  percent of freshwater allocations globally already go to farmland irrigation,  and swelling megacities compete for that water.
hawaii, however, has a meager 7,500 people employed in farming.
climate change and sea level rise threaten our aquifers with saltwater encroachment, and there are questions about the sustainable yield in some aquifers.
historically, a single konohiki managed land and  resource use in each ahupua’a, a watershed management area defined by  geographic features from mountain tops to the sea.
add fencing to keep feral animals out, and reduce feral animal numbers  significantly; 2.
father mike in the state senate and daughter tulsi in the city council have both introduced bills regarding single-use bags in their respective bureaucracies (tulsi gabbard is running for us house of representatives against former-mayor mufi hannemann.)
in one ingenuous remark, he not only attacks hawaiian electric’s leadership as venal and corrupt, he also impugns the common sense, integrity and ethical balance of mina morita, john cole and mike chumley by suggesting [the puc’s] rulings could be so easily swayed by being wined and dined on heco’s thin dime.
invaders include: salvinia molesta, a south american water fern which can double its mat in 7 to 10 days.
for more information check out ouradvertisers' kit.
all this global gloom obviously argues for a comprehensive effort to grow far more food here for local consumption, something ancient hawaiians mastered with their ahupuaa system and comprehensive approach to protecting water resources.
all living things, mankind, plants, animals, are connected by the waters of life.
“we need to be incorporating into our thinking hawaii’s
the hawaii department of land and natural resources (dlnr) counters that our future is at stake.
islanders use somewhere between 100 and 200 gallons of water apiece daily, with our recent per-capita water consumption declining slightly.
[ capitol.hawaii.gov]; chair, rep. marcus r. oshiro, [email: repmoshiro] 3.
more permanent spaces, on private land, are scarce and cost money.
kauai watershed alliance–25,000 acres 2.
and i expect to feed us.
huge new deserts are forming in northern china and africa.
hawaiian watershed wisdom sam ‘ohu gon iii, senior rainforest scientist and cultural advisor  for tnc hawaii, says, “our forests are in danger of losing the natural  balance that supplies us our water.”
west maui mountains watershed partnership–21,000 acres plus new  10,100 acres 7.
gov. abercrombie, dlnr water officials, plus 11 existing watershed partnerships and important contributors, such as tnc and coordinating group for alien pest species (cgaps), all advocate doubling our rainforest watershed protection.
other sources say we have at most seven days of food available should a disastrous earthquake, a tsunami or a shipping strike stop our regular food imports.
invasive feral pigs and goats, plus deer, feral cattle, and a few feral sheep ravage our watersheds.
on the other hand, rising population, increases in visitors, climate change and sea level rise, a long-term serious drought, and a siege of invasive species threatening our watersheds create a kind of perfect storm of risks.
educate hawaii residents 7.
half of hawaii’s prime watershed forests are gone, and of the 840,000 acres remaining, only 10 percent are now well-protected from serious assaults by invasive species, dlnr’s plan reports.
kohala watershed partnership–6,600 acres 10.
the march 21 meeting was business as usual when bills 31, 32 and 33–all relating to hart budget matters for fiscal year 2012-2013–were given first reading.
for 1.36 million hawaii residents plus 150,000 daily tourists, 92 percent  of everything we eat is imported.
it is these traditionally sustained interconnections, from the clouds to  the mountaintops, through the aquifers and down the streams through our  buildings and farms to the sea that we need to retrace and fortify along with  our ties as neighbors sharing wai.
this new revenue source is provided for in sb2511, which,  along with sb2782 (authorizing funding for dlnr’s watershed programs),  has passed the senate and is now pending in the house.
these ungulates devastate indigenous plant species, creating puddles that  harbor avian mosquitoes and spreading non-native strawberry guavas.
waianae mountains watershed partnership–undetermined 3.
[march 7: “tapping the source”] the lahui and its concerns about annexation are troublesome.
toru hamayasu may be finding some relief in turning the controls over to daniel grabauskas, hart’s new head honcho.
but hawaii grows some 15,000 acres of genetically engineered seed corn, all for export.
why is no one laughing at the idea that mr. obama is supposed to pull a few million jobs out of his cap?
the world adds 76 million more people a year, the equivalent of hawaii’s  population every 6.5 days.
“write, email or telephone members of the  finance committee telling them you support these watershed protection bills and  encourage them to hear them,” says tnc’s mark fox.
to track watershed funding bills and committee hearings, go to [capitol.hawaii.gov] and under bill status, type in sb2511, sb 2782, or hb2703 (the food self-sufficiency bill).
the race between available global water and food versus global  population has long since set off alarms hawaii needs to heed.
you and i are roughly 60 percent water, by both volume and weight.
inthe rain follows plan, he adds, “hawaiian traditions regard these mauka forests as sacred, and the plants and the animals within them as our ‘aumakua–our elders and ancestors.
lester brown in world on the edge puts it succinctly, “we are one bad harvest away from chaos in world food markets,” those same markets which you
waiwai refers to wealth of any kind, to high value, and kanawai means the law, rules requiring respect.”
honolulu water prices will rise 70 percent in the next five years.
water links all of  these,” says sen. donovan dela cruz.
right now is the crucial time “to let our legislators know that we support watershed protection and these bills, because each bill only has one more public hearing to go–before the house finance committee,” says mark fox, director of external affairs for the hawaii chapter of the nature conservancy (tnc).
in tight budget times for hawaii, some might challenge the timing of a watershed initiative that will run millions of dollars a year.
coqui frogs, whose sound can reach 90 decibels, and concentration can reach up to 10,000 per acre.