having spent all summer last year clearing brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds that were dormant on the plot.
while  i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
i shared  it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
february- 02:47 friday 24th
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow  will be a good day to do it.
they are an indulgence wich will provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
blacurrants need the oldest and weakest branches removed.
waning moons are good for harvesting and preserving.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month  having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
plan now for next year's beauty!
i'll be harvesting more potatoes, checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new compost heap.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of  seed.
this being a waning  water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
at this time of year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
blackberries are in abundance  now.
so it was that despite the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
i think i'll put my feet up now!
also remember that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted shapes.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to make it stretch a little.
the  moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been  feeding my fruit.
february- 10:28 sunday 19th february waning moon in capricorn good day for weeding, attending to compost heaps plant out garlic that's been started in seedtrays sow carrots, parsnips indoors 10:28 sunday 19th
i  can't believe my luck!
a seed tray containing half parsnips and  half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
they are late but as they are winter hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by  ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
14/01/11 the moon has gone into virgo today.
half not believing what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
29/04/11 more  seed sowing today.
this year the focus has been on getting the allotments in order whilst planting.
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the focus today.
then again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
finally the bramble bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
the thing is that  today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
actually, i found that i prefer them a little  riper.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in  the winter but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be  getting the rain.
it's like being in a sweet shop!
suckers need to be removed as they drain the tree from its energy.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more peas to put in.
the deluge will undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the  winter.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up  there!
11/05/11 next week, i'll be  unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it  with water.
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already  prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch  grass.
this is obvious as we can see its influence on the tides, which are higher.
i also planted salsify and some more  red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
00:56 wednesday 15th
the potatoes are more than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
this is a most unexpected and welcome surprise!
i'm looking forward to having them in the early spring.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's required.
2/08/11 with the moon in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
some also had rust on them.
delicious but confusing!!!
in the meantime, i prepared a  bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
february- 14:29 sunday 26th
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
today the triumph was the blackcurrants though.
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be  far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
i also harvested the first lot of onions.
to this end, i spent the better part of  yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly  deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake  of my cauliflowers!
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant in half and pot up both pieces.
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to  help with burns.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least  part cover them with earth.
on monday, my day off,  not much time was given to rest.
spring has been very dry here and the ground is hard.
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple  sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the  clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
dinner includes courgettes, peas and mangetout- yum!!!!
ideally you would  have done that earlier in the season though.
it's been a while since my last blog, but  i have continued to work on my allotment.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means  delicate seedlings are lost.
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old  stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
with the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
this is no longer the case and this means that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
beans and peas could use a boost too.
it means that watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the  rest of my allotment.
thankfully, it has  already begun to shrink.
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm  chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great joy!
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and  sowing some now and some in spring.
25/05/11 today the moon is in pisces.
as  you have  read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
9/05/11 this is going to be a busy day.
a second, albeit lesser crop is coming.
i also include herbal tea bags.
i'm looking at everything and thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked a bit tatty.
i think i found heaven!
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my shallots and onions.
this is important as it will help air circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent spreading of fungus.
i also tied back some floppy branches.
i  harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
it  certainly felt abundant.
i planted more parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots, celeriac and spring onions.
fingers crossed once again.
during this phase, the earth is more absorbant.
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out  of time.
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether  anything is still dry.
you can grow bean sprouts, alfalfa and lettuce.
my fuchsias were hit hard by the winter.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
i find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer weather.
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
so you can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out  their heads all over.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common  vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store  them in the same way that i store potatoes.
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun  in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
yesterday, with the sunny weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
that is to say, it's too early for all the early  summer crops and the winter crops are done.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used  its leaves to make another batch.
i planted my last batch in november  but ran out of time.
at least before freezing temperatures return.
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with rain.
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the  focus today.
i had hoped to have  this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get  round to it.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone  to rot
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the  moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my  shallots and onions.
this being a waning water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
i have, however, been thinking and planning.
on monday, my day off, not much time was given to rest.
i got an early harvest from a few last week.
this is ideal for putting in the bath
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday in spain!
so you  can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's  harsh spell.
as for my beans, well they're looking like  i had jack's magic bean.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone to rot
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense payable by death!
with any luck  this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my  hollyhocks.
the anser is a combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
this time i've put them somewhere safe- indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with molluscs!
i only have two more left ripening on the tree.
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
and i was getting concerned about losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
rain would now be most welcome!
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes  were also brought in.
they throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
now, we're enjoying a hot dry spell, we have a reprieve.
i  decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already  self seeded.
my seed catalogue arrived  today.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another day!
today the moon is in pisces.
i'm looking  forward to being back there again tomorrow.
the tomatoes have been fed, as have the olives.
with the moon in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal  with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't  the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
this means that it was my only chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
the abundance of strawberries means that there is enough to make strawberry jam.
this  means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other  leaves.
then there is the rose garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
she then looked at my gigantic compost heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
frosts in october and snow by the end of november.
this means that  everything is soaked about once a week.
it turned out to be the perfect easter morning!
i also bought one of my  favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
but happily the moon will still be waxing when it goes into libra next week.
well i knew the moon in leo was going to be busy...
they too deserved a feed.
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
i think i may have been too late but time will tell.
and good stuff it  is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and  other rooty delights.
this surprised me as i though it would be too wet.
i'm very excited about this as  i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
this is an earth sign so i focused on earthy matters.
there has been a big shift with  the quality of my strawberries.
the moon was still waning in an air moon.
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
this year the focus has been on getting  the allotments in order whilst planting.
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the  experience as the rain was quite soft.
using clear  plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also  been effective.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up there!
i think i'll be harvesting fennel.
so it's time to feed fruit like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and squashes.
3/09/11 it was wonderful to have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for this burst of activity.
even my pets seem to have been more needy at this time of the month; and of course we know that some police forces have admitted to having more officers on duty at the time of the full moon because statistically they can see that there are more incidents aroud this time.
the hardest part is done.
the rain is keeping me off the allotment this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
they will be weaker having produced so much fruit.
this morning i picked more wonderful strawberries!
on the other hand, it  might be time to tidy things up a little.
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better time to do it anyway.
good job i had some time off this last week.
so i took  advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the  allotment.
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my  overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
this year's wonderful  crop were self seeded.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went  into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
so once the leaves have fallen,  i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still  have light.
in the meantime, i prepared a bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
if you don't you're leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room because the curtains act like a barrier.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy them now.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i  continued my focus on fruit.
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries  indoors 14:29 sunday 26th
as much as i'm looking forward to the start of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
however as the moon is  waning, the best job will be pruning.
i had hoped to have had everything in  order before christmas.
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to get the time to be on the allotment.
at this time of year, seeds are still germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to keep me busy.
of course, i also picked strawberries.
i harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
redcurrants  will be turned into a jelly
i'm very excited about this as i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
you may wonder why, but that is  because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring  allotments.
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring  them in.
but virgo is a forgiving moon for gardeners.
an easier job was the planting of sweet cicely.
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable  quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
interestingly, last year this didn't happen.
happily all of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
mine are still fruiting so i'm leaving them for the time being.
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so  they are producing seed.
today i harvested one that was more like a marrow.
february- 05:03 friday 17th february waning moon in sagittarius prune blackcurrant bushes and autumn raspberries.
the cherry and pear have  finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
they  throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
i think this is a waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
water your house plants and any container plants in the garden that might be in need.
water too much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up above the soil.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips will be straight this time!
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend to flowers.
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for  them to be out.
this is very exciting as i've never made  compost before!
a very pleasant hour was spent and they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
this  means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of  crocus.
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will hopefully be fryable by next spring!
i've been picking the unaffected fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be  possible.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before  they ripen.
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future frosts.
the moon will be in cancer
so i've got them covered with mini cloches.
remember doing a  rain dance?
then there is the rose  garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries,  pear, peach and cherry trees.
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds, pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
i also harvested more potatoes.
toes to reach the top which is above my head!
it's very large and in a container in the garden.
perhaps pruning could wait until next  week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
just a bit of weeding and they settled in nicely.
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that acid
today i plan to finish the job.
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but  i wanted to be free!
happily, there is less to do at this time  of year.
air sign days are flower days, so my  thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as they are from the same family.
happily the harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference, the flavour is still good
as a biodynamic gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn to then bury it.
that's why it's a good time to start now for delicious sensations next year!
that's it for the mini greenhouse!
i'll be harvesting more potatoes,  checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new  compost heap.
so this year, i've  decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
it's an exciting experiement.
this way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out those that are too tightly packed.
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a  client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
the same feed that i use for the camellia and magnolia should help.
this time i planted turnips, an oriental radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been sitting in the shed for about two months.
it's worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so in the past.
that will be quite enough  for today.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i had no time for gardening.
blackcurrants will be turned into a tonic and jam.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed  to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked  out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks,  chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
it certainly felt abundant.
my grapes may well be edible soon!
they are late but  previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much later than i should.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
one thing that has helped is that i've let  grass grow over my paths.
so today was the day.
this is only the  first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
potatoes, that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus was on fruit.
my partner went back to the  recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
i feel an experiement coming on.
i ended up filling a shopping bag as well!
the mild weather has  also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
if it doesn't  shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do  some thinning myself.
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or
5/11/11 those who read  this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle  has been with slugs and snails.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects around to pollinate fully.
as it's a waning moon though, there isn't much to do.
my  strawberries are flowering again!
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to  share them with her daughter.
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but
the new canes are also quite  tall now and needed staking.
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
the apple blossom is exquisite.
it feels as though summer has begun very early too.
last year they survived our coldest winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready supply of greens through the winter.
also  when there were bowls in the fridge and  the fridge was opened, you were  hit by the smell of strawberries.
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue  to be delicious!
having spent all summer last year clearing  brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds  that were dormant on the plot.
so with the moon in aquarius, and  it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
you can already see the little peaches  forming on it.
but happily the moon will still be  waxing when it goes into libra next week.
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this  afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
if you're wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a window sill.
although pruning is normally  done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i  pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
first job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a daily basis.
the rain is keeping me off the allotment  this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
these need  protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
so it's lacking in something, probably iron.
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had the time to do much with them.
last year they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly any light available for them.
this year's crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be bigger!
that means that this is a  fruit day.
as a biodynamic  gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn  to then bury it.
the oldest of the heaps is  about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the  planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when  the moon goes into libra.
the greatest  disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and  snails.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the  allotment the last few days.
21/04/11 like most  people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some  time on the allotment.
this is useful as it encourages strong  root growth.
i have never had blight there and have managed to  pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward  to something in the future!
this is no longer the case and this means  that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
happily, there is less to do at this time of year.
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch grass.
i fed the tomatoes, figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's  always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
it  feels like i'm ready for winter.
the moon is  now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible  potatoes.
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the  high winds and rain that we had in june.
so i'll be checking on my herbs.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the harvest.
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into very fast growth.
it's the  first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
i don't remember an april like this for a very long  time.
the mild weather so far has meant  that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
i still feel my profound shock!
they seem to love cabbage  and coriander!
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be done.
you could also  divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then  pulling the two plants apart.
it will take a few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so they are producing seed.
my strawberries are threatening to  take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow  allotment holders.
so i cut off the  dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
the moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
but virgo is a forgiving  moon for gardeners.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is slow, gruelling work.
if  they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
it has outgrown its pot.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready  to plant in a border.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the  countryside.
i now smell of tomatoes.
i have yet to net them, so they have had little protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
the moon is now in gemini.
i wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter conjunction!
that is to say, it's too early for all the early summer crops and the winter crops are done.
the deluge will  undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
i had begun to grow impatient and a little worried that it might be dead!
however, care is needed with young seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being frozen.
the ground is  more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more vulnerable.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had horns.
this is very exciting as i've never made compost before!
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will  just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for  this year, i had nothing to lose.
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
so today, i'll water the house plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
the bonus came when we were chatting about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to the onslaught of slugs and snails.
my mouth is already watering!
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and  soothing.
26/06/11 jupiter is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
this surprised me as i though  it would be too wet.
today the moon is in sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it was raining.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground  is more absorbant.
planting will be done  at a more ideal time.
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous  year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's  fruit.
my seed catalogue arrived today.
i've also noticed that my olive tree is in bloom.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs  as well as cabbage.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries, pear, peach and cherry trees.
the  moon is now waning.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i  have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
but still there are weeds!
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which  believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
it's fine, they'll just be a little late.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign  in the garden.
actually the important thing  is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these  would attract mice and rats.
there has been a big shift with the quality of my strawberries.
the cherry and pear have finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
i'm getting a bit  desperate.
quiet days in the garden are good days to do little jobs.
not without visiting the shop first, of course!
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it yet, there's still time.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i continued my focus on fruit.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
have a go and  you'll be healthier throug the winter.
today's job is to split the peppermint.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my  preserves.
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since yesterday.
the moon is in leo, whilst still waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
the strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still enough for breakfast.
the slugs and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my plantings as their personal supermarket!
this means that everything is soaked about once a week.
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so today is a flower day.
but there is a price to pay for this  glorious spring we've been enjoying.
so once again, i noticed that some of my  raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a change.
more lettuce, coriander and cabbages.
the peach already has tiny peaches  forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
indeed this was the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
they are late but as they are winter  hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
30/09/11 moon in  scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
using clear plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also been effective.
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed  her a cleared plot.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant, but it it necessary.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia  crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
it is possible to get nemetodes that  predate on slugs.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green which is poisonous.
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive hypnotherapy course.
i also sowed some parsnip and celeriac seeds.
leek and chicken pie-
on another note, i'm also going to plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
today's job  was to get rid of the grass.
having said that, it clearly shows my unease  over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of  our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
so today they were pricked out- planted into small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had  to start another one.
these need protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
i can look forward to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
as blackcurrants are rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the smallest sign of colds.
i'll continue to do so for a bit longer.
so i cut off the dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
the perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
i finally planted my leeks.
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store of onions will be dwindling by then.
flowers need a waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
so it was that despite  the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning  moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
they need  acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant  family.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and  fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still  look quite young.
they have now been marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
as this is my last chance to have these this year,  i think it was worth getting out of bed.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to  catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
they don't develop  deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
if it doesn't shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do some thinning myself.
the latter were started off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
being a water moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and coriander today.
the moon is  waning once again.
the same goes  for all currants and gooseberries.
there are some suckers on my peach tree which need to be removed.
this morning i planted carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
then you clear it again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in capricorn.
the moon is indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs  have had every plant so far.
being an earth sign, taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
i want it to get bigger before planting it.
it's fine, they'll just be a  little late.
my plot was a jungle of  brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
instead it's porridge with apples  and cinnamon.
happily my shallots are ready to be lifted.
it was  like having a potting shed, but warmer.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's  growth.
tomorrow is my day off.
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow through without much resistance.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for biodymanic gardeners.
the anser is a  combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
olives are too  bitter to be eaten fresh.
those going in now will mean an earlier  display.
i sowed the seeds last month and they're doing well.
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it  all looks!
however, the moon is linked with the earth all the time, so its energy does affect us all the time.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus  this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a  change.
i'm so glad that i  openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted  shapes.
this is not the best time for  planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went  to the rhs gardens at wisley.
there wasn't any time for gardening
21/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jh9yoimnvoa the moon has been in pisces today.
i sowed courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut squash.
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
otherwise i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
these are beautiful, a much more  simple version of gladioli.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of grapes!!!!
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have  decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
in fact, i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
maybe in a month's time.
having been up late, i found myself at one in the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
june is the month  when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
it was like having a potting shed, but warmer.
central heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to spray them so as to increase humidity.
i'll continue to do so for a bit  longer.
being rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
but i'm concerned that i'll be too late.
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard,  spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
i drank the scent of  some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second  crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
attend to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
28/05/11 the moon is still in aries.
11/04/11 today is a good day to enjoy the garden.
although i did leave an undersized one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
20/07/11 rain, rain and more rain.
i'm so glad that i openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
this is a fire sign and so there is a link with fruit.
air moons are flower days but as the moon was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
the mild weather so far has meant that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for them to be out.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth  sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had  horns.
at this time of  year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
before watering  them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
i'm loving the autumn
and i was rewarded when i got home, with some blossom on my nectarine tree!
the allotment  is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
i'm also sowing some  turnips.
27/10/11 with the moon in scorpio, the focus is on herbs and leaf vegetables.
also i noticed that they are producing seed.
25/11/11 with  the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
with the moon in the  earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
everyone who ate them, loved  them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
any fruit trees or shrubs which  are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now  need a feed.
happily, today moon and time coincided so i spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
at least now i'm only weeding the beds!
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green  house.
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
and so it was  that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in  the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the  little crevices cleaned.
the rule is that when the  moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf  vegetables.
i covered them with plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage around them.
having said that, it clearly shows my unease over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
so i soaked the roots in a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a container.
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be possible.
there has been some gardening though.
true to capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my potatoes.
as much as i'm looking forward to the start  of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
i noticed  my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still  plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
tricky and fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
my bramley apples are  enourmous.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for  the next cold spell.
the only fruit  trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
perhaps pruning could wait until next week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few weeks ago.
i harvested from the middle of may to  the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again  in september and carried on into early november.
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy perennial- dianthus.
i also bought one of my favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of seed.
this seemed such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
it's leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
this morning i planted  carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
30/09/11 moon in scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
picking them  in the sunshine was heavenly.
i found it in  three pieces!
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case we get an indian summer.
by then even the beans can be sown outdoors.
the most i've done is water  the house plants.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana  seedlings left by the slugs!
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very thoroughly again today.
in  winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to  do.
the new canes are also quite tall now and needed staking.
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
the beans i plan to blanche and then freeze.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for the next cold spell.
that's exactly what i did yesterday.
after quizzical looks, i explained my dilemma.
it's my first time doing all of this.
it has been full of seedlings.
broadbeans are to be planted.
the peach is still indoors and that needed a feed too.
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has decomposed.
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i  sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce  and radiccio.
it's  only its first year so i'm ok with that.
i shared it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
this year's  crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be  bigger!
this is all i have time for today.
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if  i did that now, they'd still be ok.
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side,  gives you the opportunity to do just that.
so my beans and two more varieties of squashes went in.
as you have read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
i'm also planning to make a strawberry  sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes,  etc.
the moon is in scorpio and this is a water sign.
today the moon has been in aries.
indeed this was  the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
i also sowed more  parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
jackets are in the oven as i write.
18/04/11 a beautiful day today
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that  annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
however, there was a fly in the ointment.
today though, i took advantage of the fact that the moon is waning in an air sign.
winter signs, signs related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice are signs of ascending energy.
the link between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a plant is largely made up of water.
31/08/11 the moon is in libra today.
so time was spent tidying up and enjoying what's there.
i still feel my profound  shock!
so with the moon in aquarius, and it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students  with apples harvested yesterday.
i have probably left them on the bush a bit longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that everything else had to wait.
as this is an air sign, it was a day for flowers.
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier  that a fish might have had a good time!
february waxing moon in pisces new moon 22:34-
the annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
the moon is in pisces and waning.
with the moon in capricorn, an earth sign, roots are the focus.
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or  you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
the  nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
so it's well worth the effort!
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the  centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
30/06/11 today's harvest was gooseberries.
cornflowers in the pumpkin patch-
this is not the best time for planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went to the rhs gardens at wisley.
february waning moon in aquarius enjoy the garden!
being an earth moon, i spent time earthing up my potatoes.
with any luck we will get some more so all will be well for another week.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to  harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few  weeks ago.
in the uk, i've only ever seen these on tv.
i tried to water the allotment today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed her a cleared plot.
growing them on the allotment made them prone to blight.
today with the moon in  capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
on a much more  cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for  focusing on fruit.
the moon  is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
i didn't manage to get everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my allotment planting peas.
it's nice to be picking  strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are  the apples.
before watering them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
if you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
i think it's reducing in the more established parts of the plot so there is hope!
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so  today is a flower day.
for once i worked in comfort on a portable table in my hallway.
this  of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
one of my beds needed some attention, clearing weeds, etc.
it's the first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
biodynamic gardening has turned into quite an adventure.
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this  year, things will be different.
many of you interested in organic gardening will be familiar with some of the principles placing emphasis on the health of the soil.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means delicate seedlings are lost.
the  strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still  enough for breakfast.
wonderful as my course was, i  missed my allotment!!
we can also feel its effect on us .
this enables the tree to concentrate  its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
after putting the wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being  frozen.
last year  they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were  growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly  any light available for them.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy  yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back  the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
every gardener i know has complained about their over-abundance this year.
although i'd have preferred to have done this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
i diluted it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf vegetables and herbs.
as for aubergines, i was undecided.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase your supply.
the ground is very hard and so today for  the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
seeds are not good news as the plant will then  put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and  producing tubers (potatoes).
crop rotation is very  necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with  certain crops from building up in the soil.
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course  which meant that there was no time for gardening.
i seem to cross my fingers frequently when gardening!
in preparation for the moon in taurus  tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more  compost from the recycling centre.
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas  eve.
the mild weather has also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
these are simply wonderful and there are few pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's day!
water too  much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
it is possible to get nemetodes that predate on slugs.
20/08/11 the moon has been in taurus today.
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for  breakfast.
but there is a simple rule.
i then checked the spinach  beet and swiss chard.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can feel that i'm on top of things.
one of them is so  high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks, chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
true to  capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my  potatoes.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine next year.
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier that a fish might have had a good time!
i'm also going to give my fig a new home today.
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
i think i might just be in time.
although this  appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
although, virgo being a  working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
i have been bringing young  plants in at night and forgot.
still it is done and already half full of weeds!!!
i will leave it for a while and then when it is  suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to help with burns.
this way they are big enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
9 very heavy bags of "the good stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
so i potted my cucumbers on.
if they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
i can't believe my luck!
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers were planted on the allotment.
yesterday, with the sunny  weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
seedlings in pots could  also use a drink.
this means that i can have a continuous supply  of peppermint tea next year.
of  course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the  sign most associated with hard work!
but i missed my chance.
if you have garlic that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
also remember  that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another  day!
11/05/11 next week, i'll be unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
if that's a sign of things to come,  i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
that will be quite enough for today.
this reminded me of how far i've come.
thankfully this is a smell
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in future.
one of many very large onions!
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment  and plant it.
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a  moon for enjoying the garden.
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl  later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future  frosts.
slugs seem  to love coriander.
this is a  sign of renewal.
i wasn't worried though as it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
that is they grew into sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
when these touch the soil, they form roots.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana seedlings left by the slugs!
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of having to provide steaks for each plant.
31/08/11 the moon is in  libra today.
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have grown them in rows.
as it's  a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
planting will be done at a more ideal time.
having been up late, i found myself at one in  the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
the other difference is that during the sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
but i figure that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as  they are from the same family.
if it rains, i  won't need to.
i diluted  it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf  vegetables and herbs.
this is enough time to take some cuttings from mint and peppermint.
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in the garden.
a very simple, necessary and satisfying job that can be done even with a migraine.
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
i am also providing a gardening calendar each week so that you can plan your gardening week.
this is an air sign so it's a day for flowers.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
still, at least i'm not worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with weeds.
i  wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter  conjunction!
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the rain is back!!!
i didn't manage to get  everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my  allotment planting peas.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been  sitting in the shed for about two months.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green  which is poisonous.
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out their heads all over.
they are making delicious apples tarts!!!
after  teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and  courgettes by a friend.
in fact they had begun to sprout on their own.
they are now a small size but doing well.
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and celery.
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square metres but very satisfying.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow  and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a  bonfire.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the  local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to  make it stretch a little.
they need to be measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
last week i made apple sauce.
thankfully, it has already begun to shrink.
this time i planted turnips, an oriental  radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
the green ones are ripening on a widow sill.
it's  worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so  in the past.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's growth.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they  would leave this batch to me!!!
a waxing moon in  libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means  daffodils and hyacinths.
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this year!
if it rains, i won't need to.
the beginning of the new has put me in a thoughtful mood.
cherries often do the same thing.
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold nights.
the moon is  indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
with today's moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
happily, today moon and time coincided so i  spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
this is for the benefit of my  plants not my dinner.
my  thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
the bonus came when we were chatting  about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to  the onslaught of slugs and snails.
if  you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
this is useful as it encourages strong root growth.
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs have had every plant so far.
definately something to avoid.
and so it was that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the little crevices cleaned.
so today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants, seedlings and house plants.
this is what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
the moon was still in capricorn this morning
- guestbook the moon and biodynamics
the moon has been in aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
as for the olives, they're a bonus.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on their way to young carrots!
my redcurrant bush was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really nowhere near enough.
i wasn't expecting any for another month.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign in the garden.
vegetables don’t come clean and prepared from the plot.
of late it's leaves have been  losing their vivid green colour.
my attention was  turned to fruit.
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be gooseberry  jam.
12/02/12 snow, and another week of my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring that there's a bit of root attached to it.
you know they are at their sweetest when you can pick them easily.
i'll start  to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the  allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
i gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring slugs!!!!
they know what they like!
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer'  and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes  today.
i sowed  courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut  squash.
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
these are easily grown in containers.
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four  gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
this is an  air sign so it's a day for flowers.
some of the squash and pumpkin harvest
the courgettes came in too.
with the moon in capricorn, an  earth sign, roots are the focus.
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them,  they should thrive!!!
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have  grown them in rows.
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this  blog.
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads and stir fries.
well a few of them met their maker this afternoon.
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce and radiccio.
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and herbs.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been expected after two weeks!
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
sweet and creamy beyond any parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
of course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the sign most associated with hard work!
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with  young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain  would arrive tonight.
actually, i found that i prefer them a little riper.
21/11/11 the moon is now in the air sign libra.
and i have had to remove many.
i also sowed another variety of peas.
she then looked at my gigantic compost  heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
so today, i'll water the house  plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
the next project  is going to focus on soil and slug  control!!!!
in addition to my usual blog about astrological events, on this page i am writing about my experiences as a biodynamic gardener in a special blog.
the moon is in sagittarius.
i find this to be the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
low light levels are to  blame.
happily, it  all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
i won't be watering again until next week.
i fed the tomatoes,  figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and flowers for the next couple of weeks.
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case  we get an indian summer.
today iraced to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
liquid seaweed or if you're close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
i'm looking forward to a little time on  the allotment- well about half an hour.
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i continued to focus on root vegetables.
i have larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
with the moon in  a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and  fat in the early spring.
it has  outgrown its pot.
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces  means that today is an easy day.
yesterday i gave strawberry runners to someone else.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
she was so excited for me as she remembered a wilderness!
however, the two that are  on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
but take care that you don't use too much  in one meal as it's it's high  in oxalic acid.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered the allotment.
rain and work have continued to keep me  away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my  fruit.
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
i ran out of time today but  tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
the battle with slugs continues.
they came with couch grass attached.
these are beautiful, a much more simple version of gladioli.
it is still waning so it was a good day to cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in the winter
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some  overgrown fields.
picking them in the sunshine was heavenly.
i  also sowed another variety of peas.
my  mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season  as it's about to get very busy indeed.
at this time of year, seeds are still  germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to  keep me busy.
that  taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go  out everyday regardless of the weather.
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still  picking strawberries and raspberries.
the  moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
but it  is also a good time to prune, and feed.
it was the first chance i got to deal with it.
so i tidied up my sorrel.
it's all about flowers, including broccoli.
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had  the time to do much with them.
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees that are grafted.
in the meantime, there are seeds to order-
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is considered to have descending energy.
the same goes for all currants and gooseberries.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students with apples harvested yesterday.
the nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
so wonderful to have a sunny afternoon as it's been rather gloomy lately.
september- sharing the beauty with a friend.
first month, looking a little bare-
although i did leave an undersized  one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
so i have to keep it in check and then enjoy the fruit.
they need to be  measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
so the job has been to clear up the dead leaves.
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to come.
there are some last vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
rain and work have continued to keep me away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my fruit.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready to plant in a border.
dinner includes courgettes, peas and  mangetout- yum!!!!
it makes me look forward to next year  already!
this week i'm making mincemeat for the mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
my fuchsias were  hit hard by the winter.
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or descending in energy.
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
if that's a sign of things to come, i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
any fruit trees or shrubs which are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now need a feed.
i can hear them shivering already!
given that i'm late, this could be a good thing.
in fact there were four.
this is the other reason why i love being on my allotment.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and flowering vegetables.
so i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth sign.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a chance.
wednesday 29th february
so perfect for dealing with all  fruit matters.
3/11/11 early spring  often is holds a hungry gap.
one of my students brought me a bag of apples  from her tree and some apple chutney!
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some  attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
a waxing moon in a fire sign means it's a planting day.
i'm often asked what goes into my compost bin.
this means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other leaves.
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which didn't get to go in last time.
the sun is shining again today.
i harvested  more potatoes, some of which are massive.
now my original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least part cover them with earth.
wonderful as my course was, i missed my allotment!!
waning moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today and tomorrow are good days for it.
have a go and you'll be healthier throug the winter.
i'll need to keep the slugs off.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus  was on fruit.
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and sowing some now and some in spring.
my breakfasts are changing, and  reflecting the end of the season too.
at the  moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
the moon was still in libra this afternoon.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been drying basil for the winter.
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning and in sagittarius.
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to  work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as  possible.
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose  water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need  a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
coming  home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment  again in very hot sun.
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be  done.
but everytime the moon was right,  i was too busy and ran out of time.
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and pinks.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as  this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's  required.
the moon is now waxing and today it has been in the sign of gemini.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon  for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
so for example, garlic and onions  should be planted on different beds each year.
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
today i've been  planning where everything will be grown next year.
but  there is a simple rule.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very  happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
i harvested from the middle of may to the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again in september and carried on into early november.
but i'm also looking forward to spring!
30/04/11 the moon is now in aries.
but i like to use it to wash my face.
i also sowed some more spring onion seeds.
the fact that the moon is in  an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed this up.
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show on radio london.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase  your supply.
and good stuff it is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and other rooty delights.
the idea is that between the moon in capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
bio we often think about the full moon as having an effect on us.
the  sun is shining again today.
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant  that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
the slugs  and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my  plantings as their personal supermarket!
seedlings in pots could also use a drink.
it was lovely to be in the sunshine doing this.
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
during this  period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be  pricked out.
they would look around they said and let me know.
interestingly,  last year this didn't happen.
then plant it and you'll find a new  plant growing soon.
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers  were planted on the allotment.
i planted more  parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots,  celeriac and spring onions.
i'm also going to be sowing some annual  seeds.
the moon was  still in libra this afternoon.
this means that i was  planting in the rain.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they would leave this batch to me!!!
i also planted salsify and some more red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
i wasn't worried though as  it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
click on the link and enjoy!
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas eve.
my partner went back to the recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with compost.
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square  metres but very satisfying.
today's  job is to split the peppermint.
17/05/11 the moon is waning once again.
happily, it all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer' and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers  already visible.
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it all looks!
but i'm  also checking the garden.
i think i'll try to get a hold of some.
this afternoon the moon will go into libra.
the  currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
lemongrass, and sweet marjoram for example can be sown now.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke away, thus creating new plants.
26/10/11 the moon is now in scorpio.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was  able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish  planting all fruit.
a very pleasant hour was spent and  they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
water moons are  foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a  waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to)  the favourite appears to be parsnips.
if you're  wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a  window sill.
tulips are expensive but unreliable.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and competing plants.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me with wonderful scent when i'm working.
i finally got  the chance to plant my garlic.
i've been picking the unaffected  fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
i'm also going to be sowing some annual seeds.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i  had no time for gardening.
but i missed a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll attend to that today.
they seem to love cabbage and coriander!
i'm getting a bit desperate.
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign), today is the day.
i do hope the slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful  qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same reason.
2/11/11 the moon is in aquarius.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
my garden is small, but it is walled.
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand  some rough treatment.
scorpio being a water sign, it's a day for dealing with leaf vegetables.
a busy gardening day today.
the allotment is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
today i made blackberry jam.
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which  didn't get to go in last time.
at the moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with  blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
leo moons are a good time to do some weeding.
as the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your fruit.
leek and  chicken pie-
so for example, garlic and onions should be planted on different beds each year.
redcurrant  jelly next!
however as the moon is waning, the best job will be pruning.
first  job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very  bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects  around to pollinate fully.
so it's time to feed fruit  like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and  squashes.
i had hoped to have this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get round to it.
this makes it easier to plan crop rotation.
the ground is very hard and so today for the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant,  but it it necessary.
although last  night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french onion soups in the coming months!
the rule is that when the moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf vegetables.
13/05/11 virgo is a sign associated with harvest.
this is a fungus which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in summer.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more  peas to put in.
look out for it, the smell is simply delicious.
30/11/11 today the moon is in aquarius.
pumpkin soup has proved to be delicious and popular with all my students!
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the  potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
this year's wonderful crop were self seeded.
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for  next year.
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach  which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
after teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and courgettes by a friend.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been  drying basil for the winter.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything on.
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is  slow, gruelling work.
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons  too.
a busy gardening  day today.
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into  very fast growth.
with  the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
you can plant them very deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
although, virgo being a working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning  moon will promote good root growth.
since having an allotment, i have developed an interest in biodynamics.
the prevents them from growing so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
the bonus yesterday  was finding a tiny brown lizard.
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees  that are grafted.
giant beetroot- september middle of august picking raspberries picking spinach beet and swiss chard 1st apple harvest aubergine flower cucumbers ever growing compost heap runner beans squash and pumpkin patch this month in the garden (times listed are based on gmt) 22:01 sunday 12th
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will  try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better  time to do it anyway.
so i've watered again today.
when i was a teacher, children were always more hyper around the full moon.
also when there were bowls in the fridge and the fridge was opened, you were hit by the smell of strawberries.
ideally, i would have done it when the moon was last in capricorn
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
borage flowers were also picked.
but  the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed  me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is  shining.
last  year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
i dug them up and put them in the greenhouse.
they would look around  they said and let me know.
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next  year.
abundance is everywhere!
i love the old name (love in a mist), it's so romantic!
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow  any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for breakfast.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground is more absorbant.
the beans  are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we  approach the end of summer.
today  i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
this means that it was my only  chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
but take care that you don't use too much in one meal as it's it's high in oxalic acid.
5/11/11 those who read this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle has been with slugs and snails.
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting the sun.
it is still waning so it was a good day to  cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like  something out of a parsnip horror movie!
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
today with the moon in capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
last year i battled through wind, rain and mud to harvest in winter.
19/08/11 with the moon still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
when these  touch the soil, they form roots.
with a little protection from the  worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early  spring.
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off  so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend  to flowers.
they are an indulgence wich will  provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
fingers crossed it will all be well!
with today's  moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
but it is also a good time to prune, and feed.
as this is my last chance to have these this year, i think it was worth getting out of bed.
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb  without division into separate cloves.
as it's a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
normal tea has too much  tannin which would acidify the compost.
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i  continued to focus on root vegetables.
so i've  watered again today.
the potatoes are more  than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could  wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
6/01/12 today the moon has been in gemini.
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this year, things will be different.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon  was in scorpio as they were too small.
in fact the idea is that if  you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then  you do it again when the moon is in leo.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more  vulnerable.
i dug them up and put  them in the greenhouse.
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons too.
seeds are not good news as the plant will then put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and producing tubers (potatoes).
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal  with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's  collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on  the allotment.
driving into the south east from wales, i became  very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next year.
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
february- 00:56 wednesday 15th
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
actually the important thing is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these would attract mice and rats.
while i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
last year they survived our coldest  winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready  supply of greens through the winter.
i also planted more shallots and onions.
the problem is that they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
it may not feel like summer but it still feels like a time of great abundance!
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant  in half and pot up both pieces.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
my site isn't that big
so it was  that i found myself picking olives.
liquid seaweed or if you're  close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
i then began to dig the new compost into the area.
it's a very cold day and  a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
as  the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your  fruit.
central  heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to  spray them so as to increase humidity.
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this  coming week.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my  misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody  would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it out before planting.
i got an  early harvest from a few last week.
but there is a price to pay for this glorious spring we've been enjoying.
the thing is that today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
also there are beans and squashes that need pricking out.
winter arrived early last year.
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very  worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like something out of a parsnip horror movie!
however, the beds in which i planted my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s life- couch grass.
specifically, i needed to check on my peach and nectarine trees.
i planted my last batch in november but ran out of time.
however, the beds in which i planted  my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s  life- couch grass.
i think they need a longer growing season.
i weeded  around them and applied a dressing of compost.
it will take a  few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
whatever happens outside, nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
that was a real test to my commitment to eat my own produce!!!
as you might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden has created large compost heaps.
otherwise  i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible potatoes.
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good for planting.
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun  during the ripening stage.
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want them to ripen before the frosts.
my  strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together  by the end of the season.
aquarius is not the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
the link  between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a  plant is largely made up of water.
this  is all i have time for today.
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign),  today is the day.
it's only because i have taken to covering it at night.
they've already decimated my first sowing.
this is enough time to take some  cuttings from mint and peppermint.
so the potatoes have all been harvested  which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and  easily accessable.
21/04/11 like most people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some time on the allotment.
the only fruit trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to  find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will  hopefully be fryable by next spring!
it just goes to show what poor light levels we've had.
i noticed my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
then  again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
last year my greatest success were the strawberries.
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday  in spain!
the currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
however, there is a silver lining.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to  compost.
mine  were obviously tastier!!!
the fruit has been worth it!
this is because of the shorter days.
i'll be sowing more tomato seeds along with more peas.
aquarius is not a great day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
ana isabel - life astrologer - home page - ana isabel - astrology - hypnotherapy - media - myspiritradio/lightways - blog - moon/ biodynamicsblog - college of psychic studi - astrology lodge london - readings - workshops - distance learning - talks - spirit and destiny magaz - kindred spirit magazine - find your moon sign - cusp dates - mercury retrograde - testimonials - contact
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue to be delicious!
happily it did rain this morning, but not enough.
so today i'm pricking  out last month's sowings.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted  material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
being a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
she also said that even if the tops go  green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce,  spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been  expected after two weeks!
i  don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very  thoroughly again today.
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and  celery.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and borlotti beans.
my garden  is small, but it is walled.
just one more row to bring in.
this is a tricky operation as they are in pots.
the moon is now waxing again and it's in aquarius.
virgo is the most  useful sign for gardeners.
i'm also pricking out sweet corn and more tomatoes.
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and soothing.
everyone who ate them, loved them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
ideally  they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing  quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
my breakfasts are changing, and reflecting the end of the season too.
if you have garlic  that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
this is an earth sign so i focused on  earthy matters.
you can also sow cress and lettuce that you can pick and eat while growing on the window sill.
i drank the scent of some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
the idea is that between the moon in  capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
it was a very satisfying thing to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
so in they will go, with my fingers  firmly crossed.
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it  yet, there's still time.
it was an opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
this is a  fruit day.
being a water  moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and  coriander today.
a waxing moon in libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means daffodils and hyacinths.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a  good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
if you  still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
the moon is  in pisces and waning.
i also collected some marigolds to add to the gel from my aloe vera plant.
remember doing a rain dance?
next, i saw to the tomatoes.
so a happy medium is needed.
9 very heavy bags of "the good  stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
well a few of them met their  maker this afternoon.
this time i've put them somewhere safe-
if you do so, try to do it early in the  day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
remember that this includes  flowering vegetables too.
i sowed the seeds last  month and they're doing well.
so  today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants,  seedlings and house plants.
it is now january so you will notice that i am late.
i'm looking forward to a little time on the allotment- well about half an hour.
so a very busy day ahead!
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the  birds away.
it's been two weeks since i was on  the allotment.
i'll wait  for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes  into libra.
the problem is that  they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
replacements were promptly and generously  offered as she said she had too many.
being  a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as possible.
it may not feel like summer but it still  feels like a time of great abundance!
i'm also sowing some turnips.
this year's crop is mine.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
with any luck this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and  looking lovely.
i covered them with  plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage  around them.
the bonus yesterday was finding a tiny brown lizard.
my plot was a jungle of brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
a very new feeling and a very  enjoyable one!
however, during dry periods, i also water on waxing moons.
but the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots outdoors were dry.
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once  again.
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to  come.
26/06/11 jupiter  is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
i have yet to net them, so they have had little  protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
but i also did another important job.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's  important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into  seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
16/09/11 today the moon is in taurus.
the moon has been in  aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
so i'm looking through the  catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used its leaves to make another batch.
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy  perennial- dianthus.
it's one of the few places where we still find community  spirit.
on the subject of tomatoes,  at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were  just beginning to ripen.
my bramley apples are enourmous.
last year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
and i'm still thinking about what to do with the  whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
blackberries are in abundance now.
february- 17:31 tuesday 21st
in the meantime, today was spent preparing  yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in  leo.
http://www.youtube.com/user/lifeastrologer?feature=mhee 4/10/11 with the moon in capricorn, the emphasis has been on roots.
finally the bramble  bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too  appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
and i am very spoiled.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent in the house.
borage  flowers were also picked.
i would normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
frosts in october and snow by the end of  november.
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning moon will promote good root growth.
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb without division into separate cloves.
this isn't a moon associated  with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden,  contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries but with less regularity.
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for them in the front garden.
it's been looking a bit anaemic, so to speak.
21st water house plants 02:47 friday 24th
the fact that the moon is in an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
i also spent some time looking after my cabbages.
as it's a  waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to  increase your stock next year.
yesterday, my day  off, was exceptionally busy!
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be
february waning moon in scorpio sow some vegetables or herbs indoors, greenhouses or propagators.
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's harsh spell.
with a little protection from the worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early spring.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy toes to reach the top which is above my head!
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
tomorrow there will be more seed sowing.
i think  i'll put my feet up now!
in the meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon was in scorpio as they were too small.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything  on.
potatoes,  that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
15/06/11 it's been a very busy few days.
3/09/11 it was wonderful to  have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
i seem to cross my fingers frequently  when gardening!
and i was getting concerned about  losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
it also involves caring for the soil with the preparation of natural feed and ways of controlling pests.
whatever happens outside,  nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
my attention was turned to fruit.
13/05/11 virgo is a sign  associated with harvest.
it was lovely to be in the  sunshine doing this.
this is not the best time to deal with fruit.
it was lovely to do so in warm sunshine for a change!
25/10/11 autumn is the time in which we lay the groundwork for next year.
i'm just glad it's alive.
well the jungle is now tame enough for me to attend to details.
i'm itching to go back on monday.
the moon is waning once again.
june is the month when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
i also tied  back some floppy branches.
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and  herbs.
one of them is so high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the birds away.
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes today.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
i think i found  heaven!
this is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring them in.
if like me, you are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
but, things are beginning to wind down now.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy  them now.
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a good supply of pollen for bees.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or carrots?
i tried to water the allotment  today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of crocus.
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants,  they will have a dedicated space.
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's  the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of time.
i harvested more potatoes, some of which are massive.
runners are the way in which strawberries propagate themselves.
24/05/11 being on holiday is wonderful, but coming home is always a delight for me.
that's exactly what i  did yesterday.
not without visiting  the shop first, of course!
although this appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
this included purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up  above the soil.
consequently i was left with two gooseberries and a handful of redcurrants.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in fire.
my thoughts have also been on composting.
so once again, i noticed that some of my raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
keeping on  top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
but biodynamic preparations also have some links with homeopathic principles.
today i've been planning where everything will be grown next year.
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and looking lovely.
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store  of onions will be dwindling by then.
water moons are foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
thankfully, with  the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
tricky and  fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be pricked out.
that is they grew into  sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
so liquid feeds are best at this  time.
although thre isn't much of it at this time of year, i'm looking ahead.
so i'll prick them out today and  put them in the mini-greenhouse.
in the  meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
my redcurrant bush  was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really  nowhere near enough.
i think i'm just ready!
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with  a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for  them in the front garden.
the moon has been in cancer today.
29/01/12 with the moon in aries, the focus has been on fruit.
so it was that i found myself picking olives.
they're looking big and healthy so  should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
today the moon is in  sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it  was raining.
although last night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
just one more row to  bring in.
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive  hypnotherapy course.
happily the  harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference,  the flavour is still good
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them, they should thrive!!!
strawberries for breakfast  every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
today though, i took advantage of the fact that  the moon is waning in an air sign.
there are some last  vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
happily all  of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake of my cauliflowers!
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the experience as the rain was quite soft.
to say that it stinks is a gross understatement!
this means that i can have a continuous supply of peppermint tea next year.
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
it's  all very exciting!
my cherries are doing well but could use a feed.
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today  would have been the perfect day.
it is now  january so you will notice that i am late.
i  gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring  slugs!!!!
so today is a day for reading seed catalogues.
i also fed other fruit like figs and the olives.
so  i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth  sign.
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with  compost.
it's hard to believe now,
aquarius is not a great  day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
19/04/11 the moon is now waning.
winter signs, signs  related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice  are signs of ascending energy.
if like me, you  are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
it means that  watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
i'll just check  to see all is as it should be.
flowers need a  waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
i don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
being an earth sign,  taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard, spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
26/08/11 rain and work have kept me from the allotment for the last few days.
i'm  so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
the moon is now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this  year!
today i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to do.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before they ripen.
i'm also planning to make a strawberry sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes, etc.
air sign days are flower days, so my thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy
look out for it, the smell is  simply delicious.
last year my  greatest success were the strawberries.
so i am now turning to the salsify.
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the season.
i also have a fig and a cranberry that need to be potted on.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great  time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some  runners.
remember that this includes flowering vegetables too.
this is for the benefit of my plants not my dinner.
the greatest disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and snails.
it's been a hot day and it was wonderful to be outdoors.
i'll wait for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes into libra.
this is important as it will help air  circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent  spreading of fungus.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
she also said that even if the tops go green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my preserves.
this way they are big  enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
if you do so, try to do it early in the day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
on the subject of tomatoes, at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were just beginning to ripen.
they're looking big and healthy so should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
well i think it's time we did a sun dance!!!
i weeded around them and applied a dressing of compost.
that means that this is a fruit day.
in fact the idea is that if you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then you do it again when the moon is in leo.
2/08/11 with the moon  in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
3/11/11 early spring often is holds a hungry gap.
coming home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment again in very hot sun.
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward to something in the future!
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the  season.
it would be  good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
it's  leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
if they peep above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand some rough treatment.
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
so this year, i've decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
25/11/11 with the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather,  preferably with frost.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke  away, thus creating new plants.
this relates to the time of year.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year they are very busy multiplying.
today the moon has been in cancer.
i have  larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head out.
these are  very large and growing in containers.
the peach is still  indoors and that needed a feed too.
this isn't a moon associated with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden, contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side, gives you the opportunity to do just that.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and  flowering vegetables.
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very statuesque.
i'm looking forward to being back there again tomorrow.
then that will be it for the winter.
the moon is in aries.
and i'm still thinking about what to do with the whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
this means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
but i'm  concerned that i'll be too late.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the  potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed  this up.
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too little time.
removing the leaves at this point doesn't worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine  next year.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is shining.
the moon is  in scorpio and this is a water sign.
so once the leaves have fallen, i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still have light.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain would arrive tonight.
it was an  opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
as it's a waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to increase your stock next year.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me  with wonderful scent when i'm working.
these may need watering more frequently if the weather is dry.
so i soaked the roots in  a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a  container.
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting  the sun.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that  whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether anything is still dry.
cape gooseberries/ physallis, did very well last year.
13/01/11 more fruit went in today.
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is  considered to have descending energy.
half not believing  what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
a very new feeling and a very enjoyable one!
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
with the moon  in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
so i decided to plant half in the green house  with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather, preferably with frost.
with the moon in the earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
these are easily grown in  containers.
virgo is the most useful sign for gardeners.
this time though the moon has  been in gemini.
so  it's time to prune and feed.
we've had some rain in the south east  at the weekend but not enough.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra,  so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always  tomorrow.
it's all very exciting!
i miss it when i can't get out there!
you might enjoy a little  video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
i  find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer  weather.
it's now very full  again!
consequently gardeners often recommend that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
so a happy medium  is needed.
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the winter.
this seemed  such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries indoors 14:29 sunday 26th february- 02:26
fingers crossed, i'll have my first harvest this year!
little seedlings cropping up all around their bed.
there's usually a second chance for  most things.
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to) the favourite appears to be parsnips.
still, at least i'm not  worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with  weeds.
i think i'll be harvesting  fennel.
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant family.
it's nice to still be sowing seeds at this time of year.
in the last few days with  tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce, spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils, hyacinths and irises.
yesterday, my day off, was exceptionally busy!
a seed tray containing half parsnips and half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
i had hoped to have had everything in order before christmas.
i'd  better get started.
now my  original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
a couple  of days ago it was much smaller!
this is a fungus  which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in  summer.
descending in energy.
the heat in the last couple of days has changed everything.
so in they will go, with my fingers firmly crossed.
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much  later than i should.
some time on  the allotment!
1/06/11 today was a quiet day in gardening terms.
this  way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out  those that are too tightly packed.
i'll just check to see all is as it should be.
it's my first time doing all of  this.
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green house.
in fact,  i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
i finally got the chance to plant my garlic.
12/02/12 snow, and another week of  my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
wednesday 29th february waxing moon in taurus
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then  digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
but everytime the moon was right, i was too busy and ran out of time.
pumpkin soup has proved to  be delicious and popular with all my students!
in the meantime, today was spent preparing yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in leo.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of  time.
it's been a while since my last blog, but i have continued to work on my allotment.
i say half, it sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further  losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for  the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in  future.
it feels like summer and yet  it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
watering on waning water moons is usually enough if necessary.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
but i'll enjoy trying.
it makes me look forward to next year already!
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into  the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug  population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
a very simple,  necessary and satisfying  job that can be done even with a migraine.
i would  normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
having always loved parsnips, i planted many-
26/08/11 rain and work have kept  me from the allotment for the last few days.
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces means that today is an easy day.
delicious but  confusing!!!
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour  and ripen for the first time.
it feels like summer and yet it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
water your house plants and any  container plants in the garden that might be in need.
mine were obviously tastier!!!
i find this to be  the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
1/05/11 as the moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach, nectarine and plum trees.
if you don't you're  leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if  you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room  because the curtains act like a barrier.
on another note, i'm also going to  plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
does anyone know a rain dance?
14/09/11 raspberries can be tricky to prune.
this means  that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
i left a bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit, although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world domination as its aim.
to this end, i spent the better part of yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
jam, jellies,  tonics, and sauces have been made.
happily my shallots are  ready to be lifted.
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun during the ripening stage.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new plant.
i think  my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
it's now very full again!
so i planted some aquilegias, also known as columbines.
i think this is a  waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
last year i was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping things will be different this year.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a bonfire.
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense  payable by death!
today's job was to get rid of the grass.
my apple trees are laden with little apples.
with the moon in a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and fat in the early spring.
still at last there is hope!
i  think i might just be in time.
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers already visible.
christmas got in the way last week.
this of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
you may wonder why, but that is because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring allotments.
normal tea has too much tannin which would acidify the compost.
so much to do that i'd better get started.
after putting the  wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot  which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
so the potatoes have all been harvested which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and easily accessable.
a couple of days ago it was much smaller!
i'm going to harvest the seed to sow.
this is something to look forward to tomorrow.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new  plant.
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and  flowers for the next couple of weeks.
it's very frustrating!!!
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head  out.
in the meantime my compost heap is more  like a hill!
so i planted some aquilegias,  also known as columbines.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same  reason.
being  rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of  taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
i had begun to grow impatient and a  little worried that it might be dead!
still on the subject of fruit, i had my  first figs today!
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this blog.
they then become poisonous.
waning  moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today  and tomorrow are good days for it.
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and  pinks.
so it's time to prune and feed.
during this period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into  insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
19/08/11 with the moon  still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of  having to provide steaks for each plant.
i also sowed some more  spring onion seeds.
so today i'm pricking out last month's sowings.
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a moon for enjoying the garden.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and  some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be getting the rain.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent  in the house.
in winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
now, we're enjoying a hot  dry spell, we have a reprieve.
thankfully, with the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
i have been bringing young plants in at night and forgot.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of   grapes!!!!
tomatoes have  blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
what a lovely surprise!
my angelica is massive!
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes were also brought in.
instead it's porridge with apples and cinnamon.
i also sowed more parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
it's only its first year so i'm ok with that.
i have,  however, been thinking and planning.
today iraced  to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
although it's better today, i've still needed quiet.
this is also the time to cut back autumn flowering raspberries.
last year i  was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping  things will be different this year.
consequently, they need special care.
so today they were pricked out- planted into  small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries  but with less regularity.
i can never leave without a new addition for the garden.
yesterday, i picked my first ripe strawberry.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple  trees.
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to share them with her daughter.
it's one of the few places where we still find community spirit.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a  while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and  competing plants.
you might enjoy a little video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
this means that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
although we think of these as vegetables what we eat are the plants flowers.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple trees.
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show  on radio london.
removing the leaves at this point doesn't  worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
i'm looking at everything and  thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
that's coming tomorrow afternoon.
i have a half hour window to bring in the last of my potatoes.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or  carrots?
the aubergines in the  greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
in the last few days with tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that  acid
these are very large and growing in containers.
you can already see the little peaches forming on it.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
sadly, my hunt continues.
driving into the south east from wales, i became very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
thank god it was a dream.
redcurrant jelly next!
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out of time.
the moon has been in  cancer today.
they don't develop deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
i ran out of time today but tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to  get the time to be on the allotment.
we've had some rain in the south east at the weekend but not enough.
to come are the blackberries.
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow  through without much resistance.
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment and plant it.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the allotment the last few days.
i also spent some time  looking after my cabbages.
today was much more pleasant.
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a  terrible cold.
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants, they will have a dedicated space.
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to  last year.
so today is a  day for reading seed catalogues.
they will be weaker having  produced so much fruit.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had to start another one.
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient  in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
as for my beans, well they're looking like i had jack's magic bean.
so i'm watering my houseplants
there's usually a second chance for most things.
biodynamic gardening has  turned into quite an adventure.
there is, however, always weeding.
i had even put my hosepipe away in the back of the shed.
the abundance of strawberries means that  there is enough to make strawberry jam.
low light levels are to blame.
i have probably left them on the bush a bit  longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that  everything else had to wait.
i'd better get started.
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay  soil were limited.
olives are too bitter to be eaten fresh.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the countryside.
this is only the first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
in the meantime my compost heap is more like a hill!
they need acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
does anyone know a rain  dance?
it's only  because i have taken to covering it at night.
so i took advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the allotment.
this means that i was planting in the rain.
i'm also bringing in more of my herbs for drying.
in fact  it wins awards every year.
actually, that will only happen if the rain  stops.
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once again.
i decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already self seeded.
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my hollyhocks.
this week i'm making mincemeat for the  mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for  this burst of activity.
then you clear it  again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in  capricorn.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool  and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
the most i've done is water the house plants.
i'm loving  the autumn
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this coming week.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and  it was very pleasant indeed.
if they peep  above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
it's nice to be picking strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are the apples.
but planting my beans will have to wait as it's a waning moon.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips  will be straight this time!
that was a real test to my  commitment to eat my own produce!!!
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today would have been the perfect day.
there are some suckers on my peach tree  which need to be removed.
15/09/11 the moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been feeding my fruit.
ideally you would have done that earlier in the season though.
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very  statuesque.
the moon is now in sagittarius.
happily it's all done and i look forward to a crop-
being outdoors was not an option.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for  biodymanic gardeners.
consequently, they need less water and i stop feeding them.
i hope they survive the night!
i will leave it for a while and then when it is suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course which meant that there was no time for gardening.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on  their way to young carrots!
tomatoes though seem to be slow to ripen this year.
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring  that there's a bit of root attached to it.
this is the joy of winter.
indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with  molluscs!
they taste sweeter like a cross between a melon and a grape.
it is waxing so it's not  an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening, but these days are just right for enjoyment!
this is a most unexpected and welcome  surprise!
and i was rewarded when i got home, with  some blossom on my nectarine tree!
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils,  hyacinths and irises.
by then even the beans can be  sown outdoors.
crop rotation is very necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with certain crops from building up in the soil.
although i'd have preferred  to have done  this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the  plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
my strawberries are flowering again!
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
these too were  removed.
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour and ripen for the first time.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french  onion soups in the coming months!
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too  little time.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
but i'm also checking the garden.
the strawberries got a feed too as did the  raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
replacements were promptly and generously offered as she said she had too many.
those going in now will mean an earlier display.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a  chance.
i do hope the  slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after  work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with  rain.
i've also been checking the turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
1/11/11 the moon has been in capricorn today.
as you  might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden  has created large compost heaps.
i gave her some strawberry runners and salsify.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can  feel that i'm on top of things.
however, there was a fly in the  ointment.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it  out before planting.
i don't remember an april like this for a very long time.
one thing that has helped is that i've let grass grow over my paths.
this is a sign of renewal.
6/10/11 the moon is in aquarius today.
these too were removed.
the waning moon was just what i needed.
on a much more cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for focusing on fruit.
the peppers can ripen on the window sill.
this time though the moon has been in gemini.
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to last year.
i think it's reducing in the more established  parts of the plot so there is hope!
one of my students brought me a bag of apples from her tree and some apple chutney!
my cherries are doing well but could  use a feed.
i did plant one outdoors though just to see  how it does.
it's been two weeks since i was on the allotment.
although pruning is normally done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
i'm now happier about my nectarine tree too.
two lost parsnips, minimal losses.
the ground is more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
they have now been  marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
i'm so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out  into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's fruit.
slugs seem to love coriander.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some runners.
so perfect for dealing with all fruit matters.
18/08/11 i love this time of year.
the  moon was still waning in an air moon.
as blackcurrants are  rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the  smallest sign of colds.
the moon  will be in cancer
then plant it and you'll find a new plant growing soon.
this is also the time to cut back autumn  flowering raspberries.
in the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is taking refuge from the winter indoors.
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in  the garden.
this made it an ideal day  to sow flower seeds.
what a lovely  surprise!
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a terrible cold.
i think my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
this is a waxing moon in leo.
but i figure  that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
they don't stand a chance!!!
this enables the tree to concentrate its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
my strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together by the end of the season.
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow will be a good day to do it.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to compost.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have  been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground  and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
i need to do the same for my cranberry.
the other difference is that during the  sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
the moon is now waning in the sign of  leo so it's time to do some pruning.
the soft fruit is all in.
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we  haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
you could also divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then pulling the two plants apart.
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if i did that now, they'd still be ok.
as for the olives, they're  a bonus.
i can never leave without a new addition for the  garden.
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful  compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
i then began to dig  the new compost into the area.
keeping on top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold  nights.
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning  and in sagittarius.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and it was very pleasant indeed.
consequently gardeners often recommend  that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has  decomposed.
my thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want  them to ripen before the frosts.
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the high winds and rain that we had in june.
this is ideal for  putting in the bath but i like to use it to wash my face.
this time it was especially so as i returned to ripe strawberries.
the moon is now waning in the sign of leo so it's time to do some pruning.
i have never had blight there and have managed to pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to  cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
this made it an ideal day to sow flower seeds.
my mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season as it's about to get very busy indeed.
some time on the allotment!
this is truly what spring is all about!!
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the rest of my allotment.
i then checked the spinach beet and swiss chard.
air moons are flower days but as the moon  was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
26/12/11 it's now been three weeks since i was on the allotment.
the latter were started  off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
the  perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs as well as cabbage.
7/05/11 watering the garden needs to be carefully judged.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the  harvest.
these were immediately removed.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it with water.
i'll also be feeding my japanese laurel.
the moon is in leo and it's waxing now.
you can plant them very  deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is  to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and  ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in  fire.
4/04/11 yesterday was the new moon so the moon is now waxing.
the beans are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we approach the end of summer.
redcurrants will be turned into a jelly
my strawberries are threatening to take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow allotment holders.
28/05/11 the moon is still in  aries.
still on the subject of fruit, i had my first figs today!
it would be good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to plant my new treasures.
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the  rain is back!!!
so i decided to plant half in the green house with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
the moon is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
ideally they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
sweet and creamy beyond any  parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still look quite young.
but i missed  a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll  attend to that today.
at least before freezing  temperatures return.
i did plant one outdoors though just to see how it does.
turnips are one of the few crops at this time of year and they're rather large!
strawberries for breakfast every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
however,  there is a silver lining.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well there.
this is  what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay soil were limited.
they  then become poisonous.
this afternoon  the moon will go into libra.
so i'm looking through the catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
on the other hand, it might be time to tidy things up a little.
i'll start to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
29/04/11 more seed sowing today.
aquarius is not  the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air  sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for this year, i had nothing to lose.
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on the allotment.
maybe  in a month's time.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots  outdoors were dry.
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking  out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening,  but these days are just right for enjoyment!
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has  revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads  and stir fries.
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds,  pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
of late it's leaves have been losing their vivid green colour.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish planting all fruit.
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since  yesterday.
the oldest of the heaps is about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when the moon goes into libra.
the moon is  now in scorpio.
this is a way of gardening that takes into account the place of the moon when doing different tasks in the garden.
i can look forward  to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
i've also been checking the  turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
waxing  moon in taurus attend  to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
however, care is needed with young  seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
the moon is now in scorpio.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to  plant my new treasures.
actually, that will only happen if the rain stops.
so liquid feeds are best at this time.
tomatoes have blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
i left a  bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit,  although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world  domination as its aim.
jam, jellies, tonics, and sauces have been made.
in  the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is  taking refuge from the winter indoors.
being outdoors was not an  option.
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon  in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
it is waxing so it's not an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
the prevents them from growing  so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
it's a great alternative to spinach in soups, and sauces.
it's a very cold day and a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
the beans i plan to  blanche and then freeze.
if you still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
that taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go out everyday regardless of the weather.
this is truly what spring  is all about!!
the next project is going to focus on soil and slug control!!!!
i think they need  a longer growing season.
so i'll prick them out today and put them in the mini-greenhouse.
they are late but previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
they know  what they like!
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the  curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
the moon is in leo, whilst still  waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well  there.
i'll let you know the results in due course.
this is the other reason why i love being  on my allotment.
i found it in three pieces!
these are simply wonderful and there are few  pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's  day!
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked  a bit tatty.
that's why it's a good time to start now for  delicious sensations next year!
6/04/11 what a glorious sunny day!!!
water moons are related to foliage plants and  these are best delt with on a waning moon.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great  joy!
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a  good supply of pollen for bees.
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some overgrown fields.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store them in the same way that i store potatoes.
however, the two that are on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
1/05/11 as the  moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach,  nectarine and plum trees.
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered  the allotment.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on  an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a  daily basis.
it was lovely to do  so in warm sunshine for a change!
it's time consuming but at least it helps.
in fact it wins awards every year.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and  borlotti beans.
ideally, i would have  done it when the moon was last in capricorn
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in  virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
the aubergines in the greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
it was a very satisfying thing  to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year  they are very busy multiplying.
7/04/11 another glorious day!!!
i'm so grateful for my allotment!
the  annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra, so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always tomorrow.
in preparation for the moon in taurus tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more compost from the recycling centre.
the same feed that i use for the  camellia and magnolia should help.
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them  together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
this  is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
more lettuce, coriander  and cabbages.
then  that will be it for the winter.
the moon was still in aquarius.
it turned out to be the perfect easter  morning!
i say half, it  sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
water moons are related to foliage plants and these are best delt with on a waning moon.
it feels like i'm ready for winter.
the strawberries got a feed too as did the raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
it's going to be a busy few days.
the peach already has tiny peaches forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for next year.
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good  for planting.