epwu serves about 200,000 residential and commercial customers and also  operates one of the most extensive reclaimed water systems in texas.
the program has grown over the years, and now 44 percent of the epwu  reclaimed water is used for irrigation, 37 percent for industrial processes, 19  percent for aquifer recharge and small percentages for construction.
through continued research, the center has produced  several reports on effective uses of reclaimed water and landscape management.
epwu serves about 200,000 residential and commercial customers and also operates one of the most extensive reclaimed water systems in texas.
txh2o fall 2011 or select an article below.
the project received some negative national news attention this summer for  its plans to turn wastewater into drinking water, darden said.
theel paso water  utilities (epwu) reclaimed water program is an example for municipalities  across the globe.
the value of reclaimed water as proven by el paso’s well-documented, long-term success, water  reclamation technology has been effective for decades.
the program has grown over the years, and now 44 percent of the epwu reclaimed water is used for irrigation, 37 percent for industrial processes, 19 percent for aquifer recharge and small percentages for construction.
darden noted that big spring and crmwd had considered reclaimed water as an additional drinking water source for the area as far back as the 1980s, but the cost was prohibitive at that time.
“located in a desert, epwu made a decision many years ago to think of reclaimed water as a valuable resource rather than a by-product that needs to be disposed of,” the epwu website states.
in essence, the  system speeds up what would naturally occur with the flow of discharged water  through wetlands with more pristine results, grant added.
“we’re taking treated effluent, normally discharged into a creek, and blending it with (traditionally supplied potable) water,” district manager john granttold discovery news in august.
water reclamation involves taking effluent, or treated wastewater, and  using refining processes to make it suitable for a variety of water needs such  as irrigation, aquifer recharge, industrial processes and even potable water.
rojas noted the sustainability and benefits of el paso’s reclaimed water program.
all of the  plants meettexas commission on environmental quality water quality regulations,  rojas said.
in addition to four well fields, crmwd currently depends on three lakes for  its water supply: e.v. spence reservoir, which is at less than 1 percent of its  capacity; lake j.b. thomas, which is at about 2 percent of its capacity; and  o.h. ivie reservoir, which is at about 20 percent of its capacity.
send us  a message attwri@tamu.edu or tweet @txwri.
the colorado river municipal water district (crmwd) will build a $13  million water reclamation plant nearbig
research conducted by the texas agrilife research center in el paso in close partnership with epwu has frequently provided scientific support for the reclaimed water program.
thanks to water reclamation and conservation policies, the city of el paso has become a desert city with a sustainable water supply.
theel paso water utilities (epwu) reclaimed water program is an example for municipalities across the globe.
now big spring officials are looking forward to making the water supply more secure, darden said.
“and  slowly the program became more aggressive, eventually using treated effluent  for industrial and construction uses, in addition to irrigation.”
while “toilet-to-tap” sometimes may get a  bad rap, many texans know the value of water and the value of water reclamation  technology.
1500 research parkway a240 2260 tamu college station, tx 77843-2260 phone: 979.845.1851 fax: 979.845.8554 email: twri@tamu.edu twri and the texas a&m institute of renewable natural resources are working together to foster and communicate research and educational outreach programs focused on water and natural resources science and management issues in texas and beyond.
“located in a desert, epwu made a decision many years ago to think of  reclaimed water as a valuable resource rather than a by-product that needs to  be disposed of,” the epwu website states.
from upstream to  downstream, one city’s wastewater is eventually another city’s  water supply.
darden noted that big  spring and crmwd had considered reclaimed water as an additional drinking water  source for the area as far back as the 1980s, but the cost was prohibitive at  that time.
through continued research, the center has produced several reports on effective uses of reclaimed water and landscape management.
“and slowly the program became more aggressive, eventually using treated effluent for industrial and construction uses, in addition to irrigation.”
el paso leads the way thanks to water reclamation and conservation policies, the city of el paso  has become a desert city with a sustainable water supply.
in essence, the system speeds up what would naturally occur with the flow of discharged water through wetlands with more pristine results, grant added.
some of the treated wastewater is used for industrial processes, and epwu recharges some of it back into the aquifer.
“this program started back in the 1960s, when the city began using treated effluent to irrigate the golf course,” rojas said.
“for many years people have come from all over to learn about what we do,” said irazema rojas, epwu utility engineer.
read the full issue re-water more complicated than just toilet-to-tap, water reclamation helps sustain  thirsty cities story by leslie lee every day and all around the world, water is recycled.
“when you live out here in the desert, any drop of water you can find  is well worth it,” said darden, who praised the work of crmwd.
“we had local meetings about the plan and those went well; we only received some negative comments when the story got picked up by larger media.
”previous the city of el paso maintains four water reclamation plants.
reclaiming water for drinking water starting next year, another west texas city will join the other  municipalities taking advantage of reclaimed water resources.
as proven by el paso’s well-documented, long-term success, water reclamation technology has been effective for decades.
water reclamation involves taking effluent, or treated wastewater, and using refining processes to make it suitable for a variety of water needs such as irrigation, aquifer recharge, industrial processes and even potable water.
“i thank god every day that i know we’ll have enough water, because of the water district.”
college of agriculture and life sciences texas water resources institute search not helping?
epwu maintains four wastewater reclamation plants, and each plant yields  treated effluent for nonpotable use, suitable for customers to apply to parks,  sports fields, landscape nurseries, golf courses, construction projects and  many other situations.
research conducted by the texas agrilife research center in el paso in  close partnership with epwu has frequently provided scientific support for the  reclaimed water program.
spring that, unlike some other reclaimed water projects, will produce water for direct potable use.
but in order to conserve and better manage precious water resources, some  texas cities are using innovative water reclamation technologies to speed up  and improve this process.
“not only  is using reclaimed water advantageous to businesses because it is cheaper than  potable water, but it is also important because it increases a city’s  ability to conserve water and therefore prolongs the life of the water  resources.”
some of the treated wastewater is used for industrial  processes, and epwu recharges some of it back into the aquifer.
“we had  local meetings about the plan and those went well; we only received some  negative comments when the story got picked up by larger media.
“ it will be very good quality water—just as good as water out of our reservoirs and probably better,” darden said.
from upstream to downstream, one city’s wastewater is eventually another city’s water supply.
“for many years people have come from all over to learn about what we  do,” said irazema rojas, epwu utility engineer.
epwu maintains four wastewater reclamation plants, and each plant yields treated effluent for nonpotable use, suitable for customers to apply to parks, sports fields, landscape nurseries, golf courses, construction projects and many other situations.
“we have received  calls and visits from australia, mexico, atlanta, austin.”
“ it will  be very good quality water—just as good as water out of our reservoirs  and probably better,” darden said.
in addition to four well fields, crmwd currently depends on three lakes for its water supply: e.v. spence reservoir, which is at less than 1 percent of its capacity; lake j.b. thomas, which is at about 2 percent of its capacity; and o.h. ivie reservoir, which is at about 20 percent of its capacity.
“when you live out here in the desert, any drop of water you can find is well worth it,” said darden, who praised the work of crmwd.
but in order to conserve and better manage precious water resources, some texas cities are using innovative water reclamation technologies to speed up and improve this process.
“i  thank god every day that i know we’ll have enough water, because of the  water district.”
while “toilet-to-tap” sometimes may get a bad rap, many texans know the value of water and the value of water reclamation technology.
problem with this page?
contact: twri-webmaster@tamu.edu
story by leslie lee every day and all around the world, water is recycled.
the colorado river municipal water district (crmwd) will build a $13 million water reclamation plant nearbig
the big spring water reclamation project will provide 2 million gallons of  water for the wide-reaching district, granttold cnn in august.
“but i always say that if it’s good enough for nasa’s astronauts, then it’s good enough for us.”
now big spring officials are looking forward to making the water supply  more secure, darden said.
“this program started back in the 1960s, when the city began using  treated effluent to irrigate the golf course,” rojas said.
starting next year, another west texas city will join the other municipalities taking advantage of reclaimed water resources.
“but i always say that if  it’s good enough for nasa’s astronauts, then it’s good enough  for us.”
spring that, unlike some other  reclaimed water projects, will produce water for direct potable use.
all of the plants meettexas commission on environmental quality water quality regulations, rojas said.
“we are very proud of our system,” rojas said.
“not only is using reclaimed water advantageous to businesses because it is cheaper than potable water, but it is also important because it increases a city’s ability to conserve water and therefore prolongs the life of the water resources.
the big spring water reclamation project will provide 2 million gallons of water for the wide-reaching district, granttold cnn in august.
“we’re taking treated effluent, normally discharged into a  creek, and blending it with (traditionally supplied potable) water,”  district manager john granttold discovery news in august.
rojas noted the sustainability and benefits of el paso’s reclaimed  water program.
the project received some negative national news attention this summer for its plans to turn wastewater into drinking water, darden said.
“crmwd looked at each charter city within the district and determined  that the big spring project was the most economically viable,” said todd  darden, big spring’s assistant city manager.
“crmwd looked at each charter city within the district and determined that the big spring project was the most economically viable,” said todd darden, big spring’s assistant city manager.
“we have received calls and visits from australia, mexico, atlanta, austin.”
according to epwu, since its water conservation ordinance was established in 1991, its conservation and reclaimed water programs havesaved 231 billion gallons of water, which is enough water to fill the sun bowl 6,392 times.
according to epwu, since its water conservation ordinance was established  in 1991, its conservation and reclaimed water programs havesaved 231 billion  gallons of water, which is enough water to fill the sun bowl 6,392 times.