missing from last year's team, and the original founder of team pagosa, is  dave mitchell.
bill steele, county administrator, said the requirement for prior notification before burning is aimed at avoiding false alarms while enabling dispatchers to advise residents of potentially dangerous conditions before "ditch burns" or similar burns are conducted.
if you have any questions, call morna at 264-2360.
raby indicated the treatment is aimed at saving what the pagosa ranger district referred to as "the most aesthetically pleasing trees at the site" while reducing the potential hazards resulting from the beetles' continued onslaught.
reading to your children and encouraging them to indulge in "recreational" reading will help stimulate the imagination.
the emergence of imag-ination is a  significant developmental milestone.
bring your dd form 214  (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and  for filing in the vso office.
go fish: regional conditions improving daily by tom carosello staff writer for anglers, the dwindling snowpack across the san juan mountains tells a bittersweet tale - the odds are slim southwest colorado will escape from the grip of extreme drought this summer, but prime fishing conditions are just a week or so away.
after getting the go-ahead from the colorado division of wildlife, numerous local businesses are donating to a special program designed to improve fishing opportunities in the san juan river.
garnsey, also from denver, helped  to found the children's art museum of denver.
saturday, you can enjoy a spectacular full moon rising from the great house  pueblo site.
for anyone who doesn't, however, here is everything you need to know.
sunshine, dry conditions forecast for pagosa country by tom carosello staff writer after being buffeted by occasional high winds that gave rise to dust clouds  and lowered humidity levels during the past week, pagosa country should be the  recipient of a calmer, less animated weather scenario throughout the next seven  days.
the dutton ditch diverts water from fourmile creek at a diversion approximately nine miles north of the town of pagosa springs.
the agencies agreed last year to make upgrades on school-owned tennis courts, and allow the public to play free.
"when i was a little girl there was nothing in pagosa for kids to do.
bill clark editor's note: we agree that public comment is necessary in all disputes of this kind, at all stages of the process.
the event is truly a worthy cause and well worth riding in - or donating to.
staffing changes incorporated into the budget include cutting two teachers in the elementary school hired to reduce class size who are no longer eligible under federal experience mandates; adding an english as a second language teacher and a half-time kindergarten teacher under an nclb grant and transferring the special education teacher to the intermediate school.
at the finish line, all teams gather, eat lunch and cheer for team courage, a team composed of children from the hospital.
the average high temperature recorded last week at stevens field was 74 degrees.
it's just amazing," she said.
bartlett encouraged parents to pick up permission forms at wind dancer  aviation located at the archuleta county airport and have them filled out prior  to june 21 if possible.
this year we will offer free fishing poles to all children 16 and younger, thanks to the colorado division of wildlife.
it was noted the mill levy for this bond has dropped from over 10 at the beginning to 4.4 in this budget - food service of $425,000 for all operations of the food service program.
- piedra river - clearing water above the confluence with williams creek, murky below.
peoplepeople kenneth kelley navy petty officer 3rd class kenneth g. kelley, son of debbie d. alderson of uvalde, texas and kenneth g. kelley of pagosa springs, has returned to the u.s. from the mediterranean sea and arabian gulf.
streams of men, women and children traveled that route, all looking for a home.
"our american heroes" is what our rotarians have designated as  this year's theme so go for it and come up with the best float you can.
although she generally likes drawing, lately clay has caught her eye.
anyone interested in donating to the program can contact cano at  264-2370.
they will also be honored guests at the dedication of the veteran's memorial at the san luis museum courtyard.
those contacting dispatchers will be required to advise them of the date, time and location of the intended burn and confirm whether or not a fire ban or restrictions on open burns are in place.
the pagosa hot strings will be our headliners again with the wonderful addition of the community choir gracing us with lots of patriotic music both before and after the strings' performance.
a writer might consider a date later than 1885 if the focus is to be big logging.
you have succeeded in clouding the truth of a long struggle between local  residents and profit-driven powers.
prospectors bickered over gold claims.
colorado gardeners must adjust to their own weather environments.
by sonja hoie u.s. forest service special to the sun the pagosa district of the san juan national forest proposes to issue a special use permit to the pagosa area water and sanitation district that would replace the existing use of the dutton ditch by the water district with an underground pipeline to meet its long-term domestic water demand in pagosa springs and vicinity.
" noggle said davis engineering and rob keating, representing the general  contractor, "say the grade is right on and we'll be able to eliminate any  safety factor with the work in progress." "that's what i wanted to hear," said lucero.
he noted there will be several codicils on the approval, if received, including one which would make the permit nontransferable.
reserved seating tickets may be purchased at the plaid pony and at  moonlight books.
knowing the joy the fourth brings to so many people makes it easier to come  to work and continue the annual process.
early settlers talk of visits from roaming bands of indians.
with the "a-team" in place we anticipate a great summer of activities, with the public enjoying clean park facilities and a great holiday weekend.
like an eagle, you will soar among the clouds and understand the many possibilities that flight - and life in general - have to offer.
" in an effort to curb the spread of the beetle epidemic, said raby, a  state-licensed applicator sprayed the largest and healthiest of the area's  trees with carbaryl, an insecticide which is also commonly known as sevin.
day one consists of a 48-mile ride around turquoise lake, over fremont pass and into copper mountain resort.
by now, everyone should be aware that music in the mountains is back again  this year.
so give dad the afternoon off and enjoy a little fun in the park.
at the dutton ditch diversion.
county enacts new open burning regulation by tom carosello staff writer effective immediately, a new stipulation included as part of a fire ordinance adopted by the archuleta county commissioners last week requires residents to notify the sheriff's office before initiating open burns anywhere within the county.
by tom carosello staff writer
the new pipeline would extend beyond this point another ±3,500 linear feet to a point near dutton creek at the national forest boundary.
the family went up saturday to view the scenery.
robert a. young funeral services for robert a. young, 76, were held june 7, 2003, at cope  memorial chapel in gallup, n.m., and burial followed in sunset memorial park.
we're also planning to have the games and contests out at the lodge  beginning in the late afternoon on that day, so look for all the details coming  up soon on july 4 in pagosa springs.
this year's pagosa course is similar to last year's in the turkey springs area 10 miles west of downtown.
"the plan is to stock 2,500 10-inch rainbows from state hatcheries in  the san juan river on four occasions, beginning in late june," said mike  japhet, a fisheries biologist with the division office in durango.
within the next few years archuleta county will probably build a new court house and jail and the jail now being built will be purchased by the town for a calaboose if present plans hold good.
she was a loving mom to three : lee ward (deceased) wendy (mike) bilger,  and frances (gerald) murphy.
donations in lieu of flowers may be made to the alzheimer's association.
he inspired all of us to not only ride our bicycles, but to ride  for a purpose.
vicente duran vicente duran, age 93, died at pine ridge extended care center sunday, june 1, 2003.
grant (discretionary transit funding) - approved the extension of the performance bond for the ridgeview  subdivision through aug. 31, 2003 in order to allow enough time to define the  scope of additional work/construction needed to complete repairs on portions of  navajo trail drive - approved the 2003 state aviation discretionary grant award contract in  the amount of $93,721.
sincerely, patty tillerson p.s. please know that the purpose of my letters has been to generate public  input as to what the public sees as priorities for our health services  district.
his special interests included rock climbing, snowboarding, fishing, math, off-the-wall inventions, and playing with his three sons.
both he and his passenger, kay  seibert, 66, suffered minor injuries in the crash.
among things being done are removal of several walls and updating of electrical outlet placement.
those of us who were in the truck knew the little bit of food we threw wouldn't make a big difference, but we had to do something.
in your editorial of june 5 you did succeed in arriving at a significant truth: creation of comprehensive land use regulations that can be interpreted consistently and fairly is a crying need in archuleta county.
in the pagosa springs high school auditorium june 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28 with a  3 p.m. matinee june 22.
many travelers called off plans to visit us as images of forests in flame danced on their television screens.
the fall sports seasons will be on us sooner than we think," he noted and "we want to be ready."
the ride is held july 19-21 in summit county which hosts about 50 teams and  800 riders, all raising money for the hospital in denver.
the national allergy bureau rates area pollen counts as "high" and lists oak and grass as the current dominant pollens.
- promote vigorous tree growth by properly siting/spacing trees in landscapes.
it must cure for six weeks and then the track surface will be added.
in conjunction with this fund, schutz noted dramatic increases in insurance costs with workmen's compensation coverage up 100 percent, health coverage up 20 percent and auto, property and structural coverage up 14 percent - a student activity fund of $210,000 to assist all self-supporting clubs and classes what it all boils down to is an accompanying appropriation of $18.575 million representing budgeted spending not including transfers and reserves.
by tom carosello staff writer effective immediately, a new stipulation included as part of a fire  ordinance adopted by the archuleta county commissioners last week requires  residents to notify the sheriff's office before initiating open burns anywhere  within the county.
create "shared" stories" - make stories up together.
elementary school rehab plan covered in grant bid by richard walter staff writer ratification of a capital construction grant proposal tuesday may have cleared the way for ongoing building improvements at pagosa springs elementary school.
a lot of times they come up with different ways of doing things that i would have never thought of.
from copper mountain, it climbs 10,666-foot vail pass and winds into minturn for a final climb over tennessee pass and back into leadville.
- san juan river (through town) - river is falling and clearing, and fishing is improving daily.
of the needs featured in the survey, town officials have made five out of the seven top choices a reality.
rival cattle companies feuded and took turns shooting each other down.
you need a special kind of silica that will stand up to the abuse of bumbling key strikers, and a static arrester which will screen out all the vulgarity it might be subjected to if it fails to perform magic and turn collected wandering thought into epics of controlled wisdom.
saturday and sunday call for abundant sunshine, highs in the lower 80s and lows in the upper 30s.
veterans corner korean war memorial slated for san luis valley july 27 by andy fautheree sun columnist the san luis valley korean war commemorative partnership committee at homelake and the colorado state veterans center have scheduled a number of community events to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the armistice that ceased hostilities on the korean peninsula during the korean war, july 27, 1953.
although they are native to the area, in the past few years a lingering  drought has enabled the beetles to flourish disproportionately and wreak havoc  on weakened populations of pinon and ponderosa pine.
it's easy to lose track of what day it is - almost helpful.
rudolph janzen, 61, was transported by ambulance to mercy medical center in  durango.
brian kirsop brian james kirsop, 25, was born may 16, 1978, in milwaukee, wis., and died may 28, 2003, in an accident on lake pagosa.
a motorcade made up of vintage korean war military vehicles and passenger vehicles will transport the congressional medal of honor recipients, former prisoners of war, republic of korea dignitaries and honored guests.
upcoming events tomorrow - 10 a.m., qi gong; 11 a.m. blood pressure checks with patty  tillerson; noon, celebrate father's day; 1 p.m. free movie day "catch me
the office number is 264-2304, the fax number is 264-5949, and e-mail is afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
only through their efforts to inform were the voices of like-minded associates heard in combating an attempt to silently install an industrial operation and its accompanying hazards.
she agreed to do so, but warned "there will be parental repercussion in some areas if we cut.
he was assigned to sea control squadron 22 embarked aboard the aircraft  carrier uss harry s truman, homeported at norfolk, va. kelley was one of more than 8,000 atlantic fleet sailors and marines  assigned to the ships and squadrons of the truman carrier battle group who  participated in operations iraqi freedom and enduring freedom.
the district pays claims for employee and dependents with reinsurance for claims in excess of $50,000.
the fall sports seasons will be on us sooner than we think," he noted  and "we want to be ready."
pam morrow health staffing dear editor: i am sorry that my letter of last week was upsetting to some of our health care providers.
concern also exists over the adequacy of investigative reporting on such matters.
noggle said the overall plan is excellent "but a few minor  glitches need to be worked out.
the students are now utilizing four mini-dv cameras, six digital editing stations, and a variety of other broadcast equipment.
chamber news begins in pagosa country by doug trowbridge the chamber's favorite non-nun will be taking the stage again in the pagosa  springs music booster's production of "nunsense ii, the second  coming.
"are we going to fix the safety hazard or not?"
the second program lauded was the broadcast technology program headed by teacher curtis maberry.
if the project continues, there is a good chance anglers seeking to hook up with both brown and rainbow trout without leaving town limits will meet with success through the fall - especially since the division is planning additional stockings of both species in the coming months.
we continue to submit that implementation of the community plan with comprehensive regulations - including, perhaps, some that require public hearings - could solve this and similar problems.
lay and tracie finished serving six years as a middle school principal.
july 4th parade heads up: the theme for this year's fabulous rotary july 4 parade has been announced so you can start planning your float.
the parade will include a mass colors formation made up representatives  from colorado and new mexico veterans' service organizations and the area's  native american treaty nations.
he was married to fermina talamante in monero, n.m., on  aug. 27, 1951.
it appears the business, planned west of the rose restaurant, will be a well-run operation and there will be no effect on students going to either the junior high, intermediate or county education center which are less than half a block away.
cost is $150 per student, but scholarships are available.
the grant certification applies to heating, ventilation and electrical work at the school along with roof repair and continued asbestos removal.
activities get underway around 6 p.m. friday and keep rolling along until 9 a.m. saturday.
charles hotchkiss donated in  appreciation for the computers; dr. and mrs. j. r. cook in honor of judy wood's  birthday.
for information on these and other veterans benefits please call or stop by the veterans service office located on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
membership mark your calendars because we may never see another membership week like this one.
the trip is free to seniors and the sign-up list is in the dining room.
one only needs to see current events to know this peninsula is still a threat for peace in that region.
now we are thinking of asking barb to come back again; please call and let  us know if you are interested in attending.
"all should be done by aug. 1," he added.
look for books that challenge their imagination.
the boat ramp at navajo state park is open.
noggle assured directors the project will be done.
karl isberg pacing pagosapacing pagosa corked keyboard asks equal time
he did not explain why he needs such a bat.
morna is working on the updated dining guide and your input is desperately needed.
cash will be  given to both pro and semipro riders.
also on the agenda is a reception held each afternoon after the stampede  until 2 p.m. at the vfw post 3228, 371/2 adams street, monte vista.
we shall miss her dearly until we meet again in jehovah god's kingdom on  the day of her resurrection (john 11:25).
the well is being drilled to explore for sources of geothermal energy and will go the entire depth unless some exceptionally hot water is encountered before that depth.
"they will raise their own personal funds," he told the board, "approximately $630 per student if the trip is allowed."
we threw them some of our own food - not  because we were told to do so, but because to see another human being that  skinny and that hungry made it the only right thing to do.
"i don't know where we'd be without her," said director clifford lucero.
riding without him this year will be truly sad.
a number of questions come to mind.
"we don't anticipate much in the way of widespread rainfall in the  next few days," said ellen heffernan, a forecaster with the national  weather service office in grand junction.
here without further ado, our lone renewal - lisa and lois higgins rejoin us with the made in colorado shoppe.
we are also  enjoying hoppy hopson's fine voice at lunch.
they get to make stuff on the side, too."
"they're into stands of ponderosa and pinon at several locations within  the area.
on july  26 a similar parade will be held in san luis.
superintendent duane noggle said the track area will get a final pavement  layer next week.
when one of us gets a care package, everyone gets a little something  out of it.
according to heffernan, mostly sunny skies will be the norm through this morning while a few clouds will be a possibility this afternoon.
that means the business could not be sold to a different owner and continue as a brewery.
it was just as much a war as any other, and our forces suffered many casualties.
we hope to have a big crowd and hearty appetites in attendance.
tomorrow is our free movie day for seniors.
my specific job is to fix  helicopter engines.
in a spate of personnel moves tuesday the board of education for archuleta  school district 50 joint accepted seven staff resignations, approved four  hirings, and set in motion the selection of a new junior high school principal.
and they have staked a claim in pagosa country.
bill clark editor's note: we agree that public comment is necessary in all disputes of this kind,  at all stages of the process.
noggle said davis engineering and rob keating, representing the general contractor, "say the grade is right on and we'll be able to eliminate any safety factor with the work in progress.
two problems that haunted the 2002 season are, potentially, still with us: drought and fire.
from u.s. 160, turn north onto piedra road,  pass the airport and follow the road for 6.5 miles until it turns to gravel.
his passenger, deena janzen, 53, was flown to the same hospital by helicopter.
michael  young, kirt beach and craig bergonzoni jr. william lynn william "billy" lynn passed away in his pagosa springs home june  8, 2003.
ems would be served by six paramedics.
- williams creek - fishing well below the dam; clarity is good for the first few miles but water remains murky farther downstream.
we had a lot of people show up for the "understanding your dreams" talk.
a public visitation, followed by a memorial wake in celebration of his  life, will be held in the parish hall of the immaculate heart of mary catholic  church friday, june 13 from 4 to 7 p.m.
a faithful servant of jehovah god since her baptism in 1977, she has shared  in preaching the good news of god's kingdom (matthew 24:14) to any and all who  would listen.
why have unelected officials been  saddled with responsibilities not included in their job descriptions, and for  which they are not compensated.
during mel montoya's absence we have put together a strong team of seasonal workers: dylan pruitt, lisa jensen and, most recently jim shaffer the high school basketball coach.
she was preceded in death by her parents and several siblings.
visitors and guests we are enjoying seeing more of or summer seniors flock in.
in other business last week the board: - (tuesday) scheduled a workshop regarding county land use regulations and  limited impact use permits for 7 p.m. june 18 - adopted a new compensation plan for county employees after reviewing  an analytical salary survey and corresponding recommendations from lee &  burgess associates llc - approved the application for a colorado department of transportation 5311
but sometime during their third year, they become capable of suspending reality in their play.
friday's forecast indicates a high probability for mostly-sunny skies, highs in the 75-85 range and lows in the 40s.
cyclists interested in joining team pagosa can call doug call at 731-9245.
" overall, martin said, there may be other areas in her department where cuts can be made.
sure, you have to get up a little early, but you know it will be worth it.
now, visitors seem to be in the mood to return, to enjoy this beautiful part of the world.
for information on these and other veterans benefits please call or stop by  the veterans service office located on the lower floor of the county  courthouse.
bud kleckner, the piedra forest ranger, recently killed a big silver tip bear - weighed 1,000 pounds according to charlie mack.
however, permission forms will also be available at stevens field the day of the flights.
these data involve emissions recordings of various pollutants from asphalt plants, which have also met all governmental requirements.
following the memorial service at approximately 12:30 p.m., all korean war  era veterans will be shuttled to the rodeo arena to be introduced en masse at  the opening of the final day of the ski hi stampede rodeo.
they will also be honored guests at the  dedication of the veteran's memorial at the san luis museum courtyard.
after taking refuge in brownish dead and dying trees throughout the winter  months, they emerge when springtime temperatures consistently climb into the 50  to 60-degree range to seek out new breeding grounds.
frankie never stopped teaching bible truths to her children and grandchild,  instructing them in all the ways of jehovah god.
rachel koepp, headed into seventh grade, was working hard to decide what kind of a whistle she planned to shape this summer.
lorene lord, glen and gloria vaderwele and kathryn cook are back in town.
we did not think mr. catchpole's remarks directly addressed the subject of the article, namely the proposed extension of operating hours at the asphalt plant.
warm-water species are becoming more aggressive as water temperatures rise, while trout are seeking deeper water midday and feeding aggressively in the shallows during early morning hours and near dusk.
we are thrilled to have them on the  chamber team and so glad that we weren't shutout this week.
" for those who are willing to tackle the problem by themselves, the  following is a list of suggestions provided by the colorado state university  cooperative extension: - obtain an insecticide containing either permethrin of carbaryl (sevin)  and follow the manufacturer's recommendations for the proper rate for bark  beetle treatment.
starting at 7 a.m. that morning, local pilots will offer free airplane rides to youth ages 8-17 through the experimental aircraft association's young eagles program.
she's become quite a popular mystery writer.
noggle said the fire district has told the administration there are too many extension cords in use in the structure, and they need to be replaced with sufficient safety outlets to ensure availability of current where needed without fear of overload and resultant fire.
after lunch wednesday, we  will be serving up ice cream for only 50 cents.
it's easy to lose track of what day  it is - almost helpful.
spinners, flies, marabou jigs and streamers are  attracting rainbows and a few browns.
"i thought elimination of that danger was part of the reason we approved the added $12,000 work order last month," forrest said.
"most of the trout will be in the 11- to 13-inch range," added  cano, "but we'll also release 10 to 15 fish weighing in the neighborhood  of five or six pounds.
suggestions in my letters are from personal contacts around the community, which i believe should be put before the public for consideration just as the knoll-blide concept, which was published in this newspaper.
cost of the four-day camp is $50 per youngster.
baskets are $22 and kendall, from ace\circle t, assures  us that this year's baskets will be as gorgeous as ever.
bartlett is hoping to have between five and 10 planes available for the young eagle participants.
inside the sun county enacts new open burning regulation
the ±31,000 l.f. pipeline would be designed to allow conveyance of 20 c.f.s.
consolidations also sometimes require a vote by the people and changes to the levy, that could conflict with tabor requirements.
park fun is going strong with over 30 kids enjoying a variety of  educational and recreational activities.
merchants, farmers and ranchers traveling mostly in small family groups, all of their worldly possessions crammed into wagons drawn by horses, oxen, or mules, creaked and rattled down the dirt highways.
whoever is selected, noggle told the board, will need to get immediately into the system and being working out plans for the opening of the school year.
his big heart inspired us to continue team pagosa and dedicate this year's  ride to him.
weather date high low precipitationweather date high low precipitation 5/28 80 43 - - - 5/29 82 44 r - .45 5/30 80 42 - - - 5/31 81 40 r - .03 6/1 78 39 r - .08 6/2 80 38 - - - 6/3 79 40 - - - 6/4 77 36 - - - 6/5 73 33 - - - 6/6 73 35 - - - 6/7 74 36 - - - 6/8 75 34 - - - 6/9 74 39 - - - 6/10 73 36 - - - sunshine, dry conditions forecast for pagosa country
at this point a holiday acres committee sought objective information from  the office of air quality planning and standards research of the epa.
it was just as much a  war as any other, and our forces suffered many casualties.
i hope this letter clarifies any misconceptions folks may have regarding the services available at the pagosa family medicine clinic.
warm-water species are  becoming more aggressive as water temperatures rise, while trout are seeking  deeper water midday and feeding aggressively in the shallows during early  morning hours and near dusk.
the trip is free to  seniors and the sign-up list is in the dining room.
they are, but we are nowhere near the break-even point on water.
symptoms of beetle infestation include small round holes in the trees' bark  and a yellowish to reddish-brown dust accumulating in crevices or at the bases  of the trees.
equalized funding is a combination of property tax, specific ownership tax and state aid determined by state law.
this is the true story of a young con artist who acts as a pilot, a doctor and a lawyer, all without formal training.
other survivors include brothers barney talamante, frank (berna) talamante, johnny (kristelle) talamante, marlon (becky) talamante, ray (mary) talamante; and sisters, barbara (gene) baugh, marilyn (everett) coen, and roseann (estrella) talamante; an aunt, aggie, and uncle, albert martinez, many nieces and nephews and a large spiritual family.
bartlett is a member of the four corners chapter of the eaa, located in durango.
"i grew up in pagosa springs," said garcia.
farrell said he had not yet approached the upper san juan health service district board with his proposal.
by doug call special to the sun this summer will mark the fifth year team pagosa will ride in the courage classic, the children's hospital foundation fund-raiser bicycle ride.
i thought, when i grow up, i'm going to do something for the community and this is what i've chosen to do to give kids something to do in the summertime."
now we are thinking of asking barb to come back again; please call and let us know if you are interested in attending.
to report on a lack of decorum at a public meeting is to give readers  an indication of the emotional quality of the situation at hand.
upcoming events tomorrow - 10 a.m., qi gong; 11 a.m. blood pressure checks with patty tillerson; noon, celebrate father's day; 1 p.m. free movie day "catch me if you can"; 1 p.m. dominos; no medicare counseling today monday - 1 p.m. bridge for fun tuesday - 9:30 a.m.
some other "supreme" athlete will believe he or she can get away with it, never get caught, and go on living the "people's choice" lifestyle.
we want to say a special thanks to the first baptist church for donating a computer to us.
the proposed pipeline construction would include installation of pipeline 18-24 inches in diameter, largely along forest service access roads for approximately 27,500 linear feet to a connection with the existing pipeline extension delivering water to hatcher reservoir.
each demonstration flight takes place in a faa-registered airplane flown by a licensed pilot.
kicking off the commemoration will be the san luis valley ski hi stampede parade starting at 10 a.m. july 24.
if readers have views on this subject, please consider attending a county  commissioner work sessions scheduled for 7 p.m. june 17 at which permitting  procedures will be reviewed.
permit problem dear editor: among those of us who are sometimes referred to as "commissioner watchers," there is mounting concern that too little attention is being paid to local governmental procedures, especially concerning the issuance of permits to build potentially undesirable industrial complexes in the county.
from  copper mountain, it climbs 10,666-foot vail pass and winds into minturn for a  final climb over tennessee pass and back into leadville.
since cancer never takes a night off, participating teams walk all  night in support of those who deal with the disease on a daily basis.
pilots will introduce their passengers to the  different parts of an airplane, the forces of flight, safety and other basic  pre-flight information and then take to the skies for a demonstration flight following the flight, each participant will be awarded a young eagles  certificate signed by their pilot and chuck yeager, the first man to fly faster  than the speed of sound and young eagles honorary chairman.
robert gomez frye's yard dear editor: after reading the pagosa sun may 29 issue story of the water board meeting in which bob frye, a director, states he would let his front yard die before the greens on the golf course, i ask, is bob frye's back yard the golf course?
this approach requires no  notification to neighboring owners nor public hearing.
a highlight of the event will be the presence and participation by six veterans from colorado and new mexico who were awarded the congressional medal of honor.
the hottest water in the first 100 feet was 140 degrees.
why, instead, did the sun elect to criticize a distressed citizen who, while technically "out of order" had been totally frustrated in his efforts to obtain active support from several local officials (representing the county, the school board, both political parties and assorted civic organizations)?
"my favorite project last year was probably tin punching," koepp said.
and we need to exercise care with fire in residential and recreational settings.
"nunsense ii, the second coming" will be presented at 7:30 p.m.
i asked for your input, not necessarily your agreement, via the citizens advisory committee: e-mail at pshealth@pagosa.net.
wayne wilson, one of our local cpas, read sally's article about all the ways the chamber can help members promote a business and decided to take advantage.
this is especially true after last summer, when we were hit by a triple whammy - a shaky national economy, fire and drought.
most members have already received a letter about the guide.
the river's historic median flow for mid-june is roughly  1,450 cubic feet per second.
for more information, call garcia at 731-9244.
"drainage is a key element to the project," he  said, "and if it is not properly tiered it can result in undermining the  new surface."
the grant certification applies to heating, ventilation and electrical work  at the school along with roof repair and continued asbestos removal.
of the needs featured in the survey, town officials have made five out of  the seven top choices a reality.
"it's not something you want to mess with if  you are not sure exactly how to proceed.
a current beef is that the previous board of county commissioners quietly eliminated then-existing regulations which required two separate public hearings - one before the planning commission and another before the commissioners - before a permit could be issued to build an industrial facility in the county.
sincerely gene cortright editor's note: the sun has weighed in on the topic several times, urging creation of regulations pursuant to the community plan that reflect the wishes of the residents of the county concerning problems of this kind.
all diversions on national forest system lands would be subject to a bypass at four mile creek to maintain a minimum flow of 3 c.f.s.
we hope to have a big crowd and hearty  appetites in attendance.
must we await the construction of a glue factory next to one of our churches located along the banks of the san juan river before the sensibilities of our county commissioners - and the community at large - are aroused?
and a generous contribution was made by our anonymous friends in santa fe.
the situation began when the planning commission reversed a recommendation of denial by the planning staff regarding the establishment of a gravel pit on the property in question, a decision later endorsed by the county commissioners sitting last fall.
they moved here may 27 after jerry retired from his job at frito lay and tracie finished serving six years as a middle school principal.
according to the guidelines published for participants and parents, "you will see the earth and sky in a new and exciting way.
free hot dogs, chips and soda will be available compliments of the local chapter of the turkey federation.
both he and director clifford lucero argued this is unsafe for any athlete playing on the field, either in football or soccer.
friday is the deadline for applicants to file for the junior high post vacated with the retirement last month of larry lister.
"we just have to be confident the engineers know what they're  doing," noggle said.
brian kirsop brian james kirsop, 25, was born may 16, 1978, in milwaukee, wis., and died  may 28, 2003, in an accident on lake pagosa.
i'd include the entire four corners area and maybe go over into the san luis valley as far as fort garland.
late in the meeting, the board agreed to hold a special breakfast meeting at 7 a.m. june 26 to consider the committee recommendation.
siebert's ford expedition hit the rear of the stopped car and pushed it  into the eastbound lane where it collided with the motorcycle.
library news enhance a child's imagination at the summer reading program by lenore bright sun columnist child's play is a serious pursuit.
it makes time seem to go by quicker.
he made a short presentation to the board outlining a proposal to take a team of pagosa springs students to the first ever student television network annual convention next january in los angeles.
board members were effusive in praise of the program and one, carol feazel, suggested the programs should be must viewing for board members.
call musetta at the senior center for more information.
the start/finish line is in the parking lot to the left at that point.
awards, three deep, will be given in all classes and categories.
for more information, to get a registration form online, or to check  current leaders in the four corners series, checkout the web site at  4cornerscup.com
farrell also proposed salaries for one district secretary and an ems billing clerk.
in an effort to curb the spread of the beetle epidemic, said raby, a state-licensed applicator sprayed the largest and healthiest of the area's trees with carbaryl, an insecticide which is also commonly known as sevin.
some advertisements use testimonials that cannot be confirmed or avoid putting details about the program in writing.
we are called on to take all the bumbling finger strokes applied, all the abuse when the program fails, and never, ever, get any of the praise heaped on journalists for their verbosity and poetic brilliance.
sales tax revenues count big in the plans of town and county government; without them, projects and amenities that benefit the resident population are threatened.
the final day, july 21, is the longest day with 60 miles of riding.
i asked  for your input, not necessarily your agreement, via the citizens advisory  committee: e-mail at pshealth@pagosa.net.
traffic on u.s. 160 and u.s. 84 is picking up, with non-colorado license plates on many of the vehicles heading to the area.
rudolph janzen, 61, was transported by ambulance to mercy medical center in durango.
by tess noel baker staff writer a proposal to consolidate fire and ambulance services in pagosa springs was presented to the fire protection district board of directors tuesday night.
in our conversation, we both agreed that the other focus of the health services district board should be fully staffing the urgent care facility as this will greatly enhance health care for all of our providers, as rural physicians are compromised by the lack of local emergency-center services.
music in the mountains
we should caution our visitors to do the same.
membership mark your calendars because we may never see another membership week like  this one.
"no," she said, burnout is not a factor.
it is truly one of our premier holidays  with endless activities and fun stuff for every member of the family.
by john m. motter preview columnist frontier pagosa country would have been a veritable dreamland for any western movie scriptwriter.
it will also start at 7 a.m. four dollars will buy pancakes, sausages, bacon and eggs.
it is the culmination of a dream that began as a part-time assignment and has grown into a student favorite, maberry said.
sanborn also received minor injuries.
veterans corner korean war memorial slated for san luis valley july 27 by andy fautheree sun columnist the san luis valley korean war commemorative partnership committee at  homelake and the colorado state veterans center have scheduled a number of  community events to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the signing of the  armistice that ceased hostilities on the korean peninsula during the korean  war, july 27, 1953.
vicente duran vicente duran, age 93, died at pine ridge extended care center sunday, june  1, 2003.
preceded in death by his mother, maternal parents and a paternal  grandfather, lee leaves to cherish his memory his fiance debbie chavez; his  father, joseph (debra) ward; grandmother, clara mae ward; sisters amanda ward,  wendy (mike) bilger and frances (gerald) murphy; a niece, jazminique murphy and  numerous aunts, uncles, cousins and friends.
town ordinances provide that water rates include a charge per front foot for sprinkling and watering of lawns and gardens.
that was the conclusion passed on to members of the board of education for archuleta district 50 joint tuesday by superintendent duane noggle.
hanging baskets by now, you should all have your hanging basket order forms in hand.
this year we will offer free  fishing poles to all children 16 and younger, thanks to the colorado division  of wildlife.
" - heard director jon forrest's first report as delegate to the board of  cooperative services.
i can assure  you i will feel very humble in their presence.
by richard walter staff writer a pair of teacher-planned projects were approved and given high praise tuesday by directors of archuleta school district 50 joint.
we get kept very busy.
a public visitation, followed by a memorial wake in celebration of his life, will be held in the parish hall of the immaculate heart of mary catholic church friday, june 13 from 4 to 7 p.m.
it wasn't  anything big.
in northwestern new mexico, the navajo remained very much a presence.
newcomers, candy flaming and amber farnham will round out the cast for this hilarious production.
"are we on schedule?"
a new foreign language curriculum developed by teacher kathy isberg and bill esterbrook, high school principal, was lauded as "above and beyond the call.
"we're just trying to treat groups of trees that haven't been infected yet and hope for the best," said raby, who added a second spraying will be scheduled for later this summer.
just three days before the end of school maberry put out a single  announcement about the plans and got more than 20 responses for students  interested in participating.
that did not include fees for service or other income for either district.
" participants spend three hours a day at the camp and get to choose two of six classes to take - clay'n around, for everything your art desires, hooked on drawing, fun with painting, kids rule art class and toy making and awesome crafts.
mass was officiated by monsignor leo gomez and  interment was in hilltop cemetery.
this month: "catch me if you can," starring tom hanks.
" nun, i mean, none other than mary mckeehan will be reprising the role of mother mary regina in this wild and crazy second act of the little sisters of hoboken.
the program is not directly funded in the district budget but gets assistance through co-op programs with other districts.
he was born on  june 17, 1969, to the union of frankie l. and joseph w. ward.
team pagosa dedicates this year's courage classic ride to david mitchell
why, instead, did the sun elect to criticize a distressed citizen who,  while technically "out of order" had been totally frustrated in his  efforts to obtain active support from several local officials (representing the  county, the school board, both political parties and assorted civic  organizations)?
one such threat is the increased risk of infected trees serving as the catalyst for wildfire, since they become tinder dry after dying and remain so for many years before decay sets in.
"it wouldn't be a huge sum," he said, "but every penny counts in the current economic crisis for education." youngsters can fly with local pilots june 21 as part of young eagles program by tess noel baker staff writer taking kids to the clouds is the goal of a program arriving in pagosa springs june 21.
last year it was a cat.
the scriptwriter couldn't go much before 1860 without changing the story line.
over the last 15 years the capacity of dutton ditch has declined from ±14 cubic feet per second to ±4 c.f.s.
the sun county enacts new open burning regulation
by joe lister jr. sun columnist june is a big month for planning and playing in our various departments.
the forecasts for monday and tuesday predict continued sunny conditions, highs in the low to mid-80s and lows in the 40s.
chris corcoran is in full swing with little league baseball and adult softball, four nights a week.
"she has worked the last seven years to bring a comprehensive curriculum to these kids and this program is her design.
the ranches stretched across the land, cattle grazed by the hundreds of thousands, and the cattle barons were kings of all they surveyed.
a shadow of pending violence hung over the land.
- no chemical treatment exists for trees already infested by the beetles.
the survey said: - 86 percent of the people surveyed wanted river walk extension.
foreign language, student television projects get kudos
another indication of infection is an increase in the number of woodpeckers becoming attracted to the trees and stripping the bark to get at the beetles.
overall, the budget will total $20.9 million with projected equalized funding revenue of $9.29 million with 45 percent from the state and 55 percent from local taxes.
and it isn't a simple thing to cork a keyboard, obviously not as simple as corking a bat.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
we had our first hot meal in about three weeks the other day.
kara hollenbeck, who will be a sixth-grader next year, said she heard about the camp and thought it would be a good activity to try.
- 50 percent wanted a covered ice skating facility - 29 percent wanted tennis courts.
we had some snow this year and we've benefited from the runoff.
seibert was cited for careless driving causing injury.
- piedra river - clearing water above the confluence with williams creek,  murky below.
plan on attending two or  three performances because once simply won't be enough.
"we started looking into this in february," said cano, "and the division thought it was a fantastic idea as well, so we went forward through the permitting process and started working out the particulars.
bartlett is a member of the four  corners chapter of the eaa, located in durango.
a memorial service was held june 1, 2003, in kingdom hall of jehovah's witnesses in pueblo and a memorial dinner followed.
i trust the sun will provide adequate coverage of the meeting.
by richard walter staff writer a pair of teacher-planned projects were approved and given high praise  tuesday by directors of archuleta school district 50 joint.
sanborn also received minor  injuries.
he was assigned to sea control squadron 22 embarked aboard the aircraft carrier uss harry s truman, homeported at norfolk, va. kelley was one of more than 8,000 atlantic fleet sailors and marines assigned to the ships and squadrons of the truman carrier battle group who participated in operations iraqi freedom and enduring freedom.
garcia's been with the program since the inception a decade ago.
usually referred to as "bark beetles" or "engraver  beetles," their scientific namesakes include "ips confusus" and  "ips calligraphus."
the janzens were both ejected and landed in a ditch about 50 feet from the point of impact.
a group of about seven women, employees of wind dancer aviation and wives of local pilots, are organizing the pancake breakfast.
imagination complements rational thinking.
scattered throughout northern new mexico bands of jicarilla apaches tried to make a living in a world no longer suited to their life style.
kokanee salmon are holding deep, but some anglers are having occasional success  near the inlet with flashy spoons and pop gear.
smallmouth bass, crappie and pike are being caught near rocky  outcroppings and underwater brush.
he was preceded in death by his parents, george and pablita young of pagosa  springs; his wife, carmen; a son, joe c. young; a daughter, carol ann young;  and brothers john, george, tom and james a. young sr.
please sign up as soon as possible, this fun ride usually fills up fast.
i know it has been hard on my wife katherine (bob and shelley frye's  daughter).
he will be  greatly missed by all who knew and loved him.
of course there were sheep, mostly from new mexico.
" "that's what i wanted to hear," said lucero.
romancing the piano" july 25, and antonio pompa-baldi and festival  musicians will present dvorak and other piano works on friday, aug. 1 followed  by a reception.
the board action was taken after the motion was worded to indicate it is "not committed to the full project if the funding is not forthcoming." still, noggle said, much of the work is already planned or underway.
create "shared"  stories" - make stories up together.
this year we have upgraded the pyrotechnics show, which will be held at the  pagosa lodge, pinon lake site.
susan hagan's students were practicing their shapes and shadows skills by drawing animals using pictures in books and some models as their inspiration.
after the break, round two of art camp began.
others were the english breeds, driven in from the denver area, a sort of rebound effect that started with cattle prodded along the oregon trail to oregon during the 1840s, then later into the rocky mountains to feed the 1859 gold rush.
most of the settlers were peaceable, law abiding citizens just looking for a fresh start on their own land with enough room around them to stretch their eyes, test their muscles and raise their families.
however, most of your diatribe is an unjustified attack on the integrity and motivation of the citizens of holiday acres.
if the needs of the top five vote-getters,  have not been satisfied yet, they  are in the planning stages.
in other action the board: - approved consolidated federal grant application for funding through title 1 to close the achievement gap (no child left behind); title 2 for proficiency development; title 2b for technology improvement; title 4 (drug free campus control) and title 5 for development of innovative programs - received for first reading a proposed policy amendment on sick leave banking which has been approved by a staff committee and recommended for approval - received for first reading a proposed policy statement amendment for staff salary schedules which will expand on the ways in which tenure and experience can be compensated - at the request of noggle, delayed approving a new social studies curriculum.
he noted there will be competitions for them to enter and prizes available  to winners.
we work out of a  bombed-out hangar to kind of keep the sand out.
i urge our archuleta county veterans and community citizens to attend these  events and honor the veterans of the korean war at these special events.
we're also planning to have the games and contests out at the lodge beginning in the late afternoon on that day, so look for all the details coming up soon on july 4 in pagosa springs.
a curtain of silence had  effectively been drawn over those opposed to the project.
this information was  distributed to several leaders of the community, including the managing editor  of the pagosa springs sun.
always remember this: if you are required to pay before you receive the  products and all the details in writing, there is a substantial risk that you  will lose your money.
the second program lauded was the broadcast technology program headed by  teacher curtis maberry.
in lisa brown's kids rule class, t-shirt design was the name of the game, but in a new twist, the students got to decide what project they would use to decorate their shirts.
park survey every once in a while i want to let the public know what is going on in the parks and recreation world.
25 years ago taken from sun files of june 15, 1978 drilling has started on a 2,000 foot deep test well in back of the court house.
he admitted it was used for hitting demonstrations and for home run competitions.
spinners, flies, marabou jigs and streamers are attracting rainbows and a few browns.
adult tickets are $12, seniors are $10, and children and students are $6.
then, the final blow: the missionary ridge fire.
it was a very thorough  job that deserves our special commendation." esterbrook, however, gave the bulk of the credit to mrs. isberg.
restaurant guide update all our food service members are now officially on alert.
you will  experience the wonderful freedom of flight that many people only dream about.
according to the reports, william siebert, 64, of mckinney, texas, was driving west and failed to stop for another westbound vehicle waiting to turn onto meadows drive.
although his remarks were strangely ignored by the sun, he delivered a caustic commentary on the current procedures of county government.
downtown brewery plan clears schools' concerns by richard walter staff writer plans for a nearby brewery will not cause a problem for neighborhood schools.
when we crossed the border into iraq, we immediately saw how desperate the iraqi people were for food.
the resulting collision caused the motorcycle to roll over and slide 30  feet.
just three days before the end of school maberry put out a single announcement about the plans and got more than 20 responses for students interested in participating.
the board was told the fund-raising would qualify as the lone such event  for the high school this year.
"we have enough capacity into the structure, just not enough outlets to avoid use of cords," he said.
when, after all, is the last time you saw a keyboard held up for all the world to cheer - or ridicule because our fonts were corked?
here without further ado, our lone renewal - lisa and lois higgins rejoin  us with the made in colorado shoppe.
legacieslegacies 90 years ago taken from pagosa springs new era files of june 13, 1913
"the average donation has been about $100, and all are greatly  appreciated," said cano, adding that donations have ranged anywhere from  $50 to $1,000 and that the year-to-date total for contributions amounts to  $3,500.
he was preceded in death by his parents; a sister, edvia jaramillo; and two  brothers, rosario and antonacio duran.
due to accumulation of sediment and difficulty in stabilizing the ditch at two locations within unstable hillsides.
sosa's corked bat episode is not the first of its kind in professional baseball, nor, this keyboard suspects, will it be the last.
chris corcoran is in full swing with little league baseball and adult  softball, four nights a week.
we want to say a special thanks to the first baptist church for donating a  computer to us.
the only other major difference was between capital reserve budgeted ($1.375 million) and appropriated ($870,000) much of that already committed for the athletic field and track improvements.
goldy is busy cooking authentic elizabethan fare in a  real castle that was brought over from england and reassembled stone by stone  in aspen meadow.
frankie never stopped teaching bible truths to her children and grandchild, instructing them in all the ways of jehovah god.
the ride is held july 19-21 in summit county which hosts about 50 teams and 800 riders, all raising money for the hospital in denver.
both were in serious condition following the accident.
beetle epidemic: seek treatments, hope for best by tom carosello staff writer they are mere millimeters in size but number in the millions, and the effects of their destructive infestation across a huge swath of southwestern colorado have become more and more visible with the passing of each month.
noted psychiatrist bruno bettelheim believes that children benefit from fairy tales because they can discover solutions for inner conflicts.
indians complained and threatened the encroaching civilization.
later, the tied, twisted shapes would be dyed.
we are thrilled to have them on the chamber team and so glad that we weren't shutout this week.
it will also start at 7  a.m. four dollars will buy pancakes, sausages, bacon and eggs.
one of the most dangerous aspects of this  conflict has been a determined effort to deny the public the democratic right  of commentary.
but the financial status of archuleta school district 50 joint has been kept on an even keel for the upcoming year through a series of tweaks, slashes, shifts and tightened spending.
after all, mr. sosa, the pride of wrigley field's right field bleacher bums, confessed.
while there are currently no effective remedies for trees that are already infected with the insects, raby said the same treatment services used at chimney rock are available to the public.
we all try to keep everyone's morale up.
the course is marked for a 3-mile novice kids' race, 16 miles for beginners, 21 for sport riders and 25 for the expert/pro category.
quick and effective response by forest service fire crews contained the blaze but big fuels in the forest remain kiln-lumber dry.
"i'd think that if the project had been leveled to begin with, the  stripping of turf and fill would not be necessary.
on the agenda as simple approval of an administrative leave of absence for  maberry to attend the conference, the item quickly became focus of plaudits for  involving youth in pagosa in a groundbreaking program, much of it done on their  own time.
morna is working  on the updated dining guide and your input is desperately needed.
katherine, her parents, and my parents, have been going through a lot (like any family of a service member).
" the budget as adopted reflects per pupil operating revenue of $5,522.66.
over in brown's classroom, students became toy makers exploring the ins and outs of 22 different kinds of toys.
men argued over where to locate a homestead and where roads should be placed and over who got the water.
editorialeditorial strong season ahead there are indications pagosa country could be headed into a normal, prosperous summer season.
why have unelected officials been saddled with responsibilities not included in their job descriptions, and for which they are not compensated.
we had a lot of people show up for the "understanding your  dreams" talk.
births sierra noel baker was born may 11, 2003, at mercy medical center in  durango, the first child of j. marcus and tess noel baker of pagosa springs.
no fees or special permits will be required for such burns.
beetle epidemic: seek treatments, hope for best by tom carosello staff writer they are mere millimeters in size but number in the millions, and the  effects of their destructive infestation across a huge swath of southwestern  colorado have become more and more visible with the passing of each month.
his passenger, deena janzen, 53, was flown to the same hospital by  helicopter.
water temperature in navajo reservoir is reportedly in the 60s, and the lake's surface level is currently listed at an elevation of 6,018 feet and rising.
order forms are available at the chamber, so don't waste any time trying to find that misplaced form, get in to the chamber and fill one out today.
the price includes a  t-shirt, basketball and many hours of great instruction.
browns and rainbows are the predominant catch and are hitting flies, streamers and flashy spinners.
comments received in response to this solicitation, including names and addresses of those who comment, will be considered part of the public record on these proposed actions and will be considered.
also included in the ordinance, which was approved at a special meeting of  the board thursday, are provisions that enable the commissioners to authorize a  countywide fire ban and prohibit the sale of fireworks if necessary.
in addition to the general fund total, the budget includes: - preschool funding of $65,000 which represents a cut of three preschool slots for the coming year - grants fund of $650,000 which includes all local, state and federal grants - capital reserve fund of $1.375 million which incudes tabor mandated non-appropriated reserve of $505,000 and covers all capital expenses including a special needs bus, completion of athletic field improvements and the joint raw water project with the town and pagosa area water and sanitation district - bond redemption fund of $1.75 million which pays on the 1996 bond issue for the new high school.
in garcia's classroom, lumps of clay were quickly being rounded and hollowed into turtles, cats and other shapes.
with luck, this will not happen, but the best way to deal with the possibility is to continue to conserve water - to be mindful of how we use this most precious resource.
mercy medical center turned over its own ambulance service to durango-area fire departments last year.
he said it was just a mistake on his part, that he picked the wrong bat out of the supply he keeps on hand.
"if one board took the initiative, then the other board has the opportunity to accept or reject the resolution," moseley said.
no one has called for an investigation of all its myriad electronic programs and integral links with the outside world through e-mail and internet.
proctor lives in denver.
those of us who were  in the truck knew the little bit of food we threw wouldn't make a big  difference, but we had to do something.
and why has the sun not  weighed in on these developments?
that district's board is considering restructuring ems using a six-point plan devised by a committee of citizens.
kelley is a 1999 graduate of victoria high school in victoria, texas and joined the navy in september of that year.
"it also gives dispatchers the chance - if someone calls in and says they want to conduct a burn - to say, 'we have high winds in the forecast; please wait until tomorrow,' etc.," added steele.
according to heffernan, mostly sunny skies will be the norm through this  morning while a few clouds will be a possibility this afternoon.
"we always need volunteers," she said, "even if they can only come for the day.
committee members are board directors clifford lucero and carol feazel, principals bill esterbrook and mark devoti, teachers dan janowsky and maria gallegos, and superintendent duane noggle.
according to the reports, william siebert, 64, of mckinney, texas, was  driving west and failed to stop for another westbound vehicle waiting to turn  onto meadows drive.
at the end of the day, june 20, the dining guide will be packed off to the printer with the information each of you provides.
riding the courage classic consists of three days of road riding on state highways and bicycle trails, starting and ending in leadville.
just south of the border and over in the san luis valley were the new mexico hispanics, already on this rocky mountain frontier for several hundred years, hardy, self sufficient, independent folks.
hagan's students delved into painting to discover the basics of long-distance perspective, shadowing and rendering shapes.
another indication of infection is an increase in the number of woodpeckers  becoming attracted to the trees and stripping the bark to get at the beetles.
trout are hitting flies, marabou jigs, spinners in gold and silver, fluorescent z-rays, salmon eggs, nightcrawlers and powerbait.
in a spate of personnel moves tuesday the board of education for archuleta school district 50 joint accepted seven staff resignations, approved four hirings, and set in motion the selection of a new junior high school principal.
grandparents are sheila and leon bresley and audrey and don baker, all of  omaha, neb. great-grandparents are glen and mary baker of ainsworth, neb., and  loren and helen bartholomew of lincoln, neb. business news the rose, at 408 pagosa st., has gone through many name changes and  owners, but two attributes have always remained the same: the location and  great food.
by richard walter staff writer some school board members are concerned about completion of athletic facility improvements at golden peaks stadium in time for fall action.
i commend our town leaders for listening to the public and getting the job done.
his special interests  included rock climbing, snowboarding, fishing, math, off-the-wall inventions,  and playing with his three sons.
park survey every once in a while i want to let the public know what is going on in the  parks and recreation world.
he stole millions of dollars in  counterfeit checks before the age of 22.
enjoy a remarkable lesson on archaeoastronomy and usher in the beginning of summer.
we will be having barbecue pork chops for lunch friday to help celebrate  father's day, along with a small treat.
"my personal agenda is to try to generate some positive publicity for  the airport and the community," he said.
toy blocks can be transformed into rocket ships, cars or anything the child's mind might envision.
kicking off the commemoration will be the san luis valley ski hi stampede  parade starting at 10 a.m. july 24.
selection of those who would go on the trip, he said, would be on a  progressive point system involving past participation, planned programming,  performance and desire.
second, we need to take care of our environment to ensure the tourist season continues successfully.
many of you have promptly filled them out and returned them to the chamber.
our division (101st airborne - air assault ) is a division that moves troops, mainly by inserting them into battle by helicopter.
the average high temperature recorded last week at stevens field was 74  degrees.
donations for the courage classic should be made to the children's hospital  foundation and can be given to any team member: the rays, monjaras, hopkins and  calls, margaret burkensmith, jim gregory, gary mcnaughton, connie chubbuck, tim  decker and other team members.
day two starts at copper mountain and goes through frisco, breckenridge, keystone and around lake dillon, 54 miles plus a 20-mile option up loveland pass, which was one of dave's favorite routes.
you should also be cautious about ads which say "no experience  necessary" or "easy money," or make exaggerated claims of  potential earnings.
one only needs to see current events to know this peninsula is still a  threat for peace in that region.
specifically, the regulation reads "no person or entity shall permit  or allow any open burning to occur on any private property within the  unincorporated areas of archuleta county without first having notified the  archuleta county sheriff's office by telephoning dispatch at (970) 264-2131  ..." the language applies to all county residents, regardless of whether or not  they live within the boundaries of the pagosa fire protection or los pinos fire  protection districts.
recitation of the rosary was held wednesday, june 4, 2003, and mass of christian burial tuesday, june 5, 2003, at immaculate heart of mary catholic church of pagosa springs.
the innkeepers eyed a parade of humanity: down-on-their-luck prospectors carrying everything they owned in sacks on their backs; bands of mounted, buckskin-clad ute braves; families - dad, mom, the baby and maybe grandma or grandpa - plodding along behind animal powered wagons; and not rarely single men or maybe even groups of men, hard-eyed, rough talking and well armed.
dave rode in his 12th courage classic last year as the original member of  team pagosa.
memorial contributions may be directed to special accounts at wells fargo  bank, account no. 9866512438 or vectra bank, account no. 4958259139.
for more information on the baskets, call doug at 264-2360 or stop by the chamber.
i try to keep my soldiers busy so time will go by more quickly.
with a flexible schedule and the town of pagosa springs cosponsoring the annual pirate basketball camp, jim will move into the recreation field, along with lady pirate head coach bob lynch, and host a basketball camp for youngsters in third through eighth grades, june 16-19.
"it's a huge problem," says glen raby, chimney rock site manager.
my corked keyboard is all worked up wondering why sammy should get all that free publicity?
compare that to costs  in neighboring towns and you'll find quite a value right here in pagosa springs.
mostly, children would stand by the side of the  road hoping to get food or water.
research  shows that principles are more likely to be remembered if associated with an  image, a fable or a parable than if presented as a fact or logical argument.
on july 26 a similar parade will be held in san luis.
noggle said the planning commission is recommending approval of the project by the town board which will consider the recommendation at its july 1 meeting.
there were men wanted for crimes in other areas, men who holstered their consciences on their hips.
vicente was born oct. 2, 1909 in ensenada, n.m., to rosario duran and dolores martinez duran.
these were the people who tamed pagosa country, these average citizens with more than average courage who cleared the land, braved the elements, went to church, taught their children the differences right and wrong.
if you haven't, accept our apologies.
the chamber of commerce is the only ticket outlet for music in the  mountains, so please stop by soon to pick up your tickets so you won't miss out  on this fabulous opportunity.
she is doing well from the letters i get.
as the weeks went on, they would also learn to make balancing toys, bubble wands and rain sticks just to name a few.
he was born feb. 4, 1927, in  chama, n.m. survivors include his sons, robert a. young jr., of rio rancho, n.m., and  gilbert a. young of bluewater lake, n.m.; daughters bonnie hubbard of fort  defiance, ariz., and dorothy loe of round mountain, nev.; a brother, charles e.  young of st. helen's, ore.; a sister, margaret havens of chromo, colo., 12  grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
and two members of the board for archuleta district 50 joint expressed  concerns tuesday for safety of players.
noted psychiatrist bruno bettelheim believes that children benefit from  fairy tales because they can discover solutions for inner conflicts.
board members were effusive in praise of the program and one, carol feazel,  suggested the programs should be must viewing for board members.
the sun incorrectly reported last week that the service would be at 1 p.m.  tuesday, june 10.
july 27 is the 50th anniversary of the armistice signing that ended  hostilities in 1953.
"we just have to be confident the engineers know what they're doing," noggle said.
by tom carosello staff writer after being buffeted by occasional high winds that gave rise to dust clouds and lowered humidity levels during the past week, pagosa country should be the recipient of a calmer, less animated weather scenario throughout the next seven days.
if you are signed up to attend the play with us, please stop by to prepay for your ticket.
gone  are the formerly required public hearings and specific approval of the  commissioners for the structure.
the terrible trio put the hurt on us, after a run of outstanding years when it seemed our economy was bulletproof, where revenue growth seemed certain.
basketball camp jim shaffer is the true crossover employee in our department.
safety, fire, and student health are among those projects.
"it's kind of a heads-up, the intent is that it will prevent rushing out to put out a 'wildfire' if we don't have to," said steele.
the congressional medal of honor is awarded to members of the armed forces  who have acted "above and beyond the call of duty," in acts of  bravery and at substantial risk to their own lives.
according to the guidelines published for participants and parents,  "you will see the earth and sky in a new and exciting way.
in writing my comments, i simply stated that adding a recently educated  family practice physician with training in the areas of infants and children  and women's health would be a good addition to the mary fisher facility, as it  appears this is the greatest need at this time.
merchants plant new trout supply in san juan
father's day picnic the knights of columbus will sponsor a father's day picnic in town park june 15 from 11 a.m.-3 p.m.
they moved here may 27 after jerry retired from his job at frito
to bring six living medal of honor winners together at one time is an outstanding achievement of the committee.
the mission of the young eagles program, started in 1992, is to  "provide a meaningful flight experience for one million young people by  the 100th anniversary of the wright brothers' first powered flight and the 50th  anniversary of the experimental aircraft association," milestones to be  celebrated this year.
the most typical reaction among these recipients was  surprise and dismay - not only at the typical emissions of such a plant, but  also that such an operation could be approved without a public hearing.
we have so much preparation for the fourth of july celebration, it gets exhausting thinking about it.
he said the cooperative budget is to be considered june 16 and there is a possibility accumulated funds could be returned on a percentage basis to help member districts meet current demands.
while we're on the subject, the chamber will again sponsor the famous park to park arts and crafts festival in both parks july 4, 5 and 6 and the concert at pagosa lodge on the night of the fourth.
chamber newschamber news summer entertainment season begins in pagosa country by doug trowbridge the chamber's favorite non-nun will be taking the stage again in the pagosa springs music booster's production of "nunsense ii, the second coming.
water temperature in navajo reservoir is reportedly in the 60s, and the  lake's surface level is currently listed at an elevation of 6,018 feet and  rising.
late in the meeting, the board agreed to hold a special breakfast meeting  at 7 a.m. june 26 to consider the committee recommendation.
the office is open from 8 to 4, monday through thursday, friday by appointment.
her heroine is goldy schulz, an excellent cook  and caterer.
each demonstration flight takes place in a faa-registered airplane flown by  a licensed pilot.
the situation dampened enthusiasm, the willingness of many people to travel and spend their money.
couple hurt as cars, motorcycle collide by tess noel baker staff writer two motorcyclists were seriously injured in a head-on collision at u.s. 160 and meadows drive june 7.
you will experience the wonderful freedom of flight that many people only dream about.
once the participants have filled out the permission form, they will be  assigned a pilot and an airplane.
this interplay of imagination with reality produces insight and discovery.
park fun is going strong with over 30 kids enjoying a variety of educational and recreational activities.
before 1860, there were no non-indians living permanently in the area.
"we have enough capacity into the structure, just not enough outlets  to avoid use of cords," he said.
it must cure for six weeks and then the track surface will be  added.
either way, we will need your updated information by june 20.
it will include removal  of sod out to the 20 yard line and recrowning of the playing area with an  inclined approach to the cement that should eliminate the danger factor.
toy blocks can be transformed into rocket ships, cars or anything the child's  mind might envision.
at the end of the day, june 20, the dining guide will be packed off to the  printer with the information each of you provides.
once the participants have filled out the permission form, they will be assigned a pilot and an airplane.
alcohol is not suspected as a factor in the incident.
if the needs of the top five vote-getters, have not been satisfied yet, they are in the planning stages.
before the week was over, she also planned to have the class create one-of-a-kind masks and shakers.
she also noted the state projects a decrease in local enrollment of 23 for the coming school year.
to criticize such behavior is to indicate that "frustration" is never an adequate excuse for a lack of civil behavior and respect.
" - heard director jon forrest's first report as delegate to the board of cooperative services.
we will be having barbecue pork chops for lunch friday to help celebrate father's day, along with a small treat.
at another table, participants were twisting their shirts into tied snake-shapes.
suggestions in my letters are from personal contacts around the  community, which i believe should be put before the public for consideration  just as the knoll-blide concept, which was published in this newspaper.
fresh branches and other green materials should be chipped or treated so that the inner bark area is destroyed; beetle larvae will not survive such measures.
the program has five main objectives: - to encourage young people to take an interest in aviation - to provide youth an opportunity to gain a new perspective on their community and their lives - to raise awareness of aviation career opportunities - to help young people understand the knowledge necessary to become a pilot - to respond to concerns that the nation's pool of pilots is shrinking.
"drainage is a key element to the project," he said, "and if it is not properly tiered it can result in undermining the new surface." still, lucero was worried.
the following is a breakdown of conditions at some regional fishing  hotspots: - echo lake - the lake is warming and largemouth bass, crappie, sunfish and  perch are being taken on live bait, ultralight jigs and small plastics.
go fish: regional conditions improving daily by tom carosello staff writer for anglers, the dwindling snowpack across the san juan mountains tells a  bittersweet tale - the odds are slim southwest colorado will escape from the  grip of extreme drought this summer, but prime fishing conditions are just a  week or so away.
cutting there might be a hardship for parents.
within a school program - accepting the resignation of eugene spatz as a transportation mechanic - accepting the resignation for retirement of ramona ruiz as high school  lead cook - accepting the resignation of doug bowen as day treatment teacher.
reading to your children and encouraging them to indulge in  "recreational" reading will help stimulate the imagination.
many people remember this experience for the rest of their lives."
" to squeeze it all in, young artists tackled their first projects just minutes into camp.
in the years before fences, english cattle barons sponsored huge herds of cattle throughout the four corners region.
the whole thing would be ridiculous if not so much importance were placed on the talents of the "supreme" athletes today.
" cano indicated at least 14 area businesses have contributed to the cause, and explained the fish, which are certified as whirling-disease free, will be transported from a trout farm in monte vista.
with this pleasant prospect, there are things we can do to help things along.
"we're not going to take any action tonight."
around the sprouting communities loggers and lumber mills made lumber as fast as they could.
featuresfeatures ready, set, create by tess noel baker staff writer school may by out for summer, but for art students, the learning has just begun.
friday is the deadline for applicants to file for the junior high post  vacated with the retirement last month of larry lister.
garnsey, also from denver, helped to found the children's art museum of denver.
several movies have been filmed in pagosa country in the past.
riding the courage classic consists of three days of road riding on state  highways and bicycle trails, starting and ending in leadville.
to report on a lack of decorum at a public meeting is to give readers an indication of the emotional quality of the situation at hand.
according to colorado state patrol reports, rudolph and deena janzen, of  alberta, canada were eastbound on u.s. 160 on a honda motorcycle when a vehicle  was pushed into their lane.
in our conversation, we both agreed that the other focus of the health  services district board should be fully staffing the urgent care facility as  this will greatly enhance health care for all of our providers, as rural  physicians are compromised by the lack of local emergency-center services.
in 2000 the town board of trustees, the parks advisory council, and the parks and recreation department, conducted a survey concerning what the public wanted in the field of recreation.
" a group of about seven women, employees of wind dancer aviation and wives  of local pilots, are organizing the pancake breakfast.
she is the former editor of colorado homes & lifestyles magazine.
the pictures are blueprints for your garden.
he confirmed a new executive director, kay coleman, has been hired for the five-district cooperative, and "she has new insights and ideas on changes needed.
a full obituary for mr. lynn will appear in next week's sun.
the river's historic median flow for mid-june is roughly 1,450 cubic feet per second.
"they teach me more than i teach them," brown, who has a bachelor's degree in art education, said a little later.
private funeral services have been held.
suggestions for next month's movie are always welcome.
raby indicated the treatment is aimed at saving what the pagosa ranger  district referred to as "the most aesthetically pleasing trees at the  site" while reducing the potential hazards resulting from the beetles'  continued onslaught.
good judgment, originality,  flexibility of thought and problem solving are all dependent on a healthy  imagination.
address your comments to sonja hoie, pagosa ranger district, po box 310, pagosa springs, co 81147, (970) 264-1512, or shoie@fs.fed.us.
and why has the sun not weighed in on these developments?
" for those who are willing to tackle the problem by themselves, the following is a list of suggestions provided by the colorado state university cooperative extension: - obtain an insecticide containing either permethrin of carbaryl (sevin) and follow the manufacturer's recommendations for the proper rate for bark beetle treatment.
racers can preregister between now and june 21 for $20 or for $30 at the start/finish line between 8-9:30 a.m. on the day of the race.
imagination is the talent for seeing beyond reality to allow the mind to playfully connect ideas.
a curtain of silence had effectively been drawn over those opposed to the project.
certain projects qualify, despite limited state funds, for assistance  grants, said superintendent duane noggle.
we are already seeing a number of our summer seniors back again and  everyone seems happy and busy.
at one table, students were working on patterns for batik, a resist process.
cash will be given to both pro and semipro riders.
thanks again for the package.
conditions are subject to change rapidly this time of year;  for updates, call the district office at 264-2268.
it has the potential to be a fine one.
memorial contributions may be directed to rosie gomez, po box 725, dulce, n.m., 87528.
day two starts at copper mountain and goes  through frisco, breckenridge, keystone and around lake dillon, 54 miles plus a  20-mile option up loveland pass, which was one of dave's favorite routes.
county enacts new open burning regulation by tom carosello staff writer effective immediately, a new stipulation included as part of a fire  ordinance adopted by the archuleta county commissioners last week requires  residents to notify the sheriff's office before initiating open burns anywhere  within the county.
there will be an opening night concert and the annual rotary club barbecue  on the evening of july 24.
june 17 is our day to go to sky ute casino in ignacio.
whoever is selected, noggle told the board, will need to get immediately  into the system and being working out plans for the opening of the school year.
this  information goes out to every person who requests visitor information (over  5,000 last year), is accessible on our web site (almost 300,000 visits last  year) and is on display in our visitor center (almost 33,000 visitors last  year, and that was a bad year).
report from iraq dear editor: i would like to thank whoever sent me the package with shaving razors and the edition of the pagosa springs sun which featured all those from pagosa who are serving in the u.s. military.
the janzens were both ejected and landed in a ditch about 50 feet from  the point of impact.
by doug call special to the sun this summer will mark the fifth year team pagosa will ride in the courage  classic, the children's hospital foundation fund-raiser bicycle ride.
new hours for the establishment are also in effect: sunday-wednesday, 6:30  a.m.-2 p.m.. and thursday-saturday, 6:30 a.m.-8 p.m. call the rose at 264-2955.
show your civic pride by hanging a basket or two in front of your business.
"the south end runway construction for long jump and triple jump still  has concrete standing six to eight inches higher then field level," he  said.
compare that to costs in neighboring towns and you'll find quite a value right here in pagosa springs.
but just the fact it was not an mre made a big difference.
the amount of work they can do in three weeks is amazing.
other survivors include brothers barney talamante, frank (berna)  talamante, johnny (kristelle) talamante, marlon (becky) talamante, ray (mary)  talamante; and sisters, barbara (gene) baugh, marilyn (everett) coen, and  roseann (estrella) talamante; an aunt, aggie, and uncle, albert martinez, many  nieces and nephews and a large spiritual family.
at the same meeting, karen wessels, a board member, states "domestic  use would be a priority.
we need to know what can be done if we have to do it."
this keyboard has produced reams of copy stuffed with superlatives, verbiage, homophones, and praises galore.
at this point a holiday acres committee sought objective information from the office of air quality planning and standards research of the epa.
moving through pagosa country hordes of prospectors traveled in bands large or small, headed for the gold mines in the higher mountains.
though it may be referred to as the forgotten war, those who served in the armed forces in conflict in korea will never forget it.
the pagosa hot strings will be our headliners again with the wonderful  addition of the community choir gracing us with lots of patriotic music both  before and after the strings' performance.
only after the successful applicant decided to appeal conditions of the approval was the public granted the opportunity for comment.
the building blocks are still here for much more.
he noted the building was completed in the 1960s when the open classroom  concept was in vogue, and educational plant layout philosophy has changed  greatly since then.
brian moved to pagosa springs from simi valley, calif., in february, 1996.
" "we wanted to meet new state standards," said superintendent duane noggle, "and they took us above and beyond.
the proceeds of the game are to go to the american legion building program for the construction of the new addition to the legion hall.
nighttime lows are expected to descend into the mid-30s to low 40s.
bartlett encouraged parents to pick up permission forms at wind dancer aviation located at the archuleta county airport and have them filled out prior to june 21 if possible.
we threw them some of our own food - not because we were told to do so, but because to see another human being that skinny and that hungry made it the only right thing to do.
the korean war was not ended with a victory, but with a cease-fire that  still exists.
there will be an opening night concert and the annual rotary club barbecue on the evening of july 24.
he worked as a  sheepherder and rancher, enjoyed fishing, casinos, spending time with friends  and family and always enjoyed his grandchildren's company.
the chamber of commerce is the only ticket outlet for music in the mountains, so please stop by soon to pick up your tickets so you won't miss out on this fabulous opportunity.
"but we don't know where they get their figures," she said.
we will be going to creede june 21.
we continue to submit that implementation of the  community plan with comprehensive regulations - including, perhaps, some that  require public hearings - could solve this and similar problems.
we work out of a bombed-out hangar to kind of keep the sand out.
you should also know that tickets are limited and shows are going to  sell out again this year.
over the next three weeks, about 30 students entering grades one through nine will be gathering at the elementary school for summer arts camp - a camp designed specifically for "children who love art, who can't get enough of it, and who want to learn more about art in a creative, supportive setting.
he said he met with the firm's planner, tony simmons, and also attended the pagosa springs planning commission hearing on the proposal last week.
he noted there will be competitions for them to enter and prizes available to winners.
a highlight of the event will be the presence and participation by six  veterans from colorado and new mexico who were awarded the congressional medal  of honor.
the congressional medal of honor is awarded to members of the armed forces who have acted "above and beyond the call of duty," in acts of bravery and at substantial risk to their own lives.
it demands to be heard and i've given permission for it to create this week's column, to wit: why should an american icon of dominican descent be chastised for his use of a baseball bat filled with foreign materials?
if the signs are accurate, our retailers should experience a bump up in business.
bowen  will be joining the staff of the alternative school in both teaching and  management capacities - accepting the resignation of randall roberts as high school social  studies teacher - approving the hiring of don danuser as junior high interpreter - approving the hiring of melissa mcdonald as a half-time high school  secretary - approving the hiring of judy valdez as a half-time high school english  and social studies teacher.
if you've never attended one of the full moon programs, let me  assure you that this is a "don't miss" event.
"sticks and scones," is called a "delicious whodunit," by bon appetit magazine.
"it is dangerous now to anyone playing there.
browns and rainbows are the predominant catch and are hitting  flies, streamers and flashy spinners.
in other action the board: - approved consolidated federal grant application for funding through title  1 to close the achievement gap (no child left behind); title 2 for proficiency  development; title 2b for technology improvement; title 4 (drug free campus  control) and title 5 for development of innovative programs - received for first reading a proposed policy amendment on sick leave  banking which has been approved by a staff committee and recommended for  approval - received for first reading a proposed policy statement amendment for  staff salary schedules which will expand on the ways in which tenure and  experience can be compensated - at the request of noggle, delayed approving a new social studies  curriculum.
currently, a contractor may build a potentially  offensive facility after merely persuading the director of the county planning  department (or his deputy) that such a facility meets certain standards.
it was a very thorough job that deserves our special commendation." esterbrook, however, gave the bulk of the credit to mrs. isberg.
she was born oct. 31, 1947, to the union of feliciano and sara (patsy) talamante.
you won't have a chance to change anything in the brochure for another year, so check it out and make sure it's right.
the gift is to purchase children's books.
the party alighted from the car to enjoy the panorama.
"there will be a few clouds (today) and into friday, but the rest of  the week looks to be less windy, mainly clear and dry - a typical mid-june  pattern for southwest colorado," concluded heffernan.
in 2000 the town board of trustees, the parks advisory council, and the  parks and recreation department, conducted a survey concerning what the public  wanted in the field of recreation.
it would also have a standby system.
noggle told the board a candidate is ready to accept a half-time  kindergarten teaching position and that will be ready for board approval next  month.
"i've liked clay for a couple years," she said before jumping up to head off for a short recess and the next project.
instead of gravity power for the system, it would discard the present water wheel and use diesel power for pumping.
the resulting collision caused the motorcycle to roll over and slide 30 feet.
this interplay of imagination with reality produces  insight and discovery.
permit problem dear editor: among those of us who are sometimes referred to as "commissioner  watchers," there is mounting concern that too little attention is being  paid to local governmental procedures, especially concerning the issuance of  permits to build potentially undesirable industrial complexes in the county.
well, it's high time that keyboards, pdas, palm pilots and all those other communications tools which take abuse from our users unite.
schutz noted that despite presumed recovery in some markets, interest income on investments is still way down, textbook funding was cut by the state and transportation cost support is going to drop from the current 74 percent.
please sign up as soon as  possible, this fun ride usually fills up fast.
this approach requires no notification to neighboring owners nor public hearing.
their arrival has not gone without notice, however, and chimney rock archaeological area provided the setting this week for the latest in a series of regional battles pitting the ravenous insects against humans.
the korean war was not ended with a victory, but with a cease-fire that still exists.
for information on both these programs and other special events at chimney rock, call 883-5359.
after all, that was just the first session of classes.
by 1885, the place was basically tamed.
settlers still hunted for the family table.
contracting with the health service district for the service was another option, she said.
brown has been teaching at the art camp for seven summers.
based at naval air station, jacksonville, fla., kelley's squadron flies the s-3b viking, a multi-purpose jet aircraft capable of long-range surveillance of shipping, air-to-air refueling, locating and destroying enemy submarines, and other missions as require.
she was preceded in death by her parents and several  siblings.
just so you know, we can't hold tickets for you this year, but you can purchase them with a credit card if you like.
he confirmed a new executive director, kay coleman, has  been hired for the five-district cooperative, and "she has new insights  and ideas on changes needed.
i'd loosely include an area stretching from abiquiu or maybe santa fe up the chama river and across the continental divide into the san juan basin and up to silverton.
following the memorial service at approximately 12:30 p.m., all korean war era veterans will be shuttled to the rodeo arena to be introduced en masse at the opening of the final day of the ski hi stampede rodeo.
although they are native to the area, in the past few years a lingering drought has enabled the beetles to flourish disproportionately and wreak havoc on weakened populations of pinon and ponderosa pine.
it would provide adequate water to all consumers, serve every residence in town and pay for itself in not more than twenty to twenty-five years.
a memorial service was held june 1, 2003, in kingdom hall of jehovah's  witnesses in pueblo and a memorial dinner followed.
director randall davis asked for an update on track construction progress, noting he's seen stacks of stone and dirt on the track.
his big heart inspired us to continue team pagosa and dedicate this year's ride to him.
the town board met last weekend to consider the revised report of their engineers on a proposed water system.
saturday and sunday call for abundant sunshine, highs in the lower 80s and  lows in the upper 30s.
she is staying with her folks in pagosa while all this is going on.
it was not clear how complicated an option that would be.
here, we went on a serious restriction program, limiting non-essential use of water; much that was verdant a year before turned quickly to brown.
and, of course, there was no electricity, no telephone, no central water.
"see, the starfish thinks the momma turtle is a rock," one student said showing off her drawing to brown.
call musetta at the senior  center for more information.
if you haven't returned your form, or never received a form, you have until 5  p.m. tomorrow to get them in.
lucero said some cuts may be necessary, "even if it hurts.
"they're into stands of ponderosa and pinon at several locations within the area."
july 27 is the 50th anniversary of the armistice signing that ended hostilities in 1953.
he made a short presentation to the board outlining a proposal to take a  team of pagosa springs students to the first ever student television network  annual convention next january in los angeles.
the tickets are ever-so-affordable this year at $35 for the  july performances and $45 for the august performance and reception.
larry bartlett, of pagosa springs, is organizing the event at stevens field.
while not giving formal approval, the board did grant maberry's leave of  absence and indicated it will approve the trip if students selected raise the  funds necessary.
he was preceded in death by his parents; a sister, edvia jaramillo; and two brothers, rosario and antonacio duran.
the parade will include a mass colors formation made up representatives from colorado and new mexico veterans' service organizations and the area's native american treaty nations.
popcorn is only 25  cents.
"i really like art, and i like to make things, so i decided to come back," she said.
the son of robert james and barbra gail kirsop, he was married to breanna  june kirsop on june 2, 2001 at elk park in pagosa springs.
her heroine is goldy schulz, an excellent cook and caterer.
bowen will be joining the staff of the alternative school in both teaching and management capacities - accepting the resignation of randall roberts as high school social studies teacher - approving the hiring of don danuser as junior high interpreter - approving the hiring of melissa mcdonald as a half-time high school secretary - approving the hiring of judy valdez as a half-time high school english and social studies teacher.
upon their return to the spot, the automobile had somersaulted down the canyon and was demolished.
this information goes out to every person who requests visitor information (over 5,000 last year), is accessible on our web site (almost 300,000 visits last year) and is on display in our visitor center (almost 33,000 visitors last year, and that was a bad year).
wayne is happy to announce that he has moved his office to 2035 west u.s. 160, suite 104, in the mountain run plaza shopping center.
i urge our archuleta county veterans and community citizens to attend these events and honor the veterans of the korean war at these special events.
we are still looking for a medicare counselor for the senior health insurance assistance program.
all race entrants will be welcome at a barbecue lunch and an awards ceremony honoring the top three participants in each category.
kokanee salmon are holding deep, but some anglers are having occasional success near the inlet with flashy spoons and pop gear.
the agencies agreed last year to make upgrades on school-owned tennis  courts, and allow the public to play free.
two proposed pipeline turnout structures as required by the district's water court decree for such side-water will allow releases of water into the four mile creek and mccabe creek drainage basins for the purpose of returning water to these stream systems as required by the district's decree upon request of the colorado division of water resources division engineer.
stop in and check out his  new digs and give him a chance to tell you how he can help your business.
this group wants to let the kids know about  the chapter and get involved with outdoor education of our youngsters.
we  have so much preparation for the fourth of july celebration, it gets exhausting  thinking about it.
for  further information you can call vickie olson at the homelake colorado state  veterans center, (719) 852-5118.
according to colorado state patrol reports, rudolph and deena janzen, of alberta, canada were eastbound on u.s. 160 on a honda motorcycle when a vehicle was pushed into their lane.
that vehicle, a 2003 toyota sedan, was driven by barbara sanborn, 56, of pagosa springs.
a faithful servant of jehovah god since her baptism in 1977, she has shared in preaching the good news of god's kingdom (matthew 24:14) to any and all who would listen.
both he and his passenger, kay seibert, 66, suffered minor injuries in the crash.
the pagosa ranger district rates the current area fire danger as "high."
this year we have upgraded the pyrotechnics show, which will be held at the pagosa lodge, pinon lake site.
commemoration the korean war commemoration weekend will run from july 24-27, and will coincide with the san luis valley ski-hi stampede and the fiesta de santiago celebrations in monte vista and san luis.
the wife at first left her baby in the car and after going a short distance decided to go back for it.
one of those who spoke before the county commissioners in opposition to the asphalt plant was a representative of one of the county's oldest and most respected families.
50 years ago taken from sun files of june 12, 1953 the american legion is sponsoring another of the popular donkey ball games at the red ryder round-up grounds monday.
no norba  license is needed; just show up and race.
for example, the general fund appropriation is $13.38 million compared to the budgeted $14.5 million.
in other business last week the board: - (tuesday) scheduled a workshop regarding county land use regulations and limited impact use permits for 7 p.m. june 18 - adopted a new compensation plan for county employees after reviewing an analytical salary survey and corresponding recommendations from lee & burgess associates llc - approved the application for a colorado department of transportation 5311 grant (discretionary transit funding) - approved the extension of the performance bond for the ridgeview subdivision through aug. 31, 2003 in order to allow enough time to define the scope of additional work/construction needed to complete repairs on portions of navajo trail drive - approved the 2003 state aviation discretionary grant award contract in the amount of $93,721.
baskets are $22 and kendall, from ace\circle t, assures us that this year's baskets will be as gorgeous as ever.
he worked as a sheepherder and rancher, enjoyed fishing, casinos, spending time with friends and family and always enjoyed his grandchildren's company.
this month: "catch me if  you can," starring tom hanks.
wayne wilson, one of our local cpas, read sally's article about all the ways  the chamber can help members promote a business and decided to take advantage.
noggle told the board a candidate is ready to accept a half-time kindergarten teaching position and that will be ready for board approval next month.
fire district manager diane bower said consolidation was considered once before, several years ago, but the idea died in committee and was never brought to the board for a decision.
junior high principal search could end june 26 by richard walter staff writer
all the juggling to make ends meet was a task assigned to nancy schutz, school district business manager, and the board was fully cognizant of that fact.
community news dream talk draws huge turnout; another planned by laura bedard sun columnist what a lovely week at the senior center.
"for safety purposes, i think it's probably better to use someone who is licensed," said raby.
pilots will introduce their passengers to the different parts of an airplane, the forces of flight, safety and other basic pre-flight information and then take to the skies for a demonstration flight following the flight, each participant will be awarded a young eagles certificate signed by their pilot and chuck yeager, the first man to fly faster than the speed of sound and young eagles honorary chairman.
children of all ages may sign up this week for the  program.
donations for the courage classic should be made to the children's hospital foundation and can be given to any team member: the rays, monjaras, hopkins and calls, margaret burkensmith, jim gregory, gary mcnaughton, connie chubbuck, tim decker and other team members.
a 30-percent chance for rain is included in wednesday's forecast; highs should climb into the mid-80s while lows should fall to around 40.
no fees or special permits will be  required for such burns.
other personnel actions tuesday included: - accepting the resignation of chantelle kay as high school c team  volleyball coach and the hiring of makaila russler for that position and as  combined intermediate and junior high pe and health teacher - accepting the resignation of pauline rivas as a food service employee - accepting the resignation of suzette youngs as teacher for the school
it will be of concrete and therefore fireproof.
recitation of the rosary was held wednesday, june 4, 2003, and mass of  christian burial tuesday, june 5, 2003, at immaculate heart of mary catholic  church of pagosa springs.
we don't know how long we'll be here.
the  book features 72 gardens from our dry western slope through the mountains to  the eastern plains.
barbara conkey was here last month and had so many people attend that we scheduled her again.
camp started june 9 and will run through june 27.
interviews are expected to be conducted june 23 and 24 and a special  district committee will then make a recommendation to the board.
"it's not a simple thing."
the camp is made possible through the assistance of the pagosa springs arts council, the archuleta county school district, pagosa rotary club, archuleta county recycling committee and hogue's glass.
the goal for this year's team is to raise $1,000  per rider.
that vehicle, a 2003 toyota sedan, was driven by barbara  sanborn, 56, of pagosa springs.
just so you know, we can't  hold tickets for you this year, but you can purchase them with a credit card if  you like.
"i just present a technique, perhaps give some examples and they just role with it.
for more information, to get a registration form online, or to check current leaders in the four corners series, checkout the web site at 4cornerscup.com
the amount given to the capital  investment fund each year is 10 times greater than the amount archuleta county  and the town of pagosa springs has available to put into such an account.
in my research i found out that durango, with a service population 5-6  times larger than pagosa, has eight tennis courts, all but two on school  property.
it is the first fee increase in the program in five years - $1.025 million in the trust/donation fund which includes the whit newton and mooney donations, each with specific use requirements and mandatory reserves of $700,000 - insurance fund totaling $900,000 for employee self-insured and dental plan.
stay tuned for more info in the future.
she encourages parents to come volunteer on some of the bigger projects.
and a generous contribution was made by our anonymous friends in  santa fe.
must we await the construction of a glue  factory next to one of our churches located along the banks of the san juan  river before the sensibilities of our county commissioners - and the community  at large - are aroused?
also on the agenda is a reception held each afternoon after the stampede until 2 p.m. at the vfw post 3228, 371/2 adams street, monte vista.
after taking refuge in brownish dead and dying trees throughout the winter months, they emerge when springtime temperatures consistently climb into the 50 to 60-degree range to seek out new breeding grounds.
letters issue clouded dear editor: congratulations.
and director carol feazel was thrilled with the presentation in an easily understandable format that "make's it easy for us to know what we have, where it's going, and what we may need.
pallbearers were joe e. montoya, james young jr., emory hubbard jr.
this year's pagosa course is similar to last year's in the turkey springs  area 10 miles west of downtown.
in addition to the three page-proposal, farrell provided the board two binders containing other relevant information, including colorado revised statutes and some examples of other districts' consolidations.
the program has five main objectives: - to encourage young people to take an interest in aviation - to provide youth an opportunity to gain a new perspective on their  community and their lives - to raise awareness of aviation career opportunities - to help young people understand the knowledge necessary to become a pilot - to respond to concerns that the nation's pool of pilots is shrinking.
if you can"; 1 p.m. dominos; no medicare counseling today monday - 1 p.m. bridge for fun tuesday - 9:30 a.m. yoga; 10:30 a.m. advanced computer class; 1 p.m. sky  ute casino trip wednesday - 10:30 a.m., beginning computer class; 1 p.m. ice cream social  and sing-along lunch menu june 13 - barbecue pork chops, baked potato, three-bean salad, whole wheat  bread and fruited jello june 16 - swedish meatballs and noodles, mixed vegetables, roll, fruit mix  with blueberries and orange juice june 17 - chicken and rice, carrots, tossed salad and chocolate pudding june 18 - baked catfish, garlic potatoes, coleslaw and whole wheat roll and  apricots.
the first day, she planned to show them a gravity screw.
four corners cup event set in pagosa the next mountain bike run for the four corners cup - race no. 7 - will be held june 22 in pagosa springs.
it was clear, the creative juices were flowing.
in my research i found out that durango, with a service population 5-6 times larger than pagosa, has eight tennis courts, all but two on school property.
"the average donation has been about $100, and all are greatly appreciated," said cano, adding that donations have ranged anywhere from $50 to $1,000 and that the year-to-date total for contributions amounts to $3,500.
this group wants to let the kids know about the chapter and get involved with outdoor education of our youngsters.
pam morrow health staffing dear editor: i am sorry that my letter of last week was upsetting to some of our health  care providers.
and two members of the board for archuleta district 50 joint expressed concerns tuesday for safety of players.
all three were wearing seatbelts.
and so the stage was volatile and ripe for conflict.
national news sources dispensed stories and images about the lack of water throughout the southwest.
"it's just cool," she said.
by tom carosello staff writer effective immediately, a new stipulation included as part of a fire ordinance adopted by the archuleta county commissioners last week requires residents to notify the sheriff's office before initiating open burns anywhere within the county.
superintendent duane noggle said the track area will get a final pavement layer next week.
noggle said the fire district has told the administration there are too  many extension cords in use in the structure, and they need to be replaced with  sufficient safety outlets to ensure availability of current where needed  without fear of overload and resultant fire.
"we do expect a few afternoon thunderstorms across the san juans, but  any showers should be brief and very isolated," added heffernan.
i trust the sun will provide adequate coverage of  the meeting.
she's become  quite a popular mystery writer.
we shall miss her dearly until we meet again in jehovah god's kingdom on the day of her resurrection (john 11:25).
other personnel actions tuesday included: - accepting the resignation of chantelle kay as high school c team volleyball coach and the hiring of makaila russler for that position and as combined intermediate and junior high pe and health teacher - accepting the resignation of pauline rivas as a food service employee - accepting the resignation of suzette youngs as teacher for the school within a school program - accepting the resignation of eugene spatz as a transportation mechanic - accepting the resignation for retirement of ramona ruiz as high school lead cook - accepting the resignation of doug bowen as day treatment teacher.
we must demand our day in the headlines.
only one renewal and no new members this week.
consider the year 1878 when fort lewis sprang up in pagosa springs.
maberry said he had initially intended to ask the district to fund the trip for all involved, but quickly realized it would be improper.
we did not think mr. catchpole's remarks directly addressed the subject  of the article, namely the proposed extension of operating hours at the asphalt  plant.
we had the seeds of learning kids sing for us tuesday, which is always a special event for us and, as always, we got a bang out of seeing bill and vera bang come in for a meal.
in a community where a prosperous tourism industry is a fundamental pillar of the economy, the more visitors we get this summer, and the happier they are, the better.
the course is marked for a 3-mile novice kids' race, 16 miles for  beginners, 21 for sport riders and 25 for the expert/pro category.
jim carlin has decided to make his first mill setting on the old rudy flaugh ranch, three miles southeast of town.
i really appreciate it.
like an eagle, you will soar among the clouds and understand the many  possibilities that flight - and life in general - have to offer.
many people  remember this experience for the rest of their lives.
you may trust the sun will cover the commissioner work session that has been scheduled (at least as of tuesday) at 7 p.m. june 18.
under the deputy chief, members of the fire department would continue to be volunteers, except for six firefighter emts.
"it has been a tremendous way to get youngsters involved in modern  technology," added director clifford lucero.
at the same meeting, karen wessels, a board member, states "domestic use would be a priority."
however, the charge is levied only during the summer months rather than being spread over the entire year.
flies and small spinners are working well for brookies, cutthroats, browns and rainbows in the upper reaches, while mainly browns and rainbows are being taken near the lower campgrounds.
they have since been transferred to denver health medical center and were listed in fair condition wednesday morning.
those of us who have experienced a fourth of july in pagosa, no matter what our age, remember all the friends and family who gather in our small town.
"this was a very serious crash, but could have been even more serious and possibly even fatal if seatbelts and helmets had not been used," he said.
fresh branches and other green materials should be chipped or treated so that  the inner bark area is destroyed; beetle larvae will not survive such measures.
dr. piccaro came here less than two years ago and is up-to-date in his skills and his certification, which includes pediatrics and prenatal care.
also reprising their roles from the 1999 classic will be kathy isberg and joan hageman.
the forecasts for monday and tuesday predict continued sunny conditions,  highs in the low to mid-80s and lows in the 40s.
"they will raise their own personal funds," he told the board,  "approximately $630 per student if the trip is allowed."
- williams creek - fishing well below the dam; clarity is good for the  first few miles but water remains murky farther downstream.
director jon forrest was the first to express safety concerns.
goldy is busy cooking authentic elizabethan fare in a real castle that was brought over from england and reassembled stone by stone in aspen meadow.
i thought it was a great tribute to recognize those who serve.
the extra crowding is at times an irritant to old-timers, but the discomfort should be balanced by a recognition of the value of the tourism industry.
why do our county commissioners choose to delegate such decisions to unelected officials, and why do they believe public input on such matters is no longer of consequence?
" "we wanted to meet new state standards," said superintendent  duane noggle, "and they took us above and beyond.
vicente was born oct. 2, 1909 in ensenada, n.m., to rosario duran and  dolores martinez duran.
our summer reading program "chews to read" can help stimulate  your family's quality time.
"the plan is to stock 2,500 10-inch rainbows from state hatcheries in the san juan river on four occasions, beginning in late june," said mike japhet, a fisheries biologist with the division office in durango.
"of course, the main goal is to introduce young people to airplanes."
while there are currently no effective remedies for trees that are already  infected with the insects, raby said the same treatment services used at  chimney rock are available to the public.
the following is a breakdown of conditions at some regional fishing hotspots: - echo lake - the lake is warming and largemouth bass, crappie, sunfish and perch are being taken on live bait, ultralight jigs and small plastics.
maberry said he had initially intended to ask the district to fund the trip  for all involved, but quickly realized it would be improper.
i'm meeting with pagosa lodge officials, fire officials, fireworks experts, carnival officials, trying to make sure everyone is doing what they are supposed to be doing to make sure we have a great parade, carnival, arts and craft show and, finally, the grand finale - the fireworks.
on the agenda as simple approval of an administrative leave of absence for maberry to attend the conference, the item quickly became focus of plaudits for involving youth in pagosa in a groundbreaking program, much of it done on their own time.
" nun, i mean, none other than mary mckeehan will be reprising the role of  mother mary regina in this wild and crazy second act of the little sisters of  hoboken.
it's time for an ice cream social and sing-along.
day one consists of a 48-mile ride around turquoise lake, over fremont pass  and into copper mountain resort.
the idea is fairly simple: local pilots, usually members of eaa, offer  their time and their planes to show young people what it means to fly.
- navajo reservoir - water temperature is rising and catfish are regularly  being caught day and night on blood/stink baits near the river inlets and in  the shallows.
small browns  and rainbows are being taken on flies and small jigs and spinners in the side  eddies and plunge pools.
fishing derby get your straw hats and  overalls out for the annual huck finn-becky  thatcher look-alike contest and fishing derby.
the board action was taken after the motion was worded to indicate it is  "not committed to the full project if the funding is not forthcoming." still, noggle said, much of the work is already planned or underway.
where is the public outrage?
river will be stocked later this month.
so give dad the afternoon off and enjoy a little  fun in the park.
"we have some routes with more than 100 signed up to ride but regularly we carry on 40 or so," martin said.
this year that will include making rain sticks out of pvc pipe.
the tickets are ever-so-affordable this year at $35 for the july performances and $45 for the august performance and reception.
and watching over all were cavalry and infantry troops.
hey, keyboards of america, arise!
since cancer never takes a night off, participating teams walk all night in support of those who deal with the disease on a daily basis.
and what happened at piedra happened in chromo and throughout pagosa country.
besides trying to come up with new projects to show the students every year, she said, the instructors also try to incorporate recyclables to teach a lesson beyond creativity.
for more information, call doug call at 731-9245.
he stole millions of dollars in counterfeit checks before the age of 22.
each of her books features recipes that the reader may try.
"my personal agenda is to try to generate some positive publicity for the airport and the community," he said.
vicente is survived by his daughter, rosie gomez and husband of dulce, n.m.; daughter marianne holguin and her husband, ramon, of flora vista, n.m.; son vince duran jr. and his wife, norma, of pagosa springs; son lorence duran and wife olivia of seattle, wash.; son jose duran and wife doris of pueblo, colo; son alex duran and wife gloria of pagosa springs; sister susie median; 22 grandchildren, two step-grandchildren and 41 great-grandchildren.
mr. young died june 2 in henderson, nev.
concern also exists over the adequacy of investigative reporting on such  matters.
both were wearing helmets and eye protection, a fact  trooper doug wiersma said could have saved their lives.
precipitation for the week amounted to zero.
bartlett is hoping to have between five and 10 planes available for the  young eagle participants.
his purpose in riding and formulating the team was to help the children.
please refer to mr. catchpole's letter to the editor in the may 22 sun.
birthsbirths sierra noel baker was born may 11, 2003, at mercy medical center in durango, the first child of j. marcus and tess noel baker of pagosa springs.
you have succeeded in clouding the truth of a long struggle between local residents and profit-driven powers.
we're into the swing of the summer season.
"i'd think that if the project had been leveled to begin with, the stripping of turf and fill would not be necessary.
however, permission forms will also be available at  stevens field the day of the flights.
survivors are his wife, breanna june and sons kyle james, kaleb paul and xander mark, all of pagosa springs; his mother, barbra in milwaukee; his father, robert in venice, calif.; his sister, wendy kirsop of venice; his mother-in-law, dena lindberg of pagosa springs and his father-in-law, mark sudden of pagosa springs; and a brother-in-law, jean lindberg of pagosa springs.
- williams creek reservoir - fishing for rainbow, cutthroat and brook trout  is good in the early morning and late afternoon with live bait, light jigs in  orange and yellow, and spinners in gold, silver and bright fluorescents.
he has authored many gardening books and frequently appears on the discovery channel.
couple hurt as cars, motorcycle collide by tess noel baker staff writer two motorcyclists were seriously injured in a head-on collision at u.s. 160  and meadows drive june 7.
when they're through, instructor lisa brown said, each student will require a box to move the artwork home.
symptoms of beetle infestation include small round holes in the trees' bark and a yellowish to reddish-brown dust accumulating in crevices or at the bases of the trees.
"this  way, we can let people know whether or not and where controlled burns are  occurring when they call in and say they see smoke at a particular location.
smallmouth bass, crappie and pike are being caught near rocky outcroppings and underwater brush.
while the forecast predicts breezy conditions will subside as the week progresses, indications are the region will not benefit from significant amounts of precipitation.
we had the seeds  of learning kids sing for us tuesday, which is always a special event for us  and, as always, we got a bang out of seeing bill and vera bang come in for a  meal.
those not making enough points to go the first year would continue to accumulate points for trips in succeeding years.
the collection points and associated water rights, referred to as side-water collection, will allow the district to capture and convey runoff from drainage basins that have contributed to the dutton ditch.
no one has cited it as an illegal assist to a struggling newsman.
colorado gardeners must adjust to their own weather  environments.
if this is well-attended, we will have an ice cream social and sing-along every month this summer.
financial help came from william wiggins family in memory of alice wiggins.
first, we can welcome people who find pagosa country a desirable place to spend their vacations.
always remember this: if you are required to pay before you receive the products and all the details in writing, there is a substantial risk that you will lose your money.
- navajo reservoir - water temperature is rising and catfish are regularly being caught day and night on blood/stink baits near the river inlets and in the shallows.
at the intermediate level, one sixth-grade teacher position was eliminated.
the most typical reaction among these recipients was surprise and dismay - not only at the typical emissions of such a plant, but also that such an operation could be approved without a public hearing.
the county has started the building of a county jail on the county lots opposite the methodist parsonage on lewis street.
grandparents are sheila and leon bresley and audrey and don baker, all of omaha, neb. great-grandparents are glen and mary baker of ainsworth, neb., and loren and helen bartholomew of lincoln, neb. business newsbusiness news the rose, at 408 pagosa st., has gone through many name changes and owners, but two attributes have always remained the same: the location and great food.
the program is not directly funded in the district budget but gets  assistance through co-op programs with other districts.
sports page parks & rec recreation facilities are the ones people said they want
" noggle insisted the field level drops off to the south, but the track is level at each end.
lee ward lee william ward of pueblo, went to rest on may 21, 2003.
"i came here from a department that combined fire and ems and it ran very successfully," farrell told the board.
the board was told the fund-raising would qualify as the lone such event for the high school this year.
the ditch conveys water near the four mile and plumtaw roads approximately 5 miles to the dutton creek drainage that is tributary to stevens reservoir.
i know it has been hard on my wife katherine (bob and shelley frye's daughter).
if readers have views on this subject, please consider attending a county commissioner work sessions scheduled for 7 p.m. june 17 at which permitting procedures will be reviewed.
- promote vigorous tree growth by properly siting/spacing trees in  landscapes.
obviously, you want to be in the dining guide  and you want your information to be correct.
"the looks on their faces, their creativity.
we must also guard against fire.
preceded in death by his mother, maternal parents and a paternal grandfather, lee leaves to cherish his memory his fiance debbie chavez; his father, joseph (debra) ward; grandmother, clara mae ward; sisters amanda ward, wendy (mike) bilger and frances (gerald) murphy; a niece, jazminique murphy and numerous aunts, uncles, cousins and friends.
the beetles can reproduce at a rate of 2-4 generations per year under the  proper conditions, and according to the ranger district, only a sharp decrease  in average winter temperatures or a prolonged period of wet weather will help  slow their spread.
give doug a call at 264-2360 with questions.
to criticize  such behavior is to indicate that "frustration" is never an adequate  excuse for a lack of civil behavior and respect.
diane mott davidson is a colorado author living in evergreen.
the school district has estimated total cost of all related projects at $750,253 and is asking for $300,000 from the state over a three year period.
good judgment, originality, flexibility of thought and problem solving are all dependent on a healthy imagination.
our division (101st airborne - air  assault ) is a division that moves troops, mainly by inserting them into battle  by helicopter.
the funding will be used to excavate, replace and  improve approximately 80 percent of the runway at stevens field.
as a result of the effort to initiate the "pagosa quality fishing project," approximately 500 pounds of rainbow trout will be released june 23 in the portion of the river flowing between the u.s. 84-160 intersection and the footbridge behind the county courthouse.
work-at-home schemes be cautious about work-at-home advertisements, especially those that promise large profits with a minimum of work or make you pay up front for materials.
the board agreed to read over the proposal and the information provided.
we are still looking for a medicare counselor for the senior health  insurance assistance program.
i have been asked to assist the commemoration by escorting three of the  medal of honor veterans as they appear throughout the festivities.
she was a loving mom to three : lee ward (deceased) wendy (mike) bilger, and frances (gerald) murphy.
add a couple carefully placed holes, and a whistle is made.
"most of the trout will be in the 11- to 13-inch range," added cano, "but we'll also release 10 to 15 fish weighing in the neighborhood of five or six pounds.
committee members are board directors clifford lucero and carol feazel,  principals bill esterbrook and mark devoti, teachers dan janowsky and maria  gallegos, and superintendent duane noggle.
work-at-home schemes be cautious about work-at-home advertisements, especially those that  promise large profits with a minimum of work or make you pay up front for  materials.
lorene lord,  glen and gloria vaderwele and kathryn cook are back in town.
the kids actually make it easy to come back year after year.
the emergence of imag-ination is a significant developmental milestone.
noggle said the overall plan is excellent "but a few minor glitches need to be worked out.
of  those who were there, who can ever forget the chosan reservoir battle? commemoration the korean war commemoration weekend will run from july 24-27, and will  coincide with the san luis valley ski-hi stampede and the fiesta de santiago  celebrations in monte vista and san luis.
jerry and tracie fankel are the newest owners and operators of the restaurant.
at the finish line, all teams gather, eat lunch and cheer for team courage,  a team composed of children from the hospital.
this information was distributed to several leaders of the community, including the managing editor of the pagosa springs sun.
after all, you have to get the original manufacturer to cooperate.
they have  since been transferred to denver health medical center and were listed in fair  condition wednesday morning.
knowing the joy the fourth brings to so many people makes it easier to come to work and continue the annual process.
however, with our population growth, it is evident that there is and will be a need for additional family practice physicians with his credentials.
i commend our town leaders for listening to the public and getting the job  done.
you should know that three concerts will be held at beautiful bootjack ranch.
on july 21, violinist vadim gluzman, and pianist angela yoffe will perform  mozart and prokofiev.
in writing my comments, i simply stated that adding a recently educated family practice physician with training in the areas of infants and children and women's health would be a good addition to the mary fisher facility, as it appears this is the greatest need at this time.
"it  wouldn't be a huge sum," he said, "but every penny counts in the  current economic crisis for education." youngsters can fly with local pilots june 21 as part of young eagles  program by tess noel baker staff writer taking kids to the clouds is the goal of a program arriving in pagosa  springs june 21.
san juan river flow ranged between approximately 600-1,500 cubic feet per second last week.
still, lucero was worried.
"we have others where long distances are required to reach two or three children.
"i always say this is the highlight of the summer because i get paid to play," brown said.
for more information please call jim or bob at the following numbers, jim at 264-5070, bob at 731-3007.
i had a long, constructive visit with dr. piccaro of the pagosa family  medicine clinic and i want to assure everyone that my comments were not  intended to discredit his medical education and experience nor those of the  other providers in that clinic.
i think of the families of all those who sacrifice greatly.
- do not store firewood or freshly-cut materials near susceptible trees.
among those settlers were the pargins who carved out a home on beaver creek on the historic road between pagosa springs and durango.
both moseley and board member dusty pierce said a consolidation could be a two- or three- year process even if both boards agreed to the action.
"sticks and scones," is called a "delicious whodunit,"  by bon appetit magazine.
starting at 7 a.m. that morning, local pilots will offer free airplane  rides to youth ages 8-17 through the experimental aircraft association's young  eagles program.
after he spoke, two commissioners finally took the refreshing step of a negative answer to the asphalt plant powers.
" subsequent stockings will depend on the amount of donations received, said  cano, since the cost for the trout is $3 per pound and $100 for delivery.
"it's not something you want to mess with if you are not sure exactly how to proceed.
research shows that principles are more likely to be remembered if associated with an image, a fable or a parable than if presented as a fact or logical argument.
" cano indicated at least 14 area businesses have contributed to the cause,  and explained the fish, which are certified as whirling-disease free, will be  transported from a trout farm in monte vista.
robert a. young funeral services for robert a. young, 76, were held june 7, 2003, at cope memorial chapel in gallup, n.m., and burial followed in sunset memorial park.
the accident actually involved two other vehicles, one that stopped and one that didn't.
in conjunction with future budgeting, director randall davis, asked transportation director dolly martin to conduct a study of her department and see if there are any routes which can be cut because of low use.
training is provided.
sports page recreation facilities are the ones people said they want by joe lister jr. sun columnist june is a big month for planning and playing in our various departments.
good books "colorado's great gardens" by rob proctor and georgia garnsey is  a beautiful display of gardens as diverse as the state's various ecosystems.
he will serve in the parks department all summer.
we think of colorado as the plains, the mountains and the plateaus.
in rare cases where it is feasible to reduce the threat to live trees by killing beetles before they exit, treatments involve bark removal, chipping the wood into small pieces, covering piles with a double layer of 6-millimeter thick clear plastic sealed around the edges with soil to heat the wood, or physical removal of infested material from the site to an area a mile or more from susceptible trees.
"we anticipate an actual increase.
the pagosa ranger district rates the current area fire danger as  "high."
"we started looking into this in february," said cano, "and  the division thought it was a fantastic idea as well, so we went forward  through the permitting process and started working out the particulars.
although his remarks were strangely ignored by the sun, he delivered a caustic  commentary on the current procedures of county government.
usually referred to as "bark beetles" or "engraver beetles," their scientific namesakes include "ips confusus" and "ips calligraphus."
tessie garcia, pagosa's elementary school art teacher during the rest of the year, got her class started on clay whistles.
should paws get permit to use dutton creek?
i hope this letter clarifies any misconceptions folks may have regarding  the services available at the pagosa family medicine clinic.
the beetles can reproduce at a rate of 2-4 generations per year under the proper conditions, and according to the ranger district, only a sharp decrease in average winter temperatures or a prolonged period of wet weather will help slow their spread.
"it is dangerous now to anyone playing there."
"we do expect a few afternoon thunderstorms across the san juans, but any showers should be brief and very isolated," added heffernan.
also in northern new mexico and throughout colorado various bands of utes still roamed and hunted, resenting white intruders and looking for a home.
for information on joining a team or supporting a walker, contact morna  trowbridge at 731-4718 or patty sterling at 731-5213.
she was born oct. 31, 1947, to the union of feliciano and sara (patsy)
san juan river flow ranged between approximately 600-1,500 cubic feet per  second last week.
the blaze was near pagosa country and, again, news was spread to the far corners of the u.s.
nighttime lows  are expected to descend into the mid-30s to low 40s.
a sustained dry spell, and we are back in the same situation we were last summer.
he had several he rode for.
his purpose in riding and formulating the team was to help the  children.
those of us who have experienced a fourth of july in pagosa, no matter what  our age, remember all the friends and family who gather in our small town.
he asked directors to consider the concept in general and then make a decision.
we all try to keep everyone's  morale up.
comments are needed by july 2, 2003.
there had to be nights when the innkeeper didn't sleep, struggled through the darkness to keep awake, gun resting on his lap, hoping that boarder who slept with his boots on meant no harm.
kelley is a 1999 graduate of victoria high school in victoria, texas and  joined the navy in september of that year.
then came 9/11 and all that followed - the tech market crash and the overall slump in the market.
director randall davis asked for an update on track construction progress,  noting he's seen stacks of stone and dirt on the track.
however, with our population growth, it is evident that there is and will be a  need for additional family practice physicians with his credentials.
use adequate - but not excessive - amounts of water thereafter.
then there were the army troops, couriers carrying messages back and forth between fort lewis and outposts on the animas, mail carriers, and once, general sheridan riding in an army ambulance, out inspecting his frontier troops.
an ecumenical prayer/memorial service sponsored by the san juan community of churches is scheduled for the homelake veteran's cemetery beginning at 10 a.m.
he noted the building was completed in the 1960s when the open classroom concept was in vogue, and educational plant layout philosophy has changed greatly since then.
four corners cup event set in pagosa the next mountain bike run for the four corners cup - race no. 7 - will be  held june 22 in pagosa springs.
i would like to thank walter green and bob nordman for their leadership.
you should also be cautious about ads which say "no experience necessary" or "easy money," or make exaggerated claims of potential earnings.
why do our county commissioners choose to  delegate such decisions to unelected officials, and why do they believe public  input on such matters is no longer of consequence?
the office number is 264-2304, the fax number is 264-5949, and  e-mail is afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
vicente was born and raised catholic by his parents.
you deserve as much publicity as sosa and you only have to produce words, not round-trippers.
one such threat is the increased risk of infected trees serving as the  catalyst for wildfire, since they become tinder dry after dying and remain so  for many years before decay sets in.
- williams creek reservoir - fishing for rainbow, cutthroat and brook trout is good in the early morning and late afternoon with live bait, light jigs in orange and yellow, and spinners in gold, silver and bright fluorescents.
children of all ages may sign up this week for the program.
jerry and tracie fankel are the newest owners and operators of the  restaurant.
things became much more heated when a decision was made that a request for  the establishment of an asphalt plant to produce more than 73,000 tons of  material could be considered under a limited impact use application intended  for uses "relatively small in scale."
outlaws held up stage coaches and menaced lonely travelers.
" noggle insisted the field level drops off to the south, but the track is  level at each end.
the story line might require a tighter definition of area, but that could be worked out.
wayne is happy to announce that he has moved his office to 2035 west u.s. 160,  suite 104, in the mountain run plaza shopping center.
he will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him.
yoga; 10:30 a.m. advanced computer class; 1 p.m. sky ute casino trip wednesday - 10:30 a.m., beginning computer class; 1 p.m. ice cream social and sing-along lunch menu june 13 - barbecue pork chops, baked potato, three-bean salad, whole wheat bread and fruited jello june 16 - swedish meatballs and noodles, mixed vegetables, roll, fruit mix with blueberries and orange juice june 17 - chicken and rice, carrots, tossed salad and chocolate pudding june 18 - baked catfish, garlic potatoes, coleslaw and whole wheat roll and apricots.
with that in mind, the board of education formally approved the curriculum  and directed the administration to go ahead with necessary textbook purchases.
only through their efforts to inform were the voices of like-minded associates  heard in combating an attempt to silently install an industrial operation and  its accompanying hazards.
the amount given to the capital investment fund each year is 10 times greater than the amount archuleta county and the town of pagosa springs has available to put into such an account.
sincerely, patty tillerson p.s. please know that the purpose of my letters has been to generate public input as to what the public sees as priorities for our health services district.
with a little assistance from the instructor, her first day was going well.
dr. piccaro came here less than two years ago and is up-to-date in his  skills and his certification, which includes pediatrics and prenatal care.
with that in mind, the board of education formally approved the curriculum and directed the administration to go ahead with necessary textbook purchases.
the forest service elevated fire danger in the forests to high
such is no longer the case.
i have been asked to assist the commemoration by escorting three of the medal of honor veterans as they appear throughout the festivities.
we are also enjoying hoppy hopson's fine voice at lunch.
what better way to reach the children than to get involved with the  division of wildlife and the town of pagosa springs.
during mel montoya's absence we have put together a strong team of seasonal  workers: dylan pruitt, lisa jensen and, most recently jim shaffer the high  school basketball coach.
all race entrants will be welcome at a barbecue lunch and an awards  ceremony honoring the top three participants in each category.
it wasn't anything big.
rather than changing the menu at the rose, the fankels will add to it, including soups and desserts made from scratch, additional sandwiches, salads and daily specials like chicken fried steak thursdays and catfish on fridays.
after getting the go-ahead from the colorado division of wildlife, numerous  local businesses are donating to a special program designed to improve fishing  opportunities in the san juan river.
he was born on june 17, 1969, to the union of frankie l. and joseph w. ward.
the walk will be held in town park june 20 and 21.
consider the stage stop on the piedra river about a mile south of the present bridge.
"this was a very serious crash, but could have been even more serious  and possibly even fatal if seatbelts and helmets had not been used," he  said.
the goal for this year's team is to raise $1,000 per rider.
so, with the fund-raising efforts of our town fathers and mothers we have  accomplished quite a bit in the past three years.
trout  are hitting flies, marabou jigs, spinners in gold and silver, fluorescent  z-rays, salmon eggs, nightcrawlers and powerbait.
the price includes a t-shirt, basketball and many hours of great instruction.
a pancake breakfast will be offered at the same time.
it's always nice to learn that people actually read the chamber communique.
in that case, the time frame should shift to include the years from about 1890 to maybe 1915.
"she did the real work," he said.
the same should be true of us - the computer keyboards.
for more information, call 264-2579.
last year, team pagosa's crew consisted of nine riders who raised $3,445,  an average of $383 per rider.
a new foreign language curriculum developed by teacher kathy isberg and  bill esterbrook, high school principal, was lauded as "above and beyond  the call.
volunteer firefighter mike farrell, a former employee at emergency medical services, gave each of the directors a three-page draft outlining a possible chain of command, general tax income and proposed staffing for a combined fire and ems service.
katherine, her parents, and my  parents, have been going through a lot (like any family of a service member).
it is the culmination of a dream that began as a part-time assignment and  has grown into a student favorite, maberry said.
their arrival has not gone without notice, however, and chimney rock  archaeological area provided the setting this week for the latest in a series  of regional battles pitting the ravenous insects against humans.
so, it's pretty important to keep them flying.
"i thought elimination of that danger was part of the reason we  approved the added $12,000 work order last month," forrest said.
there are rvs parked at local stops; the number of timeshare owners and condo renters in the area is increasing and they are visible in the local grocery stores, at our gas stations, on the golf course.
so, with the fund-raising efforts of our town fathers and mothers we have accomplished quite a bit in the past three years.
mass was officiated by monsignor leo gomez and interment was in hilltop cemetery.
one of those who  spoke before the county commissioners in opposition to the asphalt plant was a  representative of one of the county's oldest and most respected families.
maberry said the california conference has the student network teaming with a number of professional organizations including the radio-television news directors association, national television academy foundation and the annenburg school of journalism at the university of southern california.
"it also gives dispatchers the chance - if someone calls in and says  they want to conduct a burn - to say, 'we have high winds in the forecast;  please wait until tomorrow,' etc.," added steele.
the colorado air national guard fighter wing will conduct a fly over.
proposed pipeline appurtenances could include collection inlets and feeder pipelines at small streams, or at cade creek, that are tributary to the existing dutton ditch as they are crossed by the new pipeline, turnouts to several creek drainages and associated pipeline pressure reducing valves, isolation valves, air/vacuum valves, blow-off valves, and energy dissipaters as needed.
i can assure you i will feel very humble in their presence.
frankie talamante frankie lee talamante, a native of edith, went to rest may 21, 2003.
relay for life is an event to raise awareness of cancer and funds to help find a cure.
stadium improvements should be complete by fall season
aviram reichert and festival musicians will present
let's do what we can to make sure we prosper and we are safe.
any year or group of years between 1860 and 1885 would work.
community news senior newscommunity news senior news dream talk draws huge turnout; another planned by laura bedard sun columnist what a lovely week at the senior center.
while the forecast predicts breezy conditions will subside as the week  progresses, indications are the region will not benefit from significant  amounts of precipitation.
elementary school rehab plan covered in grant bid by richard walter staff writer ratification of a capital construction grant proposal tuesday may have  cleared the way for ongoing building improvements at pagosa springs elementary  school.
"we'll be completing a project every couple of days.
"for safety purposes, i think it's probably better to use someone who  is licensed," said raby.
with the "a-team" in place we anticipate a great summer of  activities, with the public enjoying clean park facilities and a great holiday  weekend.
by now, everyone should be aware that music in the mountains is back again this year.
to bring six living medal of  honor winners together at one time is an outstanding achievement of the  committee.
colorful parades the parade will be held both days, july 24 and 25 in monte vista.
"it has been a tremendous way to get youngsters involved in modern technology," added director clifford lucero.
young eagles also have their names entered in the world's largest logbook  on display at the eaa air adventure museum in oshkosh, wis., are listed on the  young eagles web site logbook and receive information on scholarship programs  administered by the eaa aviation foundation.
on july 21, violinist vadim gluzman, and pianist angela yoffe will perform mozart and prokofiev.
the national allergy bureau rates area pollen counts as "high"  and lists oak and grass as the current dominant pollens.
memorial dedication the contingent of dignitaries will participate in the fiesta de santiago  parade in san luis at 10 a.m. july 26.
good books "colorado's great gardens" by rob proctor and georgia garnsey is a beautiful display of gardens as diverse as the state's various ecosystems.
in the parks department, jim miller is watering, weeding, painting and  putting a crew together for the busiest three days of the year.
you may trust the sun will cover the commissioner work session that has  been scheduled (at least as of tuesday) at 7 p.m. june 18.
if you've never attended one of the full moon programs, let me assure you that this is a "don't miss" event.
small browns and rainbows are being taken on flies and small jigs and spinners in the side eddies and plunge pools.
a deputy chief for each department would assist them.
a motorcade made up of vintage korean war military vehicles and passenger  vehicles will transport the congressional medal of honor recipients, former  prisoners of war, republic of korea dignitaries and honored guests.
very often, the medal is awarded posthumously.
sincerely gene cortright editor's note: the sun has weighed in on the topic several times, urging creation of  regulations pursuant to the community plan that reflect the wishes of the  residents of the county concerning problems of this kind.
siebert's ford expedition hit the rear of the stopped car and pushed it into the eastbound lane where it collided with the motorcycle.
specifically, the regulation reads "no person or entity shall permit or allow any open burning to occur on any private property within the unincorporated areas of archuleta county without first having notified the archuleta county sheriff's office by telephoning dispatch at (970) 264-2131 ..." the language applies to all county residents, regardless of whether or not they live within the boundaries of the pagosa fire protection or los pinos fire protection districts.
saturday, you can enjoy a spectacular full moon rising from the great house pueblo site.
only after the successful applicant decided to appeal conditions of the  approval was the public granted the opportunity for comment.
forrest, was still not satisfied.
the board of education passed a budget and accompanying appropriations ordinance tuesday which keeps the general fund budget at $14.5 million, the same as this year.
walter green came in wednesday with the dennys and seemed to enjoy the meal and the company.
modesto montoya, town water commissioner, said this week that the annual misunderstanding about water rates for sprinkling and irrigation is here.
rather than changing the menu at the rose, the fankels will add to it,  including soups and desserts made from scratch, additional sandwiches, salads  and daily specials like chicken fried steak thursdays and catfish on fridays.
"we don't anticipate much in the way of widespread rainfall in the next few days," said ellen heffernan, a forecaster with the national weather service office in grand junction.
reserved seating tickets may be purchased at the plaid pony and at moonlight books.
that, in itself, is enough to tarnish the image he's engendered with children in chicago, the dominican republic and around the world in his ballyhooed home run derby with mark mcguire and his quest for hall of fame nomination when his career is done.
in rare cases where it is feasible to reduce the threat to live trees by  killing beetles before they exit, treatments involve bark removal, chipping the  wood into small pieces, covering piles with a double layer of 6-millimeter  thick clear plastic sealed around the edges with soil to heat the wood, or  physical removal of infested material from the site to an area a mile or more  from susceptible trees.
it will include removal of sod out to the 20 yard line and recrowning of the playing area with an inclined approach to the cement that should eliminate the danger factor.
sincerely, frye's yard dear editor: after reading the pagosa sun may 29 issue story of the water board meeting  in which bob frye, a director, states he would let his front yard die before  the greens on the golf course, i ask, is bob frye's back yard the golf course?
after hitting peak flows in the past two weeks, area rivers and streams are settling down and water clarity is improving daily.
" subsequent stockings will depend on the amount of donations received, said cano, since the cost for the trout is $3 per pound and $100 for delivery.
the office is open from 8 to 4,  monday through thursday, friday by appointment.
if you  haven't, accept our apologies.
the lakes and reservoirs seem healthier than last year.
consolidated fire, ambulance services urged health services has not seen new proposal
they discussed the plan and details that were different from the original proposal.
after lunch wednesday, we will be serving up ice cream for only 50 cents.
adult tickets are $12, seniors are $10, and children and  students are $6.
- san juan river (through town) - river is falling and clearing, and  fishing is improving daily.
for information on joining a team or supporting a walker, contact morna trowbridge at 731-4718 or patty sterling at 731-5213.
anyone interested in donating to the program can contact cano at 264-2370.
for information on both these programs and other special events at chimney
last year in a co-op effort, the county, school and city used approximately $550,000 from an account to which each party contributes $100,000 per year for joint effort projects.
board directors took no action on the report.
popcorn is only 25 cents.
young eagles also have their names entered in the world's largest logbook on display at the eaa air adventure museum in oshkosh, wis., are listed on the young eagles web site logbook and receive information on scholarship programs administered by the eaa aviation foundation.
imagination is the talent for seeing beyond reality to allow the mind to  playfully connect ideas.
newcomers, candy flaming and amber farnham will round out the  cast for this hilarious production.
some advertisements use testimonials that cannot be confirmed or avoid  putting details about the program in writing.
the korean war is frequently referred to as "the forgotten war,"  perhaps because it was officially a "police action," and not a  declared war.
i think of  the families of all those who sacrifice greatly.
friday's forecast indicates a high probability for mostly-sunny skies,  highs in the 75-85 range and lows in the 40s.
the son of robert james and barbra gail kirsop, he was married to breanna june kirsop on june 2, 2001 at elk park in pagosa springs.
spearheading the private stocking effort, which is aimed at augmenting the  dow's scheduled releases and restoring local trout populations that suffered  during last year's record drought, are larry fisher and thaddeus cano.
after hitting peak flows in the past two weeks, area rivers and streams are  settling down and water clarity is improving daily.
both were wearing helmets and eye protection, a fact trooper doug wiersma said could have saved their lives.
fighting was intense and brutal, often in very freezing temperatures.
by richard walter staff writer it wasn't an easy task, in fact one might have called it daunting.
the funding will be used to excavate, replace and improve approximately 80 percent of the runway at stevens field.
some headed for everything your art desires - garcia's potpourri of projects to include mexican tin punching, frames and mirrors, papermaking, jewelry and t-shirts.
what better way to reach the children than to get involved with the division of wildlife and the town of pagosa springs.
"she has worked the last  seven years to bring a comprehensive curriculum to these kids and this program  is her design.
with a flexible schedule  and the town of pagosa springs cosponsoring the annual pirate basketball camp,  jim will move into the recreation field, along with lady pirate head coach bob  lynch, and host a basketball camp for youngsters in third through eighth  grades, june 16-19.
mostly, children would stand by the side of the road hoping to get food or water.
the colorado  air national guard fighter wing will conduct a fly over.
p.m.. and thursday-saturday, 6:30 a.m.-8 p.m. call the rose at 264-2955.
july 4th parade heads up: the theme for this year's fabulous rotary july 4 parade has been  announced so you can start planning your float.
our summer reading program "chews to read" can help stimulate your family's quality time.
"she's dishing up another dangerously tasty treat of murder and  mysteryš" donations thanks for materials from lil farrell, joyce hines, jim and margaret  wilson, dick h. ray, methodist church, linda rackham, marty johnson, susan  davis, molly dorr, marsha tucker, larry blue and amy skolnick by way of nettie  trenk.
to facilitate this, the board later approved a recommended increase of 25 cents at all meals bringing totals to $1.25 for breakfast in all schools and setting lunch fees at $1.50 in k-4, $1.75 for intermediate and junior high schools, $2 for high school students and $3 for adults (federal law mandates adults pay more to compensate for commodities intended for student use).
we are already seeing a number of our summer seniors back again and everyone seems happy and busy.
based at naval air station, jacksonville, fla., kelley's squadron flies the  s-3b viking, a multi-purpose jet aircraft capable of long-range surveillance of  shipping, air-to-air refueling, locating and destroying enemy submarines, and  other missions as require.
the book will give you many ideas on planting for our climate and altitude.
"we're just trying to treat groups of trees that haven't been infected  yet and hope for the best," said raby, who added a second spraying will be  scheduled for later this summer.
for further information you can call vickie olson at the homelake colorado state veterans center, (719) 852-5118.
"there will be a few clouds (today) and into friday, but the rest of the week looks to be less windy, mainly clear and dry - a typical mid-june pattern for southwest colorado," concluded heffernan.
a carpenter by trade, he was a member of jabi.
the average low was 36.
i had a long, constructive visit with dr. piccaro of the pagosa family medicine clinic and i want to assure everyone that my comments were not intended to discredit his medical education and experience nor those of the other providers in that clinic.
of dutton ditch water rights.
one of the most dangerous aspects of this conflict has been a determined effort to deny the public the democratic right of commentary.
after he spoke, two  commissioners finally took the refreshing step of a negative answer to the  asphalt plant powers.
for more information please call jim or bob at the following numbers, jim  at 264-5070, bob at 731-3007.
in your editorial of june 5 you did succeed in arriving at  a significant truth: creation of comprehensive land use regulations that can be  interpreted consistently and fairly is a crying need in archuleta county.
at the junior high, a cheerleading sponsor was added after having been dropped in a budgetary move last year; and at the high school a part-time teacher and an auditorium manager were added.
interviews are expected to be conducted june 23 and 24 and a special district committee will then make a recommendation to the board.
things became much more heated when a decision was made that a request for the establishment of an asphalt plant to produce more than 73,000 tons of material could be considered under a limited impact use application intended for uses "relatively small in scale."
this year's ride will be dedicated to him and all pledges and donations accepted in his name will be donated to the children's hospital foundation.
this is the true story of a young con artist who acts as a pilot, a doctor  and a lawyer, all without formal training.
miguel chavez, who has held the position of engine watchman at the local roundhouse for many years has resigned, and will be succeeded by homer mckinley, who for the past two years has been pumpman at pagosa junction.
he was born feb. 4, 1927, in chama, n.m. survivors include his sons, robert a. young jr., of rio rancho, n.m., and gilbert a. young of bluewater lake, n.m.; daughters bonnie hubbard of fort defiance, ariz., and dorothy loe of round mountain, nev.; a brother, charles e. young of st. helen's, ore.; a sister, margaret havens of chromo, colo., 12 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
i hope to see you all when i come home.
"it's kind of a heads-up, the intent is that it will prevent rushing  out to put out a 'wildfire' if we don't have to," said steele.
gone are the formerly required public hearings and specific approval of the commissioners for the structure.
order forms are available at the chamber, so  don't waste any time trying to find that misplaced form, get in to the chamber  and fill one out today.
obituaries correction a memorial service for mary walquist muirhead is scheduled at 1 p.m. today  in community united methodist church in pagosa springs.
an ecumenical prayer/memorial service sponsored by the san juan community  of churches is scheduled for the homelake veteran's cemetery beginning at 10  a.m.
he estimated total combined general tax revenue at $1.2 million.
"she's dishing up another dangerously tasty treat of murder and mystery" donations thanks for materials from lil farrell, joyce hines, jim and margaret wilson, dick h. ray, methodist church, linda rackham, marty johnson, susan davis, molly dorr, marsha tucker, larry blue and amy skolnick by way of nettie trenk.
charles hotchkiss donated in appreciation for the computers; dr. and mrs. j. r. cook in honor of judy wood's birthday.
the pagosa high television program presents five to six films a year with  students volunteering to work on their own time to make their programming more  complete.
the idea is fairly simple: local pilots, usually members of eaa, offer their time and their planes to show young people what it means to fly.
grizzly bears and wolves frequented the back country.
pick a theme, a story line.
fishing derby get your straw hats and overalls out for the annual huck finn-becky thatcher look-alike contest and fishing derby.
by richard walter staff writer some school board members are concerned about completion of athletic  facility improvements at golden peaks stadium in time for fall action.
inside the suninside
they were pretty much generic westerns that could have been filmed anywhere.
she is the former editor of  colorado homes & lifestyles magazine.
aviram reichert and festival musicians will present "romancing the piano" july 25, and antonio pompa-baldi and festival musicians will present dvorak and other piano works on friday, aug. 1 followed by a reception.
among things being done are removal of several walls and updating of  electrical outlet placement.
then, we experienced severe drought, regional in nature.
currently, the ambulance service is part of the upper san juan health service district.
lettersletters issue clouded dear editor: congratulations.
first choose a time.
seibert was  cited for careless driving causing injury.
father's day picnic the knights of columbus will sponsor a father's day picnic in town park  june 15 from 11 a.m.-3 p.m.
also reprising their roles from the 1999 classic will be kathy isberg and  joan hageman.
education budget steered to even keel
the sun incorrectly reported last week that the service would be at 1 p.m. tuesday, june 10.
people kenneth kelley navy petty officer 3rd class kenneth g. kelley, son of debbie d. alderson  of uvalde, texas and kenneth g. kelley of pagosa springs, has returned to the  u.s. from the mediterranean sea and arabian gulf.
high temperatures are predicted in the mid-70s to low 80s.
reservoir fishing continues to improve as well.
the chain of command included a district manager and fire chief under direction of the board, each running their own side of the district.
i hope to see you all  when i come home.
new hours for the establishment are also in effect: sunday-wednesday, 6:30 a.m.-2
he was married to fermina talamante in monero, n.m., on aug. 27, 1951.
as a result of the effort to initiate the "pagosa quality fishing  project," approximately 500 pounds of rainbow trout will be released june  23 in the portion of the river flowing between the u.s. 84-160 intersection and  the footbridge behind the county courthouse.
before camp ends june 27, her students will have the opportunity to try air-dry clays, water-setting clays and oven-baked clays as well as to glaze and paint their own pottery.
these  data involve emissions recordings of various pollutants from asphalt plants,  which have also met all governmental requirements.
all of the elements were present.
obviously, you want to be in the dining guide and you want your information to be correct.
young children are realists who mainly consider their immediate experience.
if the project continues, there is a good chance anglers seeking to hook up  with both brown and rainbow trout without leaving town limits will meet with  success through the fall - especially since the division is planning additional  stockings of both species in the coming months.
"i will work up something to indicate possibilities," she told the board.
"the south end runway construction for long jump and triple jump still has concrete standing six to eight inches higher then field level," he said.
you should know that three concerts will be held at beautiful bootjack  ranch.
survivors are his wife, breanna june and sons kyle james, kaleb paul and  xander mark, all of pagosa springs; his mother, barbra in milwaukee; his  father, robert in venice, calif.; his sister, wendy kirsop of venice; his  mother-in-law, dena lindberg of pagosa springs and his father-in-law, mark  sudden of pagosa springs; and a brother-in-law, jean lindberg of pagosa springs.
he was a caring son, brother, fiance and friend.
currently, a contractor may build a potentially offensive facility after merely persuading the director of the county planning department (or his deputy) that such a facility meets certain standards.
let our tables flourish with homegrown veggies.
if you haven't returned your form, or never received a form, you have until 5 p.m. tomorrow to get them in.
no one could ask for a better ethnic mix.
bill steele, county administrator, said the requirement for prior  notification before burning is aimed at avoiding false alarms while enabling  dispatchers to advise residents of potentially dangerous conditions before  "ditch burns" or similar burns are conducted.
when we crossed the border into iraq, we immediately saw how desperate the  iraqi people were for food.
those contacting dispatchers will be required to advise them of the date,  time and location of the intended burn and confirm whether or not a fire ban or  restrictions on open burns are in place.
when one of us gets a care package, everyone gets a little something out of it.
he has authored many gardening books and  frequently appears on the discovery channel.
he said the cooperative budget is to be considered  june 16 and there is a possibility accumulated funds could be returned on a  percentage basis to help member districts meet current demands.
they begin to treat objects not for what they are but what they could be.
spearheading the private stocking effort, which is aimed at augmenting the dow's scheduled releases and restoring local trout populations that suffered during last year's record drought, are larry fisher and thaddeus cano.
dave rode in his 12th courage classic last year as the original member of team pagosa.
you won't have a chance to  change anything in the brochure for another year, so check it out and make sure  it's right.
she was a doting grandmother to her granddaughter,  jazminique murphy.
the korean war is frequently referred to as "the forgotten war," perhaps because it was officially a "police action," and not a declared war.
obituariesobituaries correction a memorial service for mary walquist muirhead is scheduled at 1 p.m. today in community united methodist church in pagosa springs.
memorial dedication the contingent of dignitaries will participate in the fiesta de santiago parade in san luis at 10 a.m. july 26.
maberry said the california conference has the student network teaming with  a number of professional organizations including the radio-television news  directors association, national television academy foundation and the annenburg  school of journalism at the university of southern california.
walter green came in wednesday  with the dennys and seemed to enjoy the meal and the company.
check your better business bureau before you invest.
however, that plan involves having ambulance services directed by mercy medical center in durango.
for more information on the baskets, call doug at 264-2360 or stop by the  chamber.
for anyone who doesn't, however, here is everything  you need to know.
in addition to their amazing daily tours, the folks at chimney rock archaeological area have two special events coming up.
"this way, we can let people know whether or not and where controlled burns are occurring when they call in and say they see smoke at a particular location.
the pagosa ranger district is soliciting public comment on this proposal.
plan on attending two or three performances because once simply won't be enough.
the book features 72 gardens from our dry western slope through the mountains to the eastern plains.
"of course, the main goal is  to introduce young people to airplanes."
by now, you have probably been asked to sponsor a walker or participate on a team for this year's american cancer society relay for life in pagosa springs.
though it may be referred to as the forgotten war, those who served in the  armed forces in conflict in korea will never forget it.
this year's ride will be dedicated to him and all pledges and  donations accepted in his name will be donated to the children's hospital  foundation.
you should also know that tickets are limited and shows are going to sell out again this year.
the pagosa high television program presents five to six films a year with students volunteering to work on their own time to make their programming more complete.
flies and small  spinners are working well for brookies, cutthroats, browns and rainbows in the  upper reaches, while mainly browns and rainbows are being taken near the lower  campgrounds.
the situation began when the planning commission reversed a recommendation  of denial by the planning staff regarding the establishment of a gravel pit on  the property in question, a decision later endorsed by the county commissioners  sitting last fall.
fighter wing fly over veterans will march into the rodeo arena behind the colors.
the cells in the old jail will be used.
memorial contributions may be directed to rosie gomez, po box 725, dulce,  n.m., 87528.
"this is for our information, nothing more," chairman dick moseley said prior to receiving the proposal.
he inspired all of us to not only ride our bicycles, but to ride for a purpose.
however, most of your diatribe is an unjustified attack on the integrity  and motivation of the citizens of holiday acres.
in the parks department, jim miller is watering, weeding, painting and putting a crew together for the busiest three days of the year.
some of these cattle were longhorns driven up from texas.
the accident actually involved two other vehicles, one that stopped and one  that didn't.
the 2003 budget includes plans for such an extension, from behind the springs south to the apache street bridge - 70 percent wanted a community center, and it opened aug. 10, 2002 - 69 percent wanted a teen center, and it opened aug. 10, 2002 - 56 percent wanted more athletic fields - 51 percent wanted a skate board park, which was constructed using $10,000 from the 2002 budget and numerous hours of volunteer labor.
brown also teaches after-school art classes at the archuleta county education center.
memorial contributions may be directed to special accounts at wells fargo bank, account no. 9866512438 or vectra bank, account no. 4958259139.
certain projects qualify, despite limited state funds, for assistance grants, said superintendent duane noggle.
establishment of this minimum flow is allowed for under the san juan national forest land and resource management plan, 1983, amended 1992.
the school district has estimated total cost of all related projects at  $750,253 and is asking for $300,000 from the state over a three year period.
relay for life is an event to raise awareness of cancer and funds to help  find a cure.
a 30-percent chance for rain is included in wednesday's forecast; highs  should climb into the mid-80s while lows should fall to around 40.
it is very appreciated.
the students are now utilizing four mini-dv cameras, six digital editing  stations, and a variety of other broadcast equipment.
free hot dogs, chips and soda will be available compliments of the local  chapter of the turkey federation.
racers can preregister between now and june 21 for $20 or for $30 at the  start/finish line between 8-9:30 a.m. on the day of the race.
we want equal time with the abusers of childhood dreams and worship of enamored fans.
by now, you have probably been asked to sponsor a walker or participate on  a team for this year's american cancer society relay for life in pagosa springs.
the mission of the young eagles program, started in 1992, is to "provide a meaningful flight experience for one million young people by the 100th anniversary of the wright brothers' first powered flight and the 50th anniversary of the experimental aircraft association," milestones to be celebrated this year.
also included in the ordinance, which was approved at a special meeting of the board thursday, are provisions that enable the commissioners to authorize a countywide fire ban and prohibit the sale of fireworks if necessary.
the recent trail creek fire shows our forests are still perilously dry.
"we'll also stock about 7,000 3-inch browns and roughly 5,000 colorado river rainbow fingerlings, probably sometime in september," added japhet, explaining the latter are a special strain, highly adapted to river life and expected to achieve higher survival rates.
noticing last week's letter to the editor i looked up some facts.
of those who were there, who can ever forget the chosan reservoir battle?
75 years ago taken from sun files of june 15, 1928 a willys-knight sedan belonging to a tourist of kansas, lies at the bottom of a canyon near the top of wolf creek pass, owing to the fact that the driver failed to put on his emergency brake.
library newslibrary news enhance a child's imagination at the summer reading program by lenore bright sun columnist child's play is a serious pursuit.
i'm meeting with pagosa lodge officials, fire officials, fireworks experts,  carnival officials, trying to make sure everyone is doing what they are  supposed to be doing to make sure we have a great parade, carnival, arts and  craft show and, finally, the grand finale - the fireworks.
vicente is survived by his daughter, rosie gomez and husband of dulce,  n.m.; daughter marianne holguin and her husband, ramon, of flora vista, n.m.;  son vince duran jr. and his wife, norma, of pagosa springs; son lorence duran  and wife olivia of seattle, wash.; son jose duran and wife doris of pueblo,  colo; son alex duran and wife gloria of pagosa springs; sister susie median; 22  grandchildren, two step-grandchildren and 41 great-grandchildren.
the young lady weighed in at 7 pounds, 13.5 ounces and was 20.75 inches tall.
stop in and check out his new digs and give him a chance to tell you how he can help your business.
pallbearers were joe e. montoya, james young jr., emory hubbard jr. michael young, kirt beach and craig bergonzoni jr. william lynn william "billy" lynn passed away in his pagosa springs home june 8, 2003.
enjoy a  remarkable lesson on archaeoastronomy and usher in the beginning of summer.
last year, team pagosa's crew consisted of nine riders who raised $3,445, an average of $383 per rider.
- middle fork, piedra river - running high, clear and cold.
last year in a co-op effort, the county, school and city used  approximately $550,000 from an account to which each party contributes $100,000  per year for joint effort projects.
show your civic pride by hanging a basket or two in front of your  business.
if this is well-attended, we will have an ice cream social and sing-along  every month this summer.
my specific job is to fix helicopter engines.
the purpose of this minimum flow requirement is to maintain fisheries habitat in the fourmile creek.
she was a doting grandmother to her granddaughter, jazminique murphy.
conditions are subject to change rapidly this time of year; for updates, call the district office at 264-2268.
missing from last year's team, and the original founder of team pagosa, is dave mitchell.
she deserves any and all kudos."
"nunsense ii, the second coming" will be presented at 7:30 p.m. in the pagosa springs high school auditorium june 20, 21, 26, 27 and 28 with a 3 p.m. matinee june 22.
no norba license is needed; just show up and race.
in addition to their amazing daily tours, the folks at chimney rock  archaeological area have two special events coming up.
activities get underway  around 6 p.m. friday and keep rolling along until 9 a.m. saturday.
he was a caring  son, brother, fiance and friend.
both he and director clifford lucero argued this is unsafe for any athlete  playing on the field, either in football or soccer.
take care and stay safe.
"we'll also stock about 7,000 3-inch browns and roughly 5,000 colorado  river rainbow fingerlings, probably sometime in september," added japhet,  explaining the latter are a special strain, highly adapted to river life and  expected to achieve higher survival rates.
we will have the basic toppings here but encourage you to bring your own special additions - like brownies to put under the ice cream or mocha sprinkles on top.
they must register by june 17 to join in the dave mitchell memorial ride.
pagosa's pastpagosa's past average citizens with more than average courage cleared the land
"our american heroes" is what our rotarians have designated as this year's theme so go for it and come up with the best float you can.
he was preceded in death by his parents, george and pablita young of pagosa springs; his wife, carmen; a son, joe c. young; a daughter, carol ann young; and brothers john, george, tom and james a. young sr.
report from iraq dear editor: i would like to thank whoever sent me the package with shaving razors and  the edition of the pagosa springs sun which featured all those from pagosa who  are serving in the u.s. military.
the only law, the family rifle, hung over the fireplace.
selection of those who would go on the trip, he said, would be on a progressive point system involving past participation, planned programming, performance and desire.
we will have the basic toppings  here but encourage you to bring your own special additions - like brownies to  put under the ice cream or mocha sprinkles on top.
it is truly one of our premier holidays with endless activities and fun stuff for every member of the family.
from u.s. 160, turn north onto piedra road, pass the airport and follow the road for 6.5 miles until it turns to gravel.
the 2003  budget includes plans for such an extension, from behind the springs south to  the apache street bridge - 70 percent wanted a community center, and it opened aug. 10, 2002 - 69 percent wanted a teen center, and it opened aug. 10, 2002 - 56 percent wanted  more athletic fields - 51 percent wanted a skate board park, which was constructed using $10,000  from the 2002 budget and numerous hours of volunteer labor.
call 731-5262 for more information.
and other districts in the area with projected decreases are seeing the same probable increases."
if you are signed up to attend the play  with us, please stop by to prepay for your ticket.
but sometime during their third year, they become capable of suspending reality  in their play.
while not giving formal approval, the board did grant maberry's leave of absence and indicated it will approve the trip if students selected raise the funds necessary.
my unit's main mission is to keep the helicopters flying.
i try to keep my  soldiers busy so time will go by more quickly.
while we're on the subject, the chamber will again sponsor the famous park  to park arts and crafts festival in both parks july 4, 5 and 6 and the concert  at pagosa lodge on the night of the fourth.
they'll also be holding a sunrise summer solstice program june 21.
a current beef is that the previous board of county commissioners quietly  eliminated then-existing regulations which required two separate public  hearings - one before the planning commission and another before the  commissioners - before a permit could be issued to build an industrial facility  in the county.
barbara conkey was here last month and had so many people  attend that we scheduled her again.
those not making enough points to go the first year  would continue to accumulate points for trips in succeeding years.