the u.s. bottled water industry uses hpc guidelines, and there are european hpc standards applicable overseas to certain bottled waters, but there are no u.s. standards in light of strong bottler opposition to making such limits legally binding.
in addition, nrdc commissioned independent lab testing of more than 1,000 bottles of 103 types of bottled water from many parts of the country (california, the district of columbia, florida, illinois, new york, and texas).
for example, unlike fda's rules, the european union's (eu's) bottled natural  mineral water standards regulate total bacteria count, and explicitly ban all  parasites and pathogenic microorganisms,e. coli or other coliform  bacteria, fecal streptococci (e.g.,streptococcus faecalis, recently  renamedenterococcus faecalis), pseudomonas aeruginosa, and  sporulated sulphite-reducing anaerobic bacteria.
the labs tested most waters for about half of the drinking water contaminants regulated by fda (to control costs).
though usually limited in scope, these studies also have found that most bottled water meets applicable enforceable standards, but that a minority of waters contain chemical or microbiological contaminants of potential concern.
they found: - nearly one in four of the waters tested (23 of the 103 waters, or 22 percent) violated strict applicable state (california) limits for bottled water in at least one sample, most commonly for arsenic or certain cancer-causing man-made ("synthetic") organic compounds.
nearly  40 states say theydo regulate such waters (generally with few or no  resources dedicated to policing this); therefore, about one out of five states  do not.
- for purposes of comparison, we note that epa recently reported that in 1996 about 1 in 10 community tap water systems (serving about one seventh of the u.s. population) violated epa's tap water treatment or contaminant standards, and 28 percent of tap water systems violated significant water-monitoring or reporting requirements.
- 4) inspiredliving.com news & sale announcements to hear about sales events, new products and website upgrades.
sales have tripled in the past 10 years to about  $4 billion a year.
inspired lifestyles news for inspiring, motivating and empowering quotes, stories and articles.
if fda fails within 18 months to make its bottled water rules and its regulatory oversight and enforcement at least as stringent as those for tap water, the bottled water regulatory program and funding for it (including the proceeds from a penny-per-bottle fee) should be transferred to epa.
manufacture and shipping of billions of bottles causes unnecessary energy and petroleum consumption, leads to landfilling or incineration of bottles, and can release environmental toxins.
inspired lifestyles news for inspiring, motivating and  empowering quotes, stories and articles.
while most bottled water apparently is of good quality, publicly available  monitoring data are scarce.
therefore, while much  tap water is indeed risky, having compared available data we conclude that  there is no assurance that bottled water is any safer than tap water.
our conclusions and recommendations follow.
we were unable to test for many microbial contaminants, such ascryptosporidium, because the logistics and cost of testing for them post-bottling were beyond our means.
- city water systems must issue annual "right-to-know" reports telling consumers what is in their water; as detailed in this report, bottlers successfully killed such a requirement for bottled water.
- fda's bottled water program and state programs must be better funded, with a new penny-per-bottle fee on bottled water to fund regulatory programs, testing, and enforcement.
other academic and government bottled water surveys generally are  consistent with the testing nrdc commissioned.
sales have tripled in the past 10 years to about $4 billion a year.
bottled water plants must test for coliform bacteria just once a week;  big-city tap water must be tested 100 or more times a month.
fda says  bottled water is a low priority; the agency estimates it has the equivalent of fewer than one staff person dedicated to developing and issuing bottled  water rules, and the equivalent offewer than one fda staffer assuring  compliance with the bottled water rules on the books.
they found: nearly one in four of the waters tested (23 of the 103 waters, or 22  percent) violated strict applicable state (california) limits for bottled water  in at least one sample, most commonly for arsenic or certain cancer-causing  man-made ("synthetic") organic compounds.
to comply with  common sense and a new requirement tucked into the 1996 safe drinking water act  amendments, fda standards must be made at least as strict as those applicable  to city tap water supplies.
- city tap water from surface water must be filtered and disinfected (or the water system must adopt well-defined protective measures for the source water it uses, such as control of potentially polluting activities that may affect the stream involved).
more stringent epa tap water rules should be applied to bottled water within six months after transfer of authority.
in addition, many waters contained arsenic, nitrates, or other inorganic  contaminants at levels below current standards.
while we reasonably may choose to use bottled water for convenience,  taste, or as a temporary alternative to contaminated tap water, it is no  long-term national solution to this problem.
a major shift to bottled water  could undermine funding for tap water protection, raising serious equity issues  for the poor.
but is the marketing image of total purity accurate?
one sample contained phthalate – a carcinogen that leaches from plastic – at a level twice the tap water standard, but there is no bottled water standard for this chemical; two other samples from different batches of this same water contained no detectable phthalate.
city tap water must meet standards for certain important toxic or  cancer-causing chemicals such as phthalate (a chemical that can leach from  plastic, including plastic bottles); some in the industry persuaded fda to  exempt bottled water from regulations regarding these chemicals.
thus, while much tap water is supplied by systems that have violated epa standards or that serve water containing substantial levels of risky contaminants, apparently the majority of the country's tap water passes epa standards.
by comparison, hundreds of federal staff and many  more state personnel are dedicated to tap water regulation.
for example, unlike fda's rules, the european union's (eu's) bottled natural mineral water standards regulate total bacteria count, and explicitly ban all parasites and pathogenic microorganisms,e. coli or other coliform bacteria, fecal streptococci (e.g.,streptococcus faecalis, recently renamedenterococcus faecalis), pseudomonas aeruginosa, and sporulated sulphite-reducing anaerobic bacteria.
we recommend this transfer with some trepidation, in light of epa's less-than-perfect tap water program and its own serious resource constraints.
if we choose to buy bottled water, we deserve assurances  that it, too, is safe.
an exploding bottled water market - there has been an explosion in bottled water use in the united states, driven in large measure by marketing designed to convince the public of bottled water's purity and safety, and capitalizing on public concern about tap water quality.
fda and state bottled water programs are seriously underfunded.
in contrast, there are no federal filtration or disinfection requirements for bottled water – the only source-water protection, filtration, or disinfection provisions for bottled water are completely delegated to state discretion, and many states have adopted no such meaningful programs.
although a small number  of states (such as california) have real bottled water programs, our 1998  survey found that 43 states have fewer than one staff person dedicated to  bottled water regulation.
at the same time, over half the u.s. public (including many immunocompromised people) uses bottled water, and many millions of people use bottled water as their chief or exclusive drinking water source.
- repeated high levels of bacteria (i.e., "heterotrophic-plate-count" bacteria) in tap water combined with a lack of disinfectant can trigger a violation for cities -- but not for water bottlers.
fda bottled water rules include no such prohibition (a certain amount  of any type of coliform bacteria is allowed in bottled water).
we were  unable to test for many microbial contaminants, such ascryptosporidium,  because the logistics and cost of testing for them post-bottling were beyond  our means.
repeated high levels of bacteria (i.e.,  "heterotrophic-plate-count" bacteria) in tap water combined with a  lack of disinfectant can trigger a violation for cities -- but not for water  bottlers.
to subscribe to any or all newsletters, click here:subscribe to newsletters - 1)
any violation of tap-water standards is grounds for enforcement –  but bottled water in violation of standards can still be sold if it is labeled  as "containing excessive chemicals" or "excessive bacteria"  (unless fda finds it "adulterated," a term not specifically defined).
return to pure water 2go
four waters (4 percent) violated the generally weak federal bottled water  standards (two for excessive fluoride and two for excessive coliform bacteria);  neither of the two latter waters were found to be contaminated with coliform  bacteria in our testing of a different lot of the same brand.
one sample contained phthalate – a carcinogen that leaches from plastic  – at a level twice the tap water standard, but there is no bottled water  standard for this chemical; two other samples from different batches of this  same water contained no detectable phthalate.
recommendations every american has a right to safe, good-tasting water from the tap.
while we reasonably may choose to use bottled water for convenience, taste, or as a temporary alternative to contaminated tap water, it is no long-term national solution to this problem.
- nearly one in five tested waters (18 of the 103, or 17 percent) contained, in at least one sample, more bacteria than allowed under microbiological-purity "guidelines" (unenforceable sanitation guidelines based on heterotrophic plate count [hpc] bacteria levels in the water) adopted by some states, the industry, and the eu.
the fda should adopt rules for bottled water testing to control microbial and chemical contaminants, to protect water sources, to ensure the reporting of test results and violations to state and federal officials, to train and certify operators of water bottling plants, and to require the use of certified labs.
clearly epa has more resources  dedicated to drinking water and has adopted stricter rules and oversight of  state programs than fda has.
thus, while much tap  water is supplied by systems that have violated epa standards or that serve  water containing substantial levels of risky contaminants, apparently the  majority of the country's tap water passes epa standards.
on-line since 1997 •
we have compared fda's bottled water rules with certain international bottled water standards and with the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) rules that apply to piped tap water supplied by public water systems.
water bottlers generally must test only annually.
although a small number of states (such as california) have real bottled water programs, our 1998 survey found that 43 states have fewer than one staff person dedicated to bottled water regulation.
more stringent epa tap water rules should be  applied to bottled water within six months after transfer of authority.
2) healthy lifestyles news with articles, tidbits,  resources and products to help you live a healthier, more vibrant life.
all others call 503-537-0636 pst)
for instance, comparing those epa regulations (for water  systems which serve the majority of the u.s. population) with fda's bottled  water rules: city tap water can have no confirmed e. coli or fecal coliform  bacteria (bacteria that are indications of possible contamination by fecal  matter).
- bottled water plants must test for coliform bacteria just once a week; big-city tap water must be tested 100 or more times a month.
﻿ bottled water review, travel water bottles, pure water 2 go, portable  water bottles, sports bottles, biological water treatment, filtered water  bottles, portable water filter, water bottle filters, biological water filters,  pure water 2go, portable water bottle, filtered water bottle, sports bottle travel & sports filtered water bottles bottled water: pure drink or pure hype?
to subscribe to any or all  newsletters, click here:subscribe to newsletters 1)
- state bottled water programs should be subject to federal review and approval, and should receive federal funding from the penny-per-bottle fee recommended above.
- city tap water must meet standards for certain important toxic or cancer-causing chemicals such as phthalate (a chemical that can leach from plastic, including plastic bottles); some in the industry persuaded fda to exempt bottled water from regulations regarding these chemicals.
if bottled water is so pure, why not  prove it with full disclosure on the label?
for purposes of comparison, we note that epa recently reported that in  1996 about 1 in 10 community tap water systems (serving about one seventh of  the u.s. population) violated epa's tap water treatment or contaminant  standards, and 28 percent of tap water systems violated significant  water-monitoring or reporting requirements.
tap water test results and notices of violations must be reported to state  or federal officials.
also, are rules for bottled water  stricter than those for tap water?
order toll free at 866-875-4386 (usa and canada only.
manufacture and shipping of billions of bottles causes  unnecessary energy and petroleum consumption, leads to landfilling or  incineration of bottles, and can release environmental toxins.
currently neither nsf nor international  bottled water association certifications have sufficiently stringent criteria,  nor are they sufficiently independent of the industry, to provide consumer  confidence that such strict standards are met.
this sales bonanza has been fueled by ubiquitous ads picturing towering mountains, pristine glaciers, and crystal-clear springs nestled in untouched forests yielding absolutely pure water.
filtered water bottles free monthly newsletters we publish four free monthly newsletters.
still,  the testing was limited.
the long-term solution to our water woes is to fix our tap water so it is safe for everyone, and tastes and smells good.
in contrast, there are no federal filtration or  disinfection requirements for bottled water – the only source-water  protection, filtration, or disinfection provisions for bottled water are  completely delegated to state discretion, and many states have adopted no such  meaningful programs.
but is the  marketing image of total purity accurate?
natural defenses resource council executive summary more than half of all americans drink bottled water; about a third of the public consumes it regularly.
inspired biz news with articles, stories and resources  to create a more spiritual, whole-living work environment.
the labs tested most waters for about half of the  drinking water contaminants regulated by fda (to control costs).
there is no mandatory reporting for water bottlers.
about one third of the bottled waters we tested contained significant contamination (i.e., levels of chemical or bacterial contaminants exceeding those allowed under a state or industry standard or guideline) in at least one test.
in addition, whether our water comes from a tap or a  bottle, we have a right to know what's in it.
fda's bottled water program and state programs must be better funded, with  a new penny-per-bottle fee on bottled water to fund regulatory programs,  testing, and enforcement.
- according to government and industry estimates, about one fourth of bottled water is bottled tap water (and by some accounts, as much as 40 percent is derived from tap water) – sometimes with additional treatment, sometimes not.
- fda and state bottled water programs are seriously underfunded.
if fda fails within 18 months to make its bottled water rules and its  regulatory oversight and enforcement at least as stringent as those for tap  water, the bottled water regulatory program and funding for it (including the  proceeds from a penny-per-bottle fee) should be transferred to epa.
moreover, unlike the weaker fda rules, the eu rules require natural mineral bottled water labels to state the composition of the water and the specific water source, and mandate that only one water label may be used per source of water.
our "snapshot" testing of more than 1,000 bottles of 103 brands  of water by three independent labs found that most bottled water tested was of  good quality, but some brands' quality was spotty.
- fda also exempts "carbonated water," "seltzer," and many other waters sold in bottles from its bottled water standards, applying only vague general sanitation rules that set no specific contamination limits.
no one should assume that just because he or she purchases  water in a bottle that it is necessarily any better regulated, purer, or safer  than most tap water.
if we choose to buy bottled water, we deserve assurances that it, too, is safe.
fda's rules should be overhauled and should apply to all bottled water  distributed nationally or within a state, carbonated or not.
city tap water from surface water must be filtered and disinfected (or the  water system must adopt well-defined protective measures for the source water  it uses, such as control of potentially polluting activities that may affect  the stream involved).
- tap water test results and notices of violations must be reported to state or federal officials.
in some cases bottled water has been recalled.
we conclude, however, that it would be hard for epa authority to be worse than  fda's seriously deficient program, and that a transfer of funding for bottled  water supervision to epa from fda would help.
- other academic and government bottled water surveys generally are consistent with the testing nrdc commissioned.
in addition, whether our water comes from a tap or a bottle, we have a right to know what's in it.
a major shift to bottled water could undermine funding for tap water protection, raising serious equity issues for the poor.
order toll free at 866-875-4386 (usa and  canada only.
though usually limited in scope,  these studies also have found that most bottled water meets applicable  enforceable standards, but that a minority of waters contain chemical or  microbiological contaminants of potential concern.
fda bottled water rules include no such prohibition (a certain amount of any type of coliform bacteria is allowed in bottled water).
while, in most cases, the  levels found were not surprising, in eight cases arsenic was found in at least  one test at a level of potential health concern.
the long-term  solution to our water woes is to fix our tap water so it is safe for everyone,  and tastes and smells good.
bottled water review, travel water bottles, pure water 2 go, portable water bottles, sports bottles, biological water treatment, filtered water bottles, portable water filter, water bottle filters, biological water filters, pure water 2go, portable water bottle, filtered water bottle, sports bottle travel & sports filtered water bottles bottled water: pure drink or pure hype?
- a credible independent third-party-nongovernmental organization should establish a "certified safe" bottled water program that is truly open, ensures full compliance with all fda, epa, state, industry, and international standards and guidelines, does twice-a-year surprise inspections, documents sufficient source protection and treatment to meet epa/centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) criteria forcryptosporidium-safe bottled water, and makes readily available (including on the web) all inspections and monitoring results.
most cities using surface water have had to test for cryptosporidium orgiardia, two common water pathogens that can cause diarrhea and other  intestinal problems (or more serious problems in vulnerable people), yet  bottled water companies don't have to do this.
people spend from 240 to over 10,000 times more per gallon for bottled water than they typically do for tap water.
- fda's rules should be overhauled and should apply to all bottled water distributed nationally or within a state, carbonated or not.
an exploding bottled water market there has been an explosion in bottled water use in the united states,  driven in large measure by marketing designed to convince the public of bottled  water's purity and safety, and capitalizing on public concern about tap water  quality.
among our key recommendations are: fda should set strict limits (equivalent to those in california, epa  rules, international standards, or industry guidelines, whichever is most  health protective) for contaminants of concern in bottled water, including  arsenic, heterotrophic-plate-count bacteria,e. coli and other parasites  and pathogens, pseudomonas aeruginosa, and synthetic organic chemicals,  including chemicals such as phthalate, which can leach from plastic.
for example, one brand of "spring  water," whose label pictured a lake and mountains, actually came from a  well in an industrial facility's parking lot that was near a hazardous waste  dump and periodically was contaminated with industrial chemicals at levels  above fda standards.
moreover, unlike the weaker  fda rules, the eu rules require natural mineral bottled water labels to state  the composition of the water and the specific water source, and mandate that  only one water label may be used per source of water.
while, in most cases, the levels found were not surprising, in eight cases arsenic was found in at least one test at a level of potential health concern.
if bottled water is so pure, why not prove it with full disclosure on the label?
fda's standards for certain chemicals (such as arsenic) are weaker than certain world health organization (who) guidelines.
major regulatory gaps - fda's rules completely exempt 60-70 percent of the bottled water sold in the united states from the agency's bottled water standards, because fda says its rules do not apply to water packaged and sold within the same state.
- about one fifth of the waters contained synthetic organic chemicals – such as industrial chemicals (e.g., toluene or xylene) or chemicals used in manufacturing plastic (e.g., phthalate, adipate, or styrene) – in at least one sample, but generally at levels below state and federal standards.
in addition, the tap water of more  than 32 million americans (and perhaps more) exceeds 2 parts per billion (ppb)  arsenic (the california proposition 65 warning level, applicable to bottled  water, is 5 ppb); and 80 to 100 million americans drink tap water that contains  very significant trihalomethane levels (over 40 ppb).
in addition, fda should do its own audits  and monitoring of the quality of bottled water sold across the nation and  should publicly release the results.
- some of this marketing is misleading, implying the water comes from pristine sources when it does not.
another three waters sold  outside of california (3 percent of the national total) violated  industry-recommended standards for synthetic organic compounds in at least one  sample; but, unlike in california, those industry standards were not  enforceable in the states (florida and texas) in which they were sold.
we have conducted a review of available information on bottled water and its sources, an in-depth assessment of food and drug administration (fda) and all 50 states' programs governing bottled water safety, and an analysis of government and academic bottled water testing results.
bottled water sometimes is  contaminated, and we don't use it to bathe, shower, etc. – major routes  of exposure for some tap water contaminants.
- summing this up, approximately one third of the tested waters (34 of 103 waters, or 33 percent) violated an enforceable state standard or exceeded microbiological-purity guidelines, or both, in at least one sample.
even when bottled waters are covered by fda's specific bottled  water standards, those rules are weaker in many ways than epa rules that apply  to big-city tap water.
some of this marketing is misleading, implying the water comes from  pristine sources when it does not.
for example, one brand of "spring water," whose label pictured a lake and mountains, actually came from a well in an industrial facility's parking lot that was near a hazardous waste dump and periodically was contaminated with industrial chemicals at levels above fda standards.
about one third of the  bottled waters we tested contained significant contamination (i.e., levels of  chemical or bacterial contaminants exceeding those allowed under a state or  industry standard or guideline) in at least one test.
4) inspiredliving.com news & sale announcements to  hear about sales events, new products and website upgrades.
major regulatory gaps fda's rules completely exempt 60-70 percent of the bottled water sold in  the united states from the agency's bottled water standards, because fda says  its rules do not apply to water packaged and sold within the same state.
- cities must have their water tested by government-certified labs; such certified testing is not required for bottlers.
- right-to-know requirements should require water bottle labels to disclose contaminants, the exact water source, treatment, and other key information, as is now required of tap water systems.
cities must have their water tested by government-certified labs; such  certified testing is not required for bottlers.
recommendations every american has a right to safe, good-tasting  water from the tap.
still, the testing was limited.
in addition, fda should do its own audits and monitoring of the quality of bottled water sold across the nation and should publicly release the results.
we have  conducted a review of available information on bottled water and its sources,  an in-depth assessment of food and drug administration (fda) and all 50 states'  programs governing bottled water safety, and an analysis of government and  academic bottled water testing results.
fda's standards for certain chemicals (such as arsenic) are weaker  than certain world health organization (who) guidelines.
we  recommend this transfer with some trepidation, in light of epa's  less-than-perfect tap water program and its own serious resource constraints.
the underfunded and haphazard patchwork of regulatory programs have found numerous cases where bottled water has been contaminated at levels above state or federal standards.
nearly 40 states say theydo regulate such waters (generally with few or no resources dedicated to policing this); therefore, about one out of five states do not.
similarly, recent eu standards applicable to all bottled water, also, are far stricter than fda standards.
for instance, comparing those epa regulations (for water systems which serve the majority of the u.s. population) with fda's bottled water rules: - city tap water can have no confirmed e. coli or fecal coliform bacteria (bacteria that are indications of possible contamination by fecal matter).
another three waters sold outside of california (3 percent of the national total) violated industry-recommended standards for synthetic organic compounds in at least one sample; but, unlike in california, those industry standards were not enforceable in the states (florida and texas) in which they were sold.
fewer than half of the states require these waters to meet bottled water standards.
people spend from 240 to over 10,000 times more per gallon for bottled  water than they typically do for tap water.
among our key recommendations are: - fda should set strict limits (equivalent to those in california, epa rules, international standards, or industry guidelines, whichever is most health protective) for contaminants of concern in bottled water, including arsenic, heterotrophic-plate-count bacteria,e. coli and other parasites and pathogens, pseudomonas aeruginosa, and synthetic organic chemicals, including chemicals such as phthalate, which can leach from plastic.
by comparison, hundreds of federal staff and many more state personnel are dedicated to tap water regulation.
currently neither nsf nor international bottled water association certifications have sufficiently stringent criteria, nor are they sufficiently independent of the industry, to provide consumer confidence that such strict standards are met.
immune-compromised or other  vulnerable people particularly may want such certification to be fully  confident of their bottled water's purity.
the fda should adopt rules for bottled water  testing to control microbial and chemical contaminants, to protect water  sources, to ensure the reporting of test results and violations to state and  federal officials, to train and certify operators of water bottling plants, and  to require the use of certified labs.
directing disproportionate resources to tap water protection is warranted.
- in addition, many waters contained arsenic, nitrates, or other inorganic contaminants at levels below current standards.
moreover, nrdc contracted with an independent data  verification firm to confirm the accuracy of our positive test results.
- cities generally must test at least once a quarter for many chemical contaminants.
in some cases bottled  water has been recalled.
home page | ship info | return policy | privacy policy | about us | contact  us | links | newsletters copyright © 1997-2012 carol a. james all rights reserved.
this is the most comprehensive independent testing of bottled water in the united states that is publicly available.
this sales bonanza has been fueled by ubiquitous ads  picturing towering mountains, pristine glaciers, and crystal-clear springs  nestled in untouched forests yielding absolutely pure water.
nearly one in five tested waters (18 of the 103, or 17 percent) contained,  in at least one sample, more bacteria than allowed under microbiological-purity  "guidelines" (unenforceable sanitation guidelines based on  heterotrophic plate count [hpc] bacteria levels in the water) adopted by some  states, the industry, and the eu.
directing  disproportionate resources to tap water protection is warranted.
fda's regulations are less stringent than some international standards.
right-to-know requirements should require water bottle labels to disclose  contaminants, the exact water source, treatment, and other key information, as  is now required of tap water systems.
the u.s. bottled water industry uses hpc  guidelines, and there are european hpc standards applicable overseas to certain  bottled waters, but there are no u.s. standards in light of strong bottler  opposition to making such limits legally binding.
inspired biz news with articles, stories and resources to create a more spiritual, whole-living work environment.
in addition, nrdc commissioned independent  lab testing of more than 1,000 bottles of 103 types of bottled water from many  parts of the country (california, the district of columbia, florida, illinois,  new york, and texas).
city water system operators must be certified and trained to ensure that  they know how to safely treat and deliver water – not so for bottlers.
nrdc has completed a four-year study of the bottled water  industry, including its bacterial and chemical contamination problems.
clearly epa has more resources dedicated to drinking water and has adopted stricter rules and oversight of state programs than fda has.
we have compared fda's bottled water  rules with certain international bottled water standards and with the u.s.  environmental protection agency (epa) rules that apply to piped tap water  supplied by public water systems.
fda also exempts "carbonated water," "seltzer," and  many other waters sold in bottles from its bottled water standards, applying  only vague general sanitation rules that set no specific contamination limits.
city water systems must issue annual "right-to-know" reports  telling consumers what is in their water; as detailed in this report, bottlers  successfully killed such a requirement for bottled water.
home page | ship info | return policy | privacy policy | about us | contact us | links | newsletters copyright © 1997-2012 carol a. james all rights reserved.
bottled water sometimes is contaminated, and we don't use it to bathe, shower, etc. – major routes of exposure for some tap water contaminants.
about one fifth of the waters contained synthetic organic chemicals  – such as industrial chemicals (e.g., toluene or xylene) or chemicals  used in manufacturing plastic (e.g., phthalate, adipate, or styrene) – in  at least one sample, but generally at levels below state and federal standards.
at the same  time, over half the u.s. public (including many immunocompromised people) uses  bottled water, and many millions of people use bottled water as their chief or  exclusive drinking water source.
- any violation of tap-water standards is grounds for enforcement – but bottled water in violation of standards can still be sold if it is labeled as "containing excessive chemicals" or "excessive bacteria" (unless fda finds it "adulterated," a term not specifically defined).
- four waters (4 percent) violated the generally weak federal bottled water standards (two for excessive fluoride and two for excessive coliform bacteria); neither of the two latter waters were found to be contaminated with coliform bacteria in our testing of a different lot of the same brand.
natural defenses resource council executive summary more than half of all americans drink bottled water; about a third of the  public consumes it regularly.
to comply with common sense and a new requirement tucked into the 1996 safe drinking water act amendments, fda standards must be made at least as strict as those applicable to city tap water supplies.
state bottled water programs should be subject to federal review and  approval, and should receive federal funding from the penny-per-bottle fee  recommended above.
no one should assume that just because he or she purchases water in a bottle that it is necessarily any better regulated, purer, or safer than most tap water.
last update: january 11, 2012
nrdc has completed a four-year study of the bottled water industry, including its bacterial and chemical contamination problems.
moreover, nrdc contracted with an independent data verification firm to confirm the accuracy of our positive test results.
the underfunded and haphazard patchwork of  regulatory programs have found numerous cases where bottled water has been  contaminated at levels above state or federal standards.
this is the most  comprehensive independent testing of bottled water in the united states that is  publicly available.
therefore, while much tap water is indeed risky, having compared available data we conclude that there is no assurance that bottled water is any safer than tap water.
- city water system operators must be certified and trained to ensure that they know how to safely treat and deliver water – not so for bottlers.
immune-compromised or other vulnerable people particularly may want such certification to be fully confident of their bottled water's purity.
- 2) healthy lifestyles news with articles, tidbits, resources and products to help you live a healthier, more vibrant life.
also, are rules for bottled water stricter than those for tap water?
fda says bottled water is a low priority; the agency estimates it has the equivalent of fewer than one staff person dedicated to developing and issuing bottled water rules, and the equivalent offewer than one fda staffer assuring compliance with the bottled water rules on the books.
in addition, the tap water of more than 32 million americans (and perhaps more) exceeds 2 parts per billion (ppb) arsenic (the california proposition 65 warning level, applicable to bottled water, is 5 ppb); and 80 to 100 million americans drink tap water that contains very significant trihalomethane levels (over 40 ppb).
while most bottled water apparently is of good quality, publicly available monitoring data are scarce.
a credible independent third-party-nongovernmental organization should  establish a "certified safe" bottled water program that is truly  open, ensures full compliance with all fda, epa, state, industry, and  international standards and guidelines, does twice-a-year surprise inspections,  documents sufficient source protection and treatment to meet epa/centers for  disease control and prevention (cdc) criteria forcryptosporidium-safe  bottled water, and makes readily available (including on the web) all  inspections and monitoring results.
- fda's regulations are less stringent than some international standards.
cities generally must test at least once a quarter for many chemical  contaminants.
similarly, recent eu  standards applicable to all bottled water, also, are far stricter than fda  standards.
fewer than half of the states require these waters to meet bottled water  standards.
according to government and industry estimates, about one fourth of  bottled water is bottled tap water (and by some accounts, as much as 40 percent  is derived from tap water) – sometimes with additional treatment,  sometimes not.
we conclude, however, that it would be hard for epa authority to be worse than fda's seriously deficient program, and that a transfer of funding for bottled water supervision to epa from fda would help.
- even when bottled waters are covered by fda's specific bottled water standards, those rules are weaker in many ways than epa rules that apply to big-city tap water.
- our "snapshot" testing of more than 1,000 bottles of 103 brands of water by three independent labs found that most bottled water tested was of good quality, but some brands' quality was spotty.
bottled water: as pure as we are led to believe?
summing this up, approximately one third of the tested waters (34 of 103  waters, or 33 percent) violated an enforceable state standard or exceeded  microbiological-purity guidelines, or both, in at least one sample.
- most cities using surface water have had to test for cryptosporidium orgiardia, two common water pathogens that can cause diarrhea and other intestinal problems (or more serious problems in vulnerable people), yet bottled water companies don't have to do this.