contact person: laura whitcomb, dept. of management, college of business & economics, california state university, los angeles, 5151 state university drive, los angeles, ca 90032, 323-343-2910, lwhitco@calstatela.edu case objective this case describes a company with unprecedented growth, which experienced losses in 2002, yet, rebounded in 2003 with an intentional new focus and strategy.
a second objective is to discuss ways to deal with awkward situations which arise in the classroom and to which a faculty response is required.
but the financial statements have a lot of line items different from what mike encountered in his finance classes.
it ends with the consultants being ready with the final report for presentation to khl.
it is a world class eye care system of clinics, institutes and manufacturing centers such as a center for manufacturing lenses in order to reduce the cost one of the main sources of expense.
arieh a. ullmann, binghamton  university, suny case objective the case has been written in order to introduce ethical aspects of decision  making into the undergraduate/graduate introductory strategy course.
© 2009 team computers 2008 jaydeep mukherjee & ashok kapoormanagement  development institute, gurgaon, india case objective the case shows how the ceo of team computers, an  entrepreneurial venture, was coping with the problem of creating a unique  identity for the organization.
major benefits of using turboprops for short-leg flights were increased seat utilization (62% to 90%) and increased route coverage.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29--31, 2009.
through their analysis of this case, students learn the nature and pricing of credit default swaps, the structure of synthetic securitizations, how conflicts of interest may arise in retail banking and brokerage with unsophisticated customers and the obligations of a banker/investment advisor who in sells complex financial products.
due to the nature of stockweb’s business model, customer lifetime  value amounts was much lower than other competing online brokerages.
case synopsis what began as a single streamlined hamburger restaurant in california grew  to become one of the largest, most successful fast food chains across the  globe.
it may be used in conjunction  with the agiltron and adnexus cases as a unit in new product development across  several different technology-based industries.
with the onset of the recession in 2007, both firms found themselves struggling to survive.
furthermore, the plan called for a feasibility  study of the possibility of involving student interns in an integral way in the  ongoing administration of vci.
el caso hace énfasis en las relaciones con la comunidad local y especialmente con los indígenasde la región, con quienes implementó una alianza de largo plazo para promocionar la “seguridad  alimentaria” bajo un esquema de respeto por su identidad y legados  culturales.
certain disgruntled neighbors of the professor were apparently collaborating with the apgars, who headed the hoa and its architectural committee.
management was left to ponder this question.
case synopsis the city of cabarete, a popular tourist destination on the northern coast of the dominican republic, was struggling to resist change that might harm local business owners.
it is also well suited for discussion as in  graduate and undergraduate courses on consumer behavior, particularly when  studying brand image and positioning as well as brand equity.
also, the case is useful in training programs for real estate professionals and  property managers involved in owner association administration.
crucially, it can draw  attention of marketing students/ managers to the importance of hr function and  the need and challenge of effective people management for marketing success.
albright immediately started an investigation of rent tex books to determine if webb had stolen from the company.
it can be used in classes on corporate finance, financial management  or valuation.
it is widely accepted in the wine industry that a qualified winemaker is critical to the success of the winery.
sonoma wine company looked to many organizations and consultants to accomplish its long-term goals of increasing market share and capacity, while also reducing its energy costs and waste.
case objective the case covers adnexus therapeutics’ transition period after acquisition by bristol-meyers squibb (bms).
when housing prices began to decline in 2006, the value of many of these  bonds collapsed, and moody’s was forced to downgrade them steeply.
due to emily’s knowledge in the iaq products industry, she had many opportunities for professional growth within the company.
deciding which direction to proceed will prove crucial for the existence of the firm.
questions and decisions for the reader to discuss involve the affiliation with amazon.com, the need for additional time and marketing investment, and the likelihood of increasing the performance of the business.
© 2009 by lisa eshbach and lester sutherland.
case objective the case can be used to provide a broad overview of the challenges of entrepreneurship – even given a great product idea in an attractive market.
this case illustrates the promise and perils of  managing an early, development stage biotechnology company that seeks to  advance novel technologies, obtain financing, and alliances with larger  multinational biopharmaceutical companies.
case objective the case details the software development process at attivio inc.
esto le permitió alcanzar  una participación en el mercado de la televisión de pago de un  84% en el 2005.
the job of winemaker is a highly skilled position requiring an individual with experience in the winemaking process, solid management skills, education in lab testing for sugar, acid and ph levels, physical strength to be deeply involved in every aspect of the winemaking process (e.g. stirring and cleaning barrels, bottling wine), knowledge of inventory management, strong interpersonal skills and someone who is detail oriented and self-motivated.
the main protagonists are dr.  jennifer howse, president of the march of dimes; doug staples, senior  vice-president for marketing and communications; and an employee of barkley  agency, hired to assist in the rebranding of mod.
the  case suits first or second year graduate students, especially majors in  finance.
case synopsis fortis inc., a company with interests in various north american electric utilities, is proposing to build the chalillo dam on the macal river in belize, central america.
it also motivates consideration of the prerequisites for and  possible paths to organizational growth – asking what sorts of growth  strategies are appropriate and what criteria should be considered in making  growth decisions.
the case focuses on: (1) how to make sense, assess and develop a project based on the new paradigm of “cloud computing”; (2) the change in cisco strategy and, as a consequence, (3) how to design its globalization strategy.
instructors are able to use the case to introduce and illustrate the concepts of strategic visions, strategic and financial objectives, crafting strategy, strategy execution, business models, and the evolving nature of strategy.
the decision they face in summer 2001 is: where will they get their future business?
piccioli needed to revise the company’s pricing policy.
results were mixed, but in november 2008 the board had to decide if the new general manager should be hired under the assumption that student interns would be part of the vci organizational structure.
the case also explores the working relationship between a husband - wife ownership team and addresses issues of succession inside and outside of the family.
what is the cost of doing nothing?
se presentan el plan  de negocio y su implementación basados en el concepto de la integración la cadena de valor en la producción de cerdos,  buscando capturarun mayor valor agregado en las actividades  empresariales “después del campo”.
costco operated  under the tenant that happy employees translated into satisfied customers and  profitable shareholders.
the hippocratic oath), (2) their personal ethics and religion, (3) corporate social responsibility, and (4) the law (particularly antitrust law).
grand valley state university case objective an automotive subcontractor is considering a major global growth initiative to restore profitability in the highly competitive rubber market, using microcellular polyurethane (mcu), a new material that was equivalent or superior to rubber and available at a lower price.
the upcoming 2010 “green  olympics” in vancouver, the public’s rising environmental  consciousness, and national attention to climate change all contributed to a  sense of urgency among businesses and public organizations – with the  notable exception of educational publishing.
physicians have established certain  policies without informing other partners.
as such, it may be used in conjunction with  coverage of any of these topics or as an integrative assignment towards the end  of the course.
this case may be used in advanced marketing courses for mba programs as well as in specific executive education programs addressing key account management (kam), global account management (gam) and/or industrial marketing or business to business marketing issues.
the case demonstrates the challenges of balancing the economic,  social and environmental benefits and harms when involved with a large  construction project in a developing company.
that feasibility study led to a two-stage internship pilot project to gain  experience with accounting, human resources (volunteer coordination) and  fundraising interns.
faced with an economic crisis at home, beth was forced to reduce her budget in 2009 to accommodate the down turn; however, the needs in the camp are growing as ever before.
case objective a series of brief health care ethics cases provide the basis for instructing undergraduate students in applied ethics.
why are we still using conventional urinals?
101 stearns, boston, ma 02115, 617-373-2241,t.marion@neu.edu.
case synopsis rent tex (a) rent tex was a family orientated rent-to-own business that operated ten stores throughout texas.
© 2009 by  dennis callaghan, elizabeth croft, and robert ellis.
these snapshots may be used ineducational leadership courses and in workshops for second-stage teachers to challenge their thinking about their approach to professional development and to their careers.
the case describes the aggressive expansion undertaken in the 1990s, and  the operational and financial challenges faced by the mutual when the housing  market and local economy took a nosedive, adversely affecting property values  and cash flows since the dotcom bust.
breedlove foods, inc. produced the line of products in freeze-dried form,  packaged in sealed plastic pouches.
the case is brief and the day-to-day life of the cloistered carmelite monks should capture the interest of students.
they bring appropriate emotional timbre to their classrooms and  interactions with students and colleagues.
y ¿cómo podría aumentar la rentabilidad de la empresa y consolidar su posición competitiva?
despite consuming 20 million trees  and transporting over a million tons of books each year, textbook suppliers had  demonstrated little if any innovation in the past century.
the figure, malverde, is well known as  ´the saint of drug traffickers.
this is a rather obscure industry providing a product that we all take for granted without much thought.
alicia victima del agiotismo del sistema informal del microcrédito, puede darle un giro a la realidad de estas comunidades en el tema de microcrédito.
with the growing patient base of dr. abdul-aziz, he has the opportunity to leave with his patients and establish a new independent practice.
were the dividends and share repurchases likely to continue?
the idea of “mutual  housing” was based on a european residential model which provided  permanent housing to anyone who was motivated to meet the obligations and  challenges associated with homeownership.
© 2009 by oliver abel.
the case reviews the  company’s presence in belize, the environmental impact studies, and the  activities of the engos during 2001.
students can discuss the pros and  cons of each choice and determine which is right for entercom communications.
in 2008, as sullivan tried to implement a new strategy, economic recession  hit retailers hard.
in a rainy day of february 2008, heriberto gómez, general manager and shareholder of distribuciones canarias, s.a. (discasa) was trying to organize his ideas, develop arguments and draw conclusions to be able to defend his new and ambitious strategy for the company at the next meeting of the board of directors.
tomorrow he would fly to vancouver to make a  presentation to a jury of venture capitalists, bankers and ceos as a finalist  in the new venture bc competition on the commercial viability of a new  technology.
past funding opportunities proved to be unsuccessful; funding sources were withdrawn, unorganized, and ineffective.
nandu, a lowly uneducated maintenance worker at the plant is witness to the toxic nightmare unleashed by poisonous mic gas fumes on the night of 3rd december, 1984.
it is, however, recommended for advanced rather than basic or introductory courses.
case synopsis this case concerns amazon.com’s marketing strategy  for the e-reader, the kindle-dx.
contact person: nancy m. levenburg, seidman college of business, grand valley state university, 441-c devos center, 401 fulton street, grand rapids, mi 49504, 616-331-7475,levenbun@gvsu.edu.
lisa eshbach, college of business, ferris state university, 119 south street – bus212, big rapids, mi 49307, 248-910-2825,zle4@earthlink.net case objective this case describes how the management of guildcraft furniture, a manufacturing company, is confronted by the immediate challenge of having its principal disposal method discontinued thereby forcing the choice of changing product design or finding alternative means for scrap disposition.
faced with an economic crisis at  home, beth was forced to reduce her budget in 2009 to accommodate the down  turn; however, the needs in the camp are growing as ever before.
el tercer  objetivo es introducir los elementos básicos de los mercados de  capitales y los instrumentos financieros disponibles para el inversor.
the case places a particular focus on the toyota production system (tps) and scanlon management system.
this case is intended to help students recognize factors that suggest re-evaluation of a brand.
after  studying the case, students should be able to:·         analyze the impact of a credit  rating firm’s actions on multiple stakeholders;·         apply the concept of  “conflict of interest” to a particular fact situation and propose  strategies to eliminate or reduce that conflict of interest;·         evaluate the respective  responsibility of credit rating agencies and their executives, home buyers,  mortgage lenders, investment bankers, government regulators, policymakers, and  investors for the financial crisis of 2008; and·         formulate an appropriate  strategy for society to protect investors’ interests with respect to the  integrity of the credit rating system.
at the conclusion of the case, students should be able to offer recommendations to improve the monks’ approach to crafting and executing strategy.
the case describes a story focused on europe and india.
the case focuses on the decision of abdul-aziz to remain with the group and try to change people, philosophies, and procedures or to separate and establish a new practice where he can implement the professional systems with properly trained and supervised staff, guided by his own philosophy of service and medicine and unfettered by his current environment.
case synopsis winston kwok-keung auyeung, managing director of personal banking for bao  an bank of hong kong, has the opportunity to distributeminibonds, to  his retail banking and wealth management customers.
production & operations bjr wood manufacturing:
he wanted to sell water in bottles made from local biomass, with the used bottle waste separated, up-cycled and allowed to biodegrade and support new plant-life and sources of biomass.
the pastor at hilltop baptist church called to report his suspicions of embezzlement by the church’s long-time bookkeeper.
la propiedad se  localizaba 15 km al este de la  ciudad de burdeos.
students are asked to assume the role of charla brown, director of human resources at backcountry.com.
this allows for the case to be discussed from several angles and to tie in various aspects of a marketing strategy such as the 4ps (product, price, place & promotion) and the 5cs (company, customers, competitors, collaborators, context).
while college bars have tried various tactics to  attract more students, which often means pulling students away from  competitors, paul and luke feel that there may be an opportunity to change the  nature of their bar to attract local residents.
it has also  been used in an undergraduate case competition.
the case discusses the travails of four brothers as they discover various conflicts within the medical system and their impact on the delivery of cardiovascular care.
the case  focuses on the ceo of a us-based japanese subsidiary who is confronted with a  situation that, while not illegal, runs counter his personal ethics.
case synopsis este caso presenta a alicia meneses líder  comunitaria desde hace 20 años en el distrito de aguablanca en  cali-colombia.
all rights are reserved to the  author and nacra.ó 2009 by stuart rosenberg.
with the structured approach, the instructor can select questions relating to  the specific topic of interest (e.g. branding) and assign those questions,  followed by class discussion.
they also agreed to manage the adjacent montana silversmiths outlet, which sold silver jewelry, rodeo trophy buckles, and other western products.
improper supervision  of filing has caused slowdown and embarrassment with patients.
values, in this instance maximizing nutrition versus consumer tastes.
when it became evident that steve did not desire to continue at  sra, a sale of the firm became the only viable alternative for the family.
the length of time required to get  the clearance (i.e. 6-8 weeks) often results in candidates being hired by  sodexo and then subsequently quitting before their first shift in order to seek  employment elsewhere.
lois and mary (m&l) started the business in 1997.
students are expected to recommend how circle 6 should proceed from this crisis situation in may 2004 based on the appropriate theories, models and their own experiences.
another important  issue is that these long-time marriage and business partners have different  levels of emotional connection to the business and are not united on what  should be the store’s future.
the case deals with a crucial decision the ceo of national pipe & plastics (np&p) has to make, namely whether he should remain passive and let the japanese corporate owners of np&p file for chapter 11 as part of a sale to a private equity firm.
however, she had cost and asset reduction options and friends who were supportive and gave her advice.
the case describes how the company's aim was to “capture” both the gdp shift moving towards the east and new sources in the asia pacific, including the development of business models.
in response to these upcoming transitions the board initiated a strategic planning exercise that decided the organization would be restructured into a “two-headed” model with an artistic director responsible for programming and a general manager responsible for the business operations both reporting to the board.
father prior had identified a  nearby ranch for sale that met the requirements of his vision perfectly, but  its current listing price of $8.9 million presented a financial obstacle to  creating a place of prayer, worship, and solitude in the rockies.
edwards university case objective the case shows students how theft can occur even with a proper system of  internal controls.
halcyon hired a local web design firm to design the website which won the american graphic design award for 2008.
questions and decisions for the reader to discuss involve the affiliation  with amazon.com, the need for additional time and marketing investment, and the  likelihood of increasing the performance of the business.
the case challenges students to develop a retrenchment strategy, a common business experience.
in the summer of 2001, noble systems has reached a critical decision point.
case synopsis by may 2009, new zealand businessman and good water ceo,  grant hall, was one year into his five year plan to achieve his nirvana vision  of a closed loop system.
the question also arises; is it more appropriate to use a business model based on marketing principles or production efficiencies in a charitable, not-for-profit environment?
most clients rented the household items with the possibility of buying them in the future.
greg knew that his team was anxious about the prospect of hiring more food service workers in order to deal with the anticipated increase in the number of customers served.
fsfb had obtained the rights to distribute the products in the eastern half of the united states.
most not for  profits face such problems even in the best of times.
as a consequence, it was left to the school board, and its charismatic president, joe mcheffey, to determine how to proceed with the school budget in the face of a hostile community.
objectives are: to develop a logical approach to accounting-oriented  decision-making usingstatement of financial accounting concepts no. 2,  to apply analytical auditing procedures to a business with a high level of  student familiarity, and to design a set of control procedures that minimize  future obsolete inventory.
this case can be considered for use in the mba basic marketing course with sales force management as a theme or in a specialized elective on sales/ distribution management.
by then, local  firms were closing, and river bend trading’s sales were declining.
copyright © 2009 by anne t. lawrence.
gvv, developed  by dr. mary gentile, aspen institute center for business education and the yale  school of management, enables students to develop strategies for handling  situations where an organization’s values are in conflict with their own.
nandu  collapses on the floor of his one room unit after vainly trying to revive his  dead brother and unconscious sister- in- law.
©artem meshcheryakov and christopher cassidy.
the case was written for business school courses where decision-making processes, cost-benefit analyses and capital budgeting are studied.
the case is best used in a  banking course with students who are familiar with traditional commercial  banking and banks’ expansion into retail wealth management services.
© 2009 anne peacock  peacock@itesm.mx moody’s credit ratings and the subprime  mortgage meltown anne t. lawrence, san jose state university case objective this descriptive case explores the role of a leading  credit rating agency in the financial crisis of 2008.
the officer informed albright she had been convicted of embezzlement but was being arrested because of a probation violation.
the case is suitable for use in  organizational behavior, human resource management, and strategy classes at the  mba and executive education levels.
turn  it around or go down tom hinthorne & patricia holman montana state university-billings case objective the case should enable students to: (1) learn how to manage a turnaround  strategy – retrenchment and recovery.
contact person: marlene m. reed, hankamer school of business, baylor university, one bear place #98006, waco, tx 76798-8006, (254) 710-4868, marlene_reed@baylor.edu case objective the purpose of this case is three-fold.
some of these  strategies include the amount of $180 million in bond funds this year for  drought relief to assist water management projects, legislation to reduce  per-capita water usage, public education programs, finalized standards for  recycling water, preparation of a contingency plan, and the preparation of  status reports.
la minerva was a small business without sufficient resources to conduct a  publicity campaign for their latest beer and the controversy provoked by the  name provided publicity that the company needed but could not afford.
para el año 2006, manuel y el equipo comercial en su conjunto se cuestionan el modelo de negocio, buscando romper paradigmas que les permitiera lograr una mayor penetración del servicio aéreo.
liberty pantry products brett r. smith & david w. rosenthal,  miami university case objective this case addresses the concepts of social entrepreneurship in the  environment of hunger in america.
from  the outset, raventós i blanc’s vision was to be the benchmark for  premium cavas and wines, emphasising the quality of its strong viticultural  roots, which meant it could produce high quality wines and cavas with grapes  exclusively from its own vineyards.
this case has been written for use in  undergraduate and postgraduate classes in strategic management, social and  environmental entrepreneurship, and environmental management and  sustainability.
for the first twenty months pete successfully navigates the whirlpool of the retail gourmet coffee industry via the use ofcustomer relationship management and innovation promotional strategies.
this case allows students to value possible acquisition targets using common corporate finance methods, discounted cash flow and comparable multiples.
the course can also be used in an executive education program.
the project was not without  its problems or detractors.
wendlandt proposed to divert assets from corporate bonds to government bonds, even if it meant foregoing higher short-term returns.
headquartered north of boston, the company comprises a world-class team of serial entrepreneurs and veteran engineers including over 30 phds, making innovations for high-growth markets and serving customers worldwide.
in the last several years, the college has been able to attract a quality academic student.
on a part time basis, he also directed two films and wrote a proposal for a tv sitcom.
the case demonstrates how a client’s business and its environment affect the identification of inherent risks related to inventory.
this descriptive case explores the role of a leading credit rating agency in the financial crisis of 2008.
after studying the case, students should be able to:· analyze the impact of a credit rating firm’s actions on multiple stakeholders;· apply the concept of “conflict of interest” to a particular fact situation and propose strategies to eliminate or reduce that conflict of interest;· evaluate the respective responsibility of credit rating agencies and their executives, home buyers, mortgage lenders, investment bankers, government regulators, policymakers, and investors for the financial crisis of 2008; and· formulate an appropriate strategy for society to protect investors’ interests with respect to the integrity of the credit rating system.
share  repurchases, or both?
por otro lado,  era preciso revisar el comportamiento y motivaciones de la persona que viajaba  en el país, dado que por ejemplo se tenía que el principal motivo  de viaje por avión era por trabajo
emerging signals in the financial markets pointed towards an uncertain future.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29- october 31, 2009.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, ca.
if uv bulb components were not handled properly, they may cause harmful effects, such as blindness or death.
dr. abdul-aziz has been  with the group for about five years, but has been disappointed in how the  practice is managed.
© 2009 by  lisa eshbach and lester  sutherland.
dan expects the firm to be debt-free by the end of the year except for normal short-term payables.
© 2009 by  andrés terech, javier j. silva, and maria barale.
first, it is to portray the trajectory of don francis, a scientist, an advocate, and a social entrepreneur in the meanders of the public, private and non-profit sectors in the quest for the an aids vaccine.
how do our decisions and the decisions of companies which we work for or where we shop impact others all around the globe?
the purpose of the case is to provide students with a better understanding of  us life insurance companies and how they operate.
the ceo and chairman of the board, jon eriksson though is focused on the stockholders and his dedication to their needs.
also, local cody, wyoming business owners had  begun a foundation for those wishing to donate to the monk’s cause.
furthermore,  this case is designed so students can evaluate the relationship between  strategic mission, brand image and associations, and perceptions of the target  market.
results were mixed, but in november 2008 the board  had to decide if the new general manager should be hired under the assumption  that student interns would be part of the vci organizational structure.
students are encouraged to use several  levels of critical thinking skills and theoretical frameworks to develop and  evaluate alternatives and recommend the best course of action.
contact person: mark julien, faculty of business, brock university, 500 glenridge avenue, st. catharines, on, canada, l2s 3a1, 905-688-5550 ext.
he had also threatened to delay  product shipment to the united states if his conditions were left unmet.
in 2008, trelleborg automotive (ta) was the largest rubber non-tire manufacturer in the world, and its automotive business segment represented 30 percent of its net sales.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra ) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
estonian air’s big buy karen popovich, diane lander  & robert letovskysaint michael’s college case objective the case gives students a chance to build a decision model, either manually  or using basic excel formulas, to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of  four possible alternatives involving an aircraft acquisition.
at issue  was that oxigene developed a technology platform with multiple product  applications, each of which required significant resources.
dan, sr. and 29-year-old son daniel will have to make decisions regarding the investments.
a main concern was whether estonian air’s passengers would  look upon turboprops as a step backwards for the airline.
this “living case” describes an ongoing effort within the firm.
the  library was viewed as obese in comparison to other public libraries –  there was a lot of duplication of efforts.
nurses and reception staff
this case was written for a class session on organizational culture in an introductoryorganizational behavior course and can be used in undergraduate, graduate, and executiveclasses.
the company’s expansion into men’s and children’s wear provides an example of straying from the perceived target market with dire results.
contact person: dean schroeder,valparaiso  university, college of business administration, 1909 chapel drive, valparaiso,  in, 46383, (219) 464-8133, dean.schroeder@valpo.edu raventós i blanc at a crossroads josep franch,  xavier gimbert & josep lluís canoesade business  school case objective the “raventós i blanc at a crossroads” case study was  designed to be used in a strategy (or competitive strategy) course and/or in an  international (or global marketing) course.
contact person: tucker j. marion, northeastern university, 360  huntington ave.
the job is given to her junior, satish verma who is less qualified  and experienced than her.
con datos modificados para salvaguardar la  confidencialidad.
case synopsis marcia warner became the grand rapids public library (grpl) director in 2005.
issues that are discussed include: cross-cultural relations, global effectiveness, global entrepreneurship, human resources, leadership, organizational development, and business strategy.
in the context of its profit-making orientation, scc raises questions  about the theory of the firm and to whom an organization should be responsible.
deciding on an enterprise search platform or product’ cases as a unit in new product development across several different technology-based industries.
the case can be used in the section of the course dealing with stakeholder relations.
jerry’s frustration with the situation was evident as  he threw an expensive theodolite against a tree, destroying the device.
copyright 2009 by arthur sharplin.
the year before, the company had been bought by liberty media, a large holding company of businesses like expedia, ticketmaster, and the qvc home-shopping network.
on february  27, 2009 governor schwarzenegger proclaimed a state of emergency due to drought  conditions.
the strategy entailed reinstituting the mission into core operations.
this case challenges students to examine the balance between abbott’s moral responsibilities as the producer of a potent life-saving drug and the firm’s obligations to maximize the wealth of its shareholders.
but the  relationship was riddled with challenges.
gabriel noussan iae business school case objective este caso permite comprender importancia que tiene realizar una adecuada planificación de las finanzas personales y familiares.
guildcraft now thinks of itself as a green manufacturer, but the question remains if such a moniker is appropriate vis-à-vis u.s. environmental protection agency definitions.
the authors developed the case for classroom discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
like many entrepreneurs, pete wilson is challenged with developing and implementing a number of changes in order to restore the customer base of coffee grounds.
the vna has a headquarters location and four branch locations that need it  systems and communications.
it was  designed for undergraduate courses in production and operations management, but  is also well suited for a senior business strategy course that includes  quantitative and qualitative decision making.
case synopsis manuel van oordt era el gerente central de ventas y marketing de lan perú s.a. , empresa que había iniciado operaciones en el perú en el año 1999, aunque ya venía operando en chile, país de origen, desde el año 30.
how should grant develop his business, good water,  and the wider good water project?
francisco j. lópez lubián, instituto de empresa, madrid, spain, c/ castellón de la plana, 8.fco.lubian@ie.edu.
en octubre del año 2008, alfredo ruiz cumpliría tres años y 10 meses de ser el primer y único productor latino en la zona y con la alegría de ver su sueño hecho realidad, poseer y operar un viñedo en francia, reflexionaba: “en los últimos años el mercado del vino ha cambiado y se ha vuelto muy competido.
© 2008 by maureen laporte and mary  kay sullivan.
avenida ramón corona  2514.
on a  part time basis, he also directed two films and wrote a proposal for a tv  sitcom.
but while they generate benefits to individuals, investors and society at large, a large subset of the world’s population in need of their healing benefits cannot afford them.
cynthia ingols,  simmons school of management, 300 the fenway, boston ma 02115, 617-521-3837,  cynthia.ingols@simmons.edu finance & economics amdata software china ltd.: sell now or later?
the video is available on youtube at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s65viaklmnyor from the case authors.
© 2009  by matthew levy and gerald m. myers.
case synopsis southwest creations collaborative (scc) is a non-profit social enterprise organized to promote employability and enable the financial independence of immigrant spanish-speaking women in albuquerque, new mexico.
amazon has partnered with some universities and textbook publishers to offer a pilot program in the coming academic year to test the responsiveness of this market.
contact person:  michael tansey, helzberg school of  management, rockhurst university, 5225 troost, kansas city, mo. 64110, at phone  number, 913-485-7550, and email address,michael.tansey@rockhurst.edu.
in this case, a counter offer only makes sense if the strategic analysis indicates that there is a chance for the company to prosper in the future.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association [nacra] for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz ca.
the author developed the case for  class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective  handling of the situation.
case objective this case is suitable for use at the undergraduate or mba level in not-for-profit management courses, as well as executive education classes for boards of directors and arts managers.
case synopsis with the deteriorating environment and declining natural resources, many  green alternative materials have been proposed to meet the increasing demand  for sustainable housing.
established in 1989 as a non-profit organization by  jossy eyre, the women’s bean project (wbp) is dedicated to assisting  women break the cycle of poverty and alleviate the problem chronic unemployment  among the underprivileged and underserved women in the community.
case synopsis the growth of environmental awareness has accelerated in recent years  resulting in the growth of consumer demand for “green” products,  which are products that result in or are produced with less environmental  damage than traditional products.
ingresar al mercado de la televisión de pago.
the case requires that students:• gain an understanding of the technology development process in firms that are not market facing, and how these types of firms differ from traditional firms where voice of the customer and marketing occur up-front during development.• develop the skills/expertise required to look at the organization and determine what strategies might be employed to reduce the number of project on hiatus.
contact person: john melnyk, business and administration department, the university of winnipeg, 515 portage avenue, winnipeg, mb canada r3b 2e9,
el caso muestra también el efecto que tubo la decisión de telefónica chile de entrar al mercado de la televisión de pago, sobre los diferentes actores, tanto de la industria de telecomunicaciones como de la industria de televisión de pago.
higher prices  were charged in more developed/high income countries such as the united states.
case synopsis irascible louisiana blacksmith artist/man of many  functions jerry sharplin wanted to retire from the lodging business he had  built from scratch.
© 2009 by philip glasgo and shelly webb.
the idea of “mutual housing” was based on a european residential model which provided permanent housing to anyone who was motivated to meet the obligations and challenges associated with homeownership.
so they have lived in  anticipation, if not fear, of sudden death.
case synopsis laird pfizer was a senior software engineer at circle 6  in january 2004 who wrestled with the development of a memo to all company  employees about the crisis involving the entire board and management expressing  their intention to resign from the company.
in taiwan, many small suppliers have been affected as their local industrial customers have migrated to china.
the primary case objective is to enable students to evaluate the mutual’s future and decide whether the board should pull the plug or continue with its commitment to provide affordable housing and other social programs for its low income members.
the case requires students to ponder a decision of personal ethics based on  a solid understanding of the industry and the company.
©2009 by alain giraud and nancy m. levenburg.
in 2008, the  average sat score of entering freshman was 1320.
the  product technology for the company is reasonably simple and, at the graduate  level especially, the case could be used for an introductory class in which  students are led to focus more broadly than “on the numbers”.
the case details operations of a college bookstore, the bookstore cooperative, and focuses on valuation and timing of obsolete textbook write-downs, retail inventory accounting and flawed inventory controls.
o negocios, en contraste con el total de la población que viajaba principalmente a visitar familiares y por bus.
the acquisition of the retail chain, j.  jill, offers opportunities to assess the merits of acquisitions that result in  a significant debt burden.
the purpose of this case study is to present  students enough information to make a decision on water conservation, more  specifically in respect to the question of clean drinking water wasted to flush  urinals.
the figure, malverde, is well known as ´the saint of drug traffickers.
the coffee roaster used to produce packaged coffee sold to catholic consumers at the mystic monk coffee website could produce up to five times more coffee than what was sold in 2008.
ó cathy mccann and mark julien.
contact person: william naumes, memorial  university of newfoundland, canada rsexty @mun.ca heaven help us aundrea kay guess & carolyn connst.
internships at  virtuosi concerts john melnyk & tristan friesen the university of winnipeg case objective this case is suitable for use at the undergraduate or  mba level in not-for-profit management courses, as well as executive education  classes for boards of directors and arts managers.
if the properties were to be sold, what might be appropriate prices and terms?
the dam would contribute to the economic development of the country by meeting the increasing demand from industry and consumers for electricity.
to  this point, the company had received $6.2 million in venture capital funding  with commitments for more investments, and already had three clients.
what can the firm do to meet the strategic goals in the most cost effective manner?
it had become the issue of highest concern to khl top management that they appointed a team of consultants from a top notch marketing and advertising school in the city to study and recommend solutions.
the case deepens the knowledge of students regarding valuation.
esto que es algo normal en directivos  anglosajones es, sin embargo, un elemento muy descuidado por parte de sus pares  latinoamericanos.
students are introduced to the effects of rapid market changes on demand for textbook inventory and the effects of obsolescence on financial statements.
although he had decided to use 30 percent of  his profits to improve the citizens’ standard of living, he did not have  a clear strategy for accomplishing this goal.
in addition to investigating the effect of life cycles  on circle 6, students are asked to examine the external/ internal forces on the  firm and how/why the crisis developed in order to prevent its demise.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis  were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research  association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october  29-31, 2009.
the mission is achieved through a combination of employment and personal growth opportunities.
© 2009 by linda nowak, armand gilinsky … contact person: linda nowak, sonoma state university, linda.nowak@sonoma.edu case objective the case and teaching notes were written to be used in marketing classes – principles, new product development, strategy or product/brand.
could nextblok become the next market leader in framing materials, surpassing wood, steel and concrete?
collectively the cases represent a wide spectrum of health care issues:  professional responsibility and its limitations, genetic testing and its  application, end-of-life issues and the application of health care to the  enhancement of human performance and appearance.
in less than  four years of operation, the company had lost its first two winemakers to local  competitors.
it can be employed in the subjective areas of international business and business ethics at both undergraduate and graduate levels to gain insights about multinational operations, their policies and its subsequent implications in terms of safety regulations, environmental issues and corporate code of ethics and social accountability and cross cultural issues.
rebecca treadway, maryville college, 502 east lamar alexander parkway, maryville, tn 37804-5907, 865-604-6749, rebecca.treadway@maryvillecollege.edu case objective these case materials describe and invite strategy recommendations on positioning and rivalry on the global offshoring information technology services industry with special reference to india and the united states, the teaching objectives are to: analyze the evolution and dynamics of a modern global service industry; distinguish positioning and differentiation within and between groups of players in different continents with shared customers; anticipate the behavior of players and competitive interplays as well as the overall structure of the evolving industry; and introduce students to an industry that has lifted millions of destitute people to an attractive standard of living while building wealth for residents of technically more advanced nations.
el objetivo del caso es ilustrar los  diversos aspectos que se deben considerar en  este tipo de proyectos, con  especial énfasis en el análisis de la viabilidad y rentabilidad  económica y en la gestión de riesgos.
prior to assigning the  case.
students come to understand the prominence and pervasiveness the mission statement can have on company operations and on profitability.
these products were manufactured to be handled, installed and repaired by  specialized technicians.
thus, it can be used for classroom  discussion after the relevant chapters in standard textbooks like  ross/westerfield/jaffe/jordan, corporate finance, or brealey/myers, principles  of corporate finance, have been discussed.
after preliminary negotiations, including a demand by the japanese company to state the business sale amount in u.s. dollars, the initial $2.5 million offer was raised to $5.5 million.
©2009 by dave noreen and deborah r.  ettington.
reardon pallet company  – sustaining growth marilyn l. taylor & nick grunauer,  university of missouri at kansas citychi anyansi-archibong,  north carolina a&t state university case objective this case is useful for demonstrating how financial investments decisions  are often decisions about strategic changes or signal strategy changes to  competitors and customers.
en particular la compañía se enfrenta al  desafío de
the clinic is beset with problems of lack of supervision, failure to exert effective controls, lack of leadership, and conflicting personalities.
este es el momento crucial en la vida de alicia y la decisión que debe tomar al final del caso, se refiere al mensaje que ella pronunciará en el panel de inauguración.
this case is intended for senior undergraduate and advanced graduate courses in financial accounting and finance where financial statement recasting and business valuation topics are taught.
the semi-mobile  mill was developed to move the processing of sugar cane into ethanol closer to  the fields where the sugar cane was grown.
the decision they face in summer 2001 is: where  will they get their future business?
all three grew up with parents or grandparents who hailed from other countries.
case synopsis omar bros, a native dominican, had a dream of using 30 percent of the  profits from his new semi-mobile mill to improve the standard of living of the  haitian immigrants who lived in the slum areas known as “bateyes”  in the mata de palma region of the dominican republic.
this case is designed to provoke questions regarding: (a) the philosophical underpinnings of lean; (b) the practical implications of how the values of those implementing lean affects the tools selected, and (c) the impact of lean implementation on an organization.
three partners bought rent tex in 2001 for investment  purposes.
the case frames chin and oxigene’s strategic options — continue to diversify from oncology to ophthalmology, spin off their ophthalmology product candidates into a new company, or license their ophthalmology another company (e.g., small biotech, large multinational biopharmaceutical).
applicable concepts illustrated include procedures for: transaction authorization and recording, segregation of duties, custody of cash, and physical protection of assets.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting,santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2009.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer  reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra)
although pete believes in the free enterprise system and fair competition, he eventually faces a big decision after he learns that starbucks will be locating within one block of his bistro.
it raises the possibility of sharing intellectual property and working with competitors, to promote catalytic innovation.
halcyon hired a local web design  firm to design the website which won the american graphic design award for 2008.
contact person:  arthur sharplin, bentley college center  for business ethics, p. o. box 30260, austin, tx  78755-3260,  512-415-1427, asharplin@aol.com.
lo interesante es que esto  último se produce desde la óptica del inversor (en este caso el  estudiante) lo que genera un aprendizaje “interesado” por parte de  este último.
¨ the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
shenzhen filtroil: finding balance gerry yemen & lynn isabelladarden school of  business university of virginia case objective this case can be used to exemplify the challenges of changing a u.s.-based  company into a global competitor.
© 2009 anne peacock peacock@itesm.mx case objective
despite the obvious  benefits, the products had generated limited demand.
by analyzing and discussing the case, students should be able to: (1) develop a greater understanding of the wine industry and the challenges facing small wineries in an extremely competitive environment, (2) effectively use a swot analysis to analyze the company’s resources, customers, competitors, and external market factors, (3) effectively develop screening criteria to evaluate opportunities, (4) know what market segmentation is and how to segment product markets into submarkets, (5) know the relationship between differentiation, positioning, and targeting, and (6) be able to develop strategic recommendations that are supported with sound theory and market information.
after 20 years of  product development, travel, and security prospectus reviews, peter realized  that something was missing from his life.
and, if so, in what time frame?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
an opportunity for financial and non-financial  analyses of the options is provided.
sarah either had  to turn a blind eye towards a trusted employee’s illegal activities or to  report her trusted employee’s wrongdoings to uphold her duty as a trusted  manager of the company.
case objective this case is an illustration of the ethical dilemma that sarah manager underwent as former manager of an indoor air quality wholesale company called high quality-iaq ultraviolet products (hq-iaq uv).
case synopsis this is a decision based case written from the point of view of the chief  executive officer (ceo) who was attending the march 2008 asia pacific partner  conference of a major u.s. software vendor.
all rights reserved to the author  and nacra.
it asks how management and the board should respond to financial problems brought on by reductions in funding sources.
[nacra] for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, chaminade resort &  spa, santa cruz ca.
it was management’s duty to protect the longevity and  financial strength of the firm, so that it could continue to pay policyholder  claims, distribute payments from annuities, and issue dividends.
745-3595,glasgo@xavier.edu case objective this case is centrally designed for use in a bio-ethics segment or class which is part of a pre-med or medical program.
the case could also be used in courses in ethics, entrepreneurship, and  hospitality management.
case synopsis this field researched case focused on a small town long-standing department store.
in  deciding the issue, winston kwok must consider not only matching the risk  appetite of clients but also the ability of clients to understand the  complexities of the minibonds.
©2009 by barb reimbold  and nancy m. levenburg.
case objective this case presents the thought process of a wall street executive considering moving to a traditional corporate treasury position or establishing an entrepreneurial chocolate manufacturing/retailing enterprise.
as a result, the local business owners had been forced to take action.
© 2009 by raymond h. lopez, lubin school of business, pace university, 1 martine avenue, white plains, ny, 914 422 4165 rlopez@pace.edu case objective this case study deals with discounted cash flow valuation for an initial public offering (ipo).
when asked to address medical students about locating and sizing a practice, he realized there were many considerations that he would like to have thought through before he set up his practice.
the case requires students to ponder a decision of personal ethics based on a solid understanding of the industry and the company.
portia, ronald’s wife is hired to manage exi‘s finances and administrative services and ronald’s personal friend, jason henry, becomes exi’s sales manager.
the ceo knows it is his responsibility to call the leadership team together  and devise a plan that will enable the vna to continue to support their many  stakeholders.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously  peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate  either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
contact person: rebecca grant, faculty  of business, university of victoria, po box 1700, stn csc, victoria bc, v8n  2z4, canada, (250)
reluctantly he agreed and for more than a decade became an integral component  of operating management as well as critical business strategic decisions.
case objective the case is designed to introduce finance students to similarities and differences between analyzing financial statements of for-profit corporations and not-for-profit quasi-governmental agencies using tank, a regional bus service serving three counties in northern kentucky as the not-for profit.
thus students are challenged to make connections across the individual cases and, where appropriate, to test the adequacy ethical theories, professional standards, public policy guidelines and personal values.
and, if so, should estonian purchase regional jets or new model turboprops?
tiene aplicabilidad en cursos de responsabilidad social empresarial (rse), agro-negocios, estrategia de marketing y de negocio , gestión de marcas, innovación, emprendimiento y de negocios y marketing en base de la pirámide (bop).
success to date and will arguably be essential to continued growth and success.
reid’s challenge was to explain  this new technology in a comprehensible fashion and to convince the jury of the  economic viability of applying this technology to the forest industry.
case objective this case can be used to exemplify the challenges of changing a u.s.-based company into a global competitor.
carpenter also knows that the plan is not on the shelf and it must be created immediately by carpenter and his leadership team.
the village has 6 bars, all of which are within walking distance of the college.
the case illustrates the challenges faced by typical start-up businesses.
since the ceo considered this to be immoral he pondered buying the company himself.
gordon von stroh or vi narapareddy, daniels college of business, dcb 455, university of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co 80208,gvonstro@du.edu or vnarapar@du.edu.
the  company grew to 35–40 university accounts (including several of the  largest university systems in the country), 12–15 employees, and revenues  of $354,000 in the first half of 2001.
case synopsis sam ryan came to austin, texas in 2007 to stay with his aunt mary in the  courtyard while he earned his mba.
el tratamiento del caso hace evidente la necesidad de  contar con una comprensión básica del funcionamiento de los  mercados de capitales y de los diversos instrumentos de inversión, por  lo cual se convierte en un elemento inspirador del aprendizaje de finanzas.
© 2009 by karen popovich, diane lander & robert  letovsky..
sitting at  his desk, he faced critical decisions in terms of staffing.
mod was particularly alarmed  that prematurity and low birth weights were not being considered as important  as they had been in the past.
management faced  multiple, interrelated challenges in each stage of the emerging crisis.
he had to  consider all foreseeable impacts of purchasing any new aircraft on estonian  air’s cost structure and bottom line.
it highlights the lack of market facing resources in the development process and asks the students to recommend strategies to improve the process and business strategy.
in 2000, they moved to a more attractive location.
© 2009 by hugh grove and tom cook.
however, he felt that the future growth of the company would depend on his being able to steer team computers from a sales oriented to a marketing oriented organization.
the technology was funded via phase i and ii  grants for a proposed nasa application.
changing the way houses are built stephen j.j. mcguire & gordon bagotcalifornia state  university, los angeles case objective the case can be used to provide a broad overview of the challenges of  entrepreneurship – even given a great product idea in an attractive  market.
while these teachers differ along demographic factors such as gender, race and ethnic background, they also exhibit remarkably similar behaviors in how they teach and lead in their schools.
the fledgling company he had founded desperately needed money to move the technology from the laboratory to commercial applications.
cohen attempted to avoid embarrassing joe in front of others but felt she must  address the issue directly.
it can be used in classes on corporate finance, financial management or valuation.
© 2009 by hugh thomas, the chinese  university of hong kong, shatin, n.t., hong kong 852-26097649 hugh-thomas@cuhk.edu.hk distribuciones canarias, s.a. (discasa)
contact person: rebecca grant, faculty of business, university of victoria, po box 1700, stn csc, victoria bc, v8n 2z4, canada, (250)
specific case objectives  include:  (1) illustrate issues and challenges associated with miterfold  construction, including core competency strategic fit analysis; (2) compare and  contrast existing and potential miterfold capabilities; (3) evaluate various  manufacturing equipment replacement options for miterfold construction; and (4)  develop potential implementation options for an equipment replacement decision.
specific case objectives include: (1) illustrate issues and challenges associated with miterfold construction, including core competency strategic fit analysis; (2) compare and contrast existing and potential miterfold capabilities; (3) evaluate various manufacturing equipment replacement options for miterfold construction; and (4) develop potential implementation options for an equipment replacement decision.
what is the ecological impact?
his primary duty as executive director was to provide guidance and advice to pastors of smba churches, to help them expand, and to assist in establishing new churches.
the case shows how pete grows and  sustains coffee grounds via the use of innovative customer service, a continual  assessment of his value chain,  a careful analysis of local and nation  demographics relative to gourmet coffee drinkers, and a creative use of  promotional tactics such associal networking.
it could also be used in similarly  oriented training programs for marketing executives.
they also had created a development platform using aie as its base (embedded aie), which focused on the innovative user and oem markets.
some analysts raised issue with costco’s  approach.
they also agreed to manage the adjacent montana silversmiths  outlet, which sold silver jewelry, rodeo trophy buckles, and other western  products.
it was founded in 1991 by harry strub, a  psychology professor who served as its executive director.
benetech was founded as a  “low-profit” company using a market approach to ensuring the  development of technology.
he was considering either a treasury position with a corporation or unleashing his entrepreneurial instincts and starting a new business.
the high rise buildings that the investors planned to build  might also present a threat to the unique wind pattern for which cabarete was  known.
to analyze various financial accounting adjustments and reclassifications in recasting the company’s financial accounting system to international financial reporting standards (ifrs) for a possible initial public offering (ipo).
the  committee for a sustainable cabarete had a big task ahead of it and had to  decide whether to approach the government again or seek another course of  action.
the case beckons the questions – should shareholders be considered the most important stakeholder group?
este hito  generó un cambio en el mercado de la televisión de pago tanto en  la forma de competir de los participantes como en las ofertas y promociones  realizadas hasta ese momento.
all three divisions b-sbu: le sante,  pharma and irm pharma were adversely affected.
in this approach, the students should not be prompted on specific issues, but rather allow them to develop a swot or environmental analysis to discover for themselves the critical issues affecting the firm.
eugene allevato, woodbury  university, 7500 glenoaks blvd, burbank, ca 91510, 818-252-5148 eugene.allevato@woodbury.edu cabarete and the fight for  sustainability ashley allen, sarah margaret davis, kinsey  fletcher, anne elise robertson,baylor university marlene m. reed, baylor university, faculty supervisor case objective this case recounts the dilemma of business owners of a small tourist town  named cabarete on the northern shore of the dominican republic.
it exposes  them to related issues, like, organization design for sales management;  theories/ approaches of motivating sales force; role of top management in  building employee commitment; ‘head office–field’ relations;  the critical role of immediate boss; and so on.
contact person: susan d. peters, director, center for entrepreneurship, francis marion university, po box 100547, florence, sc 29502, 843-661-1102, speters@fmarion.edu case objective the case describes the launch and marketing of a new generation model of an e-reader, a product category that has still not diffused into the main stream marketplace.
charla has to decide how to repeat her annual fourth quarter  task of hiring hundreds of new employees within a few months while at the same  time ensuring that backcountry’s unique culture remains intact.
as a result, emily’s sales commissions  decreased significantly, which resulted in economic hardship.
to the extent  that customers rely solely on the advice of his sales team to purchase  investments which they do not understand, the bank may incur liability  detrimental to its profitability and future reputation.
however, its performance still lagged far behind staples’ net profits.
it is the year 2006 and events manager g.t. finds that she has been bypassed for the top job of creative director.
the case is most appropriate for courses in strategic financial management, financial statement analysis, and financial instruments.
case synopsis as china keeps growing at an unprecedented rate, many neighbouring asian countries are threatened by its expanding economic influence.
by then, local firms were closing, and river bend trading’s sales were declining.
costco did not follow suit.
case objective this disguised case is a real situation used to provide undergraduate and graduate students with an opportunity to make practical application of sound management principles within a small pediatric medical practice.
the case demonstrates how a client’s business  and its environment affect the identification of inherent risks related to  inventory.
equipped with this information, troy needed  to make feasible recommendations to improve control.
what if his involvement put him and his employer at risk?
© 2009 by charles m. carson and carol j. cumber.
in the two and a half years that  elapsed since the (a) case, the center moriches school board had succeeded in  restoring the faith of the community in its management of the school district.
esto puede resultar muy importante para el desarrollo de capacidades  básicas de análisis económico y financiero, en muchos  directivos que por formación o vocación no tienen una  inclinación o predilección natural por estos temas.
paul & luke also have considered closing the bar.
the extra people in the plant will result in more foot traffic at sodexo’s food service facilities at opg and therefore, sodexo must hire additional staff without compromising the integrity of the client’s strict security process.
it is useful in highlighting the role and  plight of women in different countries, existing legal laws in different  countries and changing role of management and differences in managerial styles.
case synopsis bjr is an office furniture manufacturing company that has been in operation  for nearly 100 years.
if eminent domain is invoked, how will tank  be able to pay for the land and improvements?
in addition to raising and sending money, beth is mentoring these refugees and raising awareness through her website of the dire needs at kyangwali.
the primary case objective is to enable students to evaluate the  mutual’s future and decide whether the board should pull the plug or  continue with its commitment to provide affordable housing and other social  programs for its low income members.
qian  kai nam (qian) and shea kai young (thomas), who ran shenzhen filtroil and were  in on the zinc partnership, believed that liu’s behavior put the entire  business relationship at risk.
the fact that the founder was interviewed by pbs is a testament to its success in creating exceptional value to the disadvantaged women it serves.
what should she  have done differently?
this case was developed for class  discussion rather than to illustrate an effective or ineffective handling of  the situation.
evaluate a firm’s strategy and find  acquisition targets that match that strategy
student  analysis will reveal that decision-makers aren’t really walking the walk  when it comes to carbon reduction targets in education.
the firm has enjoyed fast-paced  profitable growth.
was this an overly conservative strategy?
all rights  are reserved to the authors and  nacra.
case synopsis mike is a recent college graduate hired as a financial analyst working for  the budget director of kenton county.  if tank’s eminent domain suit  is successful, the county, which has agreed to cover almost half of the annual  operating deficit of the bus line, could face a substantial  increase in  contributions if the resulting project is not self-sustaining.
this case was developed for an undergraduate strategic management course and lends itself to discussion of the mission statement and its potential impact on strategic change.
case synopsis rocky mountain mutual housing association (“the mutual”) was a  not-for-profit affordable housing organization incorporated in denver,  colorado, in april 1992.
should he harvest his business or stay and fight?the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
using keyword cost data provided by two major search  engines, stockweb employees can see the costs of acquiring accounts will soon  outstrip the lifetime value of the customers they are acquiring.
the register was primarily used to sell course packets to students, and while only about $20,000 of cash passed through the register each year, the more troy thought about it, the more concerned he became about the potential for loss.
© 2009 by elissa grossman and david y. choi.
vi narapareddy, daniels college of business, dcb  455, university of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co 80208, vnarapar@du.edu.
however, in 2008, 100 percent of miter edge customer complaints from its high performance products were related to manufacturing.
beth’s dream of helping provide nets and medications to kyangwali has evolved to many more projects such as building an orphanage and preschool on land donated by the commandant of the camp, helping young women in a hostel with their room, board food, medications which allows them to further their education off-site from the camp, build a sustainable garden and livestock project which also helps sustain the orphanage and women’s hostel and provides jobs for the locals.
this is both a marketing and  entrepreneurship question.
un poco  más tarde la casa ya contaba con una capacidad de producción de  160 mil botellas, algunos de sus vinos fueron premiados en concursos  internacionales.
what pressure will this place on the three counties’ own financial operations?
the case is written for courses in business and society, business ethics,  and business and the environment.
the southern indiana company, oliver winery, has incorporated a mix of corporate culture, customer experience, and a broad product focus in this effort.
six years later, exi has become extremely profitable and ronald has  achieved a 49% ownership of exi.
he learned that the hoa was continuing its aggressive behavior mainly focused on one homeowner, a retired management professor who had helped defeat the walkway effort.
students can identify costco’s primary  stakeholder groups and determine the relative importance each group has for the  company.
estos son  temas estratégicos, tanto del punto de vista corporativo como de la  estrategia dinámica.
but his plan to turn the hotels over to his volatile offspring kept going awry.
research showed the number of  americans who thought prematurity was a serious issue and a common occurrence  declined in 2006 from the previous year.
how much can we afford to lose?
costco offered limited quantities of low-cost, high-quality merchandise to warehouse members.
the case and instructor’s manual were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009.
management was the primary decision focus prior to april 2004; however, non-management employees became the primary decision-makers as the board members and management resigned en mass.
this case provides students with the opportunity to apply stakeholder theory to a company.
case objective this case addresses the concepts of social entrepreneurship in the environment of hunger in america.
proprietor derek benham knew that in order to increase market  share, and provide better quality of service to his clients, changes would need  to be made quickly.
major topics include ethics, ethical decision-making and corporate governance.
mary shapiro & cynthia ingolssimmons college  school of management case objective
the team knew they should  align the company’s organizational structure to the commercial strategy  of choice, but how could they build an action plan that contemplated this  alignment?
in so doing, bros sought to revolutionize the sugar cane cultivation process using the latest technology.
in this approach, the students  should not be prompted on specific issues, but rather allow them to develop a  swot or environmental analysis to discover for themselves the critical issues  affecting the firm.
during early 2005,  emily began to face personal hardships that directly affected her professional  performance.
while significant business opportunities are  present, the company does not have the money to pursue all of them.
it is with this awareness that halcyon  moses founded go green mart and more in 2008 (http://www.gogreenmartandmore.com ).
copyright 2009 by arthur sharplin and aundrea kay guess.
la pregunta es ¿podrá juan antonio  lograr una planificación que en unos pocos años le permita tener  un retiro satisfactorio?
the case can also be used for an hr course in a class session on recruiting and selection.
although widely lauded for this innovation, abbott was also under fire from aids activists and the governments of thailand, brazil and mexico (among others) over the pricing of the drug.
qian kai nam (qian) and shea kai young (thomas), who ran shenzhen filtroil and were in on the zinc partnership, believed that liu’s behavior put the entire business relationship at risk.
the case provides an opportunity to utilize the nist 800-34 contingency planning guide to help students understand the importance of a contingency plan and how to create a contingency plan.
this case would be suitable for graduate courses or upper-level undergraduate courses where students have already been exposed to a breadth of operations management topics.
the instructor’s manual has been primarily targeted for strategic management classes.
©2009 by john  melnyk and tristan friesen.
but his plan to turn the hotels over to his volatile  offspring kept going awry.
the objectives of this case are: i) to understand how one individual, beth heckel, took on this cause with the help of her family and has made such an impact in so many ways in a short period of time, ii) observe the process of empowering a community with projects that benefit the community as a whole, and iii) evaluate the struggles a non-profit faces in raising funds, and iv) recommend strategies for think humanity to become sustainable long term.
during exi’s start-up, kenneth and ronald agreed that upon achieving certain milestones ronald would own 49% of exi and then have the opportunity to acquire kenneth’s 51%.
a related concern for  mod was that consumer perceptions about the seriousness and frequency of  prematurity and low birth weight were shifting.
case synopsis troy wheeler, associate dean of the school of business and public policy at  westland university was asked to write a letter to the university’s  internal auditor reassuring the auditor that controls on the cash register in  the college were adequate to prevent major theft.
el caso ha sido escrito para ser utilizado en  programas de dirección de empresas en los tópicos de estrategia  de negocios, antropología del consumidor, estrategia de canales y  propuesta de valor.
as  a result guildcraft developed multiple new products whose demand for scrap  exceeded supply.
all rights  reserved to the author and nacra.
in case a, drinan presented the well-documented results from an independent investigator into the sexual harassment charges against haddad.
it  had strayed from its original base and felt a need to return to its roots.
an  embezzlement scandal could cause the 150 year-old church to close its doors.
the case ends with roberto and his team facing a critical  decision about how to at last propel the company from slow to rapid and  substantial growth.
thus, it can be used for classroom discussion after the relevant chapters in standard textbooks like ross/westerfield/jaffe/jordan, corporate finance, or brealey/myers, principles of corporate finance, have been discussed.
las  ventas para el siguiente año habían comenzado y alfredo  necesitaba definir a qué mercado debía enfocarse en el corto  plazo y con qué estrategia.
some of these strategies include the amount of $180 million in bond funds this year for drought relief to assist water management projects, legislation to reduce per-capita water usage, public education programs, finalized standards for recycling water, preparation of a contingency plan, and the preparation of status reports.
mary kay sullivan, maryville college, maryville tn 37804-5907, 865-981-8234,marykay.sullivan@maryvillecollege.ed case objective alicia es una mujer con experiencia en los barrios pobres y con vivencia directa de los procesos cotidianos de movilización comunitaria en relación al microcrédito en comunidades desfavorecidas.
hoas are an often neglected type of non-profit corporation, though they govern the lives of more than 50 million americans and produce an estimated $50 billion in annual revenue.
© 2009 by carol j. cumber and justine kougl.
the president of the college is very proud of this and believes that this type of student will be less likely to frequent the bars.
however, strong global competition in the  automotive market resulted in low margins, and restoring sustainable  profitability became a strategic priority for the firm.
however, after  phase ii nasa decided to not move forward with the project due to other  priorities.
case synopsis this field researched case focused on a small town long-standing department  store.
©2009 by r. jeffery ellis,  chinmoy mishra & jason spaulding.
yet in the late 1990’s, market share dropped, and  in 2002 the company hit a low point with its first reported loss.
the board went ahead with the 2004 school budget vote (which was approved), and  the community voted in favor of both the 2005 and 2006 school budgets,  reaffirming its belief in the school board.
the case examines various ways in which lean manufacturing has been implemented.
why  are we still using conventional urinals?
it is with this awareness that halcyon moses founded go green mart and more in 2008 (http://www.gogreenmartandmore.com ).
he discovered that  the fraud was concealed through payroll entries.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, california, usa, october 29-31, 2009.
it challenges students to analyze a small business’s financial standing based upon the reality that it is common for a small business to not keep or use extensive or comprehensive financial statements.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, chaminade spa and resort, october 29-31, 2009.
although the decisions can be delayed, the  company’s growth is likely to ceiling shortly.
the liberty pantry concept offered the prospect of balancing uneven food supply, generating additional revenues and feeding more hungry people.
was entercom a good candidate for regular dividends or for regular (or irregular) share repurchases, or both?the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
but by 2006, talbots seemed to have lost its focus and was encountering serious financial problems.
the concept of the  “entrepreneurial wage” can be discussed as well as estimates of the  cost of capital to be used for discounting purposes.
the world also owes it to him for  elimination of smallpox from the face of the earth in the 1970s, control of  ebola epidemic outbreak in 1976 in the border region between zaire and sudan;  and discovery of hepatitis vaccine in 1980s in the usa.
could  kuan long plastic injection inc continue to prosper and expand in the cost  oriented plastic injection industry?
case synopsis costco entered the warehouse industry in 1983 and established their first  store in seattle, washington.
his goal is to spend more time with his growing family and pursue  numerous outside interests while still meeting his financial obligations to his  family.
a key issue in the case concerns the business effectiveness derived through the alignment of organizational mission, business model, and operational infrastructure.
what effects do stakeholders groups have on  one another?
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz ca, october 29-31, 2009.
© by margaret  bouchard and audrey wright.
proprietor derek benham knew that in order to increase market share, and provide better quality of service to his clients, changes would need to be made quickly.
after preliminary negotiations,  including a demand by the japanese company to state the business sale amount in  u.s. dollars, the initial $2.5 million offer was raised to $5.5 million.
the case deals with a crucial decision the ceo of national pipe &  plastics (np&p) has to make, namely whether he should remain passive and  let the japanese corporate owners of np&p file for chapter 11 as part of a  sale to a private equity firm.
for the first twenty months pete  successfully navigates the whirlpool of the retail gourmet coffee industry via  the use ofcustomer relationship management and innovation promotional  strategies.
the liberty pantry products were freeze-dried foods, high in nutrition,  especially protein, and low in cost per serving.
the drinan case and gvv may be used in organizational behavior (ob) courses that discuss ethical issues.
los nuevos países productores como australia presentan un amenazante crecimiento año con año”.
though raised in the us, co-founders and lifelong friends roberto milk, andy milk, and charles hachtmann have always been exposed to global influences.
the  immediate issues were to account for the valuation loss for inventory of  non-returnable, obsolete books and to value the remaining retail inventory for  reporting purposes.
the case, instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31.
© 2009 by tom hinthorne and patricia holman.
the case represents a great opportunity to assess the factors to be taken into consideration when undertaking a project of these characteristics, and to analyse the strategic complexity of adopting a solution of this type in a public-sector environment.
the owner believes the community is growing and since there is no “sports” bar locally, it could move in that direction.
this case is designed for use in classes that explore the operations, business strategy, business ethics, or organizational dynamics.
case synopsis ranjan chopra, director of team computers pvt.
should he  harvest or remain in place and use his entrepreneurial prowess to compete?
all rights are reserved to the author and  nacra.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2009.
this required high levels of capital surplus.
breedlove foods, inc. produced the line of products in freeze-dried form, packaged in sealed plastic pouches.
the clinic is beset with problems of lack of supervision, failure to exert  effective controls, lack of leadership, and conflicting personalities.
should he harvest or remain in place and use his entrepreneurial prowess to compete?
contact person: charles m. carson, brock school of business, samford  university, birmingham, al 35009,205-726-4460, cmcarson@samford.edu crisis management at circle 6 george l. whaley & keith perry san jose state university case objective this case demonstrates how a major position in a market  niche can easily erode due to inattention of management and evolve into a  crisis that threatens the viability of a small business.
mary kay sullivan, maryville college,  maryville tn 37804-5907, 865-981-8234,marykay.sullivan@maryvillecollege.ed cases in spanish alicia meneces: aprendiendo de aguablanca luz-dinora vera acevedo (student) & emmanuel raufflet hec montréal case objective alicia es una mujer con experiencia en los barrios  pobres y con vivencia directa de los procesos cotidianos de movilización  comunitaria en relación al microcrédito en comunidades  desfavorecidas.
wendy and her v.p. had come up with several potential options for cost savings.
troy met with  lily woodring, the business manager for the school, in order to increase his  knowledge of current procedures and maybe suggest some changes.
how  could walters raise the significant capital he claimed to need to get this  project off the ground?
understand the requirements for lean manufacturing, and that its implementation will evolve over time.
it could also be used in seminars on corporate finance or  valuation.
gvv, developed by dr. mary gentile, aspen institute center for business education and the yale school of management, enables students to develop strategies for handling situations where an organization’s values are in conflict with their own.
they show remarkable compassion for less well off students and new colleagues.
by february 2009, lois was desperate.
the case represents a great opportunity to assess the factors to be  taken into consideration when undertaking a project of these characteristics,  and to analyse the strategic complexity of adopting a solution of this type in  a public-sector environment.
case synopsis adnexus therapeutics (www.adnexustx.com) is a small biotechnology company, which has been recently acquired by bms.
the director needs to develop a strategy on “what type of strategy or process should she employ to rejuvenate the effort and thereby the level of motivation for the process?this is the leadership issue.
the main objective of the case is to help students  critically examine the marketing issues that accelerate or inhibit the adoption  of a product in its early stages.
if blackboard acquired any of the firms, what would be an appropriate price?
contact person:  marlene m. reed,  department of management & entrepreneurship, hankamer school of business,  baylor university, one bear place #98006, waco, tx  76798-8006, (254)  710-4868,marlene_reed@baylor.
however, at the time the ownership agreement was developed between kenneth and ronald, nothing was specified on how much ronald would pay kenneth for kenneth’s portion of exi, nor was any methodology agreed upon on how the value of kenneth’s ownership would be determined.
contact person: arthur sharplin,  research fellow, bentley university center for business ethics, p.o. box 30260,  austin, tx, 78755-3260, 512-415-1427,asharplin@aol.com.
from the beginning what distinguished indigenous designs was that the company’s social commitment to lift a group of andean women out of poverty.
the library’s main  goals were to eliminate customer complaints and communicate more effectively  thereby, offering unique, excellent services to their customers.
the case,  instructors’ manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting.
the authors developed the case for classroom discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the case discussion questions can be assigned, most appropriately after a lecture or a theory review concerning dividends and share repurchases.
doing so would enable ceja to capitalize on its heritage as one of the first hispanic-owned and operated wine businesses in america, but this was no easy decision.
in so doing, bros sought to  revolutionize the sugar cane cultivation process using the latest technology.
innovative water conservation measures are in  demand and last april the department of water resources announced estimates of  a record low for 2009 since this is the third consecutive dry year.
the case provides a summary of the executive’s wall street  position, a description of the chocolate industry, and a detailed business plan  for the new venture.
the case details  consultants’ engagement with khl, presents data gathered by them, and  gives some indicative analysis.
in the summer of 2001, noble systems has reached a  critical decision point.
the firm strategy was one  that encouraged its investors to buy-and-hold quality investments for the  long-term.
they also  had created a development platform using aie as its base (embedded aie), which  focused on the innovative user and oem markets.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting october 2009.
472-5996,rgrant@uvic.ca leadership tested by  fire: from hot ashes to a cool recovery sandra j. blanke,  elizabeth mcgrady, and jeff bakeruniversity of dallas case objective this case shows the importance and need of a well thought out and  documented enterprise disaster recovery and contingency plan.
el tratamiento del caso hace evidente la necesidad de contar con una comprensión básica del funcionamiento de los mercados de capitales y de los diversos instrumentos de inversión, por lo cual se convierte en un elemento inspirador del aprendizaje de finanzas.
the ‘government intelligence in catalan public universities’ case was designed to be used on business intelligence or management information systems courses, as well as on general information systems courses.
© 2009 by angel moreno, vijaya narapareddy, & nancy sampson.
letters from a lawyer hired by the apgars, apparently without board approval, seemed to tell a story of harassment of the professor and lack of attention to legal niceties.
case synopsis rent tex (a) rent tex was a family orientated rent-to-own business that operated ten  stores throughout texas.
colleague  junior events executive, diya mathur wonders why the top management behaved in  that manner.
doing so would create demand for a local biomass supply.
why was it proving so difficult to raise funds – was the venture simply too risky for potential investors, or had walters knocked on the wrong doors?
the acquisition of j. jill left the company burdened with considerable debt.
as a marketing case, it could be used at several points in a principles class.
the former featured a local market with multiple actors  engaged in complex relationships, while the latter exhibited a higher  concentration at the international level.
sarah either had to turn a blind eye towards a trusted employee’s illegal activities or to report her trusted employee’s wrongdoings to uphold her duty as a trusted manager of the company.
in particular, the case will: (1) expose students to the types of investment decisions made by executives of life insurance companies and their consequences, (2) provide students with the tools to analyze the financial statements of life insurance companies (e.g., how to calculate loss ratios, expense ratios, and solvency ratios) and, (3) give students practice in industry and competitor analysis.
liu would own 10% of the merged factory and shenzhen filtroil would own the rest and acquire all of the necessary equipment.
how could abbott continue to achieve the firm’s overarching goal—“to advance medical science to help people live healthier lives” while simultaneously appeasing the governments, critics and the activists?
all rights are  reserved to the authors and nacra.
essentially, the case involves problems of growth, vision, potential, and management.
specific case objectives include:  (1) conduct a financial analysis of  trelleborg automotive, and compare and contrast its profitability with other  business areas; (2) examine the business model and the supply chain supporting  the mcu growth initiative.
the case is divided into three parts: case a poses the complexity of accessing the market with a sector-based product vision.
case synopsis kyangwali is a refugee camp located approximately 30 miles outside of hoima, uganda.
although the case  deals with an idiosyncratic organization – a not-for-profit subsidiary of  a university, executive-directed by a tenured psychology professor – and  an idiosyncratic decision – whether or not to build student interns into  a restructured organization – a good discussion will surface some  generalizable issues in not-for-profit management.
the material can be used in strategy, information technology management, and international business courses.
conceptual dimension-        apply theories of utilitarianism,  ethical relativism, and corporate responsibility to a real case.
victoria  b.c.-based etraffic press seemed poised to revamp educational publishing with  its low-priced and cutting edge online and flash-drive learning resources, as  well as its print-on-demand textbooks.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29-31, 2009.
raventós i blanc produced wines and ‘cava’ –the  name given to a sparkling wine produced using the champagne or  ‘traditional’ method in certain winemaking regions of spain.
if they are  purchase a machine, should they use a new miterfold equipment option or stay  with the current equipment option?
what would be its effects on the company’s  future earnings?
it would fit most appropriately in a strategic management course during discussions of corporate social responsibility or competitive advantage.
pete uses his leadership ingenuity to develop and implement changes at  coffee grounds without destroying its artsy culture and special ambience of  comfort and tranquility.
bros had earlier developed the new technology employed in the mobile mill in  order to move the mill closer to the fields of sugar cane where the processing  into ethanol would begin.
attivio had already developed a customizable platform using aie as its base (embedded aie), which focused on the oem market, and now they had to decide what their next steps should be.
the  explosion occurred around 10:35 pm when an industrial tank of methomyl, a  highly toxic chemical used in pesticides, ignited into a fireball that left a  visible cloud hovering around nearby residential areas.
victoria b.c.-based etraffic press seemed poised to revamp educational publishing with its low-priced and cutting edge online and flash-drive learning resources, as well as its print-on-demand textbooks.
sales are reliant on public awareness of the organization and its mission.
“wall  street,” however, solely valued the company on its lead oncology product,  zybrestat, and seemingly did not impute any value to its other ophthalmology  pipeline candidates.
novica’s story is thus one of slow and steady emergence – in which roberto first builds, over the course of a decade, an executive team comprised of his family and friends; then develops the most critical operational components of the organization; and finally scales the business to profit.
the case would be useful in upper-level undergraduate or graduate-level
should on change the pricing  delegation practices that were so embedded in its organizational culture?
at the beginning of 2002, management  is faced with a decision of whether or not to go ahead with the project.
the concept of the “entrepreneurial wage” can be discussed as well as estimates of the cost of capital to be used for discounting purposes.
el tercer objetivo es introducir los elementos básicos de los mercados de capitales y los instrumentos financieros disponibles para el inversor.
dr. soper decided to sell the clinic, relocate to north kansas city, and set up a new practice.
the village has 6 bars, all of which are within  walking distance of the college.
the case describes the industry, its key material pvc and the producers of  pvc resin; the mode of competition in the pipe industry and the checkered past  of the company as a basis for developing a post-acquisition strategy should the  current ceo decide to negotiate a risky acquisition.
the cases originate from the intercollegiate ethics bowl and are reproduced with the permission of the association for practical and profession ethics, which is the sponsor of this annual competition among undergraduate teams.
this case was developed for use in a graduate level business policy and strategy course but would be ideal for courses focused on strategy, entrepreneurship and ecommerce at both the graduate and undergraduate level.
the ceo and chairman of the board, jon eriksson though  is focused on the stockholders and his dedication to their needs.
artem meshcheryakov (student) & christopher  cassidy marshall university case objective this case presents the reader with the opportunity to analyze a newly  developed internet company by putting them in the position as primary decision  maker.
this case encourages class participants to  discuss, in the first place, complexities arousing from the decision to  implement specific market development and, second, to formulate an action plan  for each market selected in order to achieve greater penetration and growth.
sales are reliant on public awareness of the organization and  its mission.
en el texto se muestra cómo un emprendedor rompe los modelos mentales y los esquemas predominantes que existían frente a las oportunidades de negocio en una zona geográfica de suelos “infértiles”, y frente a la manera tradicional, racional y economicista de aproximarse a las decisiones de negocios.
in addition, the company had to effectively advocate for new  therapies during the regulatory review process in order to get new therapies  through to full commercialization.
the elder son, 35 in 2009, had worked himself  into a position of ascendancy over a younger brother and sister, earning almost  twice their salary while reaping large financial benefits otherwise and  claiming to have sacrificed to keep the family together.
the role of social enterprise a nonprofit organization is explored, in that fsfb hopes to generate a revenue stream to be applied to other programs.
in addition to these personal and family needs was a concern that his firm’s underwriting business was eroding and his bonus was at risk.
abilities to:  (1)  analyze and document basic activities of sales  and cash collections in a simple setting; (2)  evaluate risk of loss from  cash collections resulting from internal control deficiencies and (3)   recommend appropriate controls for cash collections.
since the ceo considered  this to be immoral he pondered buying the company himself.
it  also opens up the possibility to discuss changes in organizational structure  required to implement the positioning.
in particular, they serve as role models for their colleagues.
the board went ahead with the 2004 school budget vote (which was approved), and the community voted in favor of both the 2005 and 2006 school budgets, reaffirming its belief in the school board.
some initial marketing research data shows only lackluster support for the new product offerings that stockweb wants to roll out to their customer base.
the objectives  are for students to be able to analyze facts related to fraud detection,  evaluate internal controls and policies/procedures in a small entrepreneur  office setting and apply ethical and fraud frameworks.
with a history of incidences, the plant moved quickly to minimize the damage.
the overvaluation was largely a result of changes in the textbook industry, including more frequent text revision cycles and increased competition from internet sellers and e-books, as well as traditional competitors.
contact person: tom morris, university of san diego, alcala park, san diego 92110,tmorris@sandiego.edu.
jerry sharplin  and his family needed urgently to decide whether to keep the firm together, to  sell one or more of its three motels to outsiders, or to sell them to one or  more of the three siblings who, with their father and mother, were  owner-executives and directors of the firm.
the company has never earned a profit.
limited, a  delhi based systems integrator and solution provider, was planning the next  leap for the company.
should vermilion return to ely to mine the remaining hematite for the sake of the shareholders, or should they consider the town and all of the individuals that re-newed mining in ely would affect?
the case may be used in conjunction with the ‘adnexus theraputics’ and ‘attivio:
congress ave., austin, tx 78704.
the case describes how  cisco is shifting from a “product centric” company towards a  solution-focused one.
© 2009 by raymond h. lopez, lubin  school of business, pace university, 1 martine avenue, white plains, ny, 914  422 4165 rlopez@pace.edu the ipo of fraport andreas  schueler,universität der bundeswehr munich case objective this case study deals with discounted cash flow  valuation for an initial public offering (ipo).
this ceo has just received a  surprising and unsolicited offer from a japanese company to purchase his amdata  software china company which owns the exclusive mainland china franchise to  distribute this u.s. vendor’s software.
which firms, if any, would  be good fits for blackboard?  if blackboard acquired any of the firms,  what would be an appropriate price?
circle 6 was a small  entrepreneurial company that had pioneered mainframe call center software but  allowed their product line to become antiquated.
due to emily’s knowledge in the iaq products industry, she had many  opportunities for professional growth within the company.
the case also describes the dilemma faced by e xi’s remaining partner as he attempts to salvage exi’s  profitability.
formulate recommendations with regard to the management of mcu raw material supplier and productions units; (3) evaluate the company’s competitive position, the ability for the mcu technology and the needs in term of development of trelleborg automotive within its primary markets (americas, europe and asia); and (4) appraise crucial competitive advantage through its mcu growth initiative.
this case could be used in a number of undergraduate-level courses.
turboprops would be able to service at least 90% of estonian air’s existing routes.
the next board meeting was scheduled for friday afternoon, and the board  expected a recommendation on how kalda planned to address the expected increase  in intra-european regional flight demand in light of both high fuel prices and  last year’s net loss.
furfine asks: “what’s next?
quality is a key component of its business model and how the company purports to distinguish itself in the marketplace.
the case describes a story focused on  europe and india.
the focus was  to reorient the company to better suit customers’ desires and to limit  domestic growth.
dan albright, president of rent tex, had been a cpa for over twenty years with experience in the rent-to-own industry.
©2009 by barb reimbold and nancy m. levenburg.
specific case objectives include: 1.
contact person:  stephen bowden, dept of strategy & hrm, waikato management school,  university of waikato, hamilton 3240, new zealand.
furthermore the clinic relied on the highly risky, limited base of a single institutional customer.
a  new ceo, trudy sullivan, came to the helm in 2007 and developed plans for a  turnaround.
© 2009 by francisco j. lópez lubián.
he was convinced the internal controls were sufficient to prevent theft and believed he would find no irregularities.
angry because he could not acquire one of the motels and strike out on his own, the younger brother made plans to attend law school, while expecting to keep his stock ownership and salary and admitting that his already weak motivation might suffer yet further.
in short, these teachers provide multiple models of how to  lead from the classroom.
contact person: john j. vitton, management department, stop 8377, university of north dakota, grand forks, nd 58202.
case synopsis what makes indigenous designs different from other clothing producers is their commitment to social justice  and environmental stewardship.
mod was particularly alarmed that prematurity and low birth weights were not being considered as important as they had been in the past.
in addition, students are required to conduct a swot analysis of the business and, based upon their analysis, make recommendations on how the business should position itself in the future.
the college is located in the heart of the town (or  village) and has a student population of about 5,600 students, many of whom are  residential students.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009 in santa cruz, ca.
the equipment was out of date, the layout was not very efficient, and the building constructed in 1947, was rather archaic.
gordon von stroh or vi narapareddy, daniels college of  business, dcb 455, university of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co  80208,gvonstro@du.edu or vnarapar@du.edu.
with the onset of the recession in 2007, both firms found themselves struggling  to survive.
unfortunately, he could not find anyone to speak with who had left wall street for a small business venture.
although widely  lauded for this innovation, abbott was also under fire from aids activists and  the governments of thailand, brazil and mexico (among others) over the pricing  of the drug.
it could be used as  an exam case, as a means of testing the students’ ability to identify and  understand ethical dilemmas, ethical theories, and other influences on  decision-making which are specific to the non-profit sector.
how can we negotiate on the price in an  acquisition operation?the case is aimed at post-graduate students on an  advanced financial management course, as they address the topic of mergers and  acquisitions.
as marcia reviewed her challenges of the increase  in the circulation rates as well as the budget and staff decreases, she  thought, “how can we sustain the current level of customer service and  motivate the staff to continue with the lean efforts?”
third, this case aims at raising awareness to  the students about the role of philanthropy in bringing global social justice  and access to healthcare.
case synopsis after his 12 years in spain, alfredo brought his family back to the united states and in a few a years, decided to set out on his own.
the raventós family’s long history and experience, and its integration of land, vineyard, wine and cellars, gave its products their own unique character.
el primer objetivo es que los directivos de empresa puedan lograr comprender y valorar la importancia que tiene la planificación anticipada de sus finanzas personales y familiares.
© 2009 by kathryn savage, northern arizona university.
gómez conocía el interés de su banco por participar en el proyecto, ya que durante el año 2002
(607) 777-4422, e-mail: aullmann@binghamton.edu case objective this case study was developed to examine the complex interaction of political, economic and competitive forces in the general and industry environments that impact upon an airline’s profitability and ultimate survivability.
the inclination is to promote the eco-friendly elements of its  digital content, on-demand printing and alternative delivery media.
the primary target market of hq-iaq uv products was contractors who installed heaters and air conditioners.
if this were to happen np&p would probably  be liquidated and all personnel would be dismissed.
contact person: jorge a. gonzález  tecnológico de  monterrey.
while these teachers differ along  demographic factors such as gender, race and ethnic background, they also  exhibit remarkably similar behaviors in how they teach and lead in their  schools.
make recommendations regarding changes in operations, and anticipate the consequences of those changes.
the intent is to explore how organizational philosophy determines the implementation and efficacy of business tools.
this set of cases has been  combined with a narrow purpose in mind, namely, to help prepare undergraduates  for competition in the ethics bowl.
the case also examines how the lean training was  conducted and the tools as well as the associated outcomes of using that  process.
the case shows how pete grows and sustains coffee grounds via the use of innovative customer service, a continual assessment of his value chain, a careful analysis of local and nation demographics relative to gourmet coffee drinkers, and a creative use of promotional tactics such associal networking.
the case was written for business  school courses where decision-making processes, cost-benefit analyses and  capital budgeting are studied.
the case is intended for use in undergraduate marketing,  entrepreneur-ship or social entrepreneurship courses.
the case is best used in a banking course with students who are familiar with traditional commercial banking and banks’ expansion into retail wealth management services.
case synopsis in spring 2008, learning and teaching methods were changing in canada, opening up opportunities for companies that could respond to those changes.
the case is suitable for use in organizational behavior, human resource management, and strategy classes at the mba and executive education levels.
this case can be considered for use in the mba basic  marketing course with sales force management as a theme or in a specialized  elective on sales/ distribution management.
matthew levy  & gerald m. myerspacific lutheran university case objective the case is designed to stimulate discussion of  an awkward situation in a first-year english composition class.
chief investment officer, gary wendlandt, proposed that a  larger percentage of investable cash flow be placed in us government securities  instead of corporate securities than in previous years.
through some research  with his suppliers and trusted associates, dephtereos discovered that scrap  styrene foam could be turned into a range of alternative products ranging from  concrete forms, packaging components, toy filling, and potting soil additive.
accomplishing this will inevitably involve a wide-ranging discussion of the current state of medical ethics in relation to cardiology and, metaphorically, other fields of medicine.
under gasp’s watch, sonoma wine company took action to ensure that its wastewater pond, was, in short, cleaned up.
costco operated under the tenant that happy employees translated into satisfied customers and profitable shareholders.
by examining the company’s relevant stakeholders and their interests, students are asked to develop and evaluate strategies for effectively responding to the issues abbott faces.
contact information: gerald m. myers,  school of business, pacific lutheran university, tacoma wa 98447, 253-535-7304; myersgm@plu.edu teachers as leaders:
a secondary issue concerns the role played by a capable team.
the competitors in the higher education market have  developed better financing, marketing, and partnerships with textbook  publishers, which noble systems has not been able to match.
some  initial marketing research data shows only lackluster support for the new  product offerings that stockweb wants to roll out to their customer base.
red flags are missed in both the application of the employee and the life style of the employee after she is hired.
the case is primarily aimed at business undergraduate in small business management/entrepreneurship courses or strategic management.
sales had declined dramatically, with the company’s clothing designs viewed as dowdy and out of touch with customer needs.
he started  sra and developed valuable contacts in the federal government, state  governments and private companies.
the case demonstrates conflicts in organizational goals and end-user
limited, a delhi based systems integrator and solution provider, was planning the next leap for the company.
six years of historical  financial data and two years of projected financial statements are presented to  the reader.
we also feel that studying cisco is a good metaphor for this bridge.
in case a, drinan presented the well-documented results  from an independent investigator into the sexual harassment charges against  haddad.
after analyzing each market’s core features and growth opportunities,  and determining their complexities and how much knowledge the company actually  had on each of them, two markets were selected: the wine business and the  mining business.
contact person: d.w. rosenthal, 2072 farmer school of business, miami university, oxford, oh 45056, 513-529-1203,rosentdw@muohio.edu case objective around the world innovative enterprises are emerging daily to combine the energies of social concern with the logic of the marketplace to meet the needs of millions worldwide and to meetthe failure of the market to solve growing social problems—such as health care, urban decay and poverty.
with its arrival in graton, sonoma wine company began to make major changes to its facilities and operations.
the student faces decisions about target marketing and  segmentation which leads into distribution, pricing and promotion strategies.
francisco j. lópez lubián, instituto de empresa, madrid, spain, c/ castellón de la plana, 8.
este caso se dirige a estudiantes de los cursos de desarrollo sostenible y estudiantes de gestión que trabajan aspectos de responsabilidad social en el mba o a nivel de licenciatura.
it should be noted that the bars are  all within walking distance of the college, which means that drunk driving, is  generally not an issue.
the product potentially offers a lot of  benefits, but carries a high upfront price.
contact person: william naumes, whittemore school of business & economics, university of new hampshire, durham, nh 03824, 603-862-2618, bill.naumes@unh.edu case objective this case is a follow-on to arthur sherman and john seeger, “a troubled time in the courtyard,”the case journal, 3:2, spring 2007 (abstract available at caseweb.org).
the small business administration was unfolding president obama’s arc loan program, which appeared to offer some welcome financial assistance.
the instructor, who happens to be jewish, is troubled by the  discussion and wonders whether she could have handled the situation more  effectively.
and is somewhat of a bedroom community from a large city 35 miles away.
© 2009 by gerry yemen and lynn isabella, contact person: gerry yemen, darden school of business, university of virginia, p.o. box 6550, charlottesville, va 22903-6550, 434-924-7193, yemeng@darden.virginia.edu case objective this case shows the frustration on the part of a dedicated group of operations and human resource professionals who feel that despite their best efforts that they risk not successfully filling upcoming vacancies.
can they raise the capital to do both?
entercom had been making regular  share repurchases, and recently started paying quarterly dividends.
the learning objectives of the case focus primarily on: the scaling and  financing of start-ups; the strategic positioning of innovative products in a  very large market space; and the management of operations – from product  and process design to supply chain management.
case synopsis the case features river bend trading, a small retail gift and apparel business in columbus, montana, population 2,000.
although the financial crisis had many causes, some analysts believed that moody’s and other credit rating agencies had played a key role by underestimating the risks inherent in mortgage-backed securities.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort and spa, october 29-31, 2009.
however,  “which” action plan the protagonist should utilize is not the right  question.
the main library is a depository for  federal and state documents.
another important issue is that these long-time marriage and business partners have different levels of emotional connection to the business and are not united on what should be the store’s future.
the material can be used in strategy, information  technology management, and international business courses.
if mystic monk  coffee was capable of making the vision a reality, what were the next steps in  turning the coffee into land?
the course can also be  used in an executive education program.
by august 2007, the lawyer had pulled back but the hoa directors were threatening to take matters into their own hands by removing a line of large pots sherman had installed without architectural committee approval.
the case presents the changes that have been produced in the university system, the changes within the catalan university system, the organisational structure that was used, the various stakeholders’ need to obtain decision-making information and how the project was carried out.
income is generated through a  combination of contract work and grant funding.
a growth initiative decision alain giraud  & nancy m. levenburg grand valley state university case objective an automotive subcontractor is considering a major global growth initiative  to restore profitability in the highly competitive rubber market, using  microcellular polyurethane (mcu), a new material that was equivalent or  superior to rubber and available at a lower price.
in june, 2009 the leaders of the free store food bank of cincinnati (fsfb),  were uncertain about future plans for the liberty pantry product line.
the outlet’s sales doubled m&l’s sales, and  both businesses prospered.
it was his desire to improve the lives of these people economically, environmentally, and socially.
to analyze various financial accounting  adjustments and reclassifications in recasting the company’s financial  accounting system to international financial reporting standards (ifrs) for a  possible initial public offering (ipo).
the case would be useful in upper-level undergraduate or graduate-level courses in operations management and supply chain management courses, particularly those with an engineering, manufacturing, or logistics emphasis, or international business/business strategy.
activities?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
at the end of class, though, she wasn’t sure that she had avoided embarrassing joe or gotten through to him.
other cases similarly challenge students think critically and draw the connection between thought and action.
under his  direction vci became a leading chamber music and recital series of the winnipeg  arts scene.
this resulted in a downward spiral following a series of strategic failures that led to the current crisis threatening the company’s viability.
microfinanzas y construcción de paz”,  junto con el presidente del banco interamericano de desarrollo (bid), el  presidente de la república y el presidente de la corporación  andina de fomento (caf).
all rights are reserved  to the author and nacra.
case synopsis winston kwok-keung auyeung, managing director of personal banking for bao an bank of hong kong, has the opportunity to distributeminibonds, to his retail banking and wealth management customers.
case synopsis wendy lull, president of the seacoast science center (ssc), a not for profit organization, located in rye, new hampshire, has just realized that instead of a break even budget for fiscal year 2009, the organization is faced with a potential $180,000 deficit.
if uv bulb components were not handled properly,  they may cause harmful effects, such as blindness or death.
come into focus, allowing students to analyze the sources of power of the board  president and the leadership role that he has employed.
they accomplished some key objectives and goals, but now the effort and  motivation to continue with applying the lean process is waning with the  continuing shrinking budget.
it is also designed to demonstrate the importance of long term planning while making short term decisions.
how, then, can etraffic  press penetrate the very lucrative textbook market?
© 2009  by gordon von stroh & vijaya narapareddy.
the problem lay in how best to allocate  the profits to create economic stability and improve the quality of life in the  region.
this case is designed  to provoke questions regarding: (a) the philosophical underpinnings of lean;  (b) the practical implications of how the values of those implementing lean  affects the tools selected, and (c) the impact of lean implementation on an  organization.
in taiwan,  many small suppliers have been affected as their local industrial customers  have migrated to china.
case synopsis bill soper, a family practitioner, graduated from medical school and had to decide where to locate and what size of practice he wanted.
in mid 2005, leo piccioli took over as on’s  general manager, knowing full well that his key challenge lay in driving on to  reach staples’ profitability levels.
in addition,  students are required to conduct a swot analysis of the business and, based  upon their analysis, make recommendations on how the business should position  itself in the future.
philip w. glasgo, williams college of business, xavier university, 3800 victory parkway, cincinnati, oh 45207-5162, (513)
the case can also be used in that section of the course relating the mission to the environment.
minibonds are securities issued in a retail synthetic securitization, a structured investment using a special purpose vehicle which purchases riskless securities and issues credit default swaps.
pilar -  buenos aires, argentina, phone: 54 2322 481 032; fax: 54 2322 481 020; e-mail:  gnoussan@iae.edu.ar.
the bar is located in a town (or village)  of roughly 6000 residents and a college of 5600 mostly residential students.
excel spreadsheets can (but do not  have to) be distributed in order to structure the discussion.
jerry’s frustration with the situation was evident as he threw an expensive theodolite against a tree, destroying the device.
© 2008 by steven m. cox, bradley w. brooks, and ilonka aylward.
in preparation for discussing the helen drinan case, m.b.a. students study  the “giving voice to values” (gvv) curriculum.
at the time of writing, management at cisco was  completely dedicated to defining the company’s strategic change.
the  instructor’s strategy should be to help students situate  “ideas” and “imagination” within the realm of realistic  commitments and the realistic mobilization of resources, seeing innovation as a  bridge between imagination and reality.
oliver knew he must determine how to ensure that they retain their current  winemaker, don milan, who has worked for peninsula for less than a year.
a main concern was whether estonian air’s passengers would look upon turboprops as a step backwards for the airline.
minibonds are securities issued in a retail synthetic securitization, a structured  investment using a special purpose vehicle which purchases riskless securities  and issues credit default swaps.
all rights are reserved  to the authors and nacra.
el proyecto se constituye como un servicio público con  alto impacto económico y  político, con una considerable  inversión en un plazo de maduración largo, y con posibles  dificultades técnicas durante la construcción y posterior  explotación de la planta.
but the financial statements have a lot of line items different from what  mike encountered  in his finance classes.
less than two  years earlier in 2007, it had been acquired for $430 million by bms, which gave  it greater financial strength to pursue clinical development of its products.
the case is  designed for use in undergraduate or graduate courses in entrepreneurship,  social entrepreneurship, and growth management.
novica’s story is thus one of slow and steady  emergence – in which roberto first builds, over the course of a decade,  an executive team comprised of his family and friends; then develops the most  critical operational components of the organization; and finally scales the  business to profit.
the ceo knows it is his responsibility to call the leadership team together and devise a plan that will enable the vna to continue to support their many stakeholders.
while angiocept™ has made progress  toward fda approval; in order to continue to develop other  adnectin™-based drug therapies, they would have to add structure and  process to the research, otherwise $30 million in recent investments would not  go very far.
shortly, thereafter, the grpl implemented and applied the lean methods successfully to the grpl processes and system.
© 2009 by stephen j.j. mcguire and gordon bagot.
esto puede resultar muy importante para el desarrollo de capacidades básicas de análisis económico y financiero, en muchos directivos que por formación o vocación no tienen una inclinación o predilección natural por estos temas.
students gain an overview of the automotive industry, the company’s business model and strategies, and the anti-vibration solutions (avs) segment, in which the growth initiative originated.
is this “too close for comfort”?
this case is appropriate for any graduate or undergraduate accounting class where internal controls are analyzed and documented.
el análisis y desarrollo del caso nos llevará a  plantearnos como llegar al potencial usuario del servicio aéreo
etraffic press competes against three large, well-known publishers in an environment dominated by traditional practice and government decision-making.
therefore, students will have to analyze (1)  the competitive trends in the industry; and (2) the company’s resources  and capabilities in the light of #1.
carson’s department store charles m. carson, samford  universitycarol j. cumber, south dakota state university case objective the case shows some of the challenges of running a family business such as  entrepreneurial decision making, succession issues, and potential exit  strategies.
the case describes the industry, its key material pvc and the producers of pvc resin; the mode of competition in the pipe industry and the checkered past of the company as a basis for developing a post-acquisition strategy should the current ceo decide to negotiate a risky acquisition.
in november 2008, mary exited the business taking her share of the debt.
the question also arises; is it more appropriate to use a business  model based on marketing principles or production efficiencies in a charitable,  not-for-profit environment?
go green is a commercial website selling environmentally friendly  products selected personally by halcyon.
the drinan case and gvv may be  used in organizational behavior (ob) courses that discuss ethical issues.
most of the bars have experienced a  slight decline in revenues from students over the past two years.
with a history of  incidences, the plant moved quickly to minimize the damage.
the owner believes the  community is growing and since there is no “sports” bar locally, it  could move in that direction.
the names of all entities, their locations, and the people involved in  this case have been disguised.
an islamic family resists the  counsel of medical professionals from a u.s. community hospital to remove their  brain-dead relative from a ventilator.
the library includes a service area of 197,000 patrons and employs 175 full and part-time employees.
however, its performance still lagged far behind  staples’ net profits.
this case can  be used in either an undergraduate capstone marketing management course or a  graduate marketing management course.
relevant management theories applicable to this case include edgar schein’s (1992) conception of organizational culture and ben schneider’s (1987, 1999) attraction-selection- attrition framework for employee selection.
he discovered that the fraud was concealed through payroll entries.
case objective case synopsis este caso presenta una iniciativa empresarial de alto impacto social en los llanos orientales colombianos.
it seems that environmental and economical concerns have generated much heated debate on an eco-engineering wonder, the waterless urinal; and the traditional urinal, which has its loyal followers that insist on resisting change and innovation.
hero or villain in the global hiv/aids  epidemic?
the town is about 35 miles from a large city and many of the residents commute daily to the city for work.
as a private company operated to maximize cash flows rather than reported net income, students have an opportunity to restructure the income statements and recalculate those cash flows.
case b begins where case a ends and concludes with a decision point to expand the business and become more economically self-sufficient and less reliant on grants and donations in mid-2008.the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
while americans  surveyed were aware of its signature fundraising event, walkamerica, recall of  other aspects of mod were fairly generic and in many ways conflicted with the  stated mission of this not-for-profit organization.
case synopsis attivio incorporated (www.attivio.com), a newton, ma based enterprise search software development company, was in the process of deciding how to best commercialize their core technology, the active intelligence engine (aie).
public disclosure could also  damage the bayer brand image.
alicia victima del  agiotismo del sistema informal del microcrédito, puede darle un giro a  la realidad de estas comunidades en el tema de microcrédito.
its core customers tended to be professional women for whom tailored  business wear was important.
as the business benefited from a huge upsurge in patronage due to  development of a large natural gas field in the area, profits escalated and the  conflicts worsened.
from the beginning what distinguished indigenous designs was that the company’s social  commitment to lift a group of andean women out of poverty.
he had to consider all foreseeable impacts of purchasing any new aircraft on estonian air’s cost structure and bottom line.
through the discussion of the innovative product features to the potential substitution of current building materials, the case underscores several challenging areas of entrepreneurship, none more so than funding a start-up and designing a business that will be attractive to investors.
the author developed the case for class discussion  rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the  situation.
the company’s leading sales representative, emily colleague, worked for sarah manager, the manager of the company.
the ultimate objective for students is to determine a course of action that will improve the performance of go green mart.
the authors developed the case for class discussion and for mock  exercise to illustrate the challenges faced when meeting the needs of thousands.
the case focuses on the decision of abdul-aziz to remain with the group and  try to change people, philosophies, and procedures or to separate and establish  a new practice where he can implement the professional systems with properly  trained and supervised staff, guided by his own philosophy of service and  medicine and unfettered by his current environment.
its importance lies  in its discussion of the technology product development process, and the  process of selecting what would be the best commercial market for a proven  product or technology.
©2009 by john melnyk and tristan friesen.
a student has prepared an essay which contains language which could be interpreted as anti-semitic.
the case would be useful in upper-level undergraduate courses in operations management, or those focusing on quality management, manufacturing process selection and design, or operations strategy.
the case was written for business school undergraduate or mba  courses in recruitment and selection.
la minerva was a small business without sufficient resources to conduct a publicity campaign for their latest beer and the controversy provoked by the name provided publicity that the company needed but could not afford.
wine  consumers, and u.s. demographic forecasts through 2025.
the case objectives are: to develop a logical approach to accounting-oriented decision-making usingstatement of financial accounting concepts no. 2, to apply analytical auditing procedures to a business with a high level of student familiarity, and to design a set of control procedures that minimize future obsolete inventory.
losses are being covered by cash infusions by angel investors.
its mission was to  analyze sand deposits for beach restoration for a number of countries bordering  the mediterranean sea.
case synopsis this field researched case focused on jean’s bridal shop of wilmot,  sd.
it is suggested that it be limited to courses that are upper division (junior and senior levels) only and where students have been exposed to the use of cases.
meanwhile, there were issues around bottled water creating a lot of plastic drink bottles that would generally be better being refilled at the tap, and waste separation in terms of its political acceptance and functional viability.
“should the library continue with the consultant  training or should they try a different type of training program to sustain the  new process?”
if it aims to capture the higher education market, is the marketing strategy appropriate?
as a result of globalization, the actions of companies and  organizations reach around the world to distant and remote parts of the globe.
the case could also be appropriate for a small business class.
it is especially useful in modules dealing with stakeholder analysis, environmental analysis and pricing strategies.
contact person: marilyn l. taylor, henry w. bloch school of business and public administration, university of missouri at kansas city, 5110 cherry, kansas city, mo, 64110, 816-235-5774,taylorm@umkc.edu case objective the case focuses on the outcomes of a decision made by pete wilson to purchase a coffee bistro which has been experiencing a downturn in business under the leadership of its current owner george shumay.
he found the subdivision both diverse  and beautiful.
© by margaret bouchard and audrey wright.
how can we negotiate on the price in an acquisition operation?the case is aimed at post-graduate students on an advanced financial management course, as they address the topic of mergers and acquisitions.
the case was written for a graduate level course in marketing.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were  anonymously peer-reviewed and accepted by the north american research case  association (nacra) for its annual meeting to be held on october 29-31 insanta  cruz, california, usa.all rights are reserved to the authors and nacra.
a  discerning reader may also find opportunity to introspect on the not so  brighter side of sales and marketing caused due to high sales pressure/  unrealistic targets.
they have been perfecting optical devices for over 20 years, regrouped in 2001 from nz applied, jdsu, and corning.
attivio  is an enterprise search company that had developed a core technology, the  active intelligence engine (aie), which combined enterprise search and business  intelligence capabilities to integrate unstructured and structured business  data easily and intelligently.
a unique attribute of these “mutual” communities was direct resident involvement in the management and decisions that affected the communities.
this case may be used to help students to advance their knowledge on price  policies and delegation of pricing decision and to learn more about the  challenges faced by companies implementing pricing strategy changes and their  repercussions on: sales force, organizational culture, customer relationships,  competitors’ prices and profitability.
in a corporate  strategy class, the case can demonstrate the importance of organizational  culture in the support of an organization’s business strategy.
© 2009 by cindy  rauschenberger and vijaya narapareddy.
there 2008 revenue was approximately $13 million, with half of the revenue coming from sbir-based research grants.
case synopsis this case is about the story of don francis, a pioneer  and more than 20 years of activist in the field of aids, especially in the  development of aids vaccine.
contact person:  hugh grove, daniels college of business, university  of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co 80208, 303-871-2026, hgrove@du.edu blackboard’s acquisition problem susan white, university of maryland college park case objective this case is intended for an advanced undergraduate or an mba corporate  finance elective.
in addition to this document, troy got lily’s answers to a longer, more specific list of questions.
ethical dilemma anahid saeidi, christian que & rahul gupta california state university case objective this case is an illustration of the ethical dilemma that sarah manager  underwent as former manager of an indoor air quality wholesale company called  high quality-iaq ultraviolet products (hq-iaq uv).
this “living case” describes an ongoing  effort within the firm.
el segundo objetivo es lograr el interés en los cursos de finanzas, por parte de los directivos que participan en programas de management general.
the committee for a sustainable cabarete had a big task ahead of it and had to decide whether to approach the government again or seek another course of action.
the  case, instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-octber 31, 2009.
it seems  that environmental and economical concerns have generated much heated debate on  an eco-engineering wonder, the waterless urinal; and the traditional urinal,  which has its loyal followers that insist on resisting change and innovation.
all rights  reserved to the authors and nacra.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 30- november 1, 2009.
however, it also questions if we are currently experiencing a major shift towards a non-usa centric future for information technology firms.
y legados culturales.
contact person: arieh ullmann,school of management, binghamton university  (state university of new york), binghamton, ny 13902, tel.
a resident told sam of an attempt by the hoa, a non-profit corporation, to take over the waterfront behind his home and eleven others.
©2009 by scott stevens and rebecca treadway.
contact person: josep lluís cano, esade, av.
of long-term concern to the management of the cooperative was the need to manage the risk of inventory obsolescence.
peter studied the trends in the chocolate industry and the local competition.
dan’s strategic and organizational choices since he  founded the company have been witness to his drive.
information technology cisco
contact person: jerffrey ellis,  babson college, f. w. olin graduate school of business, babson park, ma, 02457,  (617) 777-4028,ellisj@babson.edu go green mart and more: growing  more green online?
porter’s five forces model, barney’s vrio model, and  slywotsky’s value migration theory.
por otro lado, era preciso revisar el comportamiento y motivaciones de la persona que viajaba en el país, dado que por ejemplo se tenía que el principal motivo de viaje por avión era por trabajo
a 2008 restructuring, which brought the three closer to parity, was viewed as unfair by all three, who claimed to think that they had given their parents undeserved share ownership.
vi narapareddy, vnarapar@du.edu.
an additional source of information was the issue prospectus.
the case the two options for investment along with dimensions of the  company (company history and personnel and culture) and industry (structure,  technology, consolidation, and government regulations and tariffs).
utilizing these theories as a foundation, instructors can then proceed to conduct an ethical assessment of the issue that the board faces.
the last objective therefore closes the loop and links back to #1 and #2.
essentially, the case involves problems of growth, vision, potential, and  management.
details  about fred and his bakery are somewhat disguised.
contact person: d.w. rosenthal, 2072 farmer school of business, miami  university, oxford, oh 45056, 513-529-1203,rosentdw@muohio.edu global innovators: four companies which working to improve social  conditions around the world robert girling, sonoma state university case objective around the world innovative enterprises are emerging  daily to combine the energies of social concern with the logic of the  marketplace to meet the needs of millions worldwide and to meetthe failure of  the market to solve growing social problems—such as health care, urban  decay and poverty.
though raised in the us, co-founders  and lifelong friends roberto milk, andy milk, and charles hachtmann have always  been exposed to global influences.
meanwhile, their sister, with the titles of controller and  secretary, was taking a lackadaisical attitude toward the financial control  system which it was her supposed duty to administer.
was abbott a hero or a villain?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the technology was funded via phase i and ii grants for a proposed nasa application.
despite the obvious benefits, the products had generated limited demand.
it deals,  therefore, with the impact that nonconforming parts can have on a manufacturing  process, and allows students to explore its possible remedies, using detailed  text and supplemental exhibits for analysis.
an mba for medical students has been designed at rockhurst university which starts students in their first summer with an integrated economics/accounting case which is solved by teams of up to four students.
the case presents  the changes that have been produced in the university system, the changes  within the catalan university system, the organisational structure that was  used, the various stakeholders’ need to obtain decision-making  information and how the project was carried out.
the case, instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-octber 31, 2009.
other objectives involve exploring why many of the major airlines are suffering staggering financial losses and bankruptcy.
during exi’s start-up, kenneth and ronald agreed that upon  achieving certain milestones ronald would own 49% of exi and then have the  opportunity to acquire kenneth’s 51%.
each dollar of minibond issues eight dollars of seven year credit default swaps.
contact person: elizabeth grace, college of business, san jose state university, 1 washington square, san jose, ca 95192-0066, 408-924-3474,grace_e@cob.sjsu.edu case objective the case shows students how theft can occur even with a proper system of internal controls.
in consequence, the case focuses on smart city initiatives.
in the context of its profit-making orientation, scc raises questions about the theory of the firm and to whom an organization should be responsible.
attivio incorporated john friar, tucker marion, & ray kinnunen northeastern university case objective the case details the software development process at attivio inc.
pfizer discussed his innermost concerns with another individual contributor as they discussed their new responsibilities: “no more excuses, no one to hide behind, and the company’s destiny will be in our hands.
in another case, parents seek to use genetic engineering to  produce a second child that will potentially provide bone marrow stem cells for  the treatment of seriously ill first-born child.
el segundo objetivo es lograr el interés en los  cursos de finanzas, por parte de los directivos que participan en programas de  management general.
management implemented a strategic turnaround plan beginning in  2003 to restore profitability.
robert  ellis, school of business, university of northern british columbia, 3333  university way, prince george, british columbia, v2n 4z9, 250-960-6491, bellis@unbc.ca the vital spot richard gifford &  peter markulisstate university of new york - geneseo case objective about 6,000 residents and is somewhat of a bedroom community from a large  city 35 miles away.
además de brindar la oportunidad de reflexionar sobre los  elementos clave de la planificación financiera personal posibilita una  introducción en el funcionamiento de los mercados de capitales y los  diversos vehículos de inversión.
case synopsis an explosion at the bayer cropscience (a component of bayer group) plant in institute, west virgina on august 28th, 2008 could be felt for miles.
arieh ullmann,school of management, binghamton university (state university of new york), binghamton, ny 13902, tel.
is the problem the hub and spoke structure, the inability to cope with escalating fuel and labor costs, inefficient aircraft mix, or is it a lack of experienced, effective, visionary management leadership needed to turnaround an airline in trouble?
it could also be used in similarly oriented training programs for marketing executives.
however, did his professional responsibilities encompass  embezzlement?
el objetivo del caso es ilustrar los diversos aspectos que se deben considerar en este tipo de proyectos, con especial énfasis en el análisis de la viabilidad y rentabilidad económica
these can be related to discussion on pricing strategies such as skim versus penetration.
© 2009 by max e. douglas.
mark  j. ahn, faculties of commerce & administration and science, victoria  university of wellington, 23 lambton quay, wellington, new zealand 6140, (64)  (4) 463-6934,mark@pukanapartners.com.
case synopsis this case is about the emergence of an innovative  for-profit social venture that connects talented artisans in developing nations  with customers in the us and elsewhere.
this is the operations management issue.
chelse nieri & rebecca treadway maryville college case objective this case describes a company that broke the mold in the warehouse  membership industry to become the industry leader.
however, to utilize the case to its maximum potential, the authors recommend it  be used later in the course.
the case is most appropriate for courses in strategic  financial management, financial statement analysis, and financial instruments.
the case examines  various ways in which lean manufacturing has been implemented.
case synopsis by may 2009, new zealand businessman and good water ceo, grant hall, was one year into his five year plan to achieve his nirvana vision of a closed loop system.
at first he started a solo practice in liberty, missouri, but  after several years, even as he attained an mba, he established a clinic.
intended for use in  a graduate or upper-division undergraduate course in business and society, the  cases spans a range of topics, including corporate social responsibility,  stakeholder analysis, codes of ethical conduct, conflicts of interest,  government regulation of the securities industry, shareholder rights, and  personal responsibility.
the case was written for mba level courses, where it could be used in e-business, strategy or marketing courses.
case b  deals with the wine sector and a more standardized vision of b2b analysis,  while case c presents the mining sector with its highly complex structure.
alternately, the case  could be used in a less structured approach.
the carmelites had received a $250,000 donation that could be used toward the purchase and the monastery had earned nearly $75,000 during the first year of its coffee roasting operations, but more money would be needed.
case synopsis in the mid-2000s, moody’s, the world’s leading credit rating  agency, evaluated thousands of bonds backed by subprime residential  mortgages—home loans made to people with low incomes and poor credit.
reluctantly he agreed and for more than a decade became an integral component of operating management as well as critical business strategic decisions.
survey  research associates raymond h. lopez, pace university case objective the case documents the career of an entrepreneur, alfredo sanchez from his  ph.d. in geology (university of madrid) to his ownership and pending sale of  survey research associates upon his retirement.
unfamiliar with the requirements of starting a new business, peter turned  to his brother, who had the knowledge and industry expertise as a result of  starting a successful manufacturing/ retailing chocolate enterprise nearly  twenty years earlier.
in 2007, 3m argentina’s management team was evaluating growth alternatives.
should walters (a) continue to seek investors with the current business plan; (b) seek a different source of funding; (c) substantially revise his plan or to make it more attractive to ‘traditional’ investors; or (d) consider revising his entire business model, and sell or license the patent?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
nuevos países productores de vino; chile, estados unidos, argentina y  australia entre otros han estrado al mercado ocupando importantes cuotas de  mercado.
the authors developed the case for class  discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling  of the situation.
the case frames chin and oxigene’s strategic options  — continue to diversify from oncology to ophthalmology, spin off their  ophthalmology product candidates into a new company, or license their  ophthalmology another company (e.g., small biotech, large multinational  biopharmaceutical).
the case places a particular focus on the toyota production  system (tps) and scanlon management system.
la concesión daba derecho a utilizar los recursos naturales del río san francisco, para lo cual se planeó construir una planta de energía hidroeléctrica de 450 mw y una línea de transmisión de 50 km.
agiltron incorporated tucker marion, john friar,  &
in addition, considering that from all bodies of water left only 2.5 percent is freshwater, which must be shared by 6 billion people, it sounds crazy that we are still flushing down urinals with about a gallon of drinking water.
© 2009 by susan sieloff, ray kinnunen, tucker marion, and john  friar.
the  company’s experiential offering merges idyllic landscaping, an  artistically designed tasting room staffed with helpful servers and winery tour  guides eager to share the story and legends of oliver, a selection of gourmet  foods, and a very wide selection of excellent wines.
all rights are reserved to the author and nacra.
the case analyses whether la  minerva´s decision to name the beer, malverde was or was not ethical.
juxtaposing kouzes & posner's leadership model to theexemplary high school  teachers' stories should convert skeptics to thinking that teachers need to behave as leaders, both inside and out of classrooms.
the case was written for undergraduate or mba courses in entrepreneurship or in strategic management.
the case was written for upper-level  undergraduate or mba students.
it could be used as an exam case, as a means of testing the students’ ability to identify and understand ethical dilemmas, ethical theories, and other influences on decision-making which are specific to the non-profit sector.
it works in partnership with government agencies, private companies like robert mondavi winery, and universities such as uc-davis.
the neighborhood had an  elaborate park and extensive walking trails.
using its  proprietary protein engineering technology profusion to isolate likely protein  candidates among a class of proteins called adnectins™, the company  sought to identify new drug therapies for specific diseases.
© 2009 by robert girling.
similarly, all three were surrounded by people who made it their lives’ mission to make a positive social contribution.
here, students are given information to evaluate a positioning strategy,  to analyze data, and to identify major marketing concerns.
the team knew they should align the company’s organizational structure to the commercial strategy of choice, but how could they build an action plan that contemplated this alignment?
its importance lies in its discussion of the technology product development process, and the process of selecting what would be the best commercial market for a proven product or technology.
dan albright was faced with the decision of whether to pursue prosecution against her.
however, despite her efforts and what seemed like a collaborative spirit on the part of the pds, a few weeks into the semester, students’ reflections and cooperating teachers’ feedback indicated that all was not so promising.
because the positions are located in a nuclear power plant, there is a multi-stepped federal security clearance required.
know the relationship between differentiation, positioning, and targeting, and  (6) be able to develop strategic recommendations that are supported with sound  theory and market information.
the choices force them to explore the constraints and objectives of four kinds codes; (1) their professional code (eg.
six years later, exi has become extremely profitable and ronald has achieved a 49% ownership of exi.
case synopsis pete wilson, a regional manager for a large corporation, decides to leave the corporate world and purchase a fledgling coffee bistro in hopes of restoring its customer base and image within a midwestern college community.
contact person: janet l. rovenpor, management and marketing department, manhattan college, riverdale, ny 10471, 718-862-7437, janet.rovenpor@manhattan.edu.
many times an individual is faced with an ethical dilemma because their own values and those of their employer are in conflict.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were submitted to the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
financial problems had plagued hilltop in recent years and the  relationship between the pastor and members was already contentious.
stockweb’s management team saw three key options to helping the company  make the adjustments to their advertising costs dilemma.
© 2009 by nita l. paden… contact person:  david albritton david.albritton@nau.edu not for profit corporate governance at rocky mountain mutual housing association gordon von stroh and vijaya narapareddyuniversity of  denver case objective
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29 – 31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
dan has been positioning the company for growth since inception and both father and son are committed to growth.
despite the firm’s attempt to make kaletra more widely available in countries where demand was high but ability to pay was low, the firm’s pricing strategy was widely criticized.
in 2007, a nephew had a coronary artery  bypass and one of the four brothers suffered chest discomfort.
they opened a new factory in dongwan that was a merger between shenzhen filtroil and their supplier, liu li—whose own factory was on the verge of bankruptcy.
scc also provides numerous program  activities for employees and for the community, including english lessons,  childcare (employees only), and computer classes.
as noble systems grew, john and jack  faced many challenges: expenses exceeding revenues, cash flow problems,  customer support difficulties, in-house management coordination problems, rapid  technological change, emergence of strong competitors, a sales process to  universities that was slow and frustrating, and a lack of partnerships with  textbook publishers.
management faced multiple, interrelated challenges in each stage of the emerging crisis.
furfine asks: “what’s  next?
the  swashbuckling founding years of continental airlines, functional aspects of  airline operations, continental’s competition, and the turnaround after  two chapter 11 bankruptcies by gordon bethune, who lead continental from worst  in the industry to first, and the post- bethune years.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort, santa cruz, california, october 29 –  31, 2009.
the case reveals options leahman could take to  manage the situation.
contact person: max e. douglas, college of business, indiana state university, terre haute, in 47809, 812-237-2104, max.douglas@indstate.edu montana state university-billings case objective the case should enable students to: (1) learn how to manage a turnaround strategy – retrenchment and recovery.
i blanc more than 20 years ago.
the world also owes it to him for elimination of smallpox from the face of the earth in the 1970s, control of ebola epidemic outbreak in 1976 in the border region between zaire and sudan; and discovery of hepatitis vaccine in 1980s in the usa.
how would its  competitors react?
(2) think holistically and  creatively in a failing business situation.
in a rainy day of february 2008, heriberto gómez, general manager  and shareholder of  distribuciones canarias, s.a. (discasa) was trying to  organize his ideas, develop arguments and draw conclusions to be able to defend  his new and ambitious strategy for the company at the next meeting of the board  of directors.
thus students are challenged to make connections across the individual  cases and, where appropriate, to test the adequacy ethical theories,  professional standards, public policy guidelines and personal values.
the  library includes a service area of 197,000 patrons and employs 175 full and  part-time employees.
should dan make the  investments?
se describen las relaciones de la organización con los diferentesgrupos de interés (stakeholders) y las iniciativas de responsabilidad social (rse) emprendidas con cada uno de ellos, buscando la creación de valor mezclado.
what effects do stakeholders groups have on one another?
falling property values and negative cash flows forced board members to decide about its future.
this case specifically focuses on the pre-practicum experience and how despite efforts and a spirit of collaboration, there can be a disconnection of theory to practice.
the technology was proven to have worked very effectively, but now the  decision was which direction the company should pursue: continuing to sell a  customizable and extendable platform or creating a finished product for a  particular customer segment.
he learned  that the hoa was continuing its aggressive behavior mainly focused on one  homeowner, a retired management professor who had helped defeat the walkway  effort.
the case  follows the development of the business from start-up to a critical strategic  decision.
should dan make the investments?
the management knew that developing a finished product was their best high-growth strategy, but it would involve directly competing with giants like microsoft and ibm, which is something they wanted to avoid.
however, marcia has increased obligations to her patrons  and board.
© 2009 by marilyn taylor,  nick grunaeur, and chi anyansi-archibong.
it is likely to be  especially well-received in executive and part-time mba programs, where many  students are members or former members of homeowner associations (hoas).
equipped with this information, troy needed to make feasible recommendations to improve control.
the company’s leading sales  representative, emily colleague, worked for sarah manager, the manager of the  company.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting,santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2009.
major topics include internal controls, ethics, small business, and accounting entries.
and, if so, in what time frame?
¿las agencias de viaje podrían ayudar a que lan perú llegara a quien tradicionalmente no usaba el servicio aéreo?, ¿era posible transferir un menor precio al usuario final y gestionar la demanda bajo el modelo comercial tradicional?
its mission was to analyze sand deposits for beach restoration for a number of countries bordering the mediterranean sea.
the owners carried a large selection of gowns and  discounted the attire one-fourth below the list price.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting,october 29- 31, 2009, santa cruz, california, usa.
case synopsis the ‘government intelligence in catalan public universities’  case presents how business intelligence is applied within a public  administration body, specifically the dursi (department of universities,  research and information society, in the original catalandepartament  d’universitats, recerca i societat de la informació)  belonging to the government of catalonia (spain).
a friend told her to develop a turnaround strategy, including a retrenchment plan (i.e., cost and asset reductions) and a recovery plan (i.e., a strategy for recovery).
how can we accomplish all these tasks?
case synopsis karnavati healthcare ltd. (khl), a large pharma company near ahmedabad in western india, was facing severe sales force turnover in its human branded formulations sbu (b-sbu).
therefore, they called  for different management schemes.
at about  the same time research studies and news reports revealed that much that the  brothers had believed about coronary disease was based on research apparently  biased by corporate profit-seeking.
excel spreadsheets can (but do not have to) be distributed in order to structure the discussion.
costco prided itself on offering excellent employee compensation and benefits.
this case was developed for use in a graduate level business policy and  strategy course but would be ideal for courses focused on strategy,  entrepreneurship and ecommerce at both the graduate and undergraduate level.
the question before wendlandt and his investment management team was  whether or not to place more of nylic’s investable cash flow into safer  but lower yielding fixed income products.
innovative water conservation measures are in demand and last april the department of water resources announced estimates of a record low for 2009 since this is the third consecutive dry year.
in order to do the  analysis, he needs to first understand the differences, rearrange the  statements so that they look similar to what he (and the county board of  supervisors) are used to, and then analyze them and provide recommendations.
is there a most important stakeholder group?
it is prepared as a  basis for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or  ineffective handling of an administrative situation.
what pressure will this  place on the three counties’ own financial operations?
when csb announced that is wished to publicize all the information received  from bayer, the corporate legal team evoked disclosure protection of federal  laws created to ensure homeland security, including the maritime transportation  security act (mtsa).
billing carelessness and pricing inaccuracies have cost the partners hundreds of thousands of dollars over the last few years.
in addition to investigating the effect of life cycles on circle 6, students are asked to examine the external/ internal forces on the firm and how/why the crisis developed in order to prevent its demise.
the us housing market was  weakening at a time when financial institutions had significant assets tied up  in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations.
estos son temas estratégicos, tanto del punto de vista corporativo como de la estrategia dinámica.
abbott faced pressure from governments (brazil, thailand and mexico are covered in the case) to significantly reduce kaletra prices or the governments would break abbott’s patent protection and produce generic equivalents themselves.
can companies produce needed products and survive financially?
the case illustrates how a corporation decides whether or not to proceed with a project given substantial and sustained opposition.
nylic had a responsibility to its policyholders.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29- 31, 2009.
how should all these options be  evaluated and prioritized?
in addition to raising and sending money, beth is mentoring these  refugees and raising awareness through her website of the dire needs at  kyangwali.
this alignment facilitated the case company’s success to date and will arguably be essential to continued growth and success.
the case focuses on the ceo of a us-based japanese subsidiary who is confronted with a situation that, while not illegal, runs counter his personal ethics.
are consumers sufficiently concerned about the working conditions under which goods are produced to support these companies?
following a very confrontational  meeting, ronald, portia, and jason henry leave exi. following an outside audit,  kenneth learns that ronald has taken $600,000 in equipment and $400,000  belonging to exi to start a competing company.
the primary target market of hq-iaq uv products was  contractors who installed heaters and air conditioners.
in 2007, montana silversmiths decided to  manage the outlet and revoked m&l’s right to sell its products.
accomplishing this will inevitably involve a wide-ranging  discussion of the current state of medical ethics in relation to cardiology  and, metaphorically, other fields of medicine.
his vision of transforming the small brotherhood of 13 monks crammed into a small home used as makeshift rectory into 500-acremonastery with accommodations for 30 monks, a retreat center for lay visitors, a gothic church, a convent for carmelite nuns, and a hermitage presented a formidable challenge.
case synopsis this case is about the story of don francis, a pioneer and more than 20 years of activist in the field of aids, especially in the development of aids vaccine.
to this point, the company had received $6.2 million in venture capital funding with commitments for more investments, and already had three clients.
often, strategy and ethics are treated as separate issues.
the raventós family’s long  history and experience, and its integration of land, vineyard, wine and  cellars, gave its products their own unique character.
it also introduces the student to the topic of  eminent domain, since tank is trying to acquire a local business property in  order to build a new bus terminal, and leads to a lively discussion of when  eminent domain is appropriate and when it is not.
© 2009 by karen popovich, diane lander & robert letovsky..
this substantial risk is priced and the price allows theminibonds to offer attractive “interest” to investors.
contact person: dave noreen, college of business, the pennsylvania  state university, 220 business building, university park, pa 16803,  206-250-7277,dnoreen@gmail.com project ‘zero-d’:
sodexo has attempted to position itself as an employer of choice, has used a  variety of recruitment channels and offer benefits and career development  potential.
case synopsis oxigene is a development stage, biopharmaceutical company  developing novel therapeutics to treat cancer and eye diseases.
the case writers developed the case for  undergraduate business strategy or small business management and  entrepreneurship courses.
the director needs to develop a strategy on “what type of strategy or process should she employ to rejuvenate the  effort and thereby the level of motivation for the process?this is the  leadership issue.
however, in 2008, 100 percent of miter edge customer complaints from its high  performance products were related to manufacturing.
case b begins where case a ends and concludes  with a decision point to expand the business and become more economically  self-sufficient and less reliant on grants and donations in mid-2008.
since economic downturns occur periodically, students should become familiar with the process of facing decreased funding, and how to deal with those issues.
although pete believes in the free enterprise system and fair  competition, he eventually faces a big decision after he learns that starbucks  will be locating within one block of his bistro.
pfizer’s role at circle 6  suddenly grew as he was asked to take on some management tasks in this  leadership vacuum because of his action-oriented style.
the case was written for upper-level undergraduate or mba students.
this case is  suitable for graduate or upper-division undergraduate courses in business and  society, business ethics, marketing strategy, or strategy.
since the early 1900s vermilion had operations in the tiny town of ely, minnesota.
mcdonald’s  turnaround strategy instituted the mission statement into core operations and  focused on customer service.
contact person: tucker j. marion, northeastern university, college of business  administration, 360 huntington avenue 101 stearns, boston, ma 02120,  617-373-2241, t.marion@neu.edu.
y en la gestión de riesgos.
© 2009 by  michael tansey.
rights are reserved to the authors and nacra.
alicia es ponente en el panel de inauguración del  simposio internacional:
case synopsis attivio incorporated (www.attivio.com), a newton, ma based enterprise  search software development company, was in the process of deciding how to best  commercialize their core technology, the active intelligence engine (aie).
in addition, the  hispanic wine consumer living outside the u.s. represented another high  potential market and was of serious interest to amelia ceja, co-founder of the  winery, and her partners.
it also raises questions about whether new avenues  should be explored when facing unprecedented growth challenges.
during economic  downturns, most not for profit organizations face decreased donations.
the case also illustrates issues of external environmental analysis.
turboprops  would be able to service at least 90% of estonian air’s existing routes.
in late 2008, several investment banks, commercial banks, and mortgage lenders that had been heavily involved in the subprime market failed.
the growth of online sales affected the strategic plans of traditional bridal shops and required new strategies to be crafted.
unfortunately, he could not find  anyone to speak with who had left wall street for a small business venture.
one of the major problems beth faces is how to sustain and raise the money needed so desperately in order to provide the needs and care the refugees deserve.
can we measure the value of expected synergies?
this u.s.-based global industry leader owned on since the end of 2004.
at the time the case ends in july 2008, the company employed 500 people and had sales of $200 million.
oliver  winery focuses on providing employees with empowerment to take ownership of the  company, customers with a memorable experience that will grant even  inexperienced wine drinkers access to wine enjoyment and quality highly  drinkable wine that can be enjoyed by a wide range of palates.
students come to understand the prominence and  pervasiveness the mission statement can have on company operations and on  profitability.
por otra parte, era consciente de los riesgos inherentes a un proyecto de este tipo.
once he decided he wanted to set up his own practice he had to decide  where.
case synopsis this case deals with an actual situation involving dr. abdul-aziz (all  names are disguised) who must make a decision about his future with the small  group pediatric practice he is a partner with.
the multifaceted nature of the crisis  requires students to draw on their prior knowledge of theories across areas  such as entrepreneurship, strategy, leadership, organizational change and  management style to address the crisis at circle 6.
however, “which” action plan the protagonist should utilize is not the right question.
it also gives answer to questions like: can we measure the value of a given strategy?
© 2009 by susan d. peters and brianna zhang.
after the start-up phase, kenneth agreed to withdraw from the day-today  activities of managing of exi, leaving those tasks to ronald.
the case analyses whether la minerva´s decision to name the beer, malverde was or was not ethical.
case objective this case could be used in classes of organizational behavior, human resources management, international business, legal environment of business, legal issues in human resources management, gender issues in management, labor laws and multinational corporations.
© 2009 by hugh thomas, the chinese university of hong kong, shatin, n.t., hong kong 852-26097649 hugh-thomas@cuhk.edu.hk case objective this case study aims to illustrate the various factors that have to be taken into account to evaluate strategic alternatives from a financial point of view.
this case is unique in that both sets of values are aligned;  but, acting on those values (“doing good”) may put both the  protagonist and his employer at risk.
© 2009 by david l. turnipseed and john e.  gamble.
se presentan el plan de negocio y su implementación basados en el concepto de la integración la cadena de valor en la producción de cerdos, buscando capturarun mayor valor agregado en las actividades empresariales “después del campo”.
it explores the phenomenon at global, industry, and business levels from both  usa and indian perspectives.
case objective the case gives students a chance to build a decision model, either manually or using basic excel formulas, to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of four possible alternatives involving an aircraft acquisition.
furthermore the clinic relied on the highly risky, limited base of a single  institutional customer.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather  than to illustrate the effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
evaluate a firm’s strategy and find acquisition targets that match that strategy
because the three counties, federal, and state  government share the expenses  not covered by passenger revenues,   assessing the financial condition of the organization requires the analyst to  re-arrange the information into a format that is suitable for analysis using  traditional financial tools.
the case illustrates the importance of environmental, economic, cultural and political perspectives in the decision making process.
case synopsis exi corporation was started six years ago by kenneth davis and ronald maak.
in december of 2005, the grpl contracted with a consultant to train marcia and two assistant directors in the lean methodology.
the focus was to reorient the company to better suit customers’ desires and to limit domestic growth.
© 2009 by mary shapiro and cynthia ingols.
it is designed to be a culminating case in a marketing management course in which all aspects of marketing management and strategy are pulled together to analyze the case and develop recommendations.
the case centers around eric furfine, senior vice president of r&d. furfine was confident that the acquisition had been the best option for adnexus, but the reality of the drug development process presents many challenges.
the teaching objectives are: (1) identification of the  information relevant for a cash flow forecast, (2) understanding the challenges  in building up a cash flow forecast, (3) understanding the risks of using  multiples and (4) using discounted cash flow valuation for a company which  provides more challenges than a textbook problem.
contact person: richard r. young, school of business  administration, capital college, the pennsylvania state university, middletown,  pa  17057, 717-948-6151, rry100@psu.edu.
case objective este caso describe una situación real de un project finance en brasil: la construcción y posterior explotación de una central hidroeléctrica por un período de treinta y cinco años, con datos modificados para salvaguardar la confidencialidad.
the company’s experiential offering merges idyllic landscaping, an artistically designed tasting room staffed with helpful servers and winery tour guides eager to share the story and legends of oliver, a selection of gourmet foods, and a very wide selection of excellent wines.
case synopsis resources department for assistance with the recruitment and selection of hourly personnel for their food service operations within the ontario power generation (opg) plant facilities.
working with organizations to help women transition  back into society is a primary goal of the women’s bean project.
the extra people in the plant will result in more foot traffic at  sodexo’s food service facilities at opg and therefore, sodexo must hire  additional staff without compromising the integrity of the client’s
it highlights the key challenges for team computers with respect to its transition to a more professional, system driven and a market oriented company.
go green is a commercial website selling environmentally friendly products selected personally by halcyon.
thus, an  analysis of tank’s present financial situation and trends is essential.
the case is suitable for a business strategy course or a small business and/or entrepreneurship course at the undergraduate, mba, or executive mba level.
oliver was happy with the performance of don and his associate  winemaker, carl dore, and felt that they fit well with the culture of the  family run winery.
under the terms of the then current university collective agreement  with the university faculty association, harry had to retire by september 2009  and vci manager gail bauer, who had worked very closely with harry for several  years, indicated she would retire in june 2009.
prior to assigning the case.
most not for profits face such problems even in the best of times.
a 2008 restructuring,  which brought the three closer to parity, was viewed as unfair by all three,  who claimed to think that they had given their parents undeserved share  ownership.
the three major canadian publishing firms had thus far been unsuccessful in creating quality online resources, but they were eager to gain a share of the market.
o negocios, en contraste con el total  de la población que viajaba principalmente a visitar familiares y por  bus.
nandu collapses on the floor of his one room unit after vainly trying to revive his dead brother and unconscious sister- in- law.
but, what should she say, to whom and how should she frame this critical conversation?
rent tex started with five stores and quickly expanded to ten.
the  specific learning objectives for the case are: 1) to understand the  complexities of transferring research findings from a university laboratory to  commercial applications in industry; and 2) to develop skills in making a  persuasive presentation on a new business venture to venture capitalists,  bankers and ceos who could potentially provide support.
the two cases stretch through the life of scc, from  its inception in 1994 through mid-2008, when the case was written.
they had a growing reputation as a company that valued employees by providing above-average compensation.
in addition to these personal and  family needs was a concern that his firm’s underwriting business was  eroding and his bonus was at risk.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 29-31,2009 in santa cruz, ca.
nextblok promised to reduce waste by using recycled styrofoam, save trees, transform framing from cumbersome to easy, and provide homeowners with an affordable, energy-efficient and earthquake resistant house.
case synopsis four brothers from louisiana, usa lost their father and two brothers to  heart attacks at relatively early ages.
starting in the  gulf region, this initiative is capturing a lot of attention due to the  phenomenal opportunity it represents to discuss the future of internet as seen  in traffic control; smart electric grids to gain efficiency and reduce co2  emissions; and harbor management; and unified communications, among others.
this case is based on consultations of an actual client of the donald e. kelley small business institute at francis marion university.
the owner of the company was skip bossman.
think humanity and the kyangwali refugees cindy rauschenberger, the women’s college, university of denver vi narapareddy (faculty supervisor), university of denver case objective this case tells the story of beth heckel and her discovery of the suffering  and survival endured at the kyangwali refugee camp in uganda.
woodbury university case objective decision-making to meet the 21st century’s
a second objective is to discuss ways to deal  with awkward situations which arise in the classroom and to which a faculty  response is required.
such a subsequent sale might be an ipo on one of the chinese  stock exchanges.
this case is designed to be used in an undergraduate or graduate course in strategic management or strategic planning.
could kuan long plastic injection inc continue to prosper and expand in the cost oriented plastic injection
como analista senior de riesgos en la entidad financiera para la que trabajaba, debía realizar un informe sobre la conveniencia de participar en el crédito sindicado para financiar el proyecto de la central eléctrica de san francisco, en brasil.
the technology developed met all expectations for the desired specification and application.
they feel the college has been on the “warpath” against the local bars with all kinds of programs designed to keep students away from the bars, especially during weeknights.
it was his desire to improve the lives of these people economically,  environmentally, and socially.
this is the  marketing question.
this case may be used in advanced marketing courses for mba programs as  well as in specific executive education programs addressing key account  management (kam), global account management (gam) and/or industrial marketing  or business to business marketing issues.
elissa grossman, loyola marymount university, one lmu drive, ms 8385,  310-338-7401,elissa.grossman@lmu.edu sonoma wine company:  ideas for generations brian kent & domenique scioli, sonoma  state university case objective this case is used to showcase the greening methods of not only the  california wine industry as a whole, but also of a specific winery, sonoma wine  company, who have been industry leaders in sustainability.
the case describes the aggressive expansion undertaken in the 1990s, and the operational and financial challenges faced by the mutual when the housing market and local economy took a nosedive, adversely affecting property values and cash flows since the dotcom bust.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2008.
raventós i blanc produced wines and ‘cava’ –the name given to a sparkling wine produced using the champagne or ‘traditional’ method in certain winemaking regions of spain.
jon  kalinowski, college of business, minnesota state university mankato, 150 morris  hall, mankato, mn 56001, 507-389-5347, jon.kalinowksi@mnsu.edu oliver winery – experiential management & growth allyson  r. baughman, alexandra b. schroeder & dean m. schroeder valparaiso university case objective the case illustrates a company whose business model involves providing  customers with a wine experience in its tasting room and vineyard that will  then help to pull wine sales through wholesale channels.
the firm strategy was one that encouraged its investors to buy-and-hold quality investments for the long-term.
winston kwok must decide whether or not to distribute the minibonds to his customers, given that competitors are selling them and that customers appear to be comfortable with financial risk.
the vna has a headquarters location and four branch locations that need it systems and communications.
the case also centers on the mediterranean division, created in 2009, and its relationship with india from initial off-shoring projects to 2007 when cisco created its globalization center east, in practical terms, a second headquarters in bangalore, india.
data sources are the corporate plans of fraport as used internally for  preparing the ipo.
all have taken usual measures to stave off heart disease.
© 2009 by mary michel and janet l. rovenpor.
this case describes the development of a new type of nano material for moisture reduction on clear surfaces (primarily anti-fog).
over the years, costco’s stock price rose; yet, so did wall street  criticism.
as oliver has continued to grow and succeed over the years it has remained a solid organization that has relied upon its business model and value proposition to remain stable and successful.
the case and instructor’s manual were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting in santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
aravind eye care is one of the most successful and admired enterprising nonprofits in the world.
from the early years, costco had a strong  commitment to members to provide merchandise with high value and low-prices.
microfinanzas y construcción de paz”, junto con el presidente del banco interamericano de desarrollo (bid), el presidente de la república y el presidente de la corporación andina de fomento (caf).
in less than four years of operation, the company had lost its first two winemakers to local competitors.
case synopsis it was mid-march 2007 and rait kalda, vp for estonian air operations, faced  a tough decision.
the case has been class-room tested with a business and  sustainability class using similar questions to those offered here.
the case was developed as two assignments capped by a team final for an mba economics course for medical students in a joint medical degree-mba program at rockhurst university.
while the firm has been able to reduce the quantity of material that it  is required to dispose of, some may question that all they have done is  transfer the disposal problem to others.
fsfb had obtained the rights to distribute the products in the  eastern half of the united states.
y por ende a cuestionarnos el rol de las agencias de viaje.
it may be used in conjunction  with the ‘agiltron, inc.’ and ‘attivio: deciding on an  enterprise search platform or product’ cases as a unit in new product  development across several different technology-based industries.
ronald offers kenneth $1 million for kenneth’s share of exi and is rebuffed.
if abbott cut the price in every country that complained, how would the firm continue to fund cutting-edge research and development?
case objective this case shows the challenges a small business often has with the attraction and retention of a highly skilled position.
since 80% of the expenses for  the ssc were related to personnel costs, wendy knew that most cost savings  would have to come from personnel costs.
© 2009 by markus vodosek and charla  brown.
case synopsis bill soper, a family practitioner, graduated from  medical school and had to decide where to locate and what size of practice he  wanted.
with the loss of the montana silversmiths business, river  bend trading became a one-owner business.
as the business benefited from a huge upsurge in patronage due to development of a large natural gas field in the area, profits escalated and the conflicts worsened.
marcia expressed interest in lean soon after her arrival.
contact person:  arthur sharplin,  bentley college center for business ethics, p.o. box 30260, austin, tx   78755-3260, 512-415-1427, asharplin@aol.com.
this $5.00 would provide a mosquito  net to prevent the number one cause of death at the camp, malaria.
the case shows the evolution in the use of business intelligence, and puts to those responsible for the new diue (formerly known as dursi) the issue of evaluating the project that has been undertaken in addition to proposing its future development.
but, what should she  say, to whom and how should she frame this critical conversation?
susan white, university of maryland college  park case objective this case is intended for an advanced undergraduate or an mba corporate  finance elective.
their market had been international relief programs.
while college bars have tried various tactics to attract more students, which often means pulling students away from competitors, paul and luke feel that there may be an opportunity to change the nature of their bar to attract local residents.
finally, the case addresses the issue of generating  “trust” in discussion groups so that sensitive issues can be  discussed without fear of reprisal or discrimination.
the officer informed albright she had been convicted of  embezzlement but was being arrested because of a probation violation.
it highlights the key challenges for team computers with  respect to its transition to a more professional, system driven and a market  oriented company.
all three traveled a great deal  in their youth.
for example, lifesaving drugs to treat malaria, tuberculosis and aids were created by for-profit pharmaceutical companies.
recent research found that it is now possible to extract the  remaining hematite in the ore fields and an option for a return to the mines of  ely is now on the table with the board of directors of vermilion.
john.vitton@mail.business.und.edu case objective this case describes a company that broke the mold in the warehouse membership industry to become the industry leader.
it challenges students to  consider how businesses, governments, and society can better assure the  integrity of the credit rating industry.
managing growth at backcountry.com markus vodosek, university of utahcharla brown, devon  energy case objective the main learning objective of this case is to  understand how organizational culture caneffectively support a company’s  strategy, how organizational culture develops, and how it is maintained.
while she knew she was legally charged with acting, she faced a complicated situation: the hospital system is owned and operated by the archdiocese of boston with cardinal o’malley as the chairman of the board; and these charges came soon after the priest molestation cases which rocked the catholic church of boston.
to make his plan a reality, good water and competitors who took up the good water project challenge of producing in pla bottles, needed to ramp up volume considerably.
in 2003, rocky mountain mutual housing association (“the mutual”) was in dire financial straits.
this case was written for business school undergraduates is small business management, family business, and/or entrepreneurship.
case objective el caso muestra cómo alfredo ruiz, un mexicano nacido en la ciudad de culiacán sinaloa, decide comprar un terreno para dedicarse a producir vino en la conocida región de burdeos en francia a pesar de las transformaciones sufridas en esta competida industria.
case synopsis sam ryan came to austin, texas in 2007 to stay with his aunt mary in the courtyard while he earned his mba.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, california.
case synopsis blackboard, inc. was a leading educational software developer in the post secondary market.
this case examines the experience of a small taiwanese plastic injection company as it faces the challenges of global recession in early 2009.
peninsula had received comments from customers that the taste and style of their wines were different from year to year, which oliver knew was a result of the different winemakers they have employed in such a short period of time.
this case was designed for upper division undergraduate and mba level courses in small business, entrepreneurship and strategy.
which acquisition target was the best  value?
similarly, all three were  surrounded by people who made it their lives’ mission to make a positive  social contribution.
en este escenario, la compañía se cuestiona como lograr un crecimiento sostenido, teniendo en cuenta que su principal competidor era el servicio exclusivo ofrecido por empresas de transporte terrestre.
the case discussion questions can be assigned, most appropriately after a  lecture or a theory review concerning valuation.
what is the ecological  impact?
the ultimate  objective for students is to determine a course of action that will improve the  performance of go green mart.
contact person: robert ellis, school of business, university of northern british columbia, 3333 university way, prince george, british columbia, v2n 4z9, 250-960-6491, bellis@unbc.ca case objective about 6,000 residents
customers become ambassadors, as well as a part of an extended corporate  culture.
the case is brief and the day-to-day life of the cloistered  carmelite monks should capture the interest of students.
case synopsis john noble and jack o’brien, who both worked for a  university, founded noble systems in 1995 as one of the original companies to  develop and market elearning systems for the higher education market.
they accomplished some key objectives and goals, but now the effort and motivation to continue with applying the lean process is waning with the continuing shrinking budget.
this case is suitable for written reports, oral presentations, and examination purposes.
case synopsis capital vehicles systems is a supplier of vehicle instrumentation systems,  including gauges, system controllers, sensors, and display products.
there is a significant marketing component, which might make the case suitable in a strategic marketing class.
small business susan sieloff,  ray kinnunen, tucker marion & john friarnortheastern  university case objective the case covers adnexus therapeutics’ transition  period after acquisition by bristol-meyers squibb (bms).
case synopsis after celebrating their nineteenth harvest and seventh year as california producers and marketers of premium wine in september 2007, the mexican-born owners of ceja vineyards were considering whether or not to make a concerted effort to target u.s. hispanic consumers.
this case is based on consultations of an actual client of the donald e.  kelley small business institute at francis marion university.
starting in the gulf region, this initiative is capturing a lot of attention due to the phenomenal opportunity it represents to discuss the future of internet as seen in traffic control; smart electric grids to gain efficiency and reduce co2 emissions; and harbor management; and unified communications, among others.
case objective this case could be used to discuss topics pertaining to multinational operations in foreign locations, business ethics, corporate accountability and implementation of safety regulations.
should on change the pricing delegation practices that were so embedded in its organizational culture?
alfredo ruiz se preguntaba“qué debo hacer para lograr  que el viñedo sea competitivo y rentable”.
a fundamental feature of the  mutual’s mission was to provide services to its residents in a variety of  areas, including job training, after-school programs and homeownership  programs.
las ventas para el siguiente año habían comenzado y alfredo necesitaba definir a qué mercado debía enfocarse en el corto plazo y con qué estrategia.
students are encouraged to use several levels of critical thinking skills and theoretical frameworks to develop and evaluate alternatives and recommend the best course of action.
the new model is targeted at a segment is large but price sensitive and which may not be convinced of its value.
identify the obstacles to implementing  lean manufacturing.
the technology developed met all  expectations for the desired specification and application.
however, she had cost and asset  reduction options and friends who were supportive and gave her advice.
the case was developed  for undergraduate courses in organization behavior as a means to apply many of  the theories associated within that field of study.
was it possible to grow through specific market development or  should they consider other options?
there was no shortage of arguments in favor of etraffic’s innovative new models, but schools seemed slow to respond.
presentation regarding two potential investments --- an automatic nailer  machine and options for heat treating the lumber and/or manufactured pallets.
pedralbes 60-62, 08034 barcelona, spain,  josep.franch@esade.edu the talbots, inc., 2008 maureen laporte (student) & mary kay sullivan maryville college case objective
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 29 – 31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
the case describes how the  company's aim was to “capture” both the gdp shift moving towards  the east and new sources in the asia pacific, including the development of  business models.
addresses the many social issues of low-income immigrants by creating  employment and personal growth programs into one very successful non-profit  model.
the case is written to  provide the framework for evaluating the decision within the context of  business and operations strategy.
204-786-9833,j.melnyk@uwinnipeg.ca case objective the women’s bean project is a unique social enterprise located in denver, colorado.
case synopsis in guadalajara, jalisco mexico, the microbrewery la minerva recentedly  launched a new beer named malverde.
contact person: oliver abel, school of business, manhattan college,  riverdale, ny 10471, 201-444-3035,oliver.abel@manhattan.edu realizing value from multiple technology platforms: oxigene, inc. mark j. ahn, david ackerley & rebecca bednarek,victoria  university of wellingtonanne york, creighton university case objective this case is set in the biopharmaceutical industry,  which is fundamentally about creating innovative medicines and exploiting the  finite period of intellectual property exclusivity.
with no active marketing or business development resources  for the project, the founder and ceo of the company was deciding on options for  the product as it ‘sat on the shelf.
© 2009 by daniel f. jennings, lane batson, and  aaron schrems.
contact person: john gamble, university of south alabama, 307 n. university blvd., mobile, al 36688, 251-460-6180, jgamble@usouthal.edu case objective the case shows how a college faculty member and a business partner started one of the first elearning system companies.
how should all these options be evaluated and prioritized?
is amazon.com targeting the right segment for this brand?
pete uses strategic planning and demographic  analysis to renew and sustain his customer base.
if tank’s eminent domain suit is successful, the county, which has agreed to cover almost half of the annual operating deficit of the bus line, could face a substantial increase in contributions if the resulting project is not self-sustaining.
the length of time required to get the clearance (i.e. 6-8 weeks) often results in candidates being hired by sodexo and then subsequently quitting before their first shift in order to seek employment elsewhere.
free to set prices for specific quotes, sales agents used to grant significant discounts (40 percent of the items in an order were priced below their regular prices) to their customers.
the case discussion questions can be assigned, most appropriately after a lecture or a theory review concerning valuation.
the central focus of this case is to evaluate this new diversification move from a strategic and operational perspective.
by using the information within the case and the exhibits, the students have an opportunity to evaluate a firm’s equipment maintenance procedures and an equipment replacement decision.
it is widely accepted in the wine industry that a qualified  winemaker is critical to the success of the winery.
they also must choose what demographic communities, third party payers, price discounting and size of practice that would be most practical and profitable.
in 2007, 3m argentina’s management team was evaluating growth  alternatives.
however, previous experience with public sector  support has demonstrated challenges for the women’s bean project (wbp).
it may be of use in many other settings, including business ethics, strategic management, marketing ethics, and organizational behavior.
some of the data appears similar to a for-profit corporation, but some is quite dissimilar.
management implemented a number of  strategic initiatives referred to as “the plan to win.”
beth began to raise funds through selling  books on e-bay, grants and personal donations and developed the non-profit  think humanity in 2007.
all rights reserved to the author and nacra.
(3) based on these 2 steps students can then develop and evaluate options with regard to their strategic, financial and ethical dimensions.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
business policy &  strategy abbott laboratories:
the case has been written for mba students in a capstone finance course.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
case synopsis it is imperative that water management be analyzed at all levels, not only from its consumption perspective but also from its complete journey after the discharge.
© 2009 by david l. turnipseed and john e. gamble.
this alignment facilitated the case company’s
in a letter to the governor on march 30, 2009, lester snow,  director of the department of water resources, declared that strategies have  been implemented to provide assistance to those areas in need.
in  analyzing the case, examine a variety of production-related documents, applying  the principles of lean manufacturing to determine which aspects of lean have  been applied well and which have not.
case synopsis as father daniel mary, the prior of the carmelite order of monks in clark, wyoming walked to chapel to preside over mass, he noticed the sun glistening across the 4-inch snowfall from the previous evening.
the case demands the application and discussion of a significant number of aspects and interrelated strategic dimensions, such as competitive advantage, product concept, market segmentation, positioning, distribution channel management, strategic alliances and growth strategies, as well as other strategic aspects specific to the sector being dealt.
the  coffee roaster used to produce packaged coffee sold to catholic consumers at  the mystic monk coffee website could produce up to five times more coffee than  what was sold in 2008.
the firm’s and just purchased competitor webct,  and its desired strategy included expanding into the k-12 market.
such a  recruitment initiative would be challenging given the perception that all  possible recruitment channels had already been explored.
each project displayed particular  complexities at the domestic and international level.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate the effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
should vermilion return to ely to mine the remaining  hematite for the sake of the shareholders, or should they consider the town and  all of the individuals that re-newed mining in ely would affect?
this case was written for an mba elective marketing course called ‘e-marketing’ with the course objective being to help students learn to design and deploy effective marketing strategies for a digital networked, global, and mobile economy.
marketing in the not-for-profit sector nita l. paden, m. david albritton & jennifer m. mitchell northern arizona university case objective this case study is designed so that students can  evaluate the relevance of the march of dimes’ market position and to  provide possible solutions to rejuvenate an established brand.
the central focus of  this case is to evaluate this new diversification move from a strategic and  operational perspective.
y ¿cómo podría  aumentar la rentabilidad de la empresa y consolidar su posición  competitiva?
piccioli needed to  revise the company’s pricing policy.
the  three major canadian publishing firms had thus far been unsuccessful in  creating quality online resources, but they were eager to gain a share of the  market.
the main library is a depository for federal and state documents.
benetech was founded as a “low-profit” company using a market approach to ensuring the development of technology.
case synopsis larry barnes, executive director of the southwest missouri baptist association (smba), received a telephone call that no ceo wants.
la propiedad fueadquirida en 2.5 millones de euros en el  año 2005.
contact person: tucker j. marion, northeastern university, college of business administration, 360 huntington avenue 101 stearns, boston, ma 02120, 617-373-2241,t.marion@neu.edu.
mod supports research and provides community services  and education to save babies’ lives (www.marchofdimes.com).
this case is designed for use in undergraduate courses with a focus on entrepreneurship, such as small business management and family business management.
copyright by erin corley, nicole  powell & aundrea guess.
the case can also be used in that section of the course relating the  mission to the environment.
con este caso se  pretende exponer la dimensión institucional de la pobreza vs. las  definiciones económicas más tradicionales de la pobreza;  así mismo, se busca ilustrar el potencial y las limitaciones del  microcrédito para hacer frente a la pobreza; finalmente se explican las  situaciones que caracterizan el liderazgo, el desarrollo de capacidades para la  inserción en el desarrollo económico y social y el coraje de una  mujer que afronta los desafíos de la pobreza en aguablanca.
© 2009 by richard  gifford and peter markulis.
el muestra las diferentes formas en que estos directivos han planteado sus objetivos al retiro y como están gestionando sus inversiones personales para lograr conseguirlos.
to understand various methods for  calculating the international cost of capital.
his last thoughts while hitting the floor are full of despair and anger – anger at the ucc management and officials who did not pay heed to the unsafe production practices – despair that no one listened to his cry for help and support when he had felt ‘something was not right!’the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the case concerns the adoption and implementation of business intelligence and the evolution of the system introduced by the dursi with the aim of establishing a more equitable distribution model for financing public universities.
stephen j.j. mcguire, entrepreneurship institute, california  state university, los angeles, los angeles, ca 90032, 323-343-2897, steve@mcguire.net jean’s bridal shop carol j.  cumber & justine kougl south dakota state university case objective the jean’s bridal shop case encourages students to determine a  business’s current position by identifying the key success factors of an  industry and then determining whether an individual business possesses those  factors.
this case would be  suitable for graduate courses or upper-level undergraduate courses where  students have already been exposed to a breadth of operations management topics.
the case also provides a detailed description of the family’s business philosophy and their vision for the growth and sustainability of ceja vineyards.
three  potential acquisition targets were identified: scientific learning corporation,  renaissance learning corporation and sumtotal.
pete  successfully survives new competition for his first 20 months but finally is  faced with athreat from starbucks which will open a bistro about one  block away.
the company believes that the dam is the most feasible, reliable and cheapest supply of electricity.
tomorrow he would fly to vancouver to make a presentation to a jury of venture capitalists, bankers and ceos as a finalist in the new venture bc competition on the commercial viability of a new technology.
mod supports research and provides community services and education to save babies’ lives (www.marchofdimes.com).
contact person: jerffrey ellis, babson college, f. w. olin graduate school of business, babson park, ma, 02457, (617) 777-4028,ellisj@babson.edu case objective this case presents the reader with the opportunity to analyze a newly developed internet company by putting them in the position as primary decision maker.
she had planned it in  cooperation with the elementary partnership or professional development school  (pds).
by improving  employee welfare, scc is also contributing to the larger community by  alleviating poverty and by strengthening families.
human resources & organizational behavior behind the  veil:
instructors are  able to use the case to introduce and illustrate the concepts of strategic  visions, strategic and financial objectives, crafting strategy, strategy  execution, business models, and the evolving nature of strategy.
case synopsis peter, an executive at a major wall street firm, was the  manager of product development and marketing of public, equity-linked corporate  securities.
the cooperative textbook manager is concerned with control procedures to prevent large, obsolete textbook inventories from building up again.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of an administrative  situation.
however, it also questions if we are currently experiencing a  major shift towards a non-usa centric future for information technology firms.
we also feel that studying cisco is a  good metaphor for this bridge.
the first author is himself a former “coach” of his university’s ethics bowl team and the second author a former participant.
© 2009 by nile khanfar, david loudon, and fadi  alkhateeb.
the company you keep mary  michel & janet l. rovenpormanhattan college case objective the case describes the challenges facing the investment  management team of the new york life insurance company (nylic) during a  weakening us economy.
team computers had emerged as a large it infrastructure  solution provider supporting more than 600 mid market customers across india  and some overseas clients.
the idea was to provide low cost, high  nutrition products to their member agencies, other food banks across the  country and potentially retail stores.
the southern indiana  company, oliver winery, has incorporated a mix of corporate culture, customer  experience, and a broad product focus in this effort.
cynthia ingols, simmons college school of management marue walizer, woodrow wilson national fellowship foundation case objective these six snapshots of exemplary high school teachers  provide examples of how outstandingteachers are leaders.
contact person:  william naumes, whittemore school of business & economics, university of  new hampshire, durham, nh 03824, 603-862-2618, bill.naumes@unh.edu the courtyard homeowners association, inc. arthur sharplin,  bentley collegeaundrea kay guess, st. edwards university case objective this case is a follow-on to arthur sherman and john seeger, “a  troubled time in the courtyard,”the case journal, 3:2, spring  2007 (abstract available at caseweb.org).
the instructor’s strategy should be to help students situate “ideas” and “imagination” within the realm of realistic commitments and the realistic mobilization of resources, seeing innovation as a bridge between imagination and reality.
case synopsis after six years of negative net profitability, officenet (on), argentina’s leading office supply vendor, started to show signs of positive results.
have been poorly supervised and as a result some have resorted to surfing the  internet instead of handling important office tasks.
utilizing these theories as a foundation, instructors can then proceed to  conduct an ethical assessment of the issue that the board faces.
all  rights are reserved to the authors and nacra.
all have taken usual measures  to stave off heart disease.
in response to these upcoming transitions the board initiated a strategic  planning exercise that decided the organization would be restructured into a  “two-headed” model with an artistic director responsible for  programming and a general manager responsible for the business operations both  reporting to the board.
the chemical explosion may have endangered nearby  citizens but public disclosure of the incident could alert terrorist  organizations to key security information.
he wanted to spend more time  with his family, outside interests were beckoning, and he was interested in  being more involved with his community.
it deals, therefore, with the impact that nonconforming parts can have on a manufacturing process, and allows students to explore its possible remedies, using detailed text and supplemental exhibits for analysis.
© 2009 by luz.dinora vera and emmanuel
do they need a new machine or does the firm simply need to  refurbish the old one?
case synopsis these stories portray six exceptional teachers who work  in the public schools of new jersey.
its presentation takes about 90 minutes in class and 15 hours of  preparation by students.
case synopsis as china keeps growing at an unprecedented rate, many neighbouring asian  countries are threatened by its expanding economic influence.
case synopsis “entercom communications: dividends, repurchases or both” is  about this firm’s decision to initiate a dividend and its decision to  continue its share repurchase program.
currently, the disease target was cancer and its lead drug angiocept™ (ct-322) was in clinical trials with the fda.
the upcoming 2010 “green olympics” in vancouver, the public’s rising environmental consciousness, and national attention to climate change all contributed to a sense of urgency among businesses and public organizations – with the notable exception of educational publishing.
the  college’s education department chair emails dr. venice that he wants to  know if the model is succeeding and if dr. venice will be continuing the model  for next semester.
case synopsis dr. venice was initially very excited about the pre-practicum experience for her reading method’s students.
in 2007, a nephew had a coronary artery bypass and one of the four brothers suffered chest discomfort.
in addition to interest in changing education, the public expected suppliers to be more eco-friendly.
unfamiliar with the requirements of starting a new business, peter turned to his brother, who had the knowledge and industry expertise as a result of starting a successful manufacturing/ retailing chocolate enterprise nearly twenty years earlier.
should he harvest his  business or stay and fight?
finally, the balance of escalating commitment and the challenges of terminating entrepreneurial pursuits is considered as the leaders must decide how to position the right product with the right market segment or whether to discontinue the concept altogether.
the model was carefully researched to ensure a quality field experience  that connected and deepened students’ knowledge and application of  reading pedagogy, as well as, teacher reflection.
la demanda de pasajes aéreos era elástica, por lo que era preciso tener una política de menores precios
an islamic family resists the counsel of medical professionals from a u.s. community hospital to remove their brain-dead relative from a ventilator.
kenneth played a major role in planning and implementing exi’s start-up.
very  little time was left and rumors about the impending bankruptcy were flying.
case synopsis en junio del año 2006, telefónica chile entró al mercado de la televisión con su nuevo producto denominado “telefónica tv digital”.
marcia expressed interest in lean soon after her  arrival.
which vendor should they use?
the key issue involves how sodexo can overcome several key  barriers in order to successfully recruit.
could nextblok become the  next market leader in framing materials, surpassing wood, steel and concrete?
an equipment replacement decision barb reimbold & nancy m. levenburggrand valley state  university case objective this case focuses on the detection of a quality problem as a symptom of the  need for equipment maintenance, refurbishment, or replacement – areas  that are often overlooked in studies of operations management.
liu would own 10% of the merged factory and shenzhen  filtroil would own the rest and acquire all of the necessary equipment.
case synopsis the board of directors of for vermilion iron mining company is faced with a difficult decision.
the student faces decisions about target marketing and segmentation which leads into distribution, pricing and promotion strategies.
within minutes, the bustling industrial city of bhopal is the picture of death as people, livestock fall prey to the fatal gas vapors.
the product technology for the company is reasonably simple and, at the graduate level especially, the case could be used for an introductory class in which students are led to focus more broadly than “on the numbers”.
case synopsis the case study opens in a medium scale mnc- owned events management firm located in new delhi suburb of gurgaon, india.
case synopsis pete wilson, a regional manager for a large corporation, decides to leave  the corporate world and purchase a fledgling coffee bistro in hopes of  restoring its customer base and image within a midwestern college community.
finally, the case links this project with the company’s globalization strategy or how to leverage innovation sources, as well as design units, r&d lab locations, divisions and resources in order to align a firm in which 50% of its current volume is due to recent acquisitions.
while uncomfortable with his emerging leadership role, he was more concerned about the company’s downward spiral and his possible unemployment.
the relevance of a cost-benefit analysis is presented as a decision tool.
in the two and a half years that elapsed since the (a) case, the center moriches school board had succeeded in restoring the faith of the community in its management of the school district.
case synopsis southwest creations collaborative (scc) is a non-profit social enterprise  organized to promote employability and enable the financial independence of  immigrant spanish-speaking women in albuquerque, new mexico.
the case illustrates how a  corporation decides whether or not to proceed with a project given substantial  and sustained opposition.
© 2009 by jorge a. gonzález y coatlicue x.  regalado.
by examining the company’s relevant stakeholders and  their interests, students are asked to develop and evaluate strategies for  effectively responding to the issues abbott faces.
the case deals with corporate governance issues surrounding  growth at the mutual in the 1990s and the strategic decision the board faced.
the case was written for an undergraduate strategic management course.
how can bjr product higher quality  products?
the case is  written primarily for undergraduate courses in finance, but could also be used  in an introductory mba class.
the case was developed for undergraduate courses in organization behavior as a means to apply many of the theories associated within that field of study.
in another case, parents seek to use genetic engineering to produce a second child that will potentially provide bone marrow stem cells for the treatment of seriously ill first-born child.
case synopsis karnavati healthcare ltd. (khl), a large pharma company  near ahmedabad in western india, was facing severe sales force turnover in its  human branded formulations sbu (b-sbu).
noble systems has tested the waters outside of higher education by making a sale to a major insurance corporation to use noble’s elearning system for corporate training.
case synopsis robert carpenter, the ceo of vna, must quickly determine what steps to take  in the immediate aftermath of the fire.
case synopsis with the deteriorating environment and declining natural resources, many green alternative materials have been proposed to meet the increasing demand for sustainable housing.
snow in june was  not unheard of in wyoming, but the late 2009 snowfall and the bright glow of  the rising sun made him consider the opposing forces accompanying change and  how he might best prepare his monastery to achieve his vision of creating a new  mount carmel in the rocky mountains.
© 2009 by ernesto barrera duque y luis  fernando jaramillo.
© 2009 by philip glasgo and  shelly webb.
nile khanfar,  nova southeastern university,palm beach gardensdavid loudon,  samford university, birminghamfadi alkhateeb, university of
the case can  also be used in an entrepreneurial class which emphasizes weighing strategic  options in small businesses.
the case also  provides a detailed description of the family’s business philosophy and  their vision for the growth and sustainability of ceja vineyards.
despite consuming 20 million trees and transporting over a million tons of books each year, textbook suppliers had demonstrated little if any innovation in the past century.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, california.
the owners carried a large selection of gowns and discounted the attire one-fourth below the list price.
the register was primarily  used to sell course packets to students, and while only about $20,000 of cash  passed through the register each year, the more troy thought about it, the more  concerned he became about the potential for loss.
case synopsis the “reardon pallet company – building success” case focuses on this fast growth firm in 2008 after a consultant’s presentation regarding two potential investments --- an automatic nailer machine and options for heat treating the lumber and/or manufactured pallets.
although  the large inventory assisted in attracting customers, most ultimately special  ordered their attire.
one was that the board fire her, since her salary was the largest personnel expense.
linda nowak & armand gilinsky, sonoma  state university,ricardo villarreal de silva, university of  san francisco,cristina santini, university of florence case objective the case presents the growth and development of a small, family owned  winery.
the case challenges students to develop a retrenchment  strategy, a common business experience.
a linkage is made  to published research on the strategies of engos and why they target particular  projects.
the instructor, who happens to be jewish, is troubled by the discussion and wonders whether she could have handled the situation more effectively.
however,  following his ethics by making a counter offer to the envisaged chapter 11  filing entails putting his own career and personal wealth at risk.
the case describes their  efforts to do so, given the nature of the other two bars in town which consider  themselves to be “townie” bars.
reid had decided to pursue the possible uses of terahertz technology for  increasing efficiency and quality in the processing of forest products, british  columbia’s largest industry.
talbots was still struggling to find its niche.
the case demonstrates how pete uses his business acumen and leadership competencies to carefully integrate internal changes while sustaining the culture and ambience that separates coffee grounds from many of its competitors including gourmet coffee chains.
este es el  momento crucial en la vida de alicia y la decisión que debe tomar al  final del caso, se refiere al mensaje que ella pronunciará en el panel  de inauguración.
faced with the possibility of declining sales in 2009 in a crisis-ridden economy, wbp’s executive members proactively consider adding jewelry items to its core product line and work with retailers in the local art districts to sell its new product line.
is the problem the hub and spoke structure, the  inability to cope with escalating fuel and labor costs, inefficient aircraft  mix, or is it a lack of experienced, effective, visionary management leadership  needed to turnaround an airline in trouble?
the library’s main goals were to eliminate customer complaints and communicate more effectively thereby, offering unique, excellent services to their customers.
in 2003, rocky mountain mutual housing association  (“the mutual”) was in dire financial straits.
dado los buenos resultados obtenidos por la compañía y el nuevo escenario competitivo, se deja abierto al análisis del estudiante cual debiera ser la estrategia a seguir por telefónica para mantener o mejorar su posición competitiva.
4155, mjulien@brocku.ca.
certain disgruntled neighbors of the professor were apparently  collaborating with the apgars, who headed the hoa and its architectural  committee.
the case can also be used to focus on specific issues in a consumer behavior class (such as on disruptive consumer behavior) or in a new product development course to talk about early adoption phase of a product.
contact person:  anne t. lawrence, college of business, san jose state university, one  washington square, san jose, ca 95192-0070, (408) 924-3586,  lawren_a@cob.sjsu.edu.
they  show remarkable compassion for less well off students and new colleagues.
on february 27, 2009 governor schwarzenegger proclaimed a state of emergency due to drought conditions.
in this case, a counter offer only makes  sense if the strategic analysis indicates that there is a chance for the  company to prosper in the future.
rights are reserved to the author and nacra.
this case provides the opportunity for students to compare and contrast mcdonald’s old strategy, an aggressive growth strategy, with their new turnaround strategy, a mission-centered strategy.
however, the running of the clinic involved a heavy management burden.
case synopsis jeff simpson was appointed ceo of stockweb in 1998.
an opportunity for financial and non-financial analyses of the options is provided.
the case describes this scenario, inviting class  participants to delve into topics associated with pricing delegation and price  policies.
luz-dinora.vera@hec.ca central electrica de san francisco francisco j. lópez lubián, instituto de empresa business  school case objective este caso describe una situación real de un  project finance en brasil: la construcción y posterior  explotación de una central hidroeléctrica por un período  de treinta y cinco años,
this case is unique in that both sets of values are aligned; but, acting on those values (“doing good”) may put both the protagonist and his employer at risk.
sonoma wine company looked to  many organizations and consultants to accomplish its long-term goals of  increasing market share and capacity, while also reducing its energy costs and  waste.
however, its ability to help employ women is driven by its sales, donations,  and grants.
it may also have a broader application in  an introductory course in health care ethics or as a unit or module in a  broader applied ethics course.
all rights are reserved to the  author and nacra.
in case  b, students learn how drinan acted in this tough, politically charged situation  and the outcome of her actions.
case objective the main learning objective of this case is to understand how organizational culture caneffectively support a company’s strategy, how organizational culture develops, and how it is maintained.
the question of what  internal control had been circumvented or omitted caused him anxiety.
rebecca j. morris, university of nebraska at omaha, 6001 dodge street, roskens hall 508k, omaha, ne 68182, 402-554-3542, rmorris@unomaha.edu case objective the case has been written in order to introduce ethical aspects of decision making into the undergraduate/graduate introductory strategy course.
abbott faced pressure from  governments (brazil, thailand and mexico are covered in the case) to  significantly reduce kaletra prices or the governments would break  abbott’s patent protection and produce generic equivalents themselves.
el caso es un excelente vehículo  para exponer a los alumnos de programas de mba en el análisis y toma de  decisiones en mercados muy dinámicos y con gran tendencia a la  convergencia tecnológica.
the problem was inherent in the market condition of intense competition among the firms and high degree of employee turnover which plagued the industry.
contact author: christopher cassidy, division of management, marketing, and mis, lewis college of business, marshall university, one john marshall drive, huntington wv 25755, 304-696-4320, cassidyc@marshall.edu california state university los angeles case objective the core learning objective of this case centers upon how to prepare and implement the strategic planning development for a small family business in taiwan.
beth has built lasting relationships with individuals at kyangwali by allowing  them the dignity they deserve in the value of their life by caring for what  happens to them.
©artem meshcheryakov and  christopher cassidy.
edward’s university case objective the case was designed for use at both the undergraduate and graduate levels  in courses such as business ethics, general business, or management.
case synopsis el caso describe un encuentro de 4 directivos de empresa  que, aunque fueron compañeros de estudios y grandes amigos, por razones  de trabajo no se ven desde hace unos cuantos años.
roots of  peace aim is to rid the world of landmines transforming treacherously  toxic minefields into thriving farmland.
the case ends by questioning whether continental beset by high fuel prices, cut-throat competition, and a deep recession and the retirement of the highly respected gordon bethune, a $585 million loss in 2008, and a series of accidents can right itself and fly safely and profitably into the future.
the  author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either  effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz (ca), october 29-31, 2009.
case synopsis agiltron incorporated (www.agiltron.com) is a leading producer and developer of innovative photonic components and systems.
as noble systems grew, john and jack faced many challenges: expenses exceeding revenues, cash flow problems, customer support difficulties, in-house management coordination problems, rapid technological change, emergence of strong competitors, a sales process to universities that was slow and frustrating, and a lack of partnerships with textbook publishers.
el primer objetivo es que los directivos de empresa puedan lograr comprender y  valorar la importancia que tiene la planificación anticipada de sus  finanzas personales y familiares.
this case encourages class participants to discuss, in the first place, complexities arousing from the decision to implement specific market development and, second, to formulate an action plan for each market selected in order to achieve greater penetration and growth.
the (a) case traces the  events leading up to may 2004, when the residents of this long island community  discovered that the school budget that they were voting on would result in a  significant increase in property tax rates.
fred, the owner is willing to franchise his concept and bryant begins to do her research for starting her own bakery.
the case includes a video featuring one of backcountry’s annual employee parties which signals the start of the company’s main selling season.
in this time of high fuel prices, should estonian air respond to the projected increase in demand by expanding its fleet of planes?
it may also be used in a course in business ethics, in the  context of a discussion of conflict of interest or moral hazard; or in the  course in finance, in the context of a discussion of ethics.
formular una estrategia de marketing para consumidores bop.
however, this amount was not yet agreed to by both parties and a business  valuation analysis would be critical to the key decision of the case:   should the ceo sell the company now or continue to develop it for sale at a  future date?
the case focuses on: (1) how to make sense,  assess and develop a project based on the new paradigm of “cloud  computing”; (2) the change in cisco strategy and, as a consequence, (3)  how to design its globalization strategy.
in a corporate strategy class, the case can demonstrate the importance of organizational culture in the support of an organization’s business strategy.
through this offering, the company provides visitors with an exceptional winery experience, memories of which are revisited when they choose oliver wines to share with friends at home.
over a period of six months, the consultants conducted  extensive research: studying internal records, analyzing the industry and  environment, interviewing khl employees and executing a division wide survey  named ‘manpower mood meter.’
dado los buenos resultados obtenidos por la compañía y el nuevo  escenario competitivo, se deja abierto al análisis del estudiante cual  debiera ser la estrategia a seguir por telefónica para mantener o  mejorar su posición competitiva.
contact person: tom hinthorne, college of business, montana state university-billings, 1500 university drive, billings, mt 59101-0298, 406-657-2099,thinthorne@msubillings.edu.
nextblok, a patented insulated concrete form  (icf) and associated building method, was designed to offer builders an  easy-to-use framing material and homeowners a better house.
case synopsis larry barnes, executive director of the southwest missouri baptist  association (smba), received a telephone call that no ceo wants.
nextblok, a patented insulated concrete form (icf) and associated building method, was designed to offer builders an easy-to-use framing material and homeowners a better house.
beth is not giving a hand out to the people, she is giving a hand up empowering them to make key decisions as well as raise money for projects in collaboration with think humanity.
case objective the case shows some of the challenges of running a family business such as entrepreneurial decision making, succession issues, and potential exit strategies.
case synopsis this case follows the development of the center moriches school board,  based on the events that shaped that development.
his vision of transforming the small  brotherhood of 13 monks crammed into a small home used as makeshift rectory  into 500-acremonastery with accommodations for 30 monks, a retreat center for  lay visitors, a gothic church, a convent for carmelite nuns, and a hermitage  presented a formidable challenge.
the purpose of the case is to provide a discussion about the many reasons that a planned, research-based pre-practicum experience may fail to provide the rich meaningful experience that partners had intended and how to better plan and design effective experiences for pre-service teachers and k-12 staff, as well.
it ends with the consultants being ready with  the final report for presentation to khl.
the multifaceted nature of the crisis requires students to draw on their prior knowledge of theories across areas such as entrepreneurship, strategy, leadership, organizational change and management style to address the crisis at circle 6.
frente a este nuevo escenario competitivo,  josé molés, gerente general de la compañía y su  equipo directivo, se preguntaba ¿cuál debería ser el  siguiente paso para telefónica chile?
case objective the “raventós i blanc at a crossroads” case study was designed to be used in a strategy (or competitive strategy) course and/or in an international (or global marketing) course.
the case is appropriate for students to develop alternative management strategies and provide abdul-aziz with a reasoned analysis for staying or moving to a new practice.
since economic downturns occur periodically, students should become familiar  with the process of facing decreased funding, and how to deal with those  issues.
troy wrote the  letter, but the request awakened nagging concerns regarding cash control with  respect to the register in question.
it also highlights that an organization could become quite big  without a very well defined positioning in the mind of its consumers and even  its employees, simply because of the owners personal skills and insights which  worked in the market.
oliver knew that both the quality of their wines and the consistency in their styles were critical to the company’s ongoing success.
the distribution of minibonds hugh thomas, the  chinese university of hong kong case objective the case places the students in the role of a commercial banker who must  decide the appropriateness and method of distribute a complex structured  finance product to retail bank customers.
father prior daniel mary did not have a great deal of experience in business  matters but considered to what extent the monastery could rely on its mystic  monk coffee operations to fund the purchase of the ranch.
the first is  to identify ways to respond to students who exhibit a lack of awareness of the  impact of their words on others.
© 2009 by josep franch, xavier  gimbert and josep lluís cano.
case synopsis this is a decision based case written from the point of view of the chief executive officer (ceo) who was attending the march 2008 asia pacific partner conference of a major u.s. software vendor.
the swashbuckling founding years of continental airlines, functional aspects of airline operations, continental’s competition, and the turnaround after two chapter 11 bankruptcies by gordon bethune, who lead continental from worst in the industry to first, and the post- bethune years.
“¿cómo puedo ser  competitivo en esta industria?
case objective this case is useful for demonstrating how financial investments decisions are often decisions about strategic changes or signal strategy changes to competitors and customers.
they bring appropriate emotional timbre to their classrooms and interactions with students and colleagues.
charleston case objective this disguised case is a real situation used to provide  undergraduate and graduate students with an opportunity to make practical  application of sound management principles within a small pediatric medical  practice.
case synopsis the growth of environmental awareness has accelerated in recent years resulting in the growth of consumer demand for “green” products, which are products that result in or are produced with less environmental damage than traditional products.
portia,  ronald’s wife is hired to manage exi‘s finances and administrative  services and ronald’s personal friend, jason henry, becomes exi’s  sales manager.
courses in operations management and supply chain management courses,  particularly those with an engineering, manufacturing, or logistics emphasis,  or international business/business strategy.
abbott utilized a tiered pricing strategy for kaletra, charging lower prices in less developed countries to make the drugs more affordable.
the professor claimed to have been wrongly accused of several covenant violations, threatened with a lawsuit and refused access to hoa records.
in order to do so it is necessary to provide a brief introduction to basic ethical theories such as utilitarianism, formalism, rights, etc.
chuck and pam carson are a husband and wife entrepreneurial team that has owned and operated a retail clothing store in northeast mississippi for over thirty years.
all three grew up with parents or  grandparents who hailed from other countries.
red flags are missed in both the application of the  employee and the life style of the employee after she is hired.
the case purposely ends in a way that may cause students to immediately begin  to identify alternative courses of action for the protagonist.
his only advantage is that he is a man.
students are given the opportunity to diagnose the various  management issues facing the practice and to suggest possible solutions.
should they sell the  business?
as a consequence, it was left  to the school board, and its charismatic president, joe mcheffey, to determine  how to proceed with the school budget in the face of a hostile community.
the case illustrates the importance of environmental, economic,  cultural and political perspectives in the decision making process.
oliver winery focuses on providing employees with empowerment to take ownership of the company, customers with a memorable experience that will grant even inexperienced wine drinkers access to wine enjoyment and quality highly drinkable wine that can be enjoyed by a wide range of palates.
¿las agencias de  viaje podrían ayudar a que lan perú llegara a quien  tradicionalmente no usaba el servicio aéreo?, ¿era posible  transferir un menor precio al usuario final y gestionar la demanda bajo el  modelo comercial tradicional?
now  oliver is entering a new phase of growth and has choices ahead of it in order  to determine the future success and corporate culture of the company.
their first step was to form a committee called the federation  for a sustainable cabarete.
the fledgling company he had founded desperately needed money  to move the technology from the laboratory to commercial applications.
guadalajara, jalisco.
frente a este nuevo escenario competitivo, josé molés, gerente general de la compañía y su equipo directivo, se preguntaba ¿cuál debería ser el siguiente paso para telefónica chile?
case objective decision-making to meet the 21st century’s challenges in regards to building a sustainable society includes scrutinizing every aspect of human activity.
the case requires that students: • gain an understanding of the software development process and necessary resources; • develop the skills/expertise required to create plausible market share projections from available information to clarify management options.
el caso hace énfasis en las relaciones con la comunidad local y especialmente con los indígenasde la región, con quienes implementó una alianza de largo plazo para promocionar la “seguridad alimentaria” bajo un esquema de respeto por su identidad
the author  developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either  effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the pennsylvania state  universitysteven c. dunn - university of wisconsin –  oshkosh case objective this case describes how the management of guildcraft furniture, a  manufacturing company, is confronted by the immediate challenge of having its  principal disposal method discontinued thereby forcing the choice of changing  product design or finding alternative means for scrap disposition.
these include: how a decision should be framed for a board’s consideration, how malleable an organization’s mandate should be, managing a relationship with a major funder, business challenges for short-staffed small organizations, and organizational structure in relation to business performance.
the case is suited for presentations in the  classroom, as the principal character was struggling with the presentation that  he should make to the jury in the new ventures bc competition.
© 2009 by cindy rauschenberger and vijaya narapareddy.
e-readers potentially offer a lot of benefits to  students as they combine the experience of reading actual print with the  benefits of digitization and portability.
is amazon.com targeting the right segment for this brand?  if it  aims to capture the higher education market, is the marketing strategy  appropriate?
the protagonist of the case, eudald mestres, has recently joined the diue  and should, in addition, offer support to catalan public universities in terms  of implementing the bologna plan, with the economic pressures that this implies.
the case, instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
as a result guildcraft developed multiple new products whose demand for scrap exceeded supply.
the case shows the various stages involved in  such a project and the difficulties that are faced until the final decision is  taken.
the case probes into the background, attitude and motivation of union carbide, ucc which is the parent company of the indian branch ucil, leading to the fatal disaster.
the company believes that the dam is the most feasible, reliable  and cheapest supply of electricity.
case synopsis this case deals with the ipo of fraport, especially the  challenges while determining the issue price including the valuation itself but  also the discussion with investment banks.
how would its competitors react?
six years of historical financial data and two years of projected financial statements are presented to the reader.
specific case objectives include: (1) conduct a financial analysis of trelleborg automotive, and compare and contrast its profitability with other business areas; (2) examine the business model and the supply chain supporting the mcu growth initiative.
students should be encouraged  to evaluate different scenarios related to the case.
and when the ceo should take the ownership to define the  positioning platform for the organization and cascade to the rest of the  organization, and the limitation of such a process.
of equal concern was whether the church would continue to exist.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29-31, 2009.
they feel the college has been on the  “warpath” against the local bars with all kinds of programs  designed to keep students away from the bars, especially during weeknights.
contact person: carol j. cumber, department of economics, south dakota state university, brookings, sd 57007, 605-688-4849,carol.cumber@sdstate.edu.
they spread the oliver story and request oliver wines from local  vendors, helping to pull the company's product through the supply chain into  their own communities.
case objective this case illustrates the challenges for a small publishing company that wants to introduce disruptive new approaches into the k-12 textbook market.
one morning the police arrived at the rent tex office and arrested the bookkeeper.
case synopsis it was mid-march 2007 and rait kalda, vp for estonian air operations, faced a tough decision.
contact person: daniel f. jennings, texas a&m university, ms 3367, college station, tx 77843-3367, (979) 845-4972,djennings@tamu.edu case objective the case is focused on a decision that fortis inc. management must make relating to a hydropower dam that will enhance the economy of belize but that will also harm the environment.
albright immediately started an investigation of rent tex books to determine if  webb had stolen from the company.
contact person:  javier j. silva, iae business school, austral university- mariano acosta s/n  ruta nac. 8 (b1629 wwa) pilar – buenos aires – argentina online advertising at stockweb-
although the case deals with an idiosyncratic organization – a not-for-profit subsidiary of a university, executive-directed by a tenured psychology professor – and an idiosyncratic decision – whether or not to build student interns into a restructured organization – a good discussion will surface some generalizable issues in not-for-profit management.
with its arrival in graton, sonoma wine company began to make major changes  to its facilities and operations.
in 2008, the average sat score of entering freshman was 1320.
this case illustrates the promise and perils of managing an early, development stage biotechnology company that seeks to advance novel technologies, obtain financing, and alliances with larger multinational biopharmaceutical companies.
this case was  designed for upper division undergraduate and mba level courses in small  business, entrepreneurship and strategy.
fred, the owner is willing to franchise his concept and bryant  begins to do her research for starting her own bakery.
the problem lay in how best to allocate the profits to create economic stability and improve the quality of life in the region.
case synopsis the board of directors of for vermilion iron mining company is faced with a  difficult decision.
© 2009 by  gabriel noussan.
after the start-up phase, kenneth agreed to withdraw from the day-today activities of managing of exi, leaving those tasks to ronald.
this created an overstocked inventory, forcing the business to drastically reduce prices on clearance gowns in order to move the inventory.
quantum leap or quantum fall?
although the financial crisis had  many causes, some analysts believed that moody’s and other credit rating  agencies had played a key role by underestimating the risks inherent in  mortgage-backed securities.
the case involved two aspects of mr. sanchez’s decision; what is the  value of the firm and what type of compensation agreement will maximize his  return on an investment of time and finances that spanned more than 40 years.
additionally, it experienced a high  number of customer complaints and lack of effective internal and external  communication prior to the lean implementation.
contact person: richard r. young, school of business administration, capital college, the pennsylvania state university, middletown, pa 17057, 717-948-6151, rry100@psu.edu.
each of these organizations collects food which it then distributes to the needy and hungry.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were  anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research  association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
with increasingly competitive market place, a distinct image of the company was almost a prerequisite to the vision of sustainable, profitable growth for the company.
its importance lies in its discussion of the product  development process, and the process of selecting what would be the best  commercial market for a proven technology.
the case, instructor’s manual, and  synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case  research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort &  spa, october 29-31, 2009.
(4) appreciate the risks and personal sacrifices inherent  in owning a small business, and (5) understand the risks associated with having  a major supplier who retrenches.
while the firm has been able to reduce the quantity of material that it is required to dispose of, some may question that all they have done is transfer the disposal problem to others.
contact  persons: brian kent, 707-707-338-2177,kentb@sonoma.edu & domenique scioli,  415-328-3245,scioli@sonoma.edu southwest creations collaborative  case a (1994-2005) & case b (2005-2008)
it also raises questions about whether new avenues should be explored when facing unprecedented growth challenges.
case objective students often gain instruction in lean manufacturing, but do not have an opportunity to see its implementation in practice.
case synopsis these stories portray six exceptional teachers who work in the public schools of new jersey.
all names and locations have been disguised.
cohen attempted to avoid embarrassing joe in front of others but felt she must address the issue directly.
one of  the bars, the vital spot is trying to decide whether should begin to change its  appeal from college students to local residents.
maximum employee benefits or maximum shareholder return?
the chemical explosion may have endangered nearby citizens but public disclosure of the incident could alert terrorist organizations to key security information.
pursuit of the second option required substantial rethinking of the nature of  the scrap and with additional investment in processing equipment, hiring direct  labor, and incurring administrative overhead for sales and marketing.
the problem for go green mart is that the expected growth has not  materialized.
contact  person: laura whitcomb, dept. of management, college of business &  economics, california state university, los angeles, 5151 state university  drive, los angeles, ca 90032, 323-343-2910, lwhitco@calstatela.edu mcdonald’s: back to the mission scott stevens &  rebecca treadway maryville college case objective this case describes a company with unprecedented growth, which experienced  losses in 2002, yet, rebounded in 2003 with an intentional new focus and  strategy.
there are 7 establishments in the town itself which serve alcohol.
these decisions are complicated by the fact that there is no available family successor to take over the business.
the increase in property taxes was  necessary due in large part to the mismanagement of the school district by its  superintendent of schools, who, by the time that the fiscal crisis became  widely known, had disappeared from public view.
voice: (701) 777-3229.
the scenarios they examine with the model face them with the decision of what form of organization they wish to choose; a solo practice, a partnership, or a corporation.
© 2009 by  eugene allevato and ashley burrowes.
financial summaries are provided for all seven companies.
first and foremost is the daunting security screening process.
and when the ceo should take the ownership to define the positioning platform for the organization and cascade to the rest of the organization, and the limitation of such a process.
alfredo ruiz se preguntaba“qué debo hacer para lograr que el viñedo sea competitivo y rentable”.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously  peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association  (nacra) for its annual meeting, new england center, october 29-31, 2009.
case synopsis troy wheeler, associate dean of the school of business and public policy at westland university was asked to write a letter to the university’s internal auditor reassuring the auditor that controls on the cash register in the college were adequate to prevent major theft.
if the company were to be kept together, how might the behavioral conflicts be managed, especially in terms of fair pay and work demands?
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, october 2009, santa cruz, california.
© 2009 by dennis callaghan, elizabeth croft, and robert ellis.
once he decided he wanted to set up his own practice he had to decide where.
has j. jill contributed to the overall corporate  strategy?
using its proprietary protein engineering technology profusion to isolate likely protein candidates among a class of proteins called adnectins™, the company sought to identify new drug therapies for specific diseases.
the company was founded in 1996 by jim holland, an olympic ski jumper, and john bresee, an outdoor writer.
students saroja subrahmanyan & jung-jae lee saint mary’s college of california case objective the case describes the launch and marketing of a new  generation model of an e-reader, a product category that has still not diffused  into the main stream marketplace.
although e-readers has been  available since 2006, it is still in the early adopter phase and not yet  popular in the mainstream market.
the two businesses filter and zinc would operate under the same roof.
students can discuss the pros and cons of each choice and determine which is right for entercom communications.
an mba for medical students has been designed at rockhurst  university which starts students in their first summer with an integrated  economics/accounting case which is solved by teams of up to four students.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29- 31, 2009.
the  cases, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting insanta cruz, california, on 29-31 october 2009.
case synopsis the emphasis in this selection of cases is breadth rather than depth.
case synopsis after a diagnosis of heart disease and a high risk for diabetes, sandra  bryant is forced to make a number of lifestyle changes.
the case was designed to hone analytical skills and decision-making ability and provide opportunities to apply michael porter’s five forces model, barney’s vrio model, and slywotsky’s value migration theory.
the customizable and extendable platform would involve hiring more employees as they expanded, but it would also give them the opportunity for steady growth.
its core customers tended to be professional women for whom tailored business wear was important.
© 2009 by  josé garrido- lecca.
© 2009 by  aundrea kay guess and carolyn conn.  contact person:
© 2009 by saroja subrahmanyan and  jung-jae lee.  contact person: saroja subrahmanyan, saint mary’s  college of california, 380 rheem boulevard, moraga, ca 94556, 925-631-8675,  ssubrahm@stmarys-ca.edu officenet: deciding whether to  continue delegating the pricing authority andrés terech,  javier j. o. silva, & maria baraleiae business school  – austral university case objective “officenet: deciding whether to continue  delegating the pricing authority”  may be used in initial marketing  courses included in mba curricula, executive education programs, as well as  specific pricing courses.
students can identify costco’s primary stakeholder groups and determine the relative importance each group has for the company.
the questions can be assigned as homework to  individual students with classroom discussion on the assignment due date, or  the questions can be addressed in small groups in class.
using keyword cost data provided by two major search engines, stockweb employees can see the costs of acquiring accounts will soon outstrip the lifetime value of the customers they are acquiring.
the question of what internal control had been circumvented or omitted caused him anxiety.
drinan, interpreting this action as a  delaying or avoidance tactic, decided that she must act.
lois and mary (m&l)  started the business in 1997.
case synopsis adnexus therapeutics (www.adnexustx.com) is a small  biotechnology company, which has been recently acquired by bms.
as a result, emily’s sales commissions decreased significantly, which resulted in economic hardship.
beth is not giving a hand out to the  people, she is giving a hand up empowering them to make key decisions as well  as raise money for projects in collaboration with think humanity.
vi narapareddy (faculty supervisor), university of denver case objective this case tells the story of beth heckel and her discovery of the suffering and survival endured at the kyangwali refugee camp in uganda.
© 2008 by steven m. cox, bradley w. brooks, and ilonka  aylward.
with  this evolution, the organization dynamics of the personalities on the board
agiltron leads the market in optical switches, variable optical attenuators,  high power optical components, optical polarization and time controls, and  molded infrared detectors and lenses.
case synopsis it is imperative that water management be analyzed at all  levels, not only from its consumption perspective but also from its complete  journey after the discharge.
at a high level he knows the vna will needs a temporary work site, a communications plan for the stakeholders, and it systems and communications back in order.
students can examine the weaving interrelationships between  groups.
(3) based on these 2 steps students can  then develop and evaluate options with regard to their strategic, financial and  ethical dimensions.
©2009 by melissa vegter and nancy m. levenburg.
it was founded in 1991 by harry strub, a psychology professor who served as its executive director.
the equipment was out of date, the  layout was not very efficient, and the building constructed in 1947, was rather  archaic.
foreign investors planned to build high rise  condominiums and apartments that would draw tourists away from the local  vendors.
this was risky because the company was in debt, and he would need to borrow the funds.
the economic downturn of 2008-09 was mentioned  as the cause for these reductions in donations.
the case,  instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
the overall goal of these programs was to provide the residents with  the tools for gaining equity and equality in the housing market.
the case can also be used for an  hr course in a class session on recruiting and selection.
case synopsis after celebrating their nineteenth harvest and seventh year as california  producers and marketers of premium wine in september 2007, the mexican-born  owners of ceja vineyards were considering whether or not to make a concerted  effort to target u.s. hispanic consumers.
the case includes detail on the history and business operations of the winery, background data on the u.s. wine industry, demographics of u.s. wine consumers, and u.s. demographic forecasts through 2025.
companies that had been taken private through leveraged buyouts were underperforming and could default on their loans.
identify the obstacles to implementing lean manufacturing.
the (b) case is set in november 2006.
recently, the college has begun to attract a type of student who apparently is less inclined to frequent the bars as much as students in the past.
should the pre-practicum model just be revised, relocated or  abandoned?
but while  they generate benefits to individuals, investors and society at large, a large  subset of the world’s population in need of their healing benefits cannot  afford them.
summary descriptions are provided also of  industry developments in china and other countries because these national  economies also impact the rivalry of the usa and indian based players.
recent research found that it is now possible to extract the remaining hematite in the ore fields and an option for a return to the mines of ely is now on the table with the board of directors of vermilion.
the questions can be assigned as homework to individual students with classroom discussion on the assignment due date, or the questions can be addressed in small groups in class.
he was convinced the internal controls  were sufficient to prevent theft and believed he would find no irregularities.
very little time was left and rumors about the impending bankruptcy were flying.
what should she have done differently?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of an administrative situation.
© 2009 by nita l. paden… contact person: david albritton david.albritton@nau.edu case objective
case synopsis as father daniel mary, the prior of the carmelite order of monks in clark,  wyoming walked to chapel to preside over mass, he noticed the sun glistening  across the 4-inch snowfall from the previous evening.
in 2008, the firm faced several challenges as the economy weakened and the cost of plant returns and warranties remained high.
the case was written for undergraduate and graduate courses in global  social entrepreneurship, and non-profit management.
copyright by devi akella, college of business,  albany state university, albany, ga 31707,dakella@hotmail.com, 229-4304775 vermilion iron mining company tom morris & tara  ceranicuniversity of san diego case objective the vermilion iron mining case is used to specifically discuss ethical  decision-making, this case can also be tied in to a variety of topics  throughout the duration of a course.
tex  started with five stores and quickly expanded to ten.
issues examined include the difficulties to be encountered while developing cash flow forecasts, the risk in using multiples for valuation and the advantages of using discounted cash flow methods, especially the apv (adjusted present value) method instead.
dos años después comenzó a producir 35 mil botellas anuales de vinos tintos, blancos y espumosos.
la  concesión daba derecho a utilizar los recursos naturales del río  san francisco, para lo cual se planeó construir una planta de  energía hidroeléctrica de 450 mw y una línea de  transmisión de 50 km.
compare and contrast dividends vs. share repurchases as cash distribution vehicles for a firm 2.
this case can be used as the basis for class discussion  and/or for a written assignment.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz ca, october 29-31, 2009.
the case is applicable to strategic management, entrepreneurship, hospitality, and small business classes but contains financial and behavioral data sufficient to provoke lively debate in finance or behavior classes.
case synopsis fortis inc., a company with interests in various north american electric  utilities, is proposing to build the chalillo dam on the macal river in belize,  central america.
each project displayed particular complexities at the domestic and international level.
case synopsis using business to create social change is difficult.
while the majority of surgeries are free, aravind is financially self-supporting.
bayer cooperated withthe u.s. chemical safety board (csb), the federal organization to investigate chemical hazards, by providing numerous documents regarding the incident.
bros had earlier developed the new technology employed in the mobile mill in order to move the mill closer to the fields of sugar cane where the processing into ethanol would begin.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
the case was written for undergraduate or graduate classes in the area of auditing, fraud, ethics, and/or entrepreneurship.
aundrea  kay guess, school of management & business, st. edward’s university,  3001 south congress avenue, austin, tx  78704, (512) 448-8562,  aundreag@stedwards.edu helen drinan: giving voice to her values
they  challenge students to learn and apply themselves in interesting, creative and  useful ways.
de longitud que conectase la planta con la subestación eléctrica más cercana.
the case illustrates the importance of this position and the potential loss of reputation that the winery could suffer should the turnover of winemakers continue.
contact person: janet  l. rovenpor, management and marketing department, manhattan college, riverdale,  ny 10471, 718-862-7437, janet.rovenpor@manhattan.edu.
case synopsis after a diagnosis of heart disease and a high risk for diabetes, sandra bryant is forced to make a number of lifestyle changes.
contact person:  margaret bouchard, worcester  state college, worcester, ma 01602, 508-929-8840, mbouchard@worcester.edu anti-semitism in first year composition
were  the dividends and share repurchases likely to continue?
certainly the concept of waterless urinals is new, and both cultural and technological barriers will be challenging.
at about the same time research studies and news reports revealed that much that the brothers had believed about coronary disease was based on research apparently biased by corporate profit-seeking.
©2009 by chelsi nieri and rebecca treadway.
case synopsis four brothers from louisiana, usa lost their father and two brothers to heart attacks at relatively early ages.
in deciding the issue, winston kwok must consider not only matching the risk appetite of clients but also the ability of clients to understand the complexities of the minibonds.
the case also centers on the mediterranean division,  created in 2009, and its relationship with india from initial off-shoring  projects to 2007 when cisco created its globalization center east, in practical  terms, a second headquarters in bangalore, india.
although bringing business back to ely would be beneficial, there is concern from josh nordland, a board member that was born and raised in ely, that proceeding with this plan would revive the town only to devastate it once again.
case synopsis dr. matt reid was definitely outside of his comfort zone!
relevant management theories applicable to this case include edgar  schein’s (1992) conception of organizational culture and ben  schneider’s (1987, 1999) attraction-selection- attrition framework for  employee selection.
la  rentabilidad de operaciones de inversión.
after the difficult early years  setting up the business, and a second phase of company consolidation, the  moment seemed to have arrived for decisions that would have far-reaching  consequences for the future of the company.
it tracked the evolution of an embryonic  organization to an indian rupees (inr) 2.3 billion organization with 1500  employees.
this case was developed with a generous grant from the british columbia  innovation council.
specific case objectives  include: 1.
© 2009 by andrés terech, javier j. silva, and maria barale.
stephen j.j. mcguire, entrepreneurship institute, california state university, los angeles, los angeles, ca 90032, 323-343-2897, steve@mcguire.net case objective the jean’s bridal shop case encourages students to determine a business’s current position by identifying the key success factors of an industry and then determining whether an individual business possesses those factors.
the case shows the  evolution in the use of business intelligence, and puts to those responsible  for the new diue (formerly known as dursi) the issue of evaluating the project  that has been undertaken in addition to proposing its future development.
sarah covered up emily’s absenteeism and tardiness.
or could it raise its prices and maintain its current policies?
the case can be used in strategic management,  entrepreneurship, and small business classes.
he must also confront the potential  conflict of interest in distributingminibonds through his sales team,  in view of the possible inability of clients to understand the difference  between a bank deposit and a structured investment vehicle.
meanwhile, there were  issues around bottled water creating a lot of plastic drink bottles that would  generally be better being refilled at the tap, and waste separation in terms of  its political acceptance and functional viability.
however, the hematite supply will only last for three to four years and then it will be necessary to depart from ely.
dr. abdul-aziz has been with the group for about five years, but has been disappointed in how the practice is managed.
although the committee had been active in meeting with numerous government officials, it had not been successful in preventing investors from building in the city.
the case draws upon traditional  entrepreneurship theory to examine the opportunity, the team, and the resources  as they relate to a new product offering.
ray kroc, the founder of mcdonald’s, made the brand into a  household name.
the results of this research were the catalyst for the organization to re-evaluate how the services offered by march of dimes were perceived by consumers.
the case, instructor’s manual, and  synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case  research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 2009, santa cruz,  california.
the case demonstrates the challenges of balancing the economic, social and environmental benefits and harms when involved with a large construction project in a developing company.
bridging a gateway between europe and india javier  busquets & juan blancoesade business school, universidad  ramon llull case objective this is a case about strategic management of innovation within a  technological firm, cisco systems.
the school board, however, still functioned for the most part as it had in the past, with mcheffey wielding a tremendous amount of power.
for its annual meeting, october 2009, santa cruz, california.
analizar estrategias para implementar prácticas de rse con  los proveedores y los consumidores de ingresos bajos (bop).
and a plastic surgeon, who performed a  procedure on a patient when she was eleven-years-old, has reservations when  faced with a subsequent request when she is seventeen.
the first author is himself a former  “coach” of his university’s ethics bowl team and the second  author a former participant.
these include: how a  decision should be framed for a board’s consideration, how malleable an  organization’s mandate should be, managing a relationship with a major  funder, business challenges for short-staffed small organizations, and  organizational structure in relation to business performance.
but in 2008, the company is struggling financially and trying to re-establish its focus.
the case beckons the questions – should shareholders be  considered the most important stakeholder group?
the case reviews the company’s presence in belize, the environmental impact studies, and the activities of the engos during 2001.
it raises the possibility of sharing intellectual property and  working with competitors, to promote catalytic innovation.
compare and contrast dividends vs. share  repurchases as cash distribution vehicles for a firm 2.
if this were to happen np&p would probably be liquidated and all personnel would be dismissed.
la  situación del mercado y la feroz competencia habían erosionado
the growth of the airline industry is addressed from its earliest passenger flight (1914), to the delivery of mail (1920s), and the attendant legislation governing and nurturing the aviation industry that created the civil aeronautics act (1938) which regulated competition and prices, the federal aviation act (1958) overseeing safety, and the airline deregulation act (1978), which marked the end of the reign of government over an infant industry that had outgrown its diapers.
the reference parties in theminibonds are highly respectable global banks and investment banks, whose probabilities of default individually are extremely low; however, the chance that at least one reference party will default in at least one year is substantial.
emily was a  high achiever, as evidenced by her hard work and dedication.
the case ends by  questioning whether continental beset by high fuel prices, cut-throat  competition, and a deep recession and the retirement of the highly respected  gordon bethune, a $585 million loss in 2008, and a series of accidents can  right itself and fly safely and profitably into the future.
it is designed for analysis by upper division and graduate students, or in executive development programs.
the case discussion questions can be assigned, most appropriately after a  lecture or a theory review concerning dividends and share repurchases.
customers become ambassadors, as well as a part of an extended corporate culture.
the library is the second largest public library system in michigan and is located on the western side of the state.
past funding opportunities proved to be unsuccessful; funding sources  were withdrawn, unorganized, and ineffective.
in addition, the company had to effectively advocate for new therapies during the regulatory review process in order to get new therapies through to full commercialization.
aundrea kay guess, school of management & business, st. edward’s university, 3001 south congress avenue, austin, tx 78704, (512) 448-8562, aundreag@stedwards.edu case objective in preparation for discussing the helen drinan case, m.b.a. students study the “giving voice to values” (gvv) curriculum.
este hito generó un cambio en el mercado de la televisión de pago tanto en la forma de competir de los participantes como en las ofertas y promociones realizadas hasta ese momento.
the next board meeting was scheduled for friday afternoon, and the board expected a recommendation on how kalda planned to address the expected increase in intra-european regional flight demand in light of both high fuel prices and last year’s net loss.
often, strategy and  ethics are treated as separate issues.
when roberto meets his future mother-in-law, armenia  nercessian de oliveira, a professor and united nations employee who has  dedicated her life to helping others across the globe, the stage is set for the  introduction of a new business idea: novica.while roberto has an  entrepreneurial vision about which he is passionate, he is also a thoughtful  and patient leader.
he felt that his company had potential to have the  best in class global processes and had kept in pace with the evolving needs of  its clients & the ever changing strides of the it industry.
to analyze various business valuation  methods, foreign exchange risks, and deal structures in order to understand  their impacts upon the key entrepreneurial decision (exit now or later?)
the case is appropriate for students to develop alternative  management strategies and provide abdul-aziz with a reasoned analysis for  staying or moving to a new practice.
el caso ha sido escrito para estudiantes de cursos de estrategia en los semestres avanzados en pregrado, y nivel medio de maestría en negocios case synopsis alfredo ruiz era el co-propietario y presidente (ceo) de château fonchereau, un viñedo ubicado en la zona productora de vinos en burdeos francia.
emily was a high achiever, as evidenced by her hard work and dedication.
the technology enables customers to make better business decisions by offering a more comprehensive look at all of the information available to the company.
the high rise buildings that the investors planned to build might also present a threat to the unique wind pattern for which cabarete was known.
these  choices may challenge the very business model that has made the company so  successful.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, chaminade resort, santa cruz, california, october 29 – 31, 2009.
although the business was located in a sparsely populated, rural area of  south dakota, it was positioned to conveniently serve south dakota, north  dakota, and minnesota.
it seemed so  promising… margaret bouchard & audrey wright worcester state college case objective the case was developed primarily to use with higher  education faculty and k-12 administrators and teachers who partner as part of  the professional development schools model.
this case challenges students to examine the balance between  abbott’s moral responsibilities as the producer of a potent life-saving  drug and the firm’s obligations to maximize the wealth of its  shareholders.
the case requires proficiency in applying their accounting and economics; they must apply and interpret a fully dynamic excel model of their practice that automatically makes ledger, balance sheet, cash flow statement and income statement compatible.
case objective when young doctors decide about the practice they want to establish, they are suddenly confronted with business problems that small businesses typically face.
this case was primarily  designed for undergraduate, graduate, and executive level courses in strategic  management.
managing sales force attrition at karnavati healthcare ltd.
dan’s strategic and organizational choices since he founded the company have been witness to his drive.
in bgs, the case would be used in that section of the course dealing with governance, and the interaction between management and the board of directors.
this resulted in a downward  spiral following a series of strategic failures that led to the current crisis  threatening the company’s viability.
contact person: tom hinthorne, college of  business, montana state university-billings, 1500 university drive, billings,  mt 59101-0298, 406-657-2099,thinthorne@msubillings.edu.
how do our decisions and the decisions of  companies which we work for or where we shop impact others all around the  globe?
currently,  the disease target was cancer and its lead drug angiocept™ (ct-322) was  in clinical trials with the fda.
in  addition to this document, troy got lily’s answers to a longer, more  specific list of questions.
all rights reserved by the authors and nacra.
como analista senior de riesgos en la entidad  financiera para la que trabajaba, debía realizar un informe sobre la  conveniencia de participar en el crédito sindicado para financiar el  proyecto de la central eléctrica de san francisco, en brasil.
it works in partnership with  government agencies, private companies like robert mondavi winery, and  universities such as uc-davis.
to apply free cash flows and market  multiples for business valuation purposes.
jerry sharplin and his family needed urgently to decide whether to keep the firm together, to sell one or more of its three motels to outsiders, or to sell them to one or more of the three siblings who, with their father and mother, were owner-executives and directors of the firm.
in the last several years, the  college has been able to attract a quality academic student.
© 2009 by richard r. young and steven c. dunn.
the project was not without its problems or detractors.
deciding which direction to proceed will prove crucial for the existence of the  firm.
other proposals  included reducing everyone’s salary, reducing benefits for all employees,  eliminating several other positions, and reducing several of the positions to  half time.
©2009 by amy lussetto and rebecca j. morris.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 2009, santa cruz, california.
case synopsis the case study offers an account of the horrific gas tragedy which occurred  at the ucil gas plant site of bhopal in northern india in 1984.
of long-term concern to the  management of the cooperative was the need to manage the risk of inventory  obsolescence.
the case illustrates the challenges faced by typical start-up  businesses.
what can the firm do to meet  the strategic goals in the most cost effective manner?
el caso es un excelente vehículo para exponer a los alumnos de programas de mba en el análisis y toma de decisiones en mercados muy dinámicos y con gran tendencia a la convergencia tecnológica.
the case also opens up the debate about conditions under which democratic process might not be the best way to decide on positioning.
this case allows  students to value possible acquisition targets using common corporate finance  methods, discounted cash flow and comparable multiples.
kenneth who also owns another company which is highly profitable invested $1.5  million in the venture and ronald made no monetary investment in the start-up.
her problem was to determine which of many options would move etraffic forward.
the strategy issue in the case involves how to re-position and market a not-for-profit brand in a changed environment.
do they need a new machine or does the firm simply need to refurbish the old one?
but the relationship was riddled with challenges.
en particular la compañía se enfrenta al desafío de ingresar al mercado de la televisión de pago.
each credit default  swap is a bet that a reference party will not default on its debt.
case objective the case describes a louisiana family’s highly profitable motel business which appeared to be at a crossroads.
the case addresses three major teaching objectives.
contact person: john gamble, university of south alabama, 307 n.  university blvd., mobile, al 36688, 251-460-6180, jgamble@usouthal.edu noble systems inc.: get big or go home?
case synopsis este caso presenta una iniciativa empresarial de alto impacto social en los llanos orientales colombianos.
a 90-minute class should be adequate for discussion of the case if  students have reviewed the case prior to class time.
under gasp’s watch, sonoma wine  company took action to ensure that its wastewater pond, was, in short, cleaned  up.
since the non-profit employed generally accepted accounting principles, it was required to report its inventory accordingly, valuing inventory at lower of cost or market.
following the guidelines in the case, students will be able to calculate fuel efficiency, fuel costs, and industry specific metrics, such as available seat kilometers, load distances, and number of flights needed to meet demand.
the authors developed the case for class discussion  rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the  situation.
the excitement for applying lean to continuously improve the existing processes has decreased substantially in the last two years.
guildcraft now thinks of itself as a green manufacturer,  but the question remains if such a moniker is appropriate vis-à-vis u.s.  environmental protection agency definitions.
although the large inventory assisted in attracting customers, most ultimately special ordered their attire.
in 2008, the company had a sales turnover of €5 million and sales exceeding 900,000 bottles, with exports representing 14% of them.
of equal concern was whether the church would continue to  exist.
the idea was to provide low cost, high nutrition products to their member agencies, other food banks across the country and potentially retail stores.
he felt that his company had potential to have the best in class global processes and had kept in pace with the evolving needs of its clients & the ever changing strides of the it industry.
the case was written for use in a course in which ethics is taught at either the undergraduate or graduate level.
case synopsis hq-iaq uv products was founded in 2000 as a wholesale dealer of indoor air quality (iaq) products.
max e. douglasindiana state university case objective the case focuses on the outcomes of a decision made by pete wilson to  purchase a coffee bistro which has been experiencing a downturn in business  under the leadership of its current owner george shumay.
el elemento fundamental del proyecto aliar es la “seguridad alimentaria” de los colombianos.
the challenges come from the scientific/technical aspect of aids vaccine research, social value on curative rather preventive measure,lack of a coordinated scientific strategy, competition rather than collaboration among research groups, low interest by industry and the government of rich countries in investing in vaccine research and generally inadequate funding for the enormous task at hand.
other proposals included reducing everyone’s salary, reducing benefits for all employees, eliminating several other positions, and reducing several of the positions to half time.
© 2009 by brett r. smith and david w. rosenthal.
se describen las  relaciones de la organización con los diferentesgrupos de  interés (stakeholders) y las iniciativas de  responsabilidad social (rse) emprendidas con cada uno de ellos, buscando la  creación de valor mezclado.
beth began to raise funds through selling books on e-bay, grants and personal donations and developed the non-profit think humanity in 2007.
it is a world class eye care system of clinics, institutes and  manufacturing centers such as a center for manufacturing lenses in order to  reduce the cost one of the main sources of expense.
possible solutions included adding a new business-to-business unit; integrating new product lines to enhance the retail customer experience; or to sell the business to a larger player where an acquisition in the financial services sector made long-term success.
contact  person: james e. fisher, john cook school of business, saint louis university,  3674 lindell blvd., st. louis, mo 63108, 314-977-3854,fisherje@slu.edu.
¿cómo reaccionarán los competidores?.
three potential acquisition targets were identified: scientific learning corporation, renaissance learning corporation and sumtotal.
the material covered in the case is designed to help students explore the  concept of sustainability and what it means not only for the businesses in the  area, but also for the environment and communities in which they exist.
from the early years, costco had a strong commitment to members to provide merchandise with high value and low-prices.
from the outset, raventós i blanc’s vision was to be the benchmark for premium cavas and wines, emphasising the quality of its strong viticultural roots, which meant it could produce high quality wines and cavas with grapes exclusively from its own vineyards.
it may be used in conjunction with the agiltron and adnexus cases as a unit in new product development across several different technology-based industries.
this case is suitable  for graduate or upper-division undergraduate courses, or course segments, in  ethics, corporate culture, non-profit organization management, strategic  management, public policy, law, and real estate.
© 2009 by tom  hinthorne and patricia holman.
a central issue facing this organization was the need for  inventory reduction in such a way that they did not lose their customer base.
texts for the 21st  century rebecca grant and suzanne hobden university of victoria case objective this case illustrates the challenges for a small  publishing company that wants to introduce disruptive new approaches into the  k-12 textbook market.
steven m. cox & bradley w. brooks, queens  university of charlotteilonka aylward, aylward family law case objective this case examines the potentially conflicting interests of potential  public health concerns, public security concerns and pr and brand management  issues after a crisis.
as part of #3 students will have to make suggestions  how to negotiate with the japanese owners as well as (5) offer a  post-acquisition strategy.
hq-iaq’s uv units were designed to purify the air in homes.
sarah was caught in an ethical dilemma: to continue to assist a close colleague in distress or to demonstrate loyalty to the company by informing her superior regarding her colleague’s pilfering
when it became evident that steve did not desire to continue at sra, a sale of the firm became the only viable alternative for the family.
the bridal and formal wear industry was experiencing growth in online sales,  therefore decreasing sales at traditional bridal shops.
elissa grossman, loyola marymount university, one lmu drive, ms 8385, 310-338-7401,elissa.grossman@lmu.edu case objective this case is used to showcase the greening methods of not only the california wine industry as a whole, but also of a specific winery, sonoma wine company, who have been industry leaders in sustainability.
case objective this case focuses on the detection of a quality problem as a symptom of the need for equipment maintenance, refurbishment, or replacement – areas that are often overlooked in studies of operations management.
512-448-8562, aundreag@stedwards.edu business & society  ethics bayer cropscience:
sarah was caught in an ethical dilemma: to continue to assist a close  colleague in distress or to demonstrate loyalty to the company by informing her  superior regarding her colleague’s pilfering activities?
deciding on an enterprise  search platform or product’ cases as a unit in new product development  across several different technology-based industries.
the partner’s unethical behavior involves (1) using $1  million of exi’s cash and equipment to start a company that will compete  against exi; (2) luring customers away from exi, and (3) taking important  documents from exi’s files.
major topics include internal  controls, ethics, small business, and accounting entries.
the case is written for courses in business and society, business ethics, and business and the environment.
the case was written for  business school undergraduate or mba courses in recruitment and selection.
the  professor of physics was most comfortable in the lab studying the optics of  surfaces and discussing the findings with graduate students and fellow  researchers across canada.
these snapshots may be  used ineducational leadership courses and in workshops for second-stage  teachers to challenge their thinking about their approach to professional  development and to their careers.
the  reference parties in theminibonds are highly respectable global banks  and investment banks, whose probabilities of default individually are extremely  low; however, the chance that at least one reference party will default in at  least one year is substantial.
the values of the 320 homes there ranged from around  $150,000 for some townhomes to as much as $2 million for the twenty or so  dwellings that enjoyed frontage on lake austin.
john.vitton@mail.business.und.edu costco:
this is a rather  obscure industry providing a product that we all take for granted without much  thought.
however, the  hematite supply will only last for three to four years and then it will be  necessary to depart from ely.
the case is well suited for an in-depth analysis of the retail apparel industry and its general environment.
the final objective is to encourage students to devise a potential exit strategy for the company.
dos años después comenzó a producir  35 mil botellas anuales de vinos tintos, blancos y espumosos.
greg knew that his team was anxious  about the prospect of hiring more food service workers in order to deal with  the anticipated increase in the number of customers served.
case objective this case was designed to illustrate the challenges in commercializing a new technology in very difficult economic and financial circumstances.
contact person: arthur sharplin, bentley college center for business ethics, p.o. box 30260, austin, tx 78755-3260, 512-415-1427, asharplin@aol.com.
in addition, the hispanic wine consumer living outside the u.s. represented another high potential market and was of serious interest to amelia ceja, co-founder of the winery, and her partners.
©2009 by amy lussetto and  rebecca j. morris.
peninsula wines monica draayer & mark julienbrock university case objective this case shows the challenges a small business often has with the  attraction and retention of a highly skilled position.
of these, 4 (including the vital spot) are  considered to be ‘college’ bars.
in this interim pete  faces new competition and a changing national landscape regarding the gourmet  coffee industry.
sarah began to feel sympathy for emily’s personal and professional situation.
one year later leahman was on a plane headed for china to hash out problems with liu, who had demanded a monthly raise for himself and his wife, a new company car, and an increase in profit sharing.
a discerning reader may also find opportunity to introspect on the not so brighter side of sales and marketing caused due to high sales pressure/ unrealistic targets.
case objective the case illustrates the r&d development process for an sbir funded technology business.
how could walters raise the significant capital he claimed to need to get this project off the ground?
all rights reserved to  the authors and nacra.
jeanne m. logsdon  & jonathan n. bundyuniversity of new mexico case objective this case describes a successful social enterprise that combines a  profit-making perspective with a social mission to help immigrant women achieve  steady and dignified employment.
keyoor  purani & unnikrishnan nairindian institute of management  kozhikode case objective this case on severe attrition faced by a pharma company  in india provides a realistic context for students to understand and  vicariously experience the competitive, high pressure nature of sales jobs.
circle 6 started as a small entrepreneurial firm with computer telephony integration (cti) software in the call center space and experienced the full life cycle between 1988 and 2004.
through their analysis of this case, students learn the nature and pricing of  credit default swaps, the structure of synthetic securitizations, how conflicts  of interest may arise in retail banking and brokerage with unsophisticated  customers and  the obligations of a banker/investment advisor who in sells  complex financial products.
the case requires that students:•          gain an understanding of  the technology development process in firms that are not market facing, and how  these types of firms differ from traditional firms where voice of the customer  and marketing occur up-front during development.•          develop the  skills/expertise required to look at the organization and determine what  strategies might be employed to reduce the number of project on hiatus.
most clients rented  the household items with the possibility of buying them in the future.
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
contact person: marlene m. reed, department of management & entrepreneurship, hankamer school of business, baylor university, one bear place #98006, waco, tx 76798-8006, (254) 710-4868,marlene_reed@baylor.
they were in a quandary about what to do with the information, especially in terms of their own lives.
all rights reserved  by the authors and nacra.
concepts that can be used in the analysis
case synopsis josep raventós i vidal, general manager of raventós i blanc,  stood at a crossroads.
such a recruitment initiative would be challenging given the perception that all possible recruitment channels had already been explored.
case synopsis the bookstore cooperative, a university auxiliary running bookstore  operations, was contemplating an overvalued inventory at year-end.
this will require a deep analysis of each market’s structure, its specific customers and account management systems.
condominiums in the village which might impair the wind in the area which  supported one of the most popular wind sport destinations in the caribbean.
the material covered in the case is designed to help students explore the concept of sustainability and what it means not only for the businesses in the area, but also for the environment and communities in which they exist.
the material could be used to focus on what it takes to build effective working relationships, allowing students to explore issues including dealing with conflict, building trust, managing performance, and having difficult conversations in a global context.
and, importantly, theyare clear  about their values and how their values undergird their roles as teachers and  educationalleaders.
a new superintendent of schools had been hired and the academic performance within the school district showed progress.
a resident told sam of an attempt by the hoa, a non-profit corporation, to  take over the waterfront behind his home and eleven others.
targeting the emerging and potentially vast u.s. hispanic consumer segment might require extensive repositioning of ceja’s premium varietal wine brands, result in a diminution of effort to sustain its rapidly growing wine club, pose additional future expenses for promotion of wine consumption to u.s. hispanic consumers, and erode the high-end premium wine brand.
deciding which path to take would prove to be a hard choice.
the video was produced by the company to show visitors on its facebook website what it is like to work for backcountry.
case synopsis in spring 2008, learning and teaching methods were changing in canada,  opening up opportunities for companies that could respond to those changes.
it is, however, recommended for  advanced rather than basic or introductory courses.
¿posee la  compañía los recursos y capacidades para competir en ese mercado?
case synopsis the case asks students to put themselves in jordi  botifoll’s shoes (vice president of cisco europe, mediterranean area) to  decide on the key priorities and questions to consider when developing a  specific plan for a digital or smart city based on the new internet parading  (or the internet of things), in this case barcelona.
this case has been written for use in undergraduate and postgraduate classes in strategic management, social and environmental entrepreneurship, and environmental management and sustainability.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra ) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
over the years, costco’s stock price rose; yet, so did wall street criticism.
château fonchereau, era una edificación del  siglo xv que tenía 50 hectáreas de terreno, de las cuales 30 eran  viñedos.
case synopsis el caso describe un encuentro de 4 directivos de empresa que, aunque fueron compañeros de estudios y grandes amigos, por razones de trabajo no se ven desde hace unos cuantos años.
amy lussetto (student) & rebecca j. morris university of nebraska at omaha case objective abbott laboratories had developed a potent drug  (kaletra) that the world health organization considered to be the preferred  hiv/aids treatment in resource-restricted societies.
hugh grove, yuhua  hao & tom cook, university of denvertomas casas klett,  university of st. gallen case objective the case has several major objectives: 1.
each credit default swap is a bet that a reference party will not default on its debt.
es un  caso que permite una introducción sencilla e interesada de los  participantes en los elementos básicos de las inversiones financieras,  por lo cual no se requiere un extensivo conocimiento previo de finanzas por  parte de los estudiantes.
by analyzing and discussing the case,  students should be able to: (1) develop a greater understanding of the wine  industry and the challenges facing small wineries in an extremely competitive  environment, (2) effectively use a swot analysis to analyze the company’s  resources, customers,  competitors, and external market factors, (3)  effectively develop screening criteria to evaluate opportunities, (4) know what  market segmentation is and how to segment product markets into submarkets, (5)
case synopsis paul and luke develder are the owner/operators of the  vital spot, a college town bar.
the objectives of this case include: 1.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting at santa cruz, california, on october 29-31, 2009.
most of the bars have experienced a slight decline in revenues from students over the past two years.
all of the options would have serious implications for the  short and long term operations of the organization, and its mission.
el caso presenta el reto para un nuevo productor debe elegir entre  seguir la tendencia de los nuevos productores (etiquetas simples, calidad  medio, precio medio y bajo) o seguir con la tradicional producción  francesa de alta calidad y precio relativamente más alto.
at issue was that oxigene developed a technology platform with multiple product applications, each of which required significant resources.
with this evolution, the organization dynamics of the personalities on the board come into focus, allowing students to analyze the sources of power of the board president and the leadership role that he has employed.
was it possible to grow through specific market development or should they consider other options?
dr. abdul-aziz is considering separating from the group practice in which he is  a partner and establishing his own independent practice in the same market.
it operates seven branches  in addition to its main facility.
they spread the oliver story and request oliver wines from local vendors, helping to pull the company's product through the supply chain into their own communities.
some analysts questioned the expensive use of company funds on  employees; while others believed costco’s methodology served them well  and substantively contributed to the increasing stock price.
case synopsis in february 2007, gary wendlandt, chief investment officer of the nylic,  was faced with an important decision.
the godfather of the younger son, was seen at times as a meddling uncle.
la economía global en crisis, la estrategia será decisiva para permitir la permanencia y consolidación de château fonchereau en el mercado y comenzar a ser redituable el próximo año” reflexionaba.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 30- november 1, 2009.
it has also been used in an undergraduate case competition.
there are 7 establishments in the town itself  which serve alcohol.
case synopsis the city of cabarete, a popular tourist destination on the northern coast  of the dominican republic, was struggling to resist change that might harm  local business owners.
in november 2008,  mary exited the business taking her share of the debt.
now a decision must be made.
the business owners were concerned about foreign investors building high-rise condominiums in the village which might impair the wind in the area which supported one of the most popular wind sport destinations in the caribbean.
the case  illustrates the importance of this position and the potential loss of  reputation that the winery could suffer should the turnover of winemakers  continue.
complicating financial management was that, as is common for small businesses, formal budgets were non-existent and accounting practices rudimentary.
these elements make for  an interesting example of the company's unique culture and approach have  successfully driven growth.
nurses and reception staff have been poorly supervised and as a result some have resorted to surfing the internet instead of handling important office tasks.
wendlandt proposed to divert assets from  corporate bonds to government bonds, even if it meant foregoing higher  short-term returns.
these four cases treat global social and ethical issues and concerns.
this required  high levels of capital surplus.
the  intent is to explore how organizational philosophy determines the  implementation and efficacy of business tools.
contact person: kathryn savage, w.a. franke college of business,  northern arizona university- 20 w mcconnell drive, flagstaff, az  86011,  928-523-7397, kathy.savage@nau.edu the bookstore  cooperative: textbook travails elizabeth grace, san jose state  university case objective the case illustrates the difficulty of inventory valuation and management  in an evolving market.
the case is suitable for a business strategy course or a new products, small business and/or entrepreneurship course at the undergraduate, mba or executive mba level.
and, importantly, theyare clear about their values and how their values undergird their roles as teachers and educationalleaders.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort, santa cruz, california, october 29 – 31, 2009.
the  case describes the opportunity to apply this concept to barcelona, leveraging  (1) european union (eu) development policies and (2) how to manage resources to  manage the project “from india to the world.”
the case objectives also aim to foment critical  thinking in students, but above all, they ask students to see creativity not as  daydreaming, but as a methodological exercise to understand the limits of  reality and to manage a company so that it takes actions and makes realistic  commitments.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, october 29–31, 2009.
what are the implications of these social enterprises for our teaching of business ethics?
in 2008, trelleborg automotive (ta) was the largest rubber non-tire  manufacturer in the world, and its automotive business segment represented 30  percent of its net sales.
the case demonstrates how pete uses his business acumen and leadership  competencies to carefully integrate internal changes while sustaining the  culture and ambience that separates coffee grounds from many of its competitors  including gourmet coffee chains.
©2009 by melissa vegter  and nancy m. levenburg.
el elemento fundamental  del proyecto aliar es la “seguridad alimentaria”  de los colombianos.
the case was written for business school  undergraduate and graduate courses in computer systems, information technology,  business leadership and strategy, healthcare management, and information  assurance.
the “reardon pallet company – building success” case  focuses on this fast growth firm in 2008 after a consultant’s
instead, it should be “whether” the protagonist  should get involved at all.
©  2009 by cynthia ingols and marue walizer.
© 2009 by raymond h. lopez, lubin school of  business, pace university, 1 martine avenue, white plains, ny, 914 422 4165  rlopez@pace.edu transit authority of northern kentucky (tank)  versus wilson holdings, inc. philip glasgo & shelly webb xavier university case objective the case is designed to introduce finance students to similarities and  differences between analyzing financial statements of  for-profit  corporations  and not-for-profit  quasi-governmental agencies using  tank, a regional bus service serving three counties in northern kentucky as the  not-for profit.
several of the members of the board of directors had announced that not only would they have to reduce their donations to the organization, but that they had heard from other donors that they would also have to do the same.
© 2009 by anahid saeidi, christian que, and rahul gupta.
the  video was produced by the company to show visitors on its facebook website what  it is like to work for backcountry.
oliver abel manhattan college case objective this case presents the thought process of a wall street  executive considering moving to a traditional corporate treasury position or  establishing an entrepreneurial chocolate manufacturing/retailing enterprise.
© 2009 by daniel f. jennings, lane batson, and aaron schrems.
was entercom a  good candidate for regular dividends or for regular (or irregular)
the case is written primarily for undergraduate courses in finance, but could also be used in an introductory mba class.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, october 29--30, 2009.
case synopsis rachel cohen, assistant professor english at fairbanks university, has just completed a contentious meeting of her first year composition class, which had discussed a paper written by one of the students.
attivio had already developed a  customizable platform using aie as its base (embedded aie), which focused on  the oem market, and now they had to decide what their next steps should be.
amazon has partnered with some  universities and textbook publishers to offer a pilot program in the coming  academic year to test the responsiveness of this market.
he started sra and developed valuable contacts in the federal government, state governments and private companies.
the overriding question that fsfb leaders faced involved three fundamental options – reconfigure the end user product line, focus on the on-site feeding channel segment, or discontinue the liberty pantry product line.
© 2009 by ashley allen, sarah margaret davis, kinsey fletcher, anne elise robertson, baylor university, and marlene m. reed, baylor university, faculty supervisor.
alicia en este panel es la única mujer con  experiencia práctica en los procesos de microcrédito para la  población más desfavorecida y con los mayores indicadores de  violencia en el país.
the case was written for undergraduate or mba courses in  entrepreneurship or in strategic management.
the case is suitable for a business strategy course  or a new products, small business and/or entrepreneurship course at the  undergraduate, mba or executive mba level.
it was peter’s hope that this venture would allow him to take his life in a new direction and still meet the financial needs of his growing family.
at the time of writing, management at cisco was completely dedicated to defining the company’s strategic change.
other challenges include the remote location of the facility and the lack of public transportation options, the amount of subsequent training required by opg and the perception that all current recruitment channels have been attempted and exhausted.
the case has been  written for mba students in a capstone finance course.
this case was developed for an undergraduate strategic  management course and lends itself to discussion of the mission statement and  its potential impact on strategic change.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, ca.
team computers had emerged as a large it infrastructure solution provider supporting more than 600 mid market customers across india and some overseas clients.
library holdings consist of 660,000 books, tapes,  films, maps, and compact discs, periodicals, and special collections.
472-5996,rgrant@uvic.ca case objective this case shows the importance and need of a well thought out and documented enterprise disaster recovery and contingency plan.
in the late 1990s, as competition increased and pressure to perform in the stock market escalated, many warehouse companies cut employee costs.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, ca,  october 29-31, 2009.
it concentrates  on three issues: (1) the personal trajectory of don francis as a social  entrepreneur in the public, private, and non-profit sectors; (2) influencing  factors to discovery of aids vaccine, which has a large proportion of  beneficiaries in poor countries; and (3) the changing environment for  addressing the global health issues.
inthe leadership challenge, james kouzes and barry posner have distilled through twenty-five years of research and writing the five fundamental practices of exemplary leaders.
many times an individual is faced with an  ethical dilemma because their own values and those of their employer are in  conflict.
by august 2007, the lawyer had pulled back but the hoa  directors were threatening to take matters into their own hands by removing a  line of large pots sherman had installed without architectural committee  approval.
the case discusses the travails of  four brothers as they discover various conflicts within the medical system and  their impact on the delivery of cardiovascular care.
case synopsis this field researched case focused on jean’s bridal shop of wilmot, sd.
terahertz solutions inc. dennis callaghan, elizabeth  croft, & robert ellisuniversity of northern british  columbia case objective this case was designed to illustrate the challenges in commercializing a  new technology in very difficult economic and financial circumstances.
the company believed that through proper education it could help  less financially-educated individuals take a disciplined-themed retirement  planning approach.
the arts and crafts of social  venturing elissa grossman & david y. choi, loyola marymount
if not, did he have an ethical obligation to help?
whatever course of action barnes suggested to the pastor would impact the church, its members, the smba, the community, and a number of stakeholders, including himself.
it should be noted that the bars are all within walking distance of the college, which means that drunk driving, is generally not an issue.
peninsula had received comments from customers  that the taste and style of their wines were different from year to year, which  oliver knew was a result of the different winemakers they have employed in such  a short period of time.
after analyzing each market’s core features and growth opportunities, and determining their complexities and how much knowledge the company actually had on each of them, two markets were selected: the wine business and the mining business.
case objective this case is intended for an advanced undergraduate or an mba corporate finance elective.
this case provides the opportunity for students to compare and contrast  mcdonald’s old strategy, an aggressive growth strategy, with their new  turnaround strategy, a mission-centered strategy.
esto que es algo normal en directivos anglosajones es, sin embargo, un elemento muy descuidado por parte de sus pares latinoamericanos.
this case is designed for use in undergraduate courses with a focus on  entrepreneurship, such as small business management and family business  management.
sales had declined  dramatically, with the company’s clothing designs viewed as dowdy and out  of touch with customer needs.
the authors  developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either  effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
case synopsis this case focuses on the issues faced by abbott laboratories in 2007.
a linkage is made to published research on the strategies of engos and why they target particular projects.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate the effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
in order  to do so it is necessary to provide a brief introduction to basic ethical  theories such as utilitarianism, formalism, rights, etc.
some of  the new board members began to question whether this style of leadership on the  school board continued to be in the best interests of the community.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
this case may be used to help students to advance their knowledge on price policies and delegation of pricing decision and to learn more about the challenges faced by companies implementing pricing strategy changes and their repercussions on: sales force, organizational culture, customer relationships, competitors’ prices and profitability.
it had strayed from its original base and felt a need to return to its roots.
the case requires that students: understand the pharmaceutical development process, both within adnexus /bms and through the fda approval process; and evaluate the resources needed to create an on-going development pipeline.
the major issues for students to deal with  involve defining the organization’s mission, analyzing the business model  and strategy, and determining the actions necessary to implement the strategy.
whatever course  of action barnes suggested to the pastor would impact the church, its members,  the smba, the community, and a number of stakeholders, including himself.
data sources are the corporate plans of fraport as used internally for preparing the ipo.
attivio is an enterprise search company that had developed a core technology, the active intelligence engine (aie), which combined enterprise search and business intelligence capabilities to integrate unstructured and structured business data easily and intelligently.
the founders, however, want novica to be much more: a truly global presence, offering help in new parts of the world, in new ways, and earning $100 million annually.
the case can be used in the section of the  course dealing with stakeholder relations.
he was the only partner involved in the day-to-day operations of the business.
gómez conocía el interés de su banco por  participar en el proyecto, ya que durante el año 2002
the  case, instructor’s manual and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, chaminde resort, october 29- 31, 2009.
contact person: nancy m. levenburg, seidman college of business, grand valley state university, 441-c devos center, 401 fulton street, grand rapids, mi 49504, 616-331-7475, levenbun@gvsu.edu.
students are introduced to the effects of rapid market  changes on demand for textbook inventory and the effects of obsolescence on  financial statements.
rait considered bombardier’s new q400 turboprop to be on his short list.
therefore, they called for different management schemes.
value firms using discounted cash flow and  comparable multiples analysis 2.
the case is appropriate  for the early part of undergraduate or graduate courses in  entrepreneurship/small business management or operations management.
this case  is intended to help students recognize factors that suggest re-evaluation of a  brand.
en este tipo de proyectos, tanto los promotores como los bancos financiadores deben identificar y gestionar los diversos riesgos operativos, tecnológicos, económicos, financieros, políticos, de suministro, regulatorios, etc, durante un largo período temporal.
© 2009 bynirupama akella and devi akella.
with the structured approach, the instructor can select questions relating to the specific topic of interest (e.g. branding) and assign those questions, followed by class discussion.
case synopsis this case portrays the rapid growth and unique culture of  backcountry.com, an online retailer of outdoor gear headquartered in park city,  utah.
contact person: devi akella, albany state university, college drive, college of  business, albany state university, albany, ga 31707, 229-430-4775,  dakella@hotmail.com.
but the environment around it had changed and its competitors were turning to more contemporary designer styles.
ray kinnunennortheastern university case objective the case illustrates the r&d development process for  an sbir funded technology business.
it challenges students to consider how businesses, governments, and society can better assure the integrity of the credit rating industry.
contact person: karen popovich, saint michael's college, one winooski park, colchester, vt 05465, 802-654-2696, kpopovich@smcvt.edu case objective the case illustrates the improvements achieved through the implementation of lean administrative methods by the grand rapids public library.
contextualizar las prácticas de rse en el ámbito  latinoamericano, en este caso el colombiano, integrando la perspectiva social  en el mapa estratégico de la empresa.
to understand the chinese business  environment and the chinese software industry in order to do business in china.
the purpose of this case study is to present students enough information to make a decision on water conservation, more specifically in respect to the question of clean drinking water wasted to flush urinals.
the case provides enough evidence to evaluate the positioning options of the company, the criteria to finalize the positioning options.
all rights are reserved to the  authors and nacra.
while conventional  approaches to leadership may downplay the notion thatteachers must lead in  their classrooms, these stories of exceptional teachers illustrate how they  engage in all the behaviors of leaders.
el caso presenta el reto para un nuevo productor debe elegir entre seguir la tendencia de los nuevos productores (etiquetas simples, calidad medio, precio medio y bajo) o seguir con la tradicional producción francesa de alta calidad y precio relativamente más alto.
to analyze various business valuation methods, foreign exchange risks, and deal structures in order to understand their impacts upon the key entrepreneurial decision (exit now or later?) and upon the net proceeds for the three partners.
pfizer  discussed his innermost concerns with another individual contributor as they  discussed their new responsibilities: “no more excuses, no one to hide  behind, and the company’s destiny will be in our hands.
this u.s.-based global industry leader owned on  since the end of 2004.
peter decided to talk with  others about possibly leaving his wall street position.
he then created a detailed business plan outlining the initial capital needs as well as five year forecasted sales and expenses for an innovative chocolate manufacturing/retailing enterprise.
contact person: javier j. silva, iae business school, austral university- mariano acosta s/n ruta nac. 8 (b1629 wwa) pilar – buenos aires – argentina case objective this case unveils a situation where a small business faces competitive headwinds and must decide upon a new direction at the firm.
the case draws upon traditional entrepreneurship theory to examine the opportunity, the team, and the resources as they relate to a new product offering.
the competitors in the higher education market have developed better financing, marketing, and partnerships with textbook publishers, which noble systems has not been able to match.
this case study and associated materials can be used in graduate business programs at any level.
contact person: susan white, finance department, r.h. smith school of business, university of maryland, college park, md 20742, 301-405-8700.
there is a significant marketing component, which might make the case  suitable in a strategic marketing class.
dr. soper decided to sell the clinic, relocate to  north kansas city, and set up a new practice.
however, as a former high-school  football player, boxer, and bull-rider, father prior daniel mary was  unaccustomed to shrinking from a challenge.
it could also be used in seminars on corporate finance or valuation.
depending on how curriculum is structured, this could include courses in accounting information systems, internal auditing and external auditing.
in order to do the analysis, he needs to first understand the differences, rearrange the statements so that they look similar to what he (and the county board of supervisors) are used to, and then analyze them and provide recommendations.
costco had been creating value for its shareholders, with  increased stock prices, but would a decrease in employee expenses create more  value?
this case  follows dr. richard chin, ceo of oxigene, as he faces the key strategic  challenge of positioning the firm’s technology platform and products,  while seeking additional investment capital and external alliances.
through the discussion of the innovative product features to the  potential substitution of current building materials, the case underscores  several challenging areas of entrepreneurship, none more so than funding a  start-up and designing a business that will be attractive to investors.
management implemented a number of strategic initiatives referred to as “the plan to win.”
when asked to address medical  students about locating and sizing a practice, he realized there were many  considerations that he would like to have thought through before he set up his  practice.
© 2009 josep lluís cano, josep  franch and miquel novell.
© 2009 by an ni chen & laura whitcomb.
the women’s bean project is a place where women can go when other options have failed.
el uso de este caso persigue tres objetivos diferentes: 1)
management was the primary decision focus prior to april 2004; however,  non-management employees became the primary decision-makers as the board  members and management resigned en mass.
© 2009 by jeanne m. logsdon and jonathan n.  bundy.  contact person: jeanne m. logsdon, anderson school of management,  university of new mexico, msc05 3090, 1 university of new mexico, albuquerque,  nm 87131-001, 505-277-8352,logsdon@mgt.unm.edu the mata de palma  project: social entrepreneurship in the dominican republic kristen  anzollitto, nicole hewitt, lydia rogers, baylor university & emily stroderd, baylor universitymarlene m. reed, baylor  university, faculty supervisor case objective this case reveals the story of omar bros, a native of the dominican  republic, and his desire to use a portion of his profits on a new semi-mobile  ethanol mill to improve the standard of living of the impoverished haitian  immigrants who live in the mata de palma region of the dominican republic.
the semi-mobile mill was developed to move the processing of sugar cane into ethanol closer to the fields where the sugar cane was grown.
©  2009 by j. busquets and j. blanco, barcelona (+34 93 280 6162), xavier.busquets@esade.edu etraffic press:
el caso  ha sido preparado especialmente para ser usado en la primera sesión de  los cursos de finanzas de programas de management general dirigidos a  directivos a cargo de gerencias funcionales de compañías.
making the investments soon will  signal to competitors and customers that reardon intends to be an even more  aggressive player in the market.
case synopsis after his 12 years in spain, alfredo brought his family back to the united  states and in a few a years, decided to set out on his own.
the purpose of the case is to provide students with a better understanding of us life insurance companies and how they operate.
free to set prices for specific quotes, sales  agents used to grant significant discounts (40 percent of the items in an order  were priced below their regular prices) to their customers.
during early 2005, emily began to face personal hardships that directly affected her professional performance.
the case draws on publicly available data, including internal documents released by moody’s in connection with a congressional hearing in october 2008, to explore the multiple causes of the financial crisis and moody’s role in it.
case synopsis what began as a single streamlined hamburger restaurant in california grew to become one of the largest, most successful fast food chains across the globe.
it was designed for undergraduate courses in production and operations management, but is also well suited for a senior business strategy course that includes quantitative and qualitative decision making.
they have been perfecting optical  devices for over 20 years, regrouped in 2001 from nz applied, jdsu, and  corning.
“wall street,” however, solely valued the company on its lead oncology product, zybrestat, and seemingly did not impute any value to its other ophthalmology pipeline candidates.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than  to illustrate effective and ineffective handling of the situation.
for example, a registered  nurse protests against an assignment to perform a procedure for a terminally  ill patient.
peter studied the trends in the chocolate industry  and the local competition.
it is written for  senior undergraduates but is appropriate for graduate level and management  development courses.
the  carmelites had received a $250,000 donation that could be used toward the  purchase and the monastery had earned nearly $75,000 during the first year of  its coffee roasting operations, but more money would be needed.
he was also aware of the fact that one of the reasons for on’s low profitability rested with the company’s sales force.
¿cómo y porqué afrontar los  desafíos del microcrédito para los pobres?
go green mart is an internet business in the first years of  existence and seems to be having trouble growing despite the seeming growth of  demand for green products.
the technology enables customers to make better  business decisions by offering a more comprehensive look at all of the  information available to the company.
the case can be used in a variety of courses, including business, government and society (bgs), strategic management, not for profit management, and corporate governance, at either the senior undergraduate or graduate level.
he was also aware of the fact that  one of the reasons for on’s low profitability rested with the  company’s sales force.
scc is organized as a non-profit contract manufacturing business and provides full-time sewing and handwork jobs.
the dam would contribute to the economic development of the  country by meeting the increasing demand from industry and consumers for  electricity.
fraport allowed those real data to be used as a case study.
crucially, it can draw attention of marketing students/ managers to the importance of hr function and the need and challenge of effective people management for marketing success.
with the loss of the montana silversmiths business, river bend trading became a one-owner business.
with trends like megabrands, product patenting and internet savvy patients rapidly transforming the face of indian pharma industry, there was high immense pressure on khl top management for swift but well crafted responses to the attrition issue.
and, if so, should estonian purchase regional jets or new  model turboprops?
the customizable and extendable platform would involve hiring  more employees as they expanded, but it would also give them the opportunity  for steady growth.
now, what should  we do?”
when roberto meets his future mother-in-law, armenia nercessian de oliveira, a professor and united nations employee who has dedicated her life to helping others across the globe, the stage is set for the introduction of a new business idea: novica.while roberto has an entrepreneurial vision about which he is passionate, he is also a thoughtful and patient leader.
possible solutions  included adding a new business-to-business unit; integrating new product lines  to enhance the retail customer experience; or to sell the business to a larger  player where an acquisition in the financial services sector made long-term  success.
the accompanying instructional materials seek to  utilize the individual cases to introduce appropriate analytic categories and  decision-making approaches especially suited to the field of health care  ethics.
the library is the second largest public library system in michigan and  is located on the western side of the state.
case synopsis rocky mountain mutual housing association (“the mutual”) was a not-for-profit affordable housing organization incorporated in denver, colorado, in april 1992.
los nuevos países productores como australia  presentan un amenazante crecimiento año con año”.
the firm weighs choices about future directions.
finally, the case addresses the issue of generating “trust” in discussion groups so that sensitive issues can be discussed without fear of reprisal or discrimination.
the outlet’s sales doubled m&l’s sales, and both businesses prospered.
case synopsis manuel van oordt era el gerente central de ventas y  marketing de lan perú s.a. , empresa que había iniciado  operaciones en el perú en el año 1999, aunque ya venía  operando en chile, país de origen, desde el año 30.
the end result of the mata de palma project was to create a  self-sustaining economy supported by the demand for agricultural products and  technological innovations of the mill.
contact person:  nancy m. levenburg, seidman  college of business, grand valley state university, 441-c devos center, 401  fulton street, grand rapids, mi 49504, 616-331-7475,levenbun@gvsu.edu.
benetech’s focus is on high social value  despite low potential for generating a typical market rate of return on  investment.
rebecca treadway, maryville college, 502 east lamar alexander parkway, maryville, tn 37804-5907,865-604-6749, rebecca.treadway@maryvillecollege.edu case objective the case is an ideal introduction to the tasks of crafting and executing strategy.
case synopsis the talbots, inc., a retailer of women’s classic apparel and  accessories since 1947, had a clear target market in the 35-year-and over age  group.
the first is to identify ways to respond to students who exhibit a lack of awareness of the impact of their words on others.
this case is suitable for graduate or upper-division undergraduate courses, or course segments, in ethics, corporate culture, non-profit organization management, strategic management, public policy, law, and real estate.
the question before wendlandt and his investment management team was whether or not to place more of nylic’s investable cash flow into safer but lower yielding fixed income products.
the economic downturn of 2008-09 was mentioned as the cause for these reductions in donations.
the new model is targeted at  a segment is large but price sensitive and which may not be convinced of its  value.
© 2009  by kathryn savage, northern arizona  university.
can we measure  the value of expected synergies?
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29- october 31, 2009.
the case lends itself well to issues of market segmentation and to  evaluation of strategies for expansion.
the case the two options for investment along with dimensions of the company (company history and personnel and culture) and industry (structure, technology, consolidation, and government regulations and tariffs).
the case reveals options leahman could take to manage the situation.
by developing a customized strategic plan using the balanced scorecard, some questions about its prospects are addressed and examined.
the case,  instructor's manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted  by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting,  santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
this case was developed with a generous grant from the british columbia innovation council.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2009.
to understand the chinese business environment and the chinese software industry in order to do business in china.
go green mart is an internet business in the first years of existence and seems to be having trouble growing despite the seeming growth of demand for green products.
the case deals with the challenges that he faced in accomplishing this goal and the development of a clear strategy for carrying out his purposes.
the  objectives of this case are to raise awareness of this highly successful  non-profit organization, and to allow students to evaluate wbp’s decision  of diversifying into a new jewelry-making venture.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate  either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
less than two years earlier in 2007, it had been acquired for $430 million by bms, which gave it greater financial strength to pursue clinical development of its products.
the case is primarily based on videoed class visits and tape-recorded interviews with grant hall in 2008 and 2009, and on an analysis of documentation provided by grant.
established in 1989 as a non-profit organization by jossy eyre, the women’s bean project (wbp) is dedicated to assisting women break the cycle of poverty and alleviate the problem chronic unemployment among the underprivileged and underserved women in the community.
all rights are reserved to  the author and nacra.
the values of the 320 homes there ranged from around $150,000 for some townhomes to as much as $2 million for the twenty or so dwellings that enjoyed frontage on lake austin.
public disclosure could also damage the bayer brand image.
finally, the case  links this project with the company’s globalization strategy or how to  leverage innovation sources, as well as design units, r&d lab locations,  divisions and resources in order to align a firm in which 50% of its current  volume is due to recent acquisitions.
the case, instructors’ manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting.
as business school curricula increasingly introduce sustainability and environmental responsibility themes in both undergraduate as well as graduate programs, this case has applicability to several disciplines, but especially operations management and managerial accounting.
it exposes them to related issues, like, organization design for sales management; theories/ approaches of motivating sales force; role of top management in building employee commitment; ‘head office–field’ relations; the critical role of immediate boss; and so on.
investments, even in corporate bonds issued by  large us businesses, were becoming risky.
capital vehicle systems: an exploration of lean manufacturing melissa vegter & nancy m. levenburggrand valley  state university case objective students often gain instruction in lean manufacturing, but do not have an  opportunity to see its implementation in practice.
the case also explores the working relationship between a husband - wife  ownership team and addresses issues of succession inside and outside of the  family.
ronald is faced with the task of  rebuilding exi.
case synopsis the case deals with a company in the pvc pipe industry.
the objectives of this case are:  i) to understand how one  individual, beth heckel, took on this cause with the help of her family and has  made such an impact in so many ways in a short period of time, ii) observe the  process of empowering a community with projects that benefit the community as a  whole, and iii) evaluate the struggles a non-profit faces in raising funds, and  iv) recommend strategies for think humanity to become sustainable long term.
thus, an analysis of tank’s present financial situation and trends is essential.
reid was one of the leading researchers in the world exploring the potential of  terahertz radiation for imaging and measuring the properties of materials.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2009.
management implemented a strategic turnaround plan beginning in 2003 to restore profitability.
in bgs, the case would be used in that section of the course dealing with  governance, and the interaction between management and the board of directors.
© 2009 by wartini pramana and emmanuel raufflet.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective of ineffective handling of the situation.
the case was written for business school undergraduate courses in  intermediate accounting and auditing.
© 2009  by angel moreno, vijaya narapareddy, & nancy  sampson.
the vna does not have an  enterprise wide business contingency plan or it contingency plan to address  this crisis situation.
case synopsis after six years of negative net profitability, officenet (on),  argentina’s leading office supply vendor, started to show signs of  positive results.
by using material  alternatives to rubber and focusing on more profitable segments, the case  explores whether the proposed growth initiative could support the long-term  competitiveness of the firm.
in 1967 vermilion was forced to abandon its operations  in ely due to the increased cost to remove the hematite (high grade iron ore)  deep within ore fields.
© 2009 by stephen  bowden, eva collins, helen tregidga, & kate kearins.
nandu, a lowly uneducated maintenance worker at the plant is witness
this case was written for a class session on organizational  culture in an introductoryorganizational behavior course and can be used in  undergraduate, graduate, and executiveclasses.
also, the rapid expansion (opening 50 new stores in 2007) could be used in a discussion of sustainable growth.
case synopsis this case is about the emergence of an innovative for-profit social venture that connects talented artisans in developing nations with customers in the us and elsewhere.
the case ends with roberto and his team facing a critical decision about how to at last propel the company from slow to rapid and substantial growth.
the case  was written for undergraduate or graduate classes in the area of auditing,  fraud, ethics, and/or entrepreneurship.
their market had been international relief  programs.
© 2009 by jeanne m. logsdon and jonathan n. bundy.
4155, mjulien@brocku.ca the center moriches school board (a) & (b) stuart rosenberg, dowling college school of business case objective the case enables students to study the evolution of a school board during a  period of crisis as well as in the period after the crisis has passed.
what proportion,  if any, of investable cash flow should be diverted?
an embezzlement scandal could cause the 150 year-old church to close its doors.
it was  peter’s hope that this venture would allow him to take his life in a new  direction and still meet the financial needs of his growing family.
the case has been class-room tested with a business and sustainability class using similar questions to those offered here.
emerging signals in the financial  markets pointed towards an uncertain future.
all three were multilingual.
the objectives are for students to be able to analyze facts related to fraud detection, evaluate internal controls and policies/procedures in a small entrepreneur office setting and apply ethical and fraud frameworks.
the explosion occurred around 10:35 pm when an industrial tank of methomyl, a highly toxic chemical used in pesticides, ignited into a fireball that left a visible cloud hovering around nearby residential areas.
recently, the college has begun to  attract a type of student who apparently is less inclined to frequent the bars  as much as students in the past.
el  caso nos llevará a analizar desde una visión antropológica  el comportamiento de la persona, usuaria y
it might also be appropriate for  global/international business and corporate strategy courses.
a central issue facing this organization was the need for inventory reduction in such a way that they did not lose their customer base.
in particular, the case will:  (1) expose students to the types of investment decisions made by executives of  life insurance companies and their consequences, (2) provide students with the  tools to analyze the financial statements of life insurance companies (e.g.,  how to calculate loss ratios, expense ratios, and solvency ratios) and, (3)  give students practice in industry and competitor analysis.
nylic had a responsibility to its  policyholders.
however, previous experience with public sector support has demonstrated challenges for the women’s bean project (wbp).
all rights are reserved to the authors and nacra.
case synopsis hq-iaq uv products was founded in 2000 as a wholesale dealer of indoor air  quality (iaq) products.
it also opens up the possibility to discuss changes in organizational structure required to implement the positioning.
also, the rapid expansion  (opening 50 new stores in 2007) could be used in a discussion of sustainable  growth.
contact person: richard gifford, school of  business, suny-geneseo, geneseo, ny, 14454, 585-245-5367,gifford@geneseo.edu social & environmental entrepreneurship a cost-benefit analysis of waterless urinals towards an eco-strategy eugene allevato & ashley burrowes,
although e-readers has been available since 2006, it is still in the early adopter phase and not yet popular in the mainstream market.
her communications led to managers on the ground  for th in kyangwali relaying the immediate needs and then th meeting or  collaborating to meet those needs.
the case is designed for use in undergraduate or graduate courses in entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship, and growth management.
vermilion’s departure from the mines of ely was  devastating.
the main protagonists are dr. jennifer howse, president of the march of dimes; doug staples, senior vice-president for marketing and communications; and an employee of barkley agency, hired to assist in the rebranding of mod.
students gain an overview of the  automotive industry, the company’s business model and strategies, and the  anti-vibration solutions (avs) segment, in which the growth initiative  originated.
ray kroc, the founder of mcdonald’s, made the brand into a household name.
the vna organization supports 8,000 employees, home  bound patients and individuals in need of “meals on wheels”.
case objective the case illustrates a company whose business model involves providing customers with a wine experience in its tasting room and vineyard that will then help to pull wine sales through wholesale channels.
it is useful in highlighting the role and plight of women in different countries, existing legal laws in different countries and changing role of management and differences in managerial styles.
paul & luke also have  considered closing the bar.
he had also threatened to delay product shipment to the united states if his conditions were left unmet.
these elements make for an interesting example of the company's unique culture and approach have successfully driven growth.
value firms using discounted cash flow and comparable multiples analysis 2.
sodexo has attempted to position itself as an employer of choice, has used a variety of recruitment channels and offer benefits and career development potential.
an important purpose  is to help develop empathy for the plight of the sharplins, as representative  of others with cardiovascular concerns, and to develop a reasonable plan of  action.
cynthia ingols, school of management, simmons college, 300 the fenway,  boston ma 02115, 617.521.3837,cynthia.ingols@simmons.edu malverde anne peacock, tecnologico de monterrey case objective analytical dimensions-        develop ability to apply ethical  principle to real and particular context.-        propose ideas or decisions that are  relating the ethical principle with a particular context or situation.-        make ethical priorities based on  facts.-        to know how to apply  particular ethical theories in particular concept.
meanwhile, market forecasts were predicting a significant increase in the demand for intra-european regional flights.
because the three counties, federal, and state government share the expenses not covered by passenger revenues, assessing the financial condition of the organization requires the analyst to re-arrange the information into a format that is suitable for analysis using traditional financial tools.
peter decided to talk with others about possibly leaving his wall street position.
meanwhile, market  forecasts were predicting a significant increase in the demand for  intra-european regional flights.
el caso ha  sido escrito para estudiantes de cursos de estrategia en los semestres  avanzados en pregrado, y nivel medio de maestría en negocios case synopsis alfredo ruiz era el co-propietario y presidente (ceo) de  château fonchereau, un viñedo ubicado en la zona productora de  vinos en burdeos francia.
through some research with his suppliers and trusted associates, dephtereos discovered that scrap styrene foam could be turned into a range of alternative products ranging from concrete forms, packaging components, toy filling, and potting soil additive.
©2009 by scott stevens and  rebecca treadway.
she had planned it in cooperation with the elementary partnership or professional development school (pds).
how, then, can etraffic press penetrate the very lucrative textbook market?
case objective this case allows students to explore (1) the power of a mission statement when enacted as a true guide to organizational decision-making, and (2) the centrality of sound business fundamentals in the context of “doing good.”
© 2009 by javier j. silva, martín zemborain, fernando zerboni and maricruz prado.
at the request of the internal auditor, lily had already filled out a self evaluation for cash and check handling.
© 2009 by marilyn taylor, nick grunaeur, and chi anyansi-archibong.
case objective this is a case about strategic management of innovation within a technological firm, cisco systems.
this case describes the  development of a new type of nano material for moisture reduction on clear  surfaces (primarily anti-fog).
case synopsis virtuosi concerts (mb) inc. (vci) was a small arts organization, incorporated as a not-for-profit subsidiary of the university of winnipeg, in winnipeg, manitoba canada.
therefore, students will have to analyze (1) the competitive trends in the industry; and (2) the company’s resources and capabilities in the light of #1.
contact person: james e. fisher, john cook school of business, saint louis university, 3674 lindell blvd., st. louis, mo 63108, 314-977-3854,fisherje@slu.edu.
this case follows dr. richard chin, ceo of oxigene, as he faces the key strategic challenge of positioning the firm’s technology platform and products, while seeking additional investment capital and external alliances.
privacy policy || web site  correspondence:webmaster@nacra.net
it may also be of interest in union management courses and in the curricula of university aviation departments.
the inclination is to promote the eco-friendly elements of its digital content, on-demand printing and alternative delivery media.
father prior daniel mary did not have a great deal of experience in business matters but considered to what extent the monastery could rely on its mystic monk coffee operations to fund the purchase of the ranch.
la situación del mercado y la feroz competencia habían erosionado la rentabilidad de operaciones de inversión.
la propiedad fueadquirida en 2.5 millones de euros en el año 2005.
while uncomfortable  with his emerging leadership role, he was more concerned about the  company’s downward spiral and his possible unemployment.
el caso muestra también el efecto que  tubo la decisión de telefónica chile de entrar al mercado de la  televisión de pago, sobre los diferentes actores, tanto de la industria  de telecomunicaciones como de la industria de televisión de pago.
this was risky  because the company was in debt, and he would need to borrow the funds.
el caso ha sido escrito para ser utilizado en programas de dirección de empresas en los tópicos de estrategia de negocios, antropología del consumidor, estrategia de canales y propuesta de valor.
jet fuel prices had increased more than 50% in the last  year, resulting in fuel costs accounting for almost 44% of passenger revenues,  an increase from around 30% of passenger revenues.
contact person: stuart rosenberg, dowling college, school of business, oakdale, ny 11769, 631-244-3423, rosenbes@dowling.edu.
at the end of class, though, she wasn’t sure  that she had avoided embarrassing joe or gotten through to him.
other objectives involve  exploring why many of the major airlines are suffering staggering financial  losses and bankruptcy.
managers needed to assess the weaknesses in inventory management processes and develop control procedures minimizing future inventory obsolescence.
una pregunta estratégica que debe resolver antes de iniciar el próximo ciclo comercial.
university case objective this case allows students to explore (1) the power of a mission statement  when enacted as a true guide to organizational decision-making, and (2) the  centrality of sound business fundamentals in the context of “doing  good.”
also the materials are suitable for senior  level undergraduate courses.
jet fuel prices had increased more than 50% in the last year, resulting in fuel costs accounting for almost 44% of passenger revenues, an increase from around 30% of passenger revenues.
the authors developed this case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
some of the data appears similar to a for-profit corporation,  but some is quite dissimilar.
however, this amount was not yet agreed to by both parties and a business valuation analysis would be critical to the key decision of the case: should the ceo sell the company now or continue to develop it for sale at a future date?
one year later leahman was on a plane headed for china to hash out problems  with liu, who had demanded a monthly raise for himself and his wife, a new  company car, and an increase in profit sharing.
however, he felt  that the future growth of the company would depend on his being able to steer  team computers from a sales oriented to a marketing oriented organization.
this allows for the case to be  discussed from several angles and to tie in various aspects of a marketing  strategy such as the 4ps (product, price, place & promotion) and the 5cs  (company, customers, competitors, collaborators, context).
it may also be of interest in union management courses and in  the curricula of university aviation departments.
the title of a wall-street journal article clearly stated the issue at hand - should costco be kind to its employees or to its shareholders.
case objective the case shows how the ceo of team computers, an entrepreneurial venture, was coping with the problem of creating a unique identity for the organization.
case objective the case documents the career of an entrepreneur, alfredo sanchez from his ph.d. in geology (university of madrid) to his ownership and pending sale of survey research associates upon his retirement.
a student has  prepared an essay which contains language which could be interpreted as  anti-semitic.
the strategy in presenting this case is to focus on the ethical decision-making aspect of the board of directors.
the overall goal of these programs was to provide the residents with the tools for gaining equity and equality in the housing market.
snow in june was not unheard of in wyoming, but the late 2009 snowfall and the bright glow of the rising sun made him consider the opposing forces accompanying change and how he might best prepare his monastery to achieve his vision of creating a new mount carmel in the rocky mountains.
© 2009 by nile khanfar, david loudon, and fadi alkhateeb.
case synopsis resources department for assistance with the recruitment and selection of  hourly personnel for their food service operations within the ontario power  generation (opg) plant facilities.
reid was one of the leading researchers in the world exploring the potential of terahertz radiation for imaging and measuring the properties of materials.
it also highlights that an organization could become quite big without a very well defined positioning in the mind of its consumers and even its employees, simply because of the owners personal skills and insights which worked in the market.
has j. jill contributed to the overall corporate strategy?
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz ca, october 29-31, 2009.
the company could not rush its clinical trials, nor could it take regulatory shortcuts.
¨the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
case synopsis omar bros, a native dominican, had a dream of using 30 percent of the profits from his new semi-mobile mill to improve the standard of living of the haitian immigrants who lived in the slum areas known as “bateyes” in the mata de palma region of the dominican republic.
la reunión  hace que juan antonio fernández se de cuenta que a 20 años de su  edad de retiro no tiene un adecuado planteo de sus finanzas para dicho momento.
quality is a key component of its business model  and how the company purports to distinguish itself in the marketplace.
the population of ely dropped drastically leaving the town a shell of its former self.
château fonchereau, era una edificación del siglo xv que tenía 50 hectáreas de terreno, de las cuales 30 eran viñedos.
in the last quarter of 2002, mcdonald’s experienced unfavorable same-restaurant sales, decreasing profit margins, and its first quarterly loss.
with trends like megabrands, product  patenting and internet savvy patients rapidly transforming the face of indian  pharma industry, there was high immense pressure on khl top management for  swift but well crafted responses to the attrition issue.
it highlights the lack of market facing  resources in the development process and asks the students to recommend  strategies to improve the process and business strategy.
the case details consultants’ engagement with khl, presents data gathered by them, and gives some indicative analysis.
his father and his grandfather had founded  raventós i blanc more than 20 years ago.
in this interim pete faces new competition and a changing national landscape regarding the gourmet coffee industry.
lisa eshbach, college of business, ferris state  university, 119 south street – bus212, big rapids, mi  49307,  248-910-2825,zle4@earthlink.net the green challenge comes  to guildcraft furniture richard r. young -
one of the bars, the vital spot is trying to decide whether should begin to change its appeal from college students to local residents.
using brief cases to teach health care ethics james e.  fisher, saint louis university heidi r. fisher, formerly of university of  pennsylvania case objective a series of brief health care ethics cases provide the basis for  instructing undergraduate students in applied ethics.
the case demands the  application and discussion of a significant number of aspects and interrelated  strategic dimensions, such as competitive advantage, product concept, market  segmentation, positioning, distribution channel management, strategic alliances  and growth strategies, as well as other strategic aspects specific to the  sector being dealt.
applicable concepts  illustrated include procedures for:   transaction authorization and  recording, segregation of duties, custody of cash, and physical protection of  assets.
this case was written for an mba  elective marketing course called ‘e-marketing’ with the course  objective being to help students learn to design and deploy effective marketing  strategies for a digital networked, global, and mobile economy.
wendy and her v.p. had come up  with several potential options for cost savings.
trelleborg automotive:
to make his plan  a reality, good water and competitors who took up the good water project  challenge of producing in pla bottles, needed to ramp up volume considerably.
dan expects the firm to be debt-free by the end of the  year except for normal short-term payables.
the question is not whether there will be discharge or not but  whether to flush or not to flush.
contact  person: carol j. cumber, department of economics, south dakota state  university, brookings, sd 57007, 605-688-4849,carol.cumber@sdstate.edu.
is there a most  important stakeholder group?
however, despite her  efforts and what seemed like a collaborative spirit on the part of the pds, a  few weeks into the semester, students’ reflections and cooperating  teachers’ feedback indicated that all was not so promising.
contact person: george l. whaley, one washington square, organization and  management department, lucas college of business, san jose state university,  san jose, ca, 95192–0070, 408- 924-3564; whaley_g@cob.sjsu.edu don walters and nextbok:
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, california, usa,  october 29-31, 2009.
the two  businesses filter and zinc would operate under the same roof.
ultimately, a hierarchy of uses was determined whereby large scrap pieces could  be reworked into packaging components custom cut for a range of applications.
ronald offers kenneth $1 million for  kenneth’s share of exi and is rebuffed.
now oliver is entering a new phase of growth and has choices ahead of it in order to determine the future success and corporate culture of the company.
case b deals with the wine sector and a more standardized vision of b2b analysis, while case c presents the mining sector with its highly complex structure.
when his son, steve, graduated  from williams college, alfredo convinced him to come into the firm.
under the terms of the then current university collective agreement with the university faculty association, harry had to retire by september 2009 and vci manager gail bauer, who had worked very closely with harry for several years, indicated she would retire in june 2009.
a key issue in the case concerns the business effectiveness  derived through the alignment of organizational mission, business model, and  operational infrastructure.
in addition, considering that from all bodies of water  left only 2.5 percent is freshwater, which must be shared by 6 billion people,  it sounds crazy that we are still flushing down urinals with about a gallon of  drinking water.
by using the information within the case and the exhibits, the students  have an opportunity to evaluate a firm’s equipment maintenance procedures  and an equipment replacement decision.
other challenges include the remote location of the  facility and the lack of public transportation options, the amount of  subsequent training required by opg and the perception that all current  recruitment channels have been attempted and exhausted.
the case, instructor’s manual,  and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american  case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting at santa cruz,  california, on october 29-31, 2009.
case objective el caso expone la situación de lan perú, en un contexto en el cual la empresa lideraba el sector, con un crecimiento sostenido y con márgenes muy por encima del promedio; aunque participando de un mercado con la más baja penetración de la región.
the problem for go green mart is that the expected growth has not materialized.
a glass ceiling episode in india nirupama akella, university  of south alabamadevi akella, albany state university case objective this case could be used in classes of organizational behavior, human  resources management, international business, legal environment of business,  legal issues in human resources management, gender issues in management, labor  laws and multinational corporations.
dan, sr. and 29-year-old son daniel will have to make decisions regarding  the investments.
© 2009by brian kent and domenique scioli.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009 in santa cruz, ca.
the two cases stretch through the life of scc, from its inception in 1994 through mid-2008, when the case was written.
the case describes their efforts to do so, given the nature of the other two bars in town which consider themselves to be “townie” bars.
copyright 2009 by arthur sharplin and aundrea  kay guess.
investments, even in corporate bonds issued by large us businesses, were becoming risky.
the firm grew steadily and provided a comfortable life style for the family.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were  anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research  association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, october 29-31, 2009.
this case is suitable for graduate or upper-division undergraduate courses in business and society, business ethics, marketing strategy, or strategy.
the  authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate  either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
making the investments soon will signal to competitors and customers that reardon intends to be an even more aggressive player in the market.
although the decisions can be delayed, the company’s growth is likely to ceiling shortly.
the case was written for business school undergraduate and graduate level courses in operations management and leadership.
case synopsis irascible louisiana blacksmith artist/man of many functions jerry sharplin wanted to retire from the lodging business he had built from scratch.
as such, it may be used in conjunction with coverage of any of these topics or as an integrative assignment towards the end of the course.
“¿cómo puedo ser competitivo en esta industria?
the decisions about the nailer and the heat treatment systems relate not only financial risk for the company, but more importantly long term how the company should position itself strategically.
students are given the opportunity to diagnose the various management issues facing the practice and to suggest possible solutions.
contact person: francisco j. lópez lubián, instituto de empresa,  madrid, spain, c/ castellón de la plana, 8.fco.lubian@ie.edu.
what are  the implications of these social enterprises for our teaching of business  ethics?
the case can be used in either a structured or unstructured format.
specifically, the objectives include requiring students to  identify the major issues facing carson’s department store and the key  considerations that the owners should examine when deciding their next steps.
circle  6 started as a small entrepreneurial firm with computer telephony integration  (cti) software in the call center space and experienced the full life cycle  between 1988 and 2004.
with  increasingly competitive market place, a distinct image of the company was  almost a prerequisite to the vision of sustainable, profitable growth for the  company.
for example, a registered nurse protests against an assignment to perform a procedure for a terminally ill patient.
in the last quarter of 2002, mcdonald’s experienced  unfavorable same-restaurant sales, decreasing profit margins, and its first  quarterly loss.
the case lends itself well to issues of market segmentation and to evaluation of strategies for expansion.
case synopsis capital vehicles systems is a supplier of vehicle instrumentation systems, including gauges, system controllers, sensors, and display products.
students should be encouraged to evaluate different scenarios related to the case.
not only were mining jobs lost, but the entire town was affected.
ernesto.barrera@inalde.edu.co las preocupaciones de juan antonio fernandez gabriel noussan iae business school case objective este caso permite comprender importancia que tiene  realizar una adecuada planificación de las finanzas personales y  familiares.
in 1967 vermilion was forced to abandon its operations in ely due to the increased cost to remove the hematite (high grade iron ore) deep within ore fields.
additionally, 100 percent of the miterfold edges were being touched up manually within the plant before being shipped to customers.
this case would be most appropriate for undergraduate students in small  business management, entrepreneurship and strategic management courses.
the case is suitable for a business strategy course or a  small business and/or entrepreneurship course at the undergraduate, mba, or  executive mba level.
it operates seven branches in addition to its main facility.
in  2003, top management refocused the company on the principles that kroc had  founded the company on.
la pregunta es ¿podrá juan antonio lograr una planificación que en unos pocos años le permita tener un retiro satisfactorio?
which firms, if any, would be good fits for blackboard?
what proportion, if any, of investable cash flow should be diverted?the authors developed the case for classroom discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
how could abbott continue to achieve the firm’s overarching  goal—“to advance medical science to help people live healthier  lives” while simultaneously appeasing the governments, critics and the  activists?  if abbott cut the price in every country that complained, how  would the firm continue to fund cutting-edge research and development?
case synopsis this case portrays the rapid growth and unique culture of backcountry.com, an online retailer of outdoor gear headquartered in park city, utah.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31,2009 in santa cruz, ca.
while conventional approaches to leadership may downplay the notion thatteachers must lead in their classrooms, these stories of exceptional teachers illustrate how they engage in all the behaviors of leaders.
contact person: steven m. cox, queens university of charlotte, charlotte, nc, 1900 selwyn ave., nc 28274, 704-688-2702,coxs@queens.edu case objective this case describes the unethical behavior of a partner in a business who has been rebuffed in an attempt to buy-out his business partner.
case synopsis wendy lull, president of the seacoast science center (ssc), a not for  profit organization, located in rye, new hampshire, has just realized that  instead of a break even budget for fiscal year 2009, the organization is faced  with a potential $180,000 deficit.
© 2009 by robert sexty.
es un caso que permite una introducción sencilla e interesada de los participantes en los elementos básicos de las inversiones financieras, por lo cual no se requiere un extensivo conocimiento previo de finanzas por parte de los estudiantes.
after being employed as a geologist for a few years, alfredo and his family moved to spain where he started a wholly owned subsidiary of his employer.
also, talbots had been rapidly expanding  geographically and expanding into men’s and children’s wear.
the former featured a local market with multiple actors engaged in complex relationships, while the latter exhibited a higher concentration at the international level.
all rights  are reserved to the author and nacra.
contact person:  rebecca j. morris, university of  nebraska at omaha, 6001 dodge street, roskens hall 508k, omaha, ne  68182,  402-554-3542, rmorris@unomaha.edu allow the  barbarians through the gate?
francisco j. lópez lubián, instituto de empresa  business school case objective this case study aims to illustrate the various factors  that have to be taken into account to evaluate strategic alternatives from a  financial point of view.
it is likely to be especially well-received in executive and part-time mba programs, where many students are members or former members of homeowner associations (hoas).
this case is designed for use in upper-level business school courses (either undergraduate or graduate) in social entrepreneurship, nonprofit management, business and society and strategic management.
contact person: rebecca treadway, maryville college,  502 east lamar alexander parkway, maryville, tn 37804-5907,865-604-6749,  rebecca.treadway@maryvillecollege.edu mystic monk coffee david l. turnipseed & john e. gamble university of  south alabama case objective the case is an ideal introduction to the tasks of crafting and executing  strategy.
specific market development posed challenging questions for a  company with a commercial scheme based on products.
case objective abbott laboratories had developed a potent drug (kaletra) that the world health organization considered to be the preferred hiv/aids treatment in resource-restricted societies.
sitting at his desk, he faced critical decisions in terms of staffing.
complicating financial management was that, as is common for  small businesses, formal budgets were non-existent and accounting practices  rudimentary.
they had a growing reputation as a company that valued employees by  providing above-average compensation.
all rights reserved to the authors and nacra.
library holdings consist of 660,000 books, tapes, films, maps, and compact discs, periodicals, and special collections.
further, the women did not have positive experiences with various agencies which lead to wary participation of potential programs.
all rights are reserved to  the authors and nacra.
ioliva@unegocios.cl education a research-based pre-practicum model:
the overriding question that fsfb  leaders faced involved three fundamental options – reconfigure the end  user product line, focus on the on-site feeding channel segment, or discontinue  the liberty pantry product line.
it was management’s duty to protect the longevity and financial strength of the firm, so that it could continue to pay policyholder claims, distribute payments from annuities, and issue dividends.
contact persons: brian kent, 707-707-338-2177,kentb@sonoma.edu & domenique scioli, 415-328-3245,scioli@sonoma.edu case objective this case describes a successful social enterprise that combines a profit-making perspective with a social mission to help immigrant women achieve steady and dignified employment.
discuss the theory behind dividends and  share repurchases, and use this theory to determine which choice is best for a  firm this case allows students to look at why firms pay dividends and/or make  irregular or regular share repurchases.
there 2008 revenue was approximately $13 million, with half of  the revenue coming from sbir-based research grants.
méxicojgonza@itesm.mx government intelligence in catalan public universities josep lluís cano, josep franch & miquel novellesade  business school case objective the case puts forward the use of business intelligence by a public body,  the dursi, which is the public body responsible for allocating budgets to  public universities in catalonia.
the case follows the development of the business from start-up to a critical strategic decision.
identify organizational philosophy and  values as reflected in production documents, attitudes, organizational  structure, and role definition, and determine what the best and worst outcome  can result from the underlying philosophy.
the mutual was founded for the purpose of acquiring,  developing and managing affordable multi-family housing to meet a growing  social need for low cost affordable housing.
4155, mjulien@brocku.ca case objective the case enables students to study the evolution of a school board during a period of crisis as well as in the period after the crisis has passed.
en ese momento, el mercado de la televisión de pago estaba dominado por un competidor, vtr, quién ofrecía un “bundling” de productos (telefonía fija, internet de banda ancha y televisión de pago) lo cual era altamente valorado por los clientes.
contact person:  vi  narapareddy, vnarapar@du.edu.
he found the subdivision both diverse and beautiful.
ronald is faced with the task of rebuilding exi.this case was made possible by a corporation that prefers to remain anonymous.
¿posee la compañía los recursos y capacidades para competir en ese mercado?
contact  person: susan white, finance department, r.h. smith school of business,  university of maryland, college park, md 20742, 301-405-8700.
the case also examines how the lean training was conducted and the tools as well as the associated outcomes of using that process.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
foreign investors planned to build high rise condominiums and apartments that would draw tourists away from the local vendors.
dr. abdul-aziz is considering separating from the group practice in which he is a partner and establishing his own independent practice in the same market.
the case was written for business school undergraduate courses in intermediate accounting and auditing.
if the properties were to be  sold, what might be appropriate prices and terms?  if the company were to  be kept together, how might the behavioral conflicts be managed, especially in  terms of fair pay and work demands?
en efecto, a finales de 2001, la agencia nacional de energía  eléctrica (aneel), el organismo regulador del sector eléctrico en  brasil, adjudicó a la compañía energía de brasil  (edb) la concesión para construir y operar una central  hidroeléctrica por un período de treinta y cinco años.
scc also provides numerous program activities for employees and for the community, including english lessons, childcare (employees only), and computer classes.
managers needed to assess the weaknesses in inventory management  processes and develop control procedures minimizing future inventory  obsolescence.
the drinan case may be taught in a career strategies course because the decision to act or not act in a values conflict situation is heavily weighted by potential career-threatening consequences.
© 2009 by josep franch, xavier gimbert and josep lluís cano.
colonia  nuevo méxico.
however, following his ethics by making a counter offer to the envisaged chapter 11 filing entails putting his own career and personal wealth at risk.
the case is written to provide the framework for evaluating the decision within the context of business and operations strategy.
since he was the  one who signed the deposit slip, he felt considerable responsibility to  evaluate the control system for the register.
oliver knew he must determine how to ensure that they retain their current winemaker, don milan, who has worked for peninsula for less than a year.
how should grant develop his business, good water, and the wider good water project?
collectively the cases represent a wide spectrum of health care issues: professional responsibility and its limitations, genetic testing and its application, end-of-life issues and the application of health care to the enhancement of human performance and appearance.
this case provides students with the opportunity to apply stakeholder  theory to a company.
the main objective of the case is to help students critically examine the marketing issues that accelerate or inhibit the adoption of a product in its early stages.
the cases originate from  the intercollegiate ethics bowl and are reproduced with the permission of the  association for practical and profession ethics, which is the sponsor of this  annual competition among undergraduate teams.
working with organizations to help women transition back into society is a primary goal of the women’s bean project.
case synopsis oliver peninsula, general manager of peninsula wines, a winery operating in  the niagara region of ontario, had worked hard with his family to establish a  reputable name for producing quality wines at their winery.
the job of winemaker  is a highly skilled position requiring an individual with experience in the  winemaking process, solid management skills, education in lab testing for  sugar, acid and ph levels, physical strength to be deeply involved in every  aspect of the winemaking process (e.g. stirring and cleaning barrels, bottling  wine), knowledge of inventory management, strong interpersonal skills and  someone who is detail oriented and self-motivated.
strict security process.
the case  could also be used in a small business management course or in a comparative  management course, because it illustrates management in a typical chinese  family business in taiwan.
the case shows the various stages involved in such a project and the difficulties that are faced until the final decision is taken.
contact person: devi akella, albany state university, college drive, college of business, albany state university, albany, ga 31707, 229-430-4775, dakella@hotmail.com.
alicia piensa en el mensaje que transmitirá al público del simposio, el cual es ajeno a la realidad del microcrédito de las comunidades pobres del país.
anything remaining would be further converted into other salable products.
the company’s expansion  into men’s and children’s wear provides an example of straying from  the perceived target market with dire results.
further, the women did not  have positive experiences with various agencies which lead to wary  participation of potential programs.
this created an overstocked inventory, forcing the  business to drastically reduce prices on clearance gowns in order to move the  inventory.
keeping in mind the  themes of sustainability and ecotourism, the committee had to determine how  exactly to go about protecting the local businesses in cabarete.
the case considers whether the public’s rights to access information  regarding a health hazard would supersede the public’s need to be  protected from the threat of terrorism.
specific market development posed challenging questions for a company with a commercial scheme based on products.
esto le permitió alcanzar una participación en el mercado de la televisión de pago de un 84% en el 2005.
the case, instructor's manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
the case is well suited for an in-depth analysis of the retail apparel  industry and its general environment.
the case may be used in conjunction with the  ‘adnexus theraputics’ and ‘attivio:
exi  corporation rents a variety of test equipment to large manufacturing firms,  power plants, and to firms in different process industries and also provides  qualified engineering technicians that will operate the test equipment during a  turnaround.
case synopsis this case dives into possibly the most dramatic business development of recent decades, the globalization of the information technology services industry that exploits the almost instant transfer of data between continents.
several of the members of the board of  directors had announced that not only would they have to reduce their donations  to the organization, but that they had heard from other donors that they would  also have to do the same.
in the wake of these failures, credit froze up, consumer confidence plunged, and job losses deepened across the global economy.
etraffic had a head start on the online learning world and needed a  strategy to distinguish them and grow their current market share.
© 2009 by elizabeth grace.
in 2003, top management refocused the company on the principles that kroc had founded the company on.
improper supervision of filing has caused slowdown and embarrassment with patients.
(3) realize the importance of  being able to understand the financial statements and to use them to manage the  business daily.
the neighborhood had an elaborate park and extensive walking trails.
three partners bought rent tex in 2001 for investment purposes.
this case is suitable for use in undergraduate and graduate courses in non-profit management, public policy, and business strategy & policy.
if they are purchase a machine, should they use a new miterfold equipment option or stay with the current equipment option?
contact person: charles m. carson, brock school of business, samford university, birmingham, al 35009,205-726-4460, cmcarson@samford.edu george l. whaley & keith perry san jose state university case objective this case demonstrates how a major position in a market niche can easily erode due to inattention of management and evolve into a crisis that threatens the viability of a small business.
reid’s challenge was to explain this new technology in a comprehensible fashion and to convince the jury of the economic viability of applying this technology to the forest industry.
this set of cases has been combined with a narrow purpose in mind, namely, to help prepare undergraduates for competition in the ethics bowl.
as a result of globalization, the actions of companies and organizations reach around the world to distant and remote parts of the globe.
despite the firm’s attempt to make kaletra more widely available in  countries where demand was high but ability to pay was low, the firm’s  pricing strategy was widely criticized.
the challenge he and his colleagues faced was  managing the clinical process, and ensuring that, from one phase to the next,  milestones were consistently hit, with the ultimate goal being a product  reaching the market.
environmental non-governmental  organizations (engos) oppose the project because of the destruction of wild  animal and plant life and its adverse downstream impact, and allege that there  are more viable and more cost effective sources.
bayer  cooperated withthe u.s. chemical safety board (csb), the federal organization  to investigate chemical hazards, by providing numerous documents regarding the  incident.
the college’s education department chair emails dr. venice that he wants to know if the model is succeeding and if dr. venice will be continuing the model for next semester.
some analysts questioned the expensive use of company funds on employees; while others believed costco’s methodology served them well and substantively contributed to the increasing stock price.
© 2009 by susan white.
the material includes: (1) an industry description with examples of how the  industry functions inside corporations.; and (2) details of seven industry  competitors including three based in the united states (accenture, electronic  data systems, and ibm,) and four based in india (tata consulting services,  infosys, wipro, and cognizant.)
case synopsis robert carpenter, the ceo of vna, must quickly determine what steps to take in the immediate aftermath of the fire.
to apply free cash flows and market multiples for business valuation purposes.
in a letter to the governor on march 30, 2009, lester snow, director of the department of water resources, declared that strategies have been implemented to provide assistance to those areas in need.
in its early years the talbots, inc., had successfully differentiated itself as a purveyor of traditional women’s clothing.
case synopsis this case deals with the ipo of fraport, especially the challenges while determining the issue price including the valuation itself but also the discussion with investment banks.
case synopsis the case study opens by focusing on a fatal accident involving continental  airlines flight 3407 on february 12, 2009 and its bearing upon the  airline’s ridership and crew training.
as marcia reviewed her challenges of the increase in the circulation rates as well as the budget and staff decreases, she thought, “how can we sustain the current level of customer service and motivate the staff to continue with the lean efforts?”
what could the company do?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
because the  positions are located in a nuclear power plant, there is a multi-stepped  federal security clearance required.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz (ca), october 29-31, 2009.
(4) appreciate the risks and personal sacrifices inherent in owning a small business, and (5) understand the risks associated with having a major supplier who retrenches.
was abbott a hero or a villain?
all rights  are reserved to the authors and nacra.
furthermore, this case is designed so students can evaluate the relationship between strategic mission, brand image and associations, and perceptions of the target market.
her research and advice she gets from the donald e. kelley small business institute at francis marion university causes to her reconsider some of her plans.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather  than illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
pursuit of the second option required substantial rethinking of the nature of the scrap and with additional investment in processing equipment, hiring direct labor, and incurring administrative overhead for sales and marketing.
in addition, sarah implicitly allowed emily to steal the  company’s uv bulbs, with the purpose of emily selling the items on ebay  for emily’s economic gain.
the professor claimed to have been wrongly accused of several covenant  violations, threatened with a lawsuit and refused access to hoa records.
environmental non-governmental organizations (engos) oppose the project because of the destruction of wild animal and plant life and its adverse downstream impact, and allege that there are more viable and more cost effective sources.
or  could it raise its prices and maintain its current policies?
why was it proving so difficult to raise funds  – was the venture simply too risky for potential investors, or had  walters knocked on the wrong doors?
a new ceo, trudy sullivan, came to the helm in 2007 and developed plans for a turnaround.
the case describes how cisco is shifting from a “product centric” company towards a solution-focused one.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, chaminade resort and spa, october 29-31, 2009.
an important purpose is to help develop empathy for the plight of the sharplins, as representative of others with cardiovascular concerns, and to develop a reasonable plan of action.
contact person: david loudon, brock school of business,  samford university, 800 lakeshore drive, birmingham al 35229, 205-726-4314, dlloudon@samford.edu.
la propiedad se localizaba 15 km al este de la ciudad de burdeos.
but by 2006, talbots seemed to have lost its  focus and was encountering serious financial problems.
the president of  the college is very proud of this and believes that this type of student will  be less likely to frequent the bars.
contact person: markus vodosek, david eccles school of business,  university of utah, 1645 east campus center drive, salt lake city, ut 84112,  801-585-9546,markvodo@gmail.com.
the mission is  achieved through a combination of employment and personal growth opportunities.
case synopsis john noble and jack o’brien, who both worked for a university, founded noble systems in 1995 as one of the original companies to develop and market elearning systems for the higher education market.
it uses the perspectives of two  managers of fraport who are heading the ipo team and their external advisors.
despite the high number of board resignations on the board and among  mutual’s executive staff, dr. gordman, the mutual’s chair, was  adamant about the association’s ability to recover and its potential  future.
case synopsis blackboard, inc. was a leading educational software developer in the post  secondary market.
over a period of six months, the consultants conducted extensive research: studying internal records, analyzing the industry and environment, interviewing khl employees and executing a division wide survey named ‘manpower mood meter.’
however, new technology includes a more efficient option; the waterless urinals which are now in use in many facilities and can save millions of gallons of water annually.
el análisis y desarrollo del caso nos llevará a plantearnos como llegar al potencial usuario del servicio aéreo
his father and his grandfather had founded raventós
her communications led to managers on the ground for th in kyangwali relaying the immediate needs and then th meeting or collaborating to meet those needs.
it concentrates on three issues: (1) the personal trajectory of don francis as a social entrepreneur in the public, private, and non-profit sectors; (2) influencing factors to discovery of aids vaccine, which has a large proportion of beneficiaries in poor countries; and (3) the changing environment for addressing the global health issues.
like many entrepreneurs, pete must work long hours and use his creativity to meet the evolving competition from other independent bistros and renowned coffee chains.
the japanese company owns a  similar exclusive franchise in japan.
scc’s social entrepreneur, susan matteucci, has taken the position that  an organization can exist to further the welfare of its employees.
also, talbots had been rapidly expanding geographically and expanding into men’s and children’s wear.
case objective the case describes the challenges facing the investment management team of the new york life insurance company (nylic) during a weakening us economy.
“should the library continue with the consultant training or should they try a different type of training program to sustain the new process?”
however, to utilize the case to its maximum potential, the authors recommend it be used later in the course.
en este tipo de proyectos, tanto los  promotores como los bancos financiadores deben identificar y gestionar los  diversos riesgos operativos, tecnológicos, económicos,  financieros, políticos, de suministro, regulatorios, etc, durante un  largo período temporal.
however, in making the choices they must make tradeoffs in the quality of care and quality of life for themselves.
château fonchereau jorge a. gonzález &  coatlicue x. regaladotecnológico de monterrey-campus  guadalajara case objective el caso muestra cómo alfredo ruiz, un mexicano  nacido en la ciudad de culiacán sinaloa,  decide comprar un terreno  para dedicarse a producir vino en la conocida región de burdeos en  francia a pesar de las transformaciones sufridas en esta competida industria.
it enables them to conceptualize sales force attrition, analyse it in an organizational context, and to come up with pragmatic solutions.
the student has the opportunities to work with  breakeven analysis, segmentation criteria, target market potential and types of  segmenting strategies.
it also introduces the student to the topic of eminent domain, since tank is trying to acquire a local business property in order to build a new bus terminal, and leads to a lively discussion of when eminent domain is appropriate and when it is not.
the case would be appropriate for senior undergraduate and graduate courses in entrepreneurship or strategy.
the case would be useful in upper-level undergraduate courses in operations  management, or those focusing on quality management, manufacturing process  selection and design, or operations strategy.
la rse en aliar s.a ernesto  barrera duque & luis fernando jaramilloinalde, universidad  de la sabana, bogotá, colombia case objective analizar la rse en el ámbito de los agro-negocios latinoamericanos.
the  pastor at hilltop baptist church called to report his suspicions of  embezzlement by the church’s long-time bookkeeper.
the teaching objectives for this case include increasing student’s abilities to: (1) analyze and document basic activities of sales and cash collections in a simple setting; (2) evaluate risk of loss from cash collections resulting from internal control deficiencies and (3) recommend appropriate controls for cash collections.
therefore, the case  may be appealing to a wide range of courses where handling a crisis is the  central focus.
contact person: mark julien, faculty of business, brock university, 500  glenridge avenue, st. catharines, on, canada, l2s 3a1, 905-688-5550 ext.
case synopsis jeremy leahman, president of filtroil, inc., and albert randolph, founder  of the firm, had created a partnership with a supplier in china to ramp up the  manufacture of their china-based filtration system and start a new zinc alloy  venture.
now, what should we do?”
the population of ely dropped drastically leaving the town a shell of its  former self.
furfine was confident that the acquisition had been the best option for  adnexus, but the reality of the drug development process presents many  challenges.
the us housing market was weakening at a time when financial institutions had significant assets tied up in mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations.
reid had decided to pursue the possible uses of terahertz technology for increasing efficiency and quality in the processing of forest products, british columbia’s largest industry.
contact person:  josé garrido-lecca  jgarrido-lecca@pad.edu.
©2009 by chelsi nieri and rebecca  treadway.
manual has been primarily targeted for strategic management classes.
en este escenario, la compañía se cuestiona como  lograr un crecimiento sostenido, teniendo en cuenta que su principal competidor  era el servicio exclusivo ofrecido por empresas de transporte terrestre.
doing so would enable ceja to  capitalize on its heritage as one of the first hispanic-owned and operated wine  businesses in america, but this was no easy decision.
but in 2008,  the company is struggling financially and trying to re-establish its focus.
the frustration experienced by greg’s team centers on the perception
the growth of the airline industry  is addressed from its earliest passenger flight (1914), to the delivery of mail  (1920s), and the attendant legislation governing and nurturing the aviation  industry that created the civil aeronautics act (1938) which regulated  competition and prices, the federal aviation act (1958) overseeing safety, and  the airline deregulation act (1978), which marked the end of the reign of  government over an infant industry that had outgrown its diapers.
the case draws on publicly available data,  including internal documents released by moody’s in connection with a  congressional hearing in october 2008, to explore the multiple causes of the  financial crisis and moody’s role in it.
el caso nos llevará a analizar desde una visión antropológica el comportamiento de la persona, usuaria y no usuaria del servicio aéreo, el análisis de toda la cadena de valor, política de precios, rediseño de canales y revisión de la estrategia en su conjunto (modelo comercial y operativo) para dar coherencia a una serie de acciones orientadas a permitir el acceso de nuevas personas al servicio de transporte aéreo.
one morning the police arrived at the rent tex office and arrested the  bookkeeper.
however, beth is not just caring, she is taking action.
the case provides a summary of the executive’s wall street position, a description of the chocolate industry, and a detailed business plan for the new venture.
contact person: karen popovich, saint michael's college, one  winooski park, colchester, vt 05465, 802-654-2696, kpopovich@smcvt.edu lean operations at grand rapids public library lisa eshbach,  ferris state university lester sutherland, u.s.  department of housing and urban development case objective the case illustrates the improvements achieved through the implementation  of lean administrative methods by the grand rapids public library.
case synopsis bjr is an office furniture manufacturing company that has been in operation for nearly 100 years.
rait considered bombardier’s new q400 turboprop to be on his short  list.
+64-7-838-4472, sbowden@waikato.ac.nz novica:
angel moreno, vijaya  narapareddy, and nancy sampsonuniversity of denver case objective the women’s bean project is a unique social enterprise located in  denver, colorado.
agiltron leads the market in optical switches, variable optical attenuators, high power optical components, optical polarization and time controls, and molded infrared detectors and lenses.
case synopsis the case study opens by focusing on a fatal accident involving continental airlines flight 3407 on february 12, 2009 and its bearing upon the airline’s ridership and crew training.
case objective the case puts forward the use of business intelligence by a public body, the dursi, which is the public body responsible for allocating budgets to public universities in catalonia.
it asks how management and the board should respond to  financial problems brought on by reductions in funding sources.
while significant business opportunities are present, the company does not have the money to pursue all of them.
recent market research provided detail regarding unenthusiastic consumer and channel reactions.
telefónica chile  pensaba que con este lanzamiento  podría igualar la oferta de productos de su principal competidor y con  ello, diversificar su negocio ingresando a una nueva industria.
© 2009 by aundrea kay guess and carolyn conn.
the job is given to her junior, satish verma who is less qualified and experienced than her.
finally, he needs to analyze the impact on kenton county if tank borrows  over $7 million to fund the acquisition and thus incurs substantial principal  and interest payments that were not in the previous budget or their pro-formas.
these products were manufactured to be handled, installed and repaired by specialized technicians.
el muestra las diferentes formas en que estos directivos han planteado sus  objetivos al retiro y como están gestionando sus inversiones personales  para lograr conseguirlos.
in late 2008, several investment banks, commercial banks, and mortgage lenders  that had been heavily involved in the subprime market failed.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
contact person: josep franch, esade business school, av.
contact information: gerald m. myers, school of business, pacific lutheran university, tacoma wa 98447, 253-535-7304; myersgm@plu.edu case objective these six snapshots of exemplary high school teachers provide examples of how outstandingteachers are leaders.
the case  can also be used to focus on specific issues in a consumer behavior class (such  as on disruptive consumer behavior) or in a new product development course to  talk about early adoption phase of a product.
pete uses strategic planning and demographic analysis to renew and sustain his customer base.
it also motivates consideration of the prerequisites for and possible paths to organizational growth – asking what sorts of growth strategies are appropriate and what criteria should be considered in making growth decisions.
the case also opens up the debate about  conditions under which democratic process might not be the best way to decide  on positioning.
which acquisition target was the best value?the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
students are  asked to assume the role of charla brown, director of human resources at backcountry.com.
en octubre del año 2008, alfredo ruiz  cumpliría tres años y 10 meses de ser el primer y único  productor latino en la zona y con la alegría de ver su sueño  hecho realidad, poseer y operar un viñedo en francia, reflexionaba:  “en los últimos años el mercado del vino ha cambiado y  se ha vuelto muy competido.
in analyzing the case, examine a variety of production-related documents, applying the principles of lean manufacturing to determine which aspects of lean have been applied well and which have not.
by developing a customized strategic plan using the balanced  scorecard, some questions about its prospects are addressed and examined.
case synopsis the case asks students to put themselves in jordi botifoll’s shoes (vice president of cisco europe, mediterranean area) to decide on the key priorities and questions to consider when developing a specific plan for a digital or smart city based on the new internet parading (or the internet of things), in this case barcelona.
while corporate training markets are attractive for their huge sales  potentials, john and jack do not understand these markets as well as they  understand higher education.
the case could also be used in courses in ethics, entrepreneurship, and hospitality management.
© 2009 by kristen, anzollitto, nicole hewitt,  lydia rogers, emily stroderd, baylor university, and marlene m. reed, baylor  university, faculty supervisor.
at first he started a solo practice in liberty, missouri, but after several years, even as he attained an mba, he established a clinic.
the case is intended for use in undergraduate marketing, entrepreneur-ship or social entrepreneurship courses.
© 2009 by tucker marion, john friar, and ray kinnunen.
costco offered limited  quantities of low-cost, high-quality merchandise to warehouse members.
exi corporation rents a variety of test equipment to large manufacturing firms, power plants, and to firms in different process industries and also provides qualified engineering technicians that will operate the test equipment during a turnaround.
the sonoma wine company management team of president dennis carroll, general manager ed silva, director of business development natasha granoff, and facility manager jim feely, decided that environmentally sound practices would need to be built into the facility plans.
he believed that the inconsistency of their wines was starting to negatively affect sales.
each dollar of minibond issues  eight dollars of seven year credit default swaps.
don francis is one  of most important figures in keeping the hope for finding aids vaccine alive in  spite of various challenges that have become obstacles in the discovery of the  vaccine since his first collaboration with luc montagnier of pasteur institute  in 1984.
case objective this case is set in the biopharmaceutical industry, which is fundamentally about creating innovative medicines and exploiting the finite period of intellectual property exclusivity.
her research and advice  she gets from the donald e. kelley small business institute at francis marion  university causes to her reconsider some of her plans.
the bookstore cooperative director questions whether newly discovered textbook obsolescence is serious enough that board members need be apprised and whether the losses will be reported in current year financial statements.
losses are being covered by  cash infusions by angel investors.
vi narapareddy, daniels college of business, dcb 455, university of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co 80208, vnarapar@du.edu.
costco had been creating value for its shareholders, with increased stock prices, but would a decrease in employee expenses create more value?
contact person: dave noreen, college of business, the pennsylvania state university, 220 business building, university park, pa 16803, 206-250-7277,dnoreen@gmail.com case objective this case on severe attrition faced by a pharma company in india provides a realistic context for students to understand and vicariously experience the competitive, high pressure nature of sales jobs.
¿deberá telefónica, con una casa matriz en españa,  ingresar al mercado de televisión de pago en chile?.
case synopsis in the mid-2000s, moody’s, the world’s leading credit rating agency, evaluated thousands of bonds backed by subprime residential mortgages—home loans made to people with low incomes and poor credit.
the partner’s unethical behavior involves (1) using $1 million of exi’s cash and equipment to start a company that will compete against exi; (2) luring customers away from exi, and (3) taking important documents from exi’s files.
y por  ende a cuestionarnos el rol de las agencias de viaje.
financial problems had plagued hilltop in recent years and the relationship between the pastor and members was already contentious.
the case was written for business school undergraduate or mba courses in recruitment and selection.
falling  property values and negative cash flows forced board members to decide about  its future.
following a very confrontational meeting, ronald, portia, and jason henry leave exi. following an outside audit, kenneth learns that ronald has taken $600,000 in equipment and $400,000 belonging to exi to start a competing company.
offering help in new parts of the world, in new ways, and earning $100 million  annually.
case synopsis oliver winery is a southern indiana company that has taken a values-based approach to business and reaped the benefits in becoming the single largest indiana winery with sales just under $15 million and a wine selection that sells in states such as (name states here) and is the home of the largest selling wine in both the states of indiana and kentucky.
case synopsis en junio del año 2006, telefónica chile  entró al mercado de la televisión con su nuevo producto  denominado “telefónica tv digital”.
all three traveled a great deal in their youth.
the setting is manhattan and northern new jersey during the  late 1990s.
contact person: kathryn savage, w.a. franke college of business, northern arizona university- 20 w mcconnell drive, flagstaff, az 86011, 928-523-7397, kathy.savage@nau.edu case objective the case illustrates the difficulty of inventory valuation and management in an evolving market.
the  material could be used to focus on what it takes to build effective working  relationships, allowing students to explore issues including dealing with  conflict, building trust, managing performance, and having difficult  conversations in a global context.
carpenter also knows that the plan is not on the shelf and  it must be created immediately by carpenter and his leadership team.
the title of a wall-street journal article clearly  stated the issue at hand - should costco be kind to its employees or to its  shareholders.
worcester state college case objective the case was developed primarily to use with higher education faculty and k-12 administrators and teachers who partner as part of the professional development schools model.
case objective this case recounts the dilemma of business owners of a small tourist town named cabarete on the northern shore of the dominican republic.
contact person: aundrea guess, st. edward’s university, 3001 so.
the case involved two aspects of mr. sanchez’s decision; what is the value of the firm and what type of compensation agreement will maximize his return on an investment of time and finances that spanned more than 40 years.
however, its ability to help employ women is driven by its sales, donations, and grants.
students can examine the weaving interrelationships between groups.
la participación de alicia en el simposio internacional: “microfinanzas y construcción de paz”, realizado en cali-colombia, donde participan más de 70 expertos nacionales e internacionales en microfinanzas, es crucial para las decisiones que se toman en este simposio.
some analysts raised issue with costco’s approach.
the elder son, 35 in 2009, had worked himself into a position of ascendancy over a younger brother and sister, earning almost twice their salary while reaping large financial benefits otherwise and claiming to have sacrificed to keep the family together.
beth’s dream of helping provide nets and medications to kyangwali has  evolved to many more projects such as building an orphanage and preschool on  land donated by the commandant of the camp, helping young women in a hostel  with their room, board food, medications which allows them to further their  education off-site from the camp, build a sustainable garden and livestock  project which also helps sustain the orphanage and women’s hostel and  provides jobs for the locals.
edu ©christian ratterman & nacra ||
this case would be most appropriate for undergraduate students in small business management, entrepreneurship and strategic management courses.
© 2009 by allyson baughman, alexandra  schroeder and dean schroeder.
the case would be appropriate for senior undergraduate and graduate courses in  entrepreneurship or strategy.
contact person: daniel f. jennings, texas a&m university, ms  3367, college station, tx 77843-3367, (979) 845-4972,djennings@tamu.edu fortis and the chalillo dam: balancing economic development and  environmental impact robert w. sexty, memorial university of  newfoundland case objective the case is focused on a decision that fortis inc. management must make  relating to a hydropower dam that will enhance the economy of belize but that  will also harm the environment.
they challenge students to learn and apply themselves in interesting, creative and useful ways.
the drinan case may be taught in a career strategies course because the  decision to act or not act in a values conflict situation is heavily weighted  by potential career-threatening consequences.
he believed that the inconsistency of their wines  was starting to negatively affect sales.
sharplin  hospitality, inc. arthur sharplinbentley  university case objective
the company’s business model was modified in 1999 to create an online investment brokerage that catered to small- and medium-sized investors.
michelle jeske, vp of business management, knew that it would take more than visionary ideas to bring real change to traditional k-12 educational resources.
case synopsis spero dephtereos, ceo and principal stockholder of guildcraft furniture faced a critical problem of either 1) switching away from the use of polystyrene frames for his furniture in order to comply with an order from the local solid waste management authority to cease disposal of styrene scrap at its landfill, or 2) finding an alternative way to handle the disposition of the material which was seen as environmentally unfriendly.
faced with the possibility of declining sales in 2009 in a  crisis-ridden economy, wbp’s executive members proactively consider  adding jewelry items to its core product line and work with retailers in the  local art districts to sell its new product line.
case synopsis jeremy leahman, president of filtroil, inc., and albert randolph, founder of the firm, had created a partnership with a supplier in china to ramp up the manufacture of their china-based filtration system and start a new zinc alloy venture.
also, the case is useful in training programs for real estate professionals and property managers involved in owner association administration.
the case writers developed the case for undergraduate business strategy or small business management and entrepreneurship courses.
its importance lies in its discussion of the product development process, and the process of selecting what would be the best commercial market for a proven technology.
however, strong global competition in the automotive market resulted in low margins, and restoring sustainable profitability became a strategic priority for the firm.
ó monica draayer and mark julien.
however, at the time the ownership  agreement was developed between kenneth and ronald, nothing was specified on  how much ronald would pay kenneth for kenneth’s portion of exi, nor was  any methodology agreed upon on how the value of kenneth’s ownership would  be determined.
case objective the case has several major objectives: 1.
this case asks the question “is it time to sell the firm to a larger company that can use what we’ve built in their long term strategy, or do we go it alone and bolster our product offering, with the knowledge we might be alienating our current customer base?”
the case describes the opportunity to apply this concept to barcelona, leveraging (1) european union (eu) development policies and (2) how to manage resources to manage the project “from india to the world.”
summary descriptions are provided also of industry developments in china and other countries because these national economies also impact the rivalry of the usa and indian based players.
as a leading example of a successful social enterprise in the albuquerque metropolitan area, scc has become a pivotal member both the non-profit and manufacturing community.
while he stared at the rain beating down against his windowpane he tried to concentrate on the facts… this case study describes, from the point of view of the general manager, the alternatives discasa is facing in order to ensure its survival.
in an  entrepreneurship class, the case can illustrate innovative ways to manage  growth.
a small business dilemma david noreen & deborah r. ettingtonthe pennsylvania state  university case objective this case unveils a situation where a small business faces competitive  headwinds and must decide upon a new direction at the firm.
here, students are given information to evaluate a positioning strategy, to analyze data, and to identify major marketing concerns.
case synopsis an explosion at the bayer cropscience (a component of bayer group) plant in  institute, west virgina on august 28th, 2008 could be felt for miles.
however, there was a significant drop in unaided recognition of march of dimes from 22% in 1993 to 9%.
in case b, students learn how drinan acted in this tough, politically charged situation and the outcome of her actions.
pfizer’s role at circle 6 suddenly grew as he was asked to take on some management tasks in this leadership vacuum because of his action-oriented style.
contact  person: elizabeth grace, college of business, san jose state university, 1  washington square, san jose, ca 95192-0066, 408-924-3474,grace_e@cob.sjsu.edu trouble at rent-tex erin corley, nicole powell  & aundrea kay guessst.
not only did sonoma wine company accomplish this cleaning by rejuvenating  its water pumps and aerators, but also put practices in place to ensure that  the water flowing to the pond is as clean as possible.
like many  entrepreneurs, pete wilson is challenged with developing and implementing a  number of changes in order to restore the customer base of coffee grounds.
first and  foremost is the daunting security screening process.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminde resort, october 29- 31, 2009.
he could work for a large corporation or set up his own practice.
the accompanying instructional materials seek to utilize the individual cases to introduce appropriate analytic categories and decision-making approaches especially suited to the field of health care ethics.
and a plastic surgeon, who performed a procedure on a patient when she was eleven-years-old, has reservations when faced with a subsequent request when she is seventeen.
contact person:  robert girling, school of business and  economics, sonoma stateuniversity, girling@sonoma.edu good  water: standing on holy ground stephen bowden & eva collins,  university of waikatohelen tregidga & kate kearins,  auckland university of technology case objective the case has been specifically designed to foster  discussion on the role of business in achieving wider social and environmental  objectives (hart & milstein, 2003; hawken, 1993; milne, kearins &  walton, 2006).
issues examined include the  difficulties to be encountered while developing cash flow forecasts, the risk  in using multiples for valuation and the advantages of using discounted cash  flow methods, especially the apv (adjusted present value) method instead.
the case was written for business school undergraduate courses in entrepreneurship, business strategy, and business and society.
the case is suitable  for a business strategy course or a small business and/or entrepreneurship  course at the undergraduate, mba, or executive mba level.
when csb announced that is wished to publicize all the information received from bayer, the corporate legal team evoked disclosure protection of federal laws created to ensure homeland security, including the maritime transportation security act (mtsa).
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective of ineffective handling of the situation.
although bringing business back to ely would be  beneficial, there is concern from josh nordland, a board member that was born  and raised in ely, that proceeding with this plan would revive the town only to  devastate it once again.
a unique  attribute of these “mutual” communities was direct resident  involvement in the management and decisions that affected the communities.
include: swots, value chain, pest (+g), cost-benefit analysis, and force field  analysis.
contact person:  nancy m. levenburg, seidman  college of business, grand valley state university, 441-c devos center, 401  fulton street, grand rapids, mi 49504, 616-331-7475, levenbun@gvsu.edu.
contact person: javier j. silva, iae business school, austral university-  mariano acosta s/n ruta nac. 8 (b1629 wwa) pilar – buenos aires -  argentina, jsilva@iae.edu.ar ceja vineyards: marketing to the  hispanic wine consumer?
(3) realize the importance of being able to understand the financial statements and to use them to manage the business daily.
the relevance of a cost-benefit  analysis is presented as a decision tool.
he was considering  either a treasury position with a corporation or unleashing his entrepreneurial  instincts and starting a new business.
this is both a marketing and entrepreneurship question.
copyright by erin corley, nicole powell & aundrea guess.
in the late 1990s, as competition  increased and pressure to perform in the stock market escalated, many warehouse  companies cut employee costs.
case synopsis the case involves the march of dimes birth defects foundation (mod), “the leading nonprofit organization for pregnancy and baby health.”
mcdonald’s turnaround strategy instituted the mission statement into core operations and focused on customer service.
© 2009 by michael tansey.
the case deals with corporate governance issues surrounding growth at the mutual in the 1990s and the strategic decision the board faced.
all rights reserved  to the author and nacra.
should walters (a) continue to seek  investors with the current business plan; (b) seek a different source of  funding; (c) substantially revise his plan or to make it more attractive to  ‘traditional’ investors; or (d) consider revising his entire  business model, and sell or license the patent?
dan has been  positioning the company for growth since inception and both father and son are  committed to growth.
they opened a new factory in dongwan that was a merger between  shenzhen filtroil and their supplier, liu li—whose own factory was on the  verge of bankruptcy.
their first step was to form a committee called the federation for a sustainable cabarete.
case objective “officenet: deciding whether to continue delegating the pricing authority” may be used in initial marketing courses included in mba curricula, executive education programs, as well as specific pricing courses.
el caso ha sido preparado especialmente para ser usado en la primera sesión de los cursos de finanzas de programas de management general dirigidos a directivos a cargo de gerencias funcionales de compañías.
case objective el caso muestra a una empresa multinacional, “telefónica”, en su estrategia de diversificación de producto.
the major issues for students to deal with involve defining the organization’s mission, analyzing the business model and strategy, and determining the actions necessary to implement the strategy.
the choices force them to explore the constraints and  objectives of four kinds codes; (1) their professional code (eg.
© 2008 by maureen laporte and mary kay sullivan.
such a subsequent sale might be an ipo on one of the chinese stock exchanges.
handling of the situation.
second, it aims at exposing students to scientific, political, and economic complexities in addressing such a controversial but deadly disease like aids.
the case demonstrates conflicts in organizational goals and end-user values, in this instance maximizing nutrition versus consumer tastes.
case synopsis what makes indigenous designs different from other clothing producers is their commitment to social justice and environmental stewardship.
the problem was inherent in the market condition of intense  competition among the firms and high degree of employee turnover which plagued  the industry.
drinan, interpreting this action as a delaying or avoidance tactic, decided that she must act.
keeping in mind the themes of sustainability and ecotourism, the committee had to determine how exactly to go about protecting the local businesses in cabarete.
in addition to his continuing passion for finding aids vaccine, among his other legacies are the standard components of aids control program that are currently applied around the world: (a) voluntary and counselling testing/vct center for aids, (b) blood screening by blood banks and (c) sex education.
the liberty pantry products were freeze-dried foods, high in nutrition, especially protein, and low in cost per serving.
case synopsis the case study opens in a medium scale mnc- owned events management firm  located in new delhi suburb of gurgaon, india.
they were in a quandary about what to  do with the information, especially in terms of their own lives.
pedralbes 60-62, 08034 barcelona, spain, +34 932 806 162,joseplluis.cano  @esade.edu la nueva forma de viajar.
case synopsis the case involves the march of dimes birth defects  foundation (mod), “the leading nonprofit organization for pregnancy and  baby health.”
© 2009 by richard r. young  and steven c. dunn.
however, there was a significant drop in unaided  recognition of march of dimes from 22% in 1993 to 9%.
by 2009, novica has achieved significant success –  reaching $15 million in annual revenue, helping better artisans’ lives  worldwide, and retaining the tight-knit founding team of its earliest days.
that despite performing an admirable job of trying to fill the position that  there are key barriers outside the control of the team.
case synopsis en una calurosa tarde madrileña de agosto, alberto gómez tenía cosas en que pensar.
at a  high level he knows the vna will needs a temporary work site, a communications  plan for the stakeholders, and it systems and communications back in order.
angry because he  could not acquire one of the motels and strike out on his own, the younger  brother made plans to attend law school, while expecting to keep his stock  ownership and salary and admitting that his already weak motivation might  suffer yet further.
this is the entrepreneurial question.
the free store food bank of cincinnati (fsfb) is one of 205 food banks across the united states.
dan albright, president of rent tex, had been a cpa for over twenty  years with experience in the rent-to-own industry.
one was that the board  fire her, since her salary was the largest personnel expense.
the overvaluation was largely a result of changes in the textbook industry,  including more frequent text revision cycles and increased competition from  internet sellers and e-books, as well as traditional competitors.
this is the marketing question.
details about fred and his bakery are somewhat disguised.
of these, 4 (including the vital spot) are considered to be ‘college’ bars.
as a result of that decision, 40,000 gallons  of water per unit per year may be conserved, a significant amount considering  the current drought.
the strategy in presenting this case is to  focus on the ethical decision-making aspect of the board of directors.
© 2009 by ashley allen, sarah  margaret davis, kinsey fletcher, anne elise robertson, baylor university, and  marlene m. reed, baylor university, faculty supervisor.
it had become the issue of  highest concern to khl top management that they appointed a team of consultants  from a top notch marketing and advertising school in the city to study and  recommend solutions.
like many entrepreneurs, pete must work long hours and  use his creativity to meet the evolving competition from other independent  bistros and renowned coffee chains.
the case can also be used in an entrepreneurial class which emphasizes weighing strategic options in small businesses.
the  fact that the founder was interviewed by pbs is a testament to its success in  creating exceptional value to the disadvantaged women it serves.
ms. manager was under the direct supervision of mr. bossman.
what would be its effects on the company’s future earnings?
the firm has enjoyed fast-paced profitable growth.
student analysis will reveal that decision-makers aren’t really walking the walk when it comes to carbon reduction targets in education.
por otra parte, era consciente  de los riesgos inherentes a un proyecto de este tipo.
contact  person: sandra blanke, college of business, graduate school of management  ,university of dallas, 1845 east northgate drive, irving, tx  75062,  sblanke@gsm.udallas.edu marketing javier j. o. silva, martín zemborain, fernando  zerboni & maricruz pradoiae business school –  austral university case objective this case may be addressed in different ways, contingent upon  students’ profile and experience, number of sessions available and  teaching objectives.
however, a high  price tag of $489, alternate ways to access digital texts and intensified  competition from other electronic readers all pose major threats to kindle-dx.
alternately, the case could be used in a less structured approach.
contact person: gabriel noussan, iae business school,  universidad austral, mariano acosta s/nº y ruta nac. 8 (1629)
southwest creations collaborative (scc) addresses the many social issues of low-income immigrants by creating employment and personal growth programs into one very successful non-profit model.
since he was the one who signed the deposit slip, he felt considerable responsibility to evaluate the control system for the register.
with the growing patient  base of dr. abdul-aziz, he has the opportunity to leave with his patients and  establish a new independent practice.
industry?the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the scenarios they examine with the model face them  with the decision of what form of organization they wish to choose; a solo  practice, a partnership, or a corporation.
the small business administration was unfolding president obama’s  arc  loan program, which appeared to offer some welcome financial assistance.
as business school curricula  increasingly introduce sustainability and environmental responsibility themes  in both undergraduate as well as graduate programs, this case has applicability  to several disciplines, but especially operations management and managerial  accounting.
¿cómo debería competir en estas nuevas condiciones?
the excitement for applying lean to  continuously improve the existing processes has decreased substantially in the  last two years.
however, did his professional responsibilities encompass embezzlement?
by using material alternatives to rubber and focusing on more profitable segments, the case explores whether the proposed growth initiative could support the long-term competitiveness of the firm.
income is generated through a combination of contract work and grant funding.
barnes worried about jeopardizing his working relationship and his many  friendships with hilltop’s members, particularly if the accusations were  incorrect.
the  business owners were concerned about foreign investors building high-rise
beth heckel began developing relationships with key individuals at kyangwali through her daughter aimee and soon began to realize what huge impacts she could make for these refugees with little as $5.00.
vermilion’s departure from the mines of ely was devastating.
en efecto, cerca de 400 pandillas operan principalmente en aguablanca y siloé y en el 2004 el 36% de los homicidios de país ocurrieron en aguablanca.
con la más baja penetración de la  región.
he had a relatively secure position with competitive annual  compensation, a large part of which was a bonus tied to his direct financial  contribution and the overall performance of his firm.
this case is designed to facilitate  discussion in graduate and undergraduate courses in business ethics and/or  social responsibility.
it is prepared as a basis for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of an administrative situation.
the vna does not have an enterprise wide business contingency plan or it contingency plan to address this crisis situation.
in its early years the talbots, inc., had successfully differentiated  itself as a purveyor of traditional women’s clothing.
case synopsis kyangwali is a refugee camp located approximately 30 miles outside of  hoima, uganda.
furthermore, the plan called for a feasibility study of the possibility of involving student interns in an integral way in the ongoing administration of vci.
this ceo has just received a surprising and unsolicited offer from a japanese company to purchase his amdata software china company which owns the exclusive mainland china franchise to distribute this u.s. vendor’s software.
in addition to his continuing  passion for finding aids vaccine, among his other legacies are the standard  components of aids control program that are currently applied around the world:  (a) voluntary and counselling testing/vct center for aids, (b) blood screening  by blood banks and (c) sex education.
this case examines the experience of a small taiwanese  plastic injection company as it faces the challenges of global recession in  early 2009.
etraffic press competes against three large, well-known  publishers in an environment dominated by traditional practice and government  decision-making.
the case can be used in strategic management, entrepreneurship, and small business classes.
case synopsis the bookstore cooperative, a university auxiliary running bookstore operations, was contemplating an overvalued inventory at year-end.
the case was written for undergraduate and graduate courses in global social entrepreneurship, and non-profit management.
the authors developed the case for  class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective  handling of the situation.
within minutes, the bustling industrial city of bhopal is the  picture of death as people, livestock fall prey to the fatal gas vapors.
they also must choose what  demographic communities, third party payers, price discounting and size of  practice that would be most practical and profitable.
© 2009 by william naumes and margaret j. naumes.
contact person: david loudon, brock school of business, samford university, 800 lakeshore drive, birmingham al 35229, 205-726-4314, dlloudon@samford.edu.
in mid 2005, leo piccioli took over as on’s general manager, knowing full well that his key challenge lay in driving on to reach staples’ profitability levels.
after 20 years of product development, travel, and security prospectus reviews, peter realized that something was missing from his life.
the year before, the  company had been bought by liberty media, a large holding company of businesses  like expedia, ticketmaster, and the qvc home-shopping network.
joe anderson’s paper  contained statements that have been historically used as anti-semitic slogans.
this case is designed to be used in an undergraduate or  graduate course in strategic management or strategic planning.
the case concerns the adoption  and implementation of business intelligence and the evolution of the system  introduced by the dursi with the aim of establishing a more equitable  distribution model for financing public universities.
charla has to decide how to repeat her annual fourth quarter task of hiring hundreds of new employees within a few months while at the same time ensuring that backcountry’s unique culture remains intact.
all rights are reserved to the authors and  nacra.
the increase in property taxes was necessary due in large part to the mismanagement of the school district by its superintendent of schools, who, by the time that the fiscal crisis became widely known, had disappeared from public view.
issues that are discussed include:  cross-cultural relations, global effectiveness, global entrepreneurship, human  resources, leadership, organizational development, and business strategy.
it is  especially useful in modules dealing with stakeholder analysis, environmental  analysis and pricing strategies.
© 2009 by john friar, tucker  marion, and ray kinnunen.
the magnitude of engo activities in opposition to the project is outlined as well as the economic benefits.
the case purposely ends in a way that may cause students to immediately begin to identify alternative courses of action for the protagonist.
the company was founded in 1996 by jim holland, an olympic ski jumper,  and john bresee, an outdoor writer.
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
although drinan’s investigator presented clear evidence as to haddad’s guilt, the cardinal decided to launch a second investigation, using the church’s lawyers.
was a “quality tilt” program necessary?
la participación de alicia en el simposio internacional: “microfinanzas y construcción de paz”, realizado en  cali-colombia, donde participan más de 70 expertos nacionales e  internacionales en microfinanzas, es crucial para las decisiones que se toman  en este simposio.
it may be of use in many  other settings, including business ethics, strategic management, marketing  ethics, and organizational behavior.
the frustration experienced by greg’s team centers on the perception that despite performing an admirable job of trying to fill the position that there are key barriers outside the control of the team.
the last objective therefore closes the loop and  links back to #1 and #2.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, chaminade ressort & spa, october 29-31, 2009.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis  were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research  association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz,  california.
in 2000, they moved to a more attractive  location.
these decisions are complicated by the fact that there  is no available family successor to take over the business.
the specific learning objectives for the case are: 1) to understand the complexities of transferring research findings from a university laboratory to commercial applications in industry; and 2) to develop skills in making a persuasive presentation on a new business venture to venture capitalists, bankers and ceos who could potentially provide support.
he wanted to sell water in bottles made from local  biomass, with the used bottle waste separated, up-cycled and allowed to  biodegrade and support new plant-life and sources of biomass.
some of the new board members began to question whether this style of leadership on the school board continued to be in the best interests of the community.
although the business was located in a sparsely populated, rural area of south dakota, it was positioned to conveniently serve south dakota, north dakota, and minnesota.
the case  and instructor’s manual were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by  the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting in  santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
the key issue involves how sodexo can overcome several key barriers in order to successfully recruit.
the social  enterprise sector as a whole needs more relevant support from the public sector  in order to flourish.
case synopsis josep raventós i vidal, general manager of raventós i blanc, stood at a crossroads.
understand the requirements for lean  manufacturing, and that its implementation will evolve over time.
pete successfully survives new competition for his first 20 months but finally is faced with athreat from starbucks which will open a bistro about one block away.
meanwhile, their sister, with the titles of controller and secretary, was taking a lackadaisical attitude toward the financial control system which it was her supposed duty to administer.
as part of #3 students will have to make suggestions how to negotiate with the japanese owners as well as (5) offer a post-acquisition strategy.
pedralbes 60-62, 08034 barcelona, spain, josep.franch@esade.edu case objective
it might also be appropriate for global/international business and corporate strategy courses.
contact person: javier j. silva, iae business school, austral university- mariano acosta s/n ruta nac. 8 (b1629 wwa) pilar – buenos aires - argentina, jsilva@iae.edu.ar case objective the case presents the growth and development of a small, family owned winery.
or were inventor don walters’ ambitions too grandiose?
dan albright was faced with the  decision of whether to pursue prosecution against her.
this case study and associated materials can be used in graduate  business programs at any level.
for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29-31, 2009.
he then created a detailed business plan outlining  the initial capital needs as well as five year forecasted sales and expenses  for an innovative chocolate manufacturing/retailing enterprise.
the japanese company owns a similar exclusive franchise in japan.
¿cómo debería  competir en estas nuevas condiciones?
in an entrepreneurship class, the case can illustrate innovative ways to manage growth.
also the materials are suitable for senior level undergraduate courses.
despite the high number of board resignations on the board and among mutual’s executive staff, dr. gordman, the mutual’s chair, was adamant about the association’s ability to recover and its potential future.
case a  covers the initial formation of the organization in 1994 and culminates in a  decision point regarding a possible relationship with a social venture  consulting group in early 2005.
anahid saeidi, american  gts, 2369 colorado blvd., suite #201, los angeles, ca 90041, 818-310-3105, mhsaeidi@aol.com sos for the seacoast science center (ssc) william naumes & margaret j. naumesuniversity of  new hampshire case objective the seacoast science center (ssc) case is designed to provide students with  an opportunity to analyze and discuss the roles of top management and the board  of directors in a not for profit organization.
aravind eye care is  one of the most successful and admired enterprising nonprofits in the world.
the case provides enough evidence to evaluate the positioning  options of the company, the criteria to finalize the positioning options.
by 2009, novica has achieved significant success – reaching $15 million in annual revenue, helping better artisans’ lives worldwide, and retaining the tight-knit founding team of its earliest days.
southwest creations collaborative (scc)
these characteristics, along with superior customer service, had assisted the shop in establishing a large customer base despite its rural location.
as a private company operated to maximize cash flows rather than reported  net income, students have an opportunity to restructure the income statements  and recalculate those cash flows.
while successful in avoiding disposal, the case questions whether guildcraft is as green or environmentally responsible as its ceo both believes and touts.
the case can be used in a variety of courses, including business,  government and society (bgs), strategic management, not for profit management,  and corporate governance, at either the senior undergraduate or graduate level.
key industry pressures  include the rate of patent expirations on current product portfolios, a decline  in research & development productivity,generic substitution, and decreasing  effective exclusivity periods.
the material includes: (1) an industry description with examples of how the industry functions inside corporations.; and (2) details of seven industry competitors including three based in the united states (accenture, electronic data systems, and ibm,) and four based in india (tata consulting services, infosys, wipro, and cognizant.)
students are challenged to try to determine if, and how, a theft might  have occurred based on information in the case and exhibits, and evaluate  internal controls, red flags, hiring practices and company procedures rent tex (b) case b reveals that fraud had  been perpetrated by the bookkeeper.
francisco j. lópez lubián,  instituto de empresa, madrid, spain, c/ castellón de la plana, 8.
since 80% of the expenses for the ssc were related to personnel costs, wendy knew that most cost savings would have to come from personnel costs.
the case, instructor’s manual, and  synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case  research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort, santa  cruz, california, october 29 – 31, 2009.
en efecto, cerca de 400 pandillas operan  principalmente en aguablanca y siloé y en el 2004 el 36% de los  homicidios de país ocurrieron en aguablanca.
a quantitative study among adults 18+ revealed that march of dimes ranked fifth in unaided awareness among charities in 2006.
the case considers whether the public’s rights to access information regarding a health hazard would supersede the public’s need to be protected from the threat of terrorism.
if mystic monk coffee was capable of making the vision a reality, what were the next steps in turning the coffee into land?
case objective the case has been specifically designed to foster discussion on the role of business in achieving wider social and environmental objectives (hart & milstein, 2003; hawken, 1993; milne, kearins & walton, 2006).
troy wrote the letter, but the request awakened nagging concerns regarding cash control with respect to the register in question.
for its annual meeting at santa cruz, california, on october 29-31, 2009.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
case synopsis spero dephtereos, ceo and principal stockholder of guildcraft furniture  faced a critical problem of either 1) switching away from the use of  polystyrene frames for his furniture in order to comply with an order from the  local solid waste management authority to cease disposal of styrene scrap at  its landfill, or 2) finding an alternative way to handle the disposition of the  material which was seen as environmentally unfriendly.
intended for use in a graduate or upper-division undergraduate course in business and society, the cases spans a range of topics, including corporate social responsibility, stakeholder analysis, codes of ethical conduct, conflicts of interest, government regulation of the securities industry, shareholder rights, and personal responsibility.
it was clear  that the circle 6 board and management team had been dysfunctional but none of  the remaining circle 6 employees had experience running a company.
the acquisition of the retail chain, j. jill, offers opportunities to assess the merits of acquisitions that result in a significant debt burden.
specifically, the objectives include requiring students to identify the major issues facing carson’s department store and the key considerations that the owners should examine when deciding their next steps.
the final objective is to encourage students to devise a potential exit  strategy for the company.
© 2009 by javier j.  silva, martín zemborain, fernando zerboni and maricruz prado.
the product potentially offers a lot of benefits, but carries a high upfront price.
the technology was proven to have worked very effectively, but now the decision was which direction the company should pursue: continuing to sell a customizable and extendable platform or creating a finished product for a particular customer segment.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting,october 29- 31, 2009, santa cruz, california, usa.
while  she knew she was legally charged with acting, she faced a complicated situation:  the hospital system is owned and operated by the archdiocese of boston  with cardinal o’malley as the chairman of the board; and these charges  came soon after the priest molestation cases which rocked the catholic church  of boston.
alicia piensa en el mensaje que transmitirá al  público del simposio, el cual es ajeno a la realidad del  microcrédito de las comunidades pobres del país.
in  2008, the firm faced several challenges as the economy weakened and the cost of  plant returns and warranties remained high.
case synopsis in february 2007, gary wendlandt, chief investment officer of the nylic, was faced with an important decision.
inthe leadership challenge, james kouzes and barry posner have distilled through twenty-five years of  research and writing the five fundamental practices of exemplary leaders.
una pregunta  estratégica que debe resolver antes de iniciar el próximo ciclo  comercial.
peter  weighed the financial costs of leaving his lucrative position versus the  non-financial return of spending more time with his family and pursuing outside  interests.
headquartered north of boston, the  company comprises a world-class team of serial entrepreneurs and veteran  engineers including over 30 phds, making innovations for high-growth markets  and  serving customers worldwide.
contact person: margaret bouchard, worcester state college, worcester, ma 01602, 508-929-8840, mbouchard@worcester.edu case objective the case is designed to stimulate discussion of an awkward situation in a first-year english composition class.
depending on how curriculum is structured, this could include courses in  accounting information systems, internal auditing and external auditing.
more specifically, it describes in detail how to value  a potential candidate to be acquired, including how the take-over is financed.
are consumers  sufficiently concerned about the working conditions under which goods are  produced to support these companies?
can they find partners?
nextblok  promised to reduce waste by using recycled styrofoam, save trees, transform  framing from cumbersome to easy, and provide homeowners with an affordable,  energy-efficient and earthquake resistant house.
case synopsis this case deals with an actual situation involving dr. abdul-aziz (all names are disguised) who must make a decision about his future with the small group pediatric practice he is a partner with.
the social enterprise sector as a whole needs more relevant support from the public sector in order to flourish.
a quantitative study among  adults 18+ revealed that march of dimes ranked fifth in unaided awareness among  charities in 2006.
the model was carefully researched to ensure a quality field experience that connected and deepened students’ knowledge and application of reading pedagogy, as well as, teacher reflection.
it explores the phenomenon at global, industry, and business levels from both usa and indian perspectives.
entercom had been making regular share repurchases, and recently started paying quarterly dividends.
case synopsis dr. venice was initially very excited about the pre-practicum experience  for her reading method’s students.
sarah began  to feel sympathy for emily’s personal and professional situation.
hoas are  an often neglected type of non-profit corporation, though they govern the lives  of more than 50 million americans and produce an estimated $50 billion in  annual revenue.
these changes  lead her to consider starting her own business, an idea that becomes more  interesting once she hears of a successful sugarless bakery in another part of  the state.
make recommendations regarding changes in  operations, and anticipate the consequences of those changes.
in the case of urinals, the energy policy act of 1992 mandated  the use of low flush urinals that use less than 1 gallon to conserve water.
the library was viewed as obese in comparison to other public libraries – there was a lot of duplication of efforts.
in early 2006, helen drinan, senior vice president, human resources,  caritas christi health care, boston, received two sexual harassment charges  against the organization’s ceo and president robert haddad.
after the difficult early years setting up the business, and a second phase of company consolidation, the moment seemed to have arrived for decisions that would have far-reaching consequences for the future of the company.
it uses the perspectives of two managers of fraport who are heading the ipo team and their external advisors.
the professor of physics was most comfortable in the lab studying the optics of surfaces and discussing the findings with graduate students and fellow researchers across canada.
745-3595,glasgo@xavier.edu health care arthur sharplin, bentley college center for business ethics case objective this case is centrally designed for use in a bio-ethics segment or class  which is part of a pre-med or medical program.
contact person: arthur sharplin, bentley college center for business ethics, p. o. box 30260, austin, tx 78755-3260, 512-415-1427, asharplin@aol.com.
case synopsis peter, an executive at a major wall street firm, was the manager of product development and marketing of public, equity-linked corporate securities.
in addition to interest in changing education, the public expected  suppliers to be more eco-friendly.
copyright by tom morris & tara ceranic.
formulate recommendations with regard to the  management of mcu raw material supplier and productions units; (3) evaluate the  company’s competitive position, the ability for the mcu technology and  the needs in term of development of trelleborg automotive within its primary  markets (americas, europe and asia); and (4) appraise crucial competitive  advantage through its mcu growth initiative.
the company grew to 35–40 university accounts (including several of the largest university systems in the country), 12–15 employees, and revenues of $354,000 in the first half of 2001.
targeting the  emerging and potentially vast u.s. hispanic consumer segment might require  extensive repositioning of ceja’s premium varietal wine brands, result in  a diminution of effort to sustain its rapidly growing wine club, pose  additional future expenses for promotion of wine consumption to u.s. hispanic  consumers, and erode the high-end premium wine brand.
although he had decided to use 30 percent of his profits to improve the citizens’ standard of living, he did not have a clear strategy for accomplishing this goal.
contact person: michael tansey, helzberg school of management, rockhurst university, 5225 troost, kansas city, mo. 64110, at phone number, 913-485-7550, and email address,michael.tansey@rockhurst.edu.
second, it aims at exposing students to scientific,  political, and economic complexities in addressing such a controversial but  deadly disease like aids.
the authors developed the case for class discussion and for mock exercise to illustrate the challenges faced when meeting the needs of thousands.
the case writers offer some suggestion for further research and more  in-depth analysis.
the women’s bean project is a place where women can go when other  options have failed.
the case  requires that students:  understand the pharmaceutical development  process, both within adnexus /bms and through the fda approval process;  and evaluate the resources needed to create an on-going development  pipeline.
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, october 29-31, 2009.
contact person: rebecca treadway, maryville college, 502 east  lamar alexander parkway, maryville, tn 37804-5907, 865-604-6749,  rebecca.treadway@maryvillecollege.edu global offshoring of  information technology services: industry & rivalry r. jeffery  ellis, chinmoy mishra & jason spauldingbabson college case objective these case materials describe and invite strategy recommendations on  positioning and rivalry on the global offshoring information technology  services industry with special reference to india and the united states, the  teaching objectives are to: analyze the evolution and dynamics of a modern  global service industry; distinguish positioning and differentiation within and  between groups of players in different continents with shared customers;  anticipate the behavior of players and competitive interplays as well as the  overall structure of the evolving industry; and introduce students to an  industry that has lifted millions of destitute people to an attractive standard  of living while building wealth for residents of technically more advanced  nations.
the college is located in the heart of the town (or village) and has a student population of about 5,600 students, many of whom are residential students.
the firm grew steadily and provided a  comfortable life style for the family.
as a result, the local business owners had been forced to take  action.
should they sell the business?
the case writers offer some suggestion for further research and more in-depth analysis.
© 2009 by john friar, tucker marion, and ray kinnunen.
billing  carelessness and pricing inaccuracies have cost the partners hundreds of  thousands of dollars over the last few years.
his last thoughts while hitting  the floor are full of despair and anger – anger at the ucc management and  officials who did not pay heed to the unsafe production practices –  despair that no one listened to his cry for help and support when he had felt  ‘something was not right!’
© 2009 by gerry yemen and lynn isabella, contact  person:
since the early 1900s vermilion had operations in the tiny  town of ely, minnesota.
the owner of the  company was skip bossman.
the  hippocratic oath), (2) their personal ethics and religion, (3) corporate social  responsibility, and (4) the law (particularly antitrust law).
what could the company do?
major benefits of using turboprops for short-leg flights were increased  seat utilization (62% to 90%) and increased route coverage.
(2) think holistically and creatively in a failing business situation.
to the toxic nightmare unleashed by poisonous mic gas fumes on the night of 3rd  december, 1984.
the  case focuses on the challenge of deciding on a positioning platform for the  company, considering its checkered evolution and in the context of difficult to  predict future trajectory of fast changing it business landscape.
students are challenged to try to determine if, and how, a theft might have occurred based on information in the case and exhibits, and evaluate internal controls, red flags, hiring practices and company proceduresrent tex (b) case b reveals that fraud had been perpetrated by the bookkeeper.
the case was written for  mba level courses, where it could be used in e-business, strategy or marketing  courses.
don francis is one of most important figures in keeping the hope for finding aids vaccine alive in spite of various challenges that have become obstacles in the discovery of the vaccine since his first collaboration with luc montagnier of pasteur institute in 1984.
contact person: william naumes, memorial university of newfoundland, canada rsexty @mun.ca case objective the case was designed for use at both the undergraduate and graduate levels in courses such as business ethics, general business, or management.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association  (nacra) for  its annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29--31, 2009.
©2009 by john j. vitton and jonathan b.  northard.
case synopsis este caso presenta a alicia meneses líder comunitaria desde hace 20 años en el distrito de aguablanca en cali-colombia.
contact person:  tom morris, university of san diego, alcala park,  san diego 92110,tmorris@sandiego.edu.
©2009 by john j. vitton and jonathan b. northard.
entercom communications: dividends,  repurchases or both?
©2009 by r. jeffery ellis, chinmoy mishra & jason spaulding.
en el texto se muestra cómo un emprendedor rompe los  modelos mentales y los esquemas predominantes que existían frente a las  oportunidades de negocio en una zona geográfica de suelos  “infértiles”, y frente a la manera tradicional, racional y  economicista de aproximarse a las decisiones de negocios.
although drinan’s investigator presented clear evidence as to  haddad’s guilt, the cardinal decided to launch a second investigation,  using the church’s lawyers.
chief investment officer, gary wendlandt, proposed that a larger percentage of investable cash flow be placed in us government securities instead of corporate securities than in previous years.
a related concern for mod was that consumer perceptions about the seriousness and frequency of prematurity and low birth weight were shifting.
the case describes this scenario, inviting class participants to delve into topics associated with pricing delegation and price policies.
key industry pressures include the rate of patent expirations on current product portfolios, a decline in research & development productivity,generic substitution, and decreasing effective exclusivity periods.
his primary duty as executive director was to provide guidance and advice to  pastors of smba churches, to help them expand, and to assist in establishing  new churches.
this case asks the  question “is it time to sell the firm to a larger company that can  use what we’ve built in their long term strategy, or do we go it alone  and bolster our product offering, with the knowledge we might be alienating our  current customer base?”
the case study offers an excellent opportunity to analyse the link between strategic decisions and their associated economic value.
talbots needed to establish a  distinctive competence.
all rights are reserved to the author and nacra.ó 2009 by stuart rosenberg.
e-readers potentially offer a lot of benefits to students as they combine the experience of reading actual print with the benefits of digitization and portability.
it requires decisions to be made regarding the analysis and selection of markets that the company could focus on, as well as alternative strategies to enter foreign markets.
para el  año 2006, manuel y el equipo comercial en su conjunto se cuestionan el  modelo de negocio, buscando romper paradigmas que les permitiera lograr una  mayor penetración del servicio aéreo.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, october 29-31, 2009, santa cruz, california.
the authors developed the case for class discussion rather than  to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
in the last two years, the  vital (as it’s called)—along with the other college bars, have  experienced a decline in revenues from student customers (so, perhaps, the  president is correct?)
© 2009 by linda nowak, armand gilinsky … contact person: linda nowak, sonoma state university,  linda.nowak@sonoma.edu how sweet it isn’t: the sugarless  bakery instructor’s manual susan d. peters & brianna zhang francis marion university case objective the case and teaching notes were written to be used in marketing classes  – principles, new product development, strategy or product/brand.
the case focuses on the challenge of deciding on a positioning platform for the company, considering its checkered evolution and in the context of difficult to predict future trajectory of fast changing it business landscape.
but the environment around it had changed and its competitors were turning to  more contemporary designer styles.
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
contact person: aundrea guess, st.  edward’s university, 3001 so.
the results of this  research were the catalyst for the organization to re-evaluate how the services  offered by march of dimes were perceived by consumers.
case synopsis rachel cohen, assistant professor english at fairbanks university, has just  completed a contentious meeting of her first year composition class, which had  discussed a paper written by one of the students.
due to the nature of stockweb’s business model, customer lifetime value amounts was much lower than other competing online brokerages.
finally, the balance of  escalating commitment and the challenges of terminating entrepreneurial  pursuits is considered as the leaders must decide how to position the right  product with the right market segment or whether to discontinue the concept  altogether.
este caso se  dirige a estudiantes de los cursos de desarrollo sostenible y estudiantes de  gestión que trabajan aspectos de responsabilidad social en el mba o a  nivel de licenciatura.
its importance lies in its emphasis  on evaluating the elements needed to create and manage a biotechnology new  product development process and pipeline.
physicians have established certain policies without informing other partners.
con este caso se pretende exponer la dimensión institucional de la pobreza vs. las definiciones económicas más tradicionales de la pobreza; así mismo, se busca ilustrar el potencial y las limitaciones del microcrédito para hacer frente a la pobreza; finalmente se explican las situaciones que caracterizan el liderazgo, el desarrollo de capacidades para la inserción en el desarrollo económico y social y el coraje de una mujer que afronta los desafíos de la pobreza en aguablanca.
chuck has found success in another business venture  and is pressing pam to make some very difficult decisions regarding the future  of the business.
in 2008, the company had  a sales turnover of €5 million and sales exceeding 900,000 bottles, with  exports representing 14% of them.
the ‘government intelligence in  catalan public universities’ case was designed to be used on business  intelligence or management information systems courses, as well as on general  information systems courses.
however, a high price tag of $489, alternate ways to access digital texts and intensified competition from other electronic readers all pose major threats to kindle-dx.
what is the cost-benefit advantage of the waterless urinal?
it tracked the evolution of an embryonic organization to an indian rupees (inr) 2.3 billion organization with 1500 employees.
case synopsis oxigene is a development stage, biopharmaceutical company developing novel therapeutics to treat cancer and eye diseases.
as a marketing case, it could be used at several points in a principles  class.
noble systems has  tested the waters outside of higher education by making a sale to a major  insurance corporation to use noble’s elearning system for corporate  training.
can  they raise the capital to do both?
¿cómo y porqué afrontar los desafíos del microcrédito para los pobres?
the case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade spa and resort, october 29-31, 2009.
it can be employed in the subjective  areas of international business and business ethics at both undergraduate and  graduate levels to gain insights about multinational operations, their policies  and its subsequent implications in terms of safety regulations, environmental  issues and corporate code of ethics and social accountability and cross  cultural issues.
case synopsis this case concerns amazon.com’s marketing strategy for the e-reader, the kindle-dx.
juxtaposing kouzes & posner's leadership model to theexemplary high school teachers' stories should convert skeptics to thinking that teachers need to behave as leaders, both inside and out of classrooms.
the case could also be used in a small business management course or in a comparative management course, because it illustrates management in a typical chinese family business in taiwan.
the case requires that  students: •         gain an  understanding of the software development process and necessary resources; •         develop the  skills/expertise required to create plausible market share projections from  available information to clarify management options.
while he stared at the rain beating down against his windowpane  he tried to concentrate on the facts… this case study describes, from the point of view of the general manager,  the alternatives discasa is facing in order to ensure its survival.
in this time of high fuel prices, should  estonian air respond to the projected increase in demand by expanding its fleet  of planes?
this case is designed for  use in upper-level business school courses (either undergraduate or graduate)  in social entrepreneurship, nonprofit management, business and society and  strategic management.
for example, lifesaving drugs to treat malaria, tuberculosis  and aids were created by for-profit pharmaceutical companies.
the purpose  of the case is to provide a discussion about the many reasons that a planned,  research-based pre-practicum experience may fail to provide the rich meaningful  experience that partners had intended and how to better plan and design  effective experiences for pre-service teachers and k-12 staff, as well.
beth heckel  began developing relationships with key individuals at kyangwali through her  daughter aimee and soon began to realize what huge impacts she could make for  these refugees with little as $5.00.
case synopsis paul and luke develder are the owner/operators of the vital spot, a college town bar.
discuss the theory behind dividends and share repurchases, and use this theory to determine which choice is best for a firm this case allows students to look at why firms pay dividends and/or make irregular or regular share repurchases.
lan perú s.a. josé garrido-lecca, universidad de piura case objective el caso expone la situación de lan perú,  en un contexto en el cual la empresa lideraba el sector, con un crecimiento  sostenido y con márgenes muy por encima del promedio; aunque  participando de un mercado
in december of 2005, the grpl contracted with a consultant to train  marcia and two assistant directors in the lean methodology.
case synopsis virtuosi concerts (mb) inc. (vci) was a small arts organization,  incorporated as a not-for-profit subsidiary of the university of winnipeg, in  winnipeg, manitoba canada.
yet in the late 1990’s, market share dropped, and in 2002 the company hit a low point with its first reported loss.
contact person: max e.  douglas, college of business, indiana state university, terre haute, in 47809,  812-237-2104, max.douglas@indstate.edu river bend trading:
© 2009 by anahid saeidi,  christian que, and rahul gupta.  contact person:
for this, botifoll must work with syed hoda (director of operations in india) and wim elfrink chief globalization officer (cgo) and senior vice president.
this will require a deep analysis of each market’s structure, its  specific customers and account management systems.
its presentation takes about 90 minutes in class and 15 hours of preparation by students.
union carbide india limited:
case synopsis “entercom communications: dividends, repurchases or both” is about this firm’s decision to initiate a dividend and its decision to continue its share repurchase program.
case objective this case study is designed so that students can evaluate the relevance of the march of dimes’ market position and to provide possible solutions to rejuvenate an established brand.
the  case also illustrates issues of external environmental analysis.
he wanted to spend more time with his family, outside interests were beckoning, and he was interested in being more involved with his community.
the bar is located in a town (or village) of roughly 6000 residents and a college of 5600 mostly residential students.
the sonoma wine company management team of president dennis carroll,  general manager ed silva, director of business development natasha granoff, and  facility manager jim feely, decided that environmentally sound practices would  need to be built into the facility plans.
so they have lived in anticipation, if not fear, of sudden death.
now a  decision must be made.
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
a friend told her to develop a turnaround strategy, including a retrenchment  plan (i.e., cost and asset reductions) and a recovery plan (i.e., a strategy  for recovery).
instead, it should be “whether” the protagonist should get involved at all.
through this offering, the  company provides visitors with an exceptional winery experience, memories of  which are revisited when they choose oliver wines to share with friends at  home.
to the extent that customers rely solely on the advice of his sales team to purchase investments which they do not understand, the bank may incur liability detrimental to its profitability and future reputation.
research showed the number of americans who thought prematurity was a serious issue and a common occurrence declined in 2006 from the previous year.
her  problem was to determine which of many options would move etraffic forward.
oliver was happy with the performance of don and his associate winemaker, carl dore, and felt that they fit well with the culture of the family run winery.
case synopsis mike is a recent college graduate hired as a financial analyst working for the budget director of kenton county.
case synopsis en una calurosa tarde madrileña de agosto, alberto gómez  tenía cosas en que pensar.
recent market  research provided detail regarding unenthusiastic consumer and channel  reactions.
the case deals with the  challenges that he faced in accomplishing this goal and the development of a  clear strategy for carrying out his purposes.
in june, 2009 the leaders of the free store food bank of cincinnati (fsfb), were uncertain about future plans for the liberty pantry product line.
chuck and pam carson are a husband and wife entrepreneurial team that  has owned and operated a retail clothing store in northeast mississippi for  over thirty years.
stuart  rosenberg, dowling college, school of business, oakdale, ny 11769, 631-244-3423, rosenbes@dowling.edu.
it  enables them to conceptualize sales force attrition, analyse it in an  organizational context, and to come up with pragmatic solutions.
he had a relatively secure position with competitive annual compensation, a large part of which was a bonus tied to his direct financial contribution and the overall performance of his firm.
the learning objectives of the case focus primarily on: the scaling and financing of start-ups; the strategic positioning of innovative products in a very large market space; and the management of operations – from product and process design to supply chain management.
beth has built lasting relationships with individuals at kyangwali by allowing them the dignity they deserve in the value of their life by caring for what happens to them.
ultimately, a hierarchy of uses was determined whereby large scrap pieces could be reworked into packaging components custom cut for a range of applications.
since the non-profit employed generally accepted  accounting principles, it was required to report its inventory accordingly,  valuing inventory at lower of cost or market.
other cases similarly  challenge students think critically and draw the connection between thought and  action.
it may be used in conjunction with the ‘agiltron, inc.’ and ‘attivio:
the authors developed this case for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
it is designed to be a culminating case in a marketing management  course in which all aspects of marketing management and strategy are pulled  together to analyze the case and develop recommendations.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
students are expected to recommend how circle 6 should proceed  from this crisis situation in may 2004 based on the appropriate theories,  models and their own experiences.
the town is about 35 miles from a large city and many of the residents  commute daily to the city for work.
a new superintendent of schools had  been hired and the academic performance within the school district showed  progress.
the case is suited for presentations in the classroom, as the principal character was struggling with the presentation that he should make to the jury in the new ventures bc competition.
colleague junior events executive, diya mathur wonders why the top management behaved in that manner.
it was clear that the circle 6 board and management team had been dysfunctional but none of the remaining circle 6 employees had experience running a company.
it is also designed to  demonstrate the importance of long term planning while making short term  decisions.
all rights  reserved to the authors and nacra.
certainly the concept of waterless urinals is new, and both cultural and  technological barriers will be challenging.
this case is appropriate for any graduate or undergraduate  accounting class where internal controls are analyzed and documented.
© 2009 by kristen, anzollitto, nicole hewitt, lydia rogers, emily stroderd, baylor university, and marlene m. reed, baylor university, faculty supervisor.
a  never ending toxic nightmare devi akella, albany state university, nirupama akella, university of southern alabama case objective this case could be used to discuss topics pertaining to multinational  operations in foreign locations, business ethics, corporate accountability and  implementation of safety regulations.
concepts that can be used in the analysis include: swots, value chain, pest (+g), cost-benefit analysis, and force field analysis.
the case deepens the  knowledge of students regarding valuation.
©2009 by dave noreen and deborah r. ettington.
philip w. glasgo, williams college of  business, xavier university, 3800 victory parkway, cincinnati, oh 45207-5162,  (513)
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, october 2009, santa cruz, california.
the magnitude of engo activities in opposition  to the project is outlined as well as the economic benefits.
to understand various methods for calculating the international cost of capital.
however, as a former high-school football player, boxer, and bull-rider, father prior daniel mary was unaccustomed to shrinking from a challenge.
hugh grove, daniels college of business, university of denver, 2101 s. university blvd., denver, co 80208, 303-871-2026, hgrove@du.edu case objective this case is intended for an advanced undergraduate or an mba corporate finance elective.
after being employed as a  geologist for a few years, alfredo and his family moved to spain where he  started a wholly owned subsidiary of his employer.
the case is primarily aimed at business  undergraduate in small business management/entrepreneurship courses or  strategic management.
how can bjr product higher quality products?
case synopsis started in the late 1980’s, a local activist group in the small town of graton, (population 1,815) named graton association to stop pollution (gasp) came to the management team of sonoma wine company with major concerns about the wastewater pond the winery was using.
additionally, 100  percent of the miterfold edges were being touched up manually within the plant  before being shipped to customers.
the case of the new  doctor michael tansey, rockhurst university case objective when young doctors decide about the practice they want to establish, they  are suddenly confronted with business problems that small businesses typically  face.
the case requires proficiency in applying their accounting and economics; they  must apply and interpret a fully dynamic excel model of their practice that  automatically makes ledger, balance sheet, cash flow statement and income  statement compatible.
the free store food bank of cincinnati  (fsfb) is one of 205 food banks across the united states.
the company believed that through proper education it could help less financially-educated individuals take a disciplined-themed retirement planning approach.
the school board, however, still functioned for the most part as it  had in the past, with mcheffey wielding a tremendous amount of power.
all three divisions b-sbu: le sante, pharma and irm pharma were adversely affected.
oliver knew that both the quality of their wines  and the consistency in their styles were critical to the company’s  ongoing success.
gerry yemen, darden school of business, university of virginia, p.o.  box 6550, charlottesville, va 22903-6550, 434-924-7193, yemeng@darden.virginia.edu sodexo canada cathy  mccann & mark julienbrock university case objective this case shows the frustration on the part of a dedicated group of  operations and human resource professionals who feel that despite their best  efforts that they risk not successfully filling upcoming vacancies.
the case could be taught near the end of a term to serve as a review of managing stakeholders; it could also be taught at the close of a global leadership module focusing on issues of managing across cultural differences,individual behavior, and teams, experiencing issues that confront global managers, developing management skills and style, leading negotiations, and recognizing personal leadership models.
contact person:  emmanuel raufflet, hec montréal, 3000 chemin de la  côte-sainte-catherine, montréal, québec, j3h 2a7, emmanuel.raufflet hec.ca free store food bank of cincinnati:
case synopsis costco entered the warehouse industry in 1983 and established their first store in seattle, washington.
la demanda de pasajes  aéreos era elástica, por lo que era preciso tener una  política de menores precios para lograr el crecimiento del sector.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, california, october 29-31, 2008.
this case is suitable for use in  undergraduate and graduate courses in non-profit management, public policy, and  business strategy & policy.
in the case of urinals, the energy policy act of 1992 mandated the use of low flush urinals that use less than 1 gallon to conserve water.
was a “quality  tilt” program necessary?
troy met with lily woodring, the business manager for the school, in order to increase his knowledge of current procedures and maybe suggest some changes.
while americans surveyed were aware of its signature fundraising event, walkamerica, recall of other aspects of mod were fairly generic and in many ways conflicted with the stated mission of this not-for-profit organization.
however, a class visiting the microbrewery asked each other ¨was this decision ethical?
the case, instructor's manual, and synopsis were anonymously  peer reviewed and accepted by thenorth american case research association  (nacra) for its annual meeting, chaminade resort & spa, santa cruz, ca,  october 29-31, 2009.all rights are reserved to the authors and nacra.
alicia en este panel es la única mujer con experiencia práctica en los procesos de microcrédito para la población más desfavorecida y con los mayores indicadores de violencia en el país.
in the last two years, the vital (as it’s called)—along with the other college bars, have experienced a decline in revenues from student customers (so, perhaps, the president is correct?)
the case  provides an opportunity to utilize the nist 800-34 contingency planning guide  to help students understand the importance of a contingency plan and how to  create a contingency plan.
chuck has found success in another business venture and is pressing pam to make some very difficult decisions regarding the future of the business.
oliva contact person:  ismael oliva, universidad de chile, oliva.
ranjan knew  that the growth and financials of the company in the last few years had been  good and qualitatively he had been able to make team computers a force to  reckon with in the market and achieve industry recognition.
© 2009 sandra blanke and elizabeth mcgrady.
that feasibility study led to a two-stage internship pilot project to gain experience with accounting, human resources (volunteer coordination) and fundraising interns.
what makes these companies different and distinct?
courses that include modules on intellectual  property may also find this case useful.
the case could be taught near the end of a  term to serve as a review of managing stakeholders; it could also be taught at  the close of a global leadership module focusing on issues of managing across  cultural differences,individual behavior, and teams, experiencing issues that  confront global managers, developing management skills and style, leading  negotiations, and recognizing personal leadership models.
case synopsis the talbots, inc., a retailer of women’s classic apparel and accessories since 1947, had a clear target market in the 35-year-and over age group.
this case can be used in either an undergraduate capstone marketing management course or a graduate marketing management course.
the author developed the case for class discussion rather than  to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
the biggest challenge was to arrive at such a positioning.
there was no shortage of arguments in  favor of etraffic’s innovative new models, but schools seemed slow to  respond.
© 2009 by jon kalinowski, timothy w. scott, paul l.  schumann, john a. kaliski, and claudia h. pragman.
para lograr el crecimiento del sector.
for this, botifoll must  work with syed hoda (director of operations in india) and wim elfrink chief  globalization officer (cgo) and senior vice president.
however, after phase ii nasa decided to not move forward with the project due to other priorities.
in addition, sarah implicitly allowed emily to steal the company’s uv bulbs, with the purpose of emily selling the items on ebay for emily’s economic gain.
with no active marketing or business development resources for the project, the founder and ceo of the company was deciding on options for the product as it ‘sat on the shelf.
además de brindar la oportunidad de reflexionar sobre los elementos clave de la planificación financiera personal posibilita una introducción en el funcionamiento de los mercados de capitales y los diversos vehículos de inversión.
as oliver has continued to grow and succeed over  the years it has remained a solid organization that has relied upon its  business model and value proposition to remain stable and successful.
talbots needed to establish a distinctive competence.
while angiocept™ has made progress toward fda approval; in order to continue to develop other adnectin™-based drug therapies, they would have to add structure and process to the research, otherwise $30 million in recent investments would not go very far.
a 90-minute class should be adequate for discussion of the case if students have reviewed the case prior to class time.
it may also be used in a course in business ethics, in the context of a discussion of conflict of interest or moral hazard; or in the course in finance, in the context of a discussion of ethics.
the case focuses on the strategic decision of whether the mutual should file for bankruptcy and sell the properties or to stay committed to its mission and continue operations.
this case was written for business school undergraduates is small business  management, family business, and/or entrepreneurship.
© 2009 by francisco j. lópez  lubián.
©2009 by alain giraud  and nancy m. levenburg.
pete uses his leadership ingenuity to develop and implement changes at coffee grounds without destroying its artsy culture and special ambience of comfort and tranquility.
the mutual was founded for the purpose of acquiring, developing and managing affordable multi-family housing to meet a growing social need for low cost affordable housing.
identify organizational philosophy and values as reflected in production documents, attitudes, organizational structure, and role definition, and determine what the best and worst outcome can result from the underlying philosophy.
the lack of effective staff supervision has resulted in several significant problems.
the growth of  online sales affected the strategic plans of traditional bridal shops and  required new strategies to be crafted.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for it annual  meeting, chaminade spa & resort, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
all of the options would have serious implications for the short and long term operations of the organization, and its mission.
the teaching objectives are: (1) identification of the information relevant for a cash flow forecast, (2) understanding the challenges in building up a cash flow forecast, (3) understanding the risks of using multiples and (4) using discounted cash flow valuation for a company which provides more challenges than a textbook problem.
kenneth who also owns another company which is highly profitable invested $1.5 million in the venture and ronald made no monetary investment in the start-up.
the case is divided into three parts: case a poses the  complexity of accessing the market with a sector-based product vision.
stockweb’s management team saw three key options to helping the company make the adjustments to their advertising costs dilemma.
while lien holders and experts in  the field, such as hud, mortgage holders, and industry accountants, urged the  mutual to file for bankruptcy, the mutual’s chairman was unyielding.
case synopsis oliver peninsula, general manager of peninsula wines, a winery operating in the niagara region of ontario, had worked hard with his family to establish a reputable name for producing quality wines at their winery.
more specifically, it describes in detail how to value a potential candidate to be acquired, including how the take-over is financed.
the case also describes the dilemma faced by e xi’s remaining partner as he attempts to salvage exi’s profitability.
no usuaria del servicio  aéreo, el análisis de toda la cadena de valor, política de  precios, rediseño de canales y revisión de la estrategia en su  conjunto (modelo comercial y operativo) para dar coherencia a una serie de  acciones orientadas a permitir el acceso de nuevas personas al servicio de  transporte aéreo.
this case specifically  focuses on the pre-practicum experience and how despite efforts and a spirit of  collaboration, there can be a disconnection of theory to practice.
this case is designed for use in classes that explore the operations,  business strategy, business ethics, or organizational dynamics.
it challenges students to analyze a small business’s financial  standing based upon the reality that it is common for a small business to not  keep or use extensive or comprehensive financial statements.
companies  that had been taken private through leveraged buyouts were underperforming and  could default on their loans.
third, this case aims at raising awareness to the students about the role of philanthropy in bringing global social justice and access to healthcare.
not only did sonoma wine company accomplish this cleaning by rejuvenating its water pumps and aerators, but also put practices in place to ensure that the water flowing to the pond is as clean as possible.
the challenges come from the scientific/technical aspect of aids  vaccine research, social value on curative rather preventive measure,lack of a  coordinated scientific strategy, competition rather than collaboration among  research groups, low interest by industry and the government of rich countries  in investing in vaccine research and generally inadequate funding for the  enormous task at hand.
the (a) case traces the events leading up to may 2004, when the residents of this long island community discovered that the school budget that they were voting on would result in a significant increase in property tax rates.
the  strategy entailed reinstituting the mission into core operations.
this case is intended for  senior undergraduate and advanced graduate courses in financial accounting and  finance where financial statement recasting and business valuation topics are  taught.
the case describes a louisiana family’s highly  profitable motel business which appeared to be at a crossroads.
abbott utilized a tiered pricing strategy for kaletra, charging lower prices in  less developed countries to make the drugs more affordable.
finally, he needs to analyze the impact on kenton county if tank borrows over $7 million to fund the acquisition and thus incurs substantial principal and interest payments that were not in the previous budget or their pro-formas.
circle 6 was a small entrepreneurial company that had pioneered mainframe call center software but allowed their product line to become antiquated.
contact person: john melnyk, business and  administration department, the university of winnipeg, 515 portage avenue,  winnipeg, mb canada r3b 2e9, 204-786-9833,j.melnyk@uwinnipeg.ca the women’s bean project (2008)
peter weighed the financial costs of leaving his lucrative position versus the non-financial return of spending more time with his family and pursuing outside interests.
while corporate training markets are attractive for their huge sales potentials, john and jack do not understand these markets as well as they understand higher education.
in 2008, as sullivan tried to implement a new strategy, economic recession hit retailers hard.
contact person: sandra blanke, college of business, graduate school of management ,university of dallas, 1845 east northgate drive, irving, tx 75062, sblanke@gsm.udallas.edu case objective this case may be addressed in different ways, contingent upon students’ profile and experience, number of sessions available and teaching objectives.
this model, which has a larger screen than its predecessor, was launched in early may 2009 and targeted at the college student market.
contact person:  marlene m. reed, hankamer school of business, baylor university, one bear  place #98006, waco, tx  76798-8006, (254) 710-4868, marlene_reed@baylor.edu don francis and the quest for an aids vaccine wartini pramana & emmanuel raufflet, hec montréal case objective the purpose of this case is three-fold.
case synopsis the ‘government intelligence in catalan public universities’ case presents how business intelligence is applied within a public administration body, specifically the dursi (department of universities, research and information society, in the original catalandepartament d’universitats, recerca i societat de la informació) belonging to the government of catalonia (spain).
at the time the case ends in july 2008, the  company employed 500 people and had sales of $200 million.
at this point, with no potential or active customer, the project  was put on hiatus.
512-448-8562, aundreag@stedwards.edu case objective this case examines the potentially conflicting interests of potential public health concerns, public security concerns and pr and brand management issues after a crisis.
the case was designed to hone analytical skills and  decision-making ability and provide opportunities to apply michael
it is written for senior undergraduates but is appropriate for graduate level and management development courses.
in short, these teachers provide multiple models of how to lead from the classroom.
contact person: tucker j. marion, northeastern  university, college of business administration, 360 huntington avenue 101  stearns, boston, ma 02120, 617-373-2241,t.marion@neu.edu.
it is also well suited for discussion as in graduate and undergraduate courses on consumer behavior, particularly when studying brand image and positioning as well as brand equity.
it also gives answer  to questions like: can we measure the value of a given strategy?
the case is primarily  based on videoed class visits and tape-recorded interviews with grant hall in  2008 and 2009, and on an analysis of documentation provided by grant.
the case suits first or second year graduate students, especially majors in finance.
the  case and instructor’s manual were anonymously peer reviewed and accepted  by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting,  october 29-31, 2009.
also, local cody, wyoming business owners had begun a foundation for those wishing to donate to the monk’s cause.
the case was written for  business school undergraduate courses in entrepreneurship, business strategy,  and business and society.
the company’s  business model was modified in 1999 to create an online investment brokerage  that catered to small- and medium-sized investors.
all rights are  reserved to the author and nacra.
conceptual dimension- apply theories of utilitarianism, ethical relativism, and corporate responsibility to a real case.
the case is applicable to strategic  management, entrepreneurship, hospitality, and small business classes but  contains financial and behavioral data sufficient to provoke lively debate in  finance or behavior classes.
these can be related to  discussion on pricing strategies such as skim versus penetration.
the case is appropriate for the early part of undergraduate or graduate courses in entrepreneurship/small business management or operations management.
should the pre-practicum model just be revised, relocated or abandoned?the author developed the case for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
kathryn savage, northern  arizona university case objective the teaching objectives for this case include increasing student’s
the setting is manhattan and northern new jersey during the late 1990s.
analizar un esquema de relacionamiento con los stakeholders o grupos de interés, en este caso, especialmente, con la comunidad local, los grupos indígenas y los consumidores  de ingresos bajos.
the pressure is on to fill the positions because the opg plants are about to experience a large increase in the number of contractors who perform yearly maintenance on the plants.
it also raises fundamental issues about local sourcing, promoting consumption and managing resultant waste, as well as debate about how to effectively close the loop (mcdonough & braungart, 2002).
at the request of the internal auditor, lily had already  filled out a self evaluation for cash and check handling.
case a covers the initial formation of the organization in 1994 and culminates in a decision point regarding a possible relationship with a social venture consulting group in early 2005.
barnes worried about jeopardizing his working relationship and his many friendships with hilltop’s members, particularly if the accusations were incorrect.
this case is  suitable for written reports, oral presentations, and examination purposes.
this model, which has a larger screen  than its predecessor, was launched in early may 2009 and targeted at the  college student market.
the  decisions about the nailer and the heat treatment systems relate not only  financial risk for the company, but more importantly long term how the company  should position itself strategically.
challenges in regards to building a sustainable society includes scrutinizing  every aspect of human activity.
the case was written for use in a course in which ethics is  taught at either the undergraduate or graduate level.
michelle  jeske, vp of business management, knew that it would take more than visionary  ideas to bring real change to traditional k-12 educational resources.
nuevos países productores de vino; chile, estados unidos, argentina y australia entre otros han estrado al mercado ocupando importantes cuotas de mercado.
when his son, steve, graduated from williams college, alfredo convinced him to come into the firm.
© 2009  by susan d. peters and brianna zhang.
the case objectives also aim to foment critical thinking in students, but above all, they ask students to see creativity not as daydreaming, but as a methodological exercise to understand the limits of reality and to manage a company so that it takes actions and makes realistic commitments.
he also knew that, as a subsidiary company, adnexus had significant financial advantages over other independent biotechnology firms, but he also knew that additional resources would only come after positive clinical results.
he must also confront the potential conflict of interest in distributingminibonds through his sales team, in view of the possible inability of clients to understand the difference between a bank deposit and a structured investment vehicle.
each of these  organizations collects food which it then distributes to the needy and hungry.
contact person: josep franch, esade  business school, av.
the  cooperative textbook manager is concerned with control procedures to prevent  large, obsolete textbook inventories from building up again.
in early 2006, helen drinan, senior vice president, human resources, caritas christi health care, boston, received two sexual harassment charges against the organization’s ceo and president robert haddad.
the question is not whether there will be discharge or not but whether to flush or not to flush.
the case includes detail on the history and business operations of the  winery, background data on the u.s. wine industry, demographics of u.s.
and  upon the net proceeds for the three partners.
case synopsis the case features river bend trading, a small retail gift and apparel  business in columbus, montana, population 2,000.
the case study offers an excellent opportunity to analyse the link between  strategic decisions and their associated economic value.
it is suggested that it be limited to  courses that are upper division (junior and senior levels) only and where  students have been exposed to the use of cases.
contact person:  susan d.  peters, director, center for entrepreneurship, francis marion university, po  box 100547, florence, sc 29502,  843-661-1102, speters@fmarion.edu kindle-dx: rethinking amazon.com’s strategy to target college
el proyecto se constituye como un servicio público con alto impacto económico y político, con una considerable inversión en un plazo de maduración largo, y con posibles dificultades técnicas durante la construcción y posterior explotación de la planta.
while lien holders and experts in the field, such as hud, mortgage holders, and industry accountants, urged the mutual to file for bankruptcy, the mutual’s chairman was unyielding.
the liberty pantry  concept offered the prospect of balancing uneven food supply, generating  additional revenues and feeding more hungry people.
first, it is to portray the  trajectory of don francis, a scientist, an advocate, and a social entrepreneur  in the meanders of the public, private and non-profit sectors in the quest for  the an aids vaccine.
the vna organization supports 8,000 employees, home bound patients and individuals in need of “meals on wheels”.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were submitted to the north  american case research association (nacra) for its annual meeting, october  29-31, 2009, santa cruz, ca.
telefónica chile pensaba que con este lanzamiento podría igualar la oferta de productos de su principal competidor y con ello, diversificar su negocio ingresando a una nueva industria.
at the beginning of 2002, management is faced with a decision of whether or not to go ahead with the project.
contact person: john j. vitton, management department, stop  8377, university of north dakota, grand forks, nd 58202.
when housing prices began to decline in 2006, the value of many of these bonds collapsed, and moody’s was forced to downgrade them steeply.
case objective the case places the students in the role of a commercial banker who must decide the appropriateness and method of distribute a complex structured finance product to retail bank customers.
a fundamental feature of the mutual’s mission was to provide services to its residents in a variety of areas, including job training, after-school programs and homeownership programs.
case synopsis marcia warner became the grand rapids public library (grpl) director in  2005.
the company could not rush its clinical trials, nor could it  take regulatory shortcuts.
the case,  instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed and  accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its annual  meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29-31, 2009.
case synopsis this case dives into possibly the most dramatic business development of  recent decades, the globalization of the information technology services  industry that exploits the almost instant transfer of data between continents.
roots of peace aim is to rid the world of landmines transforming treacherously toxic minefields into thriving farmland.
the case was written for business school undergraduate and graduate courses in computer systems, information technology, business leadership and strategy, healthcare management, and information assurance.
it also raises  fundamental issues about local sourcing, promoting consumption and managing  resultant waste, as well as debate about how to effectively close the loop  (mcdonough & braungart, 2002).
the immediate issues were to account for the valuation loss for inventory of non-returnable, obsolete books and to value the remaining retail inventory for reporting purposes.
case synopsis laird pfizer was a senior software engineer at circle 6 in january 2004 who wrestled with the development of a memo to all company employees about the crisis involving the entire board and management expressing their intention to resign from the company.
the pressure is  on to fill the positions because the opg plants are about to experience a large  increase in the number of contractors who perform yearly maintenance on the  plants.
the authors developed these cases for class discussion rather than to  illustrate either effective or ineffective handling of the situation.
case synopsis in guadalajara, jalisco mexico, the microbrewery la minerva recentedly launched a new beer named malverde.
the case details operations of a college bookstore, the  bookstore cooperative, and focuses on valuation and timing of obsolete textbook  write-downs, retail inventory accounting and flawed inventory controls.
contact person: jeanne m. logsdon, anderson school of management, university of new mexico, msc05 3090, 1 university of new mexico, albuquerque, nm 87131-001, 505-277-8352,logsdon@mgt.unm.edu case objective this case reveals the story of omar bros, a native of the dominican republic, and his desire to use a portion of his profits on a new semi-mobile ethanol mill to improve the standard of living of the impoverished haitian immigrants who live in the mata de palma region of the dominican republic.
contact author: christopher cassidy, division of  management, marketing, and mis, lewis college of business, marshall university,  one john marshall drive, huntington wv 25755, 304-696-4320,  cassidyc@marshall.edu kuan long plastic injection inc: strategic  planning development from scratch an ni chen & laura whitcomb california state university los angeles case objective the core learning objective of this case centers upon how to prepare and  implement the strategic planning development for a small family business in  taiwan.
sin embargo, el modelo de negocio de la compañía hacia inviable ofrecer precios más baratos, mas aún en una coyuntura en la que el precio del petróleo presentaba una tendencia al alza.
during economic downturns, most not for profit organizations face decreased donations.
by improving employee welfare, scc is also contributing to the larger community by alleviating poverty and by strengthening families.
however,  a class visiting the microbrewery asked each other ¨was this decision  ethical?
cynthia ingols, school of management, simmons college, 300 the fenway, boston ma 02115, 617.521.3837,cynthia.ingols@simmons.edu case objective analytical dimensions- develop ability to apply ethical principle to real and particular context.- propose ideas or decisions that are relating the ethical principle with a particular context or situation.- make ethical priorities based on facts.- to know how to apply particular ethical theories in particular concept.
lo interesante es que esto último se produce desde la óptica del inversor (en este caso el estudiante) lo que genera un aprendizaje “interesado” por parte de este último.
as a result of that decision, 40,000 gallons of water per unit per year may be conserved, a significant amount considering the current drought.
case synopsis agiltron incorporated (www.agiltron.com) is a leading  producer and developer of innovative photonic components and systems.
while the majority of  surgeries are free, aravind is financially self-supporting.
the firm’s and just purchased competitor webct, and its desired strategy included expanding into the k-12 market.
the bridal and formal wear industry was experiencing growth in online sales, therefore decreasing sales at traditional bridal shops.
la economía global en crisis, la  estrategia será decisiva para permitir la permanencia y  consolidación de château fonchereau en el mercado y comenzar a ser  redituable el próximo año” reflexionaba.
the case was written for business school undergraduate and graduate level  courses in operations management and leadership.
the management knew that developing a  finished product was their best high-growth strategy, but it would involve  directly competing with giants like microsoft and ibm, which is something they  wanted to avoid.
etraffic had a head start on the online learning world and needed a strategy to distinguish them and grow their current market share.
¿deberá telefónica, con una casa matriz en españa, ingresar al mercado de televisión de pago en chile?.
while successful in avoiding disposal, the case questions whether guildcraft is  as green or environmentally responsible as its ceo both believes and touts.
under his direction vci became a leading chamber music and recital series of the winnipeg arts scene.
the student has the opportunities to work with breakeven analysis, segmentation criteria, target market potential and types of segmenting strategies.
ranjan knew that the growth and financials of the company in the last few years had been good and qualitatively he had been able to make team computers a force to reckon with in the market and achieve industry recognition.
the  case, instructor’s manual, and synopsis were anonymously peer reviewed  and accepted by the north american case research association (nacra) for its  annual meeting, santa cruz, ca, october 29–31, 2009.
winston kwok must decide whether or not to distribute the minibonds to his customers, given that competitors are selling them  and that customers appear to be comfortable with financial risk.
one of the major problems beth faces is how  to sustain and raise the money needed so desperately in order to provide the  needs and care the refugees deserve.
these four cases treat global social and ethical issues and  concerns.
at this point, with no potential or active customer, the project was put on hiatus.
at the  conclusion of the case, students should be able to offer recommendations to  improve the monks’ approach to crafting and executing strategy.
shortly,  thereafter, the grpl implemented and applied the lean methods successfully to  the grpl processes and system.
case synopsis started in the late 1980’s, a local activist group in the small town  of graton, (population 1,815) named graton association to stop pollution (gasp)  came to the management team of sonoma wine company with major concerns about  the wastewater pond the winery was using.
the end result of the mata de palma project was to create a self-sustaining economy supported by the demand for agricultural products and technological innovations of the mill.handling of the situation.
the protagonist of the case, eudald mestres, has recently joined the diue and should, in addition, offer support to catalan public universities in terms of implementing the bologna plan, with the economic pressures that this implies.
his goal is to spend more time with his growing family and pursue numerous outside interests while still meeting his financial obligations to his family.
these changes lead her to consider starting her own business, an idea that becomes more interesting once she hears of a successful sugarless bakery in another part of the state.
this case was primarily designed for undergraduate, graduate, and executive level courses in strategic management.
additionally, it experienced a high number of customer complaints and lack of effective internal and external communication prior to the lean implementation.
therefore, the case may be appealing to a wide range of courses where handling a crisis is the central focus.
scc’s social entrepreneur, susan matteucci, has taken the position that an organization can exist to further the welfare of its employees.
the objectives of this case are to raise awareness of this highly successful non-profit organization, and to allow students to evaluate wbp’s decision of diversifying into a new jewelry-making venture.
scc is organized as a non-profit contract manufacturing business and provides  full-time sewing and handwork jobs.
the  founders, however, want novica to be much more: a truly global presence,
however, marcia has increased obligations to her patrons and board.
contact person: anne t. lawrence, college of business, san jose state university, one washington square, san jose, ca 95192-0070, (408) 924-3586, lawren_a@cob.sjsu.edu.
un poco más tarde la casa ya contaba con una capacidad de producción de 160 mil botellas, algunos de sus vinos fueron premiados en concursos internacionales.
la reunión hace que juan antonio fernández se de cuenta que a 20 años de su edad de retiro no tiene un adecuado planteo de sus finanzas para dicho momento.
he also knew that, as a subsidiary company,  adnexus had significant financial advantages over other independent  biotechnology firms, but he also knew that additional resources would only come  after positive clinical results.
these choices may challenge the very business model that has made the company so successful.
copyright by devi akella, college of business, albany state university, albany, ga 31707,dakella@hotmail.com, 229-4304775 case objective the vermilion iron mining case is used to specifically discuss ethical decision-making, this case can also be tied in to a variety of topics throughout the duration of a course.
the challenge he and his colleagues faced was managing the clinical process, and ensuring that, from one phase to the next, milestones were consistently hit, with the ultimate goal being a product reaching the market.
it is the year 2006 and events  manager g.t. finds that she has been bypassed for the top job of creative  director.
the role of social enterprise a  nonprofit organization is explored, in that fsfb hopes to generate a revenue  stream to be applied to other programs.
en ese momento, el  mercado de la televisión de pago estaba dominado por un competidor, vtr,  quién ofrecía un “bundling” de productos  (telefonía fija, internet de banda ancha y televisión de pago) lo  cual era altamente valorado por los clientes.
it is designed for analysis by upper  division and graduate students, or in executive development programs.
4155,  mjulien@brocku.ca.
jon kalinowski,  timothy w. scott, paul l. schumann,john a. kaliski &  claudia h. pragmanminnesota state university mankato case objective the case shows how a college faculty member and a  business partner started one of the first elearning system companies.
the  case includes a video featuring one of backcountry’s annual employee  parties which signals the start of the company’s main selling season.
the  strategy issue in the case involves how to re-position and market a  not-for-profit brand in a changed environment.
contact person:  marilyn  l. taylor, henry w. bloch school of business and public administration,  university of missouri at kansas city, 5110 cherry, kansas city, mo, 64110,  816-235-5774,taylorm@umkc.edu reinventing coffee grounds
the case was developed as two assignments capped by a team final for  an mba economics course for medical students in a joint medical degree-mba  program at rockhurst university.
he was the only  partner involved in the day-to-day operations of the business.
telefónica chile - televisión  digital (b) carolina castro, pamela muñoz, &  andrés nawrath, universidad de chileismael oliva  (faculty supervisor), universidad de chile case objective el caso muestra a una empresa multinacional,  “telefónica”, en su estrategia de diversificación de  producto.
joe anderson’s paper contained statements that have been historically used as anti-semitic slogans.
letters from a lawyer hired by the apgars, apparently without board approval,  seemed to tell a story of harassment of the professor and lack of attention to  legal niceties.
alicia es ponente en el panel de inauguración del simposio internacional:
the case was written for an undergraduate strategic  management course.
benetech’s focus is on high social value despite low potential for generating a typical market rate of return on investment.
what if his involvement put him and his employer at risk?the names of all entities, their locations, and the people involved in this case have been disguised.
all rights reserved  to the authors and nacra.
the case focuses on the strategic decision of whether the mutual  should file for bankruptcy and sell the properties or to stay committed to its  mission and continue operations.
although the committee had been active in  meeting with numerous government officials, it had not been successful in  preventing investors from building in the city.
contact person: steven m. cox, queens university of charlotte,  charlotte, nc, 1900 selwyn ave., nc 28274, 704-688-2702,coxs@queens.edu exi corporation daniel f. jennings, texas a&m  universitylane batson & aaron schrems protec equipment resources, inc. case objective this case describes the unethical behavior of a partner in a business who  has been rebuffed in an attempt to buy-out his business partner.
if eminent domain is invoked, how will tank be able to pay for the land and improvements?
this $5.00 would provide a mosquito net to prevent the number one cause of death at the camp, malaria.
this case is designed to facilitate discussion in graduate and undergraduate courses in business ethics and/or social responsibility.
father prior had identified a nearby ranch for sale that met the requirements of his vision perfectly, but its current listing price of $8.9 million presented a financial obstacle to creating a place of prayer, worship, and solitude in the rockies.
it may also have a broader application in an introductory course in health care ethics or as a unit or module in a broader applied ethics course.
following  the guidelines in the case, students will be able to calculate fuel efficiency,  fuel costs, and industry specific metrics, such as available seat kilometers,  load distances, and number of flights needed to meet demand.
however, in making  the choices they must make tradeoffs in the quality of care and quality of life  for themselves.
courses that include modules on intellectual property may also find this case useful.
the case centers around eric furfine, senior vice president of r&d.
anahid saeidi, american gts, 2369 colorado blvd., suite #201, los angeles, ca 90041, 818-310-3105, mhsaeidi@aol.com case objective the seacoast science center (ssc) case is designed to provide students with an opportunity to analyze and discuss the roles of top management and the board of directors in a not for profit organization.
this case was made possible by a corporation that prefers to remain  anonymous.
it requires decisions to be made regarding the analysis and  selection of markets that the company could focus on, as well as alternative  strategies to enter foreign markets.
de longitud que conectase la planta con la  subestación eléctrica más cercana.
these  characteristics, along with superior customer service, had assisted the shop in  establishing a large customer base despite its rural location.
however, new technology includes a more efficient option; the waterless urinals  which are now in use in many facilities and can save millions of gallons of  water annually.
in 2007, montana silversmiths decided to manage the outlet and revoked m&l’s right to sell its products.
case synopsis oliver winery is a southern indiana company that has  taken a values-based approach to business and reaped the benefits in becoming  the single largest indiana winery with sales just under $15 million and a wine  selection that sells in states such as (name states here) and is the home of  the largest selling wine in both the states of indiana and kentucky.
the authors developed the case  for class discussion rather than to illustrate either effective or ineffective  handling of the situation.
case synopsis this case follows the development of the center moriches school board, based on the events that shaped that development.
© 2009 by gordon von stroh & vijaya narapareddy.
this case can be used as the basis for class discussion and/or for a written assignment.
case synopsis the case study offers an account of the horrific gas tragedy which occurred at the ucil gas plant site of bhopal in northern india in 1984.
en efecto, a finales de 2001, la agencia nacional de energía eléctrica (aneel), el organismo regulador del sector eléctrico en brasil, adjudicó a la compañía energía de brasil (edb) la concesión para construir y operar una central hidroeléctrica por un período de treinta y cinco años.
higher prices were charged in more developed/high income countries such as the united states.
it  would fit most appropriately in a strategic management course during  discussions of corporate social responsibility or competitive advantage.
as a leading example of a successful social enterprise in the albuquerque  metropolitan area, scc has become a pivotal member both the non-profit and  manufacturing community.
(607) 777-4422, e-mail: aullmann@binghamton.edu continental  airlines – 2009 john j. vitton & jonathan b. northard university of north dakota case objective this case study was developed to examine the complex interaction of  political, economic and competitive forces in the general and industry  environments that impact upon an airline’s profitability and ultimate  survivability.
this substantial risk is priced and the  price allows theminibonds to offer attractive “interest”  to investors.
the lack of effective staff supervision has resulted  in several significant problems.
the  bookstore cooperative director questions whether newly discovered textbook  obsolescence is serious enough that board members need be apprised and whether  the losses will be reported in current year financial statements.
in the wake  of these failures, credit froze up, consumer confidence plunged, and job losses  deepened across the global economy.
the case probes  into the background, attitude and motivation of union carbide, ucc which is the  parent company of the indian branch ucil, leading to the fatal disaster.
its importance lies in its emphasis on evaluating the elements needed to create and manage a biotechnology new product development process and pipeline.
sin  embargo, el modelo de negocio de la compañía hacia inviable  ofrecer precios más baratos, mas aún en una coyuntura en la que  el precio del petróleo presentaba una tendencia al alza.
new york life insurance company:
© 2009 by matthew levy and gerald m. myers.