view subscription options continue cancel your account is using facebook login for connecting to poughkeepsiejournal.com.
see our paid archives for news older than a week.
wellness a monthly health, wellness and exercise magazine view subscription options learn more current subscriber?
water is a precious resource.
create my account keep me signed in on this computer or learn more about login with facebook need help?
users of this site agree to theterms of service, privacy notice/your california privacy rights, and ad choices
my account - newsletters - log out - log in - subscribe - e-newspaper - help - subscriber services - contact us - buy a classified ad - retail advertising - faq - news - obituaries - towns - sports - life - enjoy!
call 1-877-424-4341 reset your password enter your email and we will send you a link to reset your password.
- 12:25 am latest headlines - business & industry 2012 - ibm - young professionals tax time is scam time even if your tax return has fewer zeros than mitt romney's, it contains a cornucopia of information...- 1:02 am week ahead:
- opinion - business - get deals latest headlines - special reports - databases - nation & world - education - 7-day archives - submit your news - crime & courts suspects plenty in the vanishing of michelle eason more than 14 years after she was last seen around main street in the city of poughkeepsie, michelle...- 12:28 am new map challenges incumbents new congressional lines in new york will cut into some incumbents' advantages as they seek...- 12:58 am chili fans raise funds to fight colon cancer poughkeepsie resident dan lang said he wanted to support the premier cares foundation by attending...- 12:53 am - northern dutchess co. - - central dutchess co. - southern dutchess co. - - ulster county latest headlines - hs sports - varsity club - marist sports - players: rec sports - buy game tickets ncaa final four: good stories to tell, but no cinderellas one game is a grudge match between teams that know each other all too well.- 11:49 pm local roundup: marist cruises in water polo over vmi 19-7 scoring 14 first-half goals, the marist college water polo team rolled over virginia military...
people might come to the class with the idea that its going to save them money but were very, very honest about that, she says.
the saga of the missing $9.6 million: in the end, it's gone - 3 suspects plenty in the vanishing of michelle eason - 4 another japan reactor shuts down; only one left - 5 victim of chimp attack, a former poughkeepsie woman, says conn.
she said many rain-barrel users like that rainwater does not contain chlorine, fluoride or other chemicals that municipalities use to treat water.
his ball safely over the water, tiger woods walked toward the 18th green sunday as he had done over...
it wont have a huge impact.
the barrels can be purchased for $50 to $120 each, or constructed out of food-grade drums.
email reset my password cancel ok resend email need help?
thank you for subscribing.
we hope you have enjoyed your complimentary access.
it's possible that your browser cookies are turned off.
call 1-877-424-4341 users of this site agree to the terms of service, privacy notice/your california privacy rights, and ad choices you must have browser cookies enabled to view our site.
rain barrel usage is on the rise around the country, according to gardening and conservation experts.
the environmental issue is what were looking at.
log in you now have full access.
alice snider/ap written by melissa kossler dutton the associated press robin blair does what she can to help her plants thrive.
log in account retrieval
why not collect rainwater and reuse it?
latest headlines - living & being - busy cook - horoscopes - vow factor/weddings - games/fun - crosswords - health fierce fashion: 5 trends to watch for in fall looks thousands of outfits later, with probably every hemline, color and silhouette turning up somewhere...- 12:43 am kids become cartoon heroes kids who love the pixar movies "cars," "ratatouille," "up," "toy story" and "the incredibles" will...- 12:35 am good life for kids early in the morning the sun jumps in the deep orange sky then i know it's sunset spring...- 12:34 am latest headlines - tv listings - pub crawl - nightlife/dining - music music monday:
she also waters them regularly with rainwater captured in barrels in the yard of her a link to this page will be included in your message real deals flip, shop and save on specials from your favorite retailers in poughkeepsie, ny, 12602 get deals
if your subscription currently includes delivery of the print edition, enter your account infomation below.
call 1-877-424-4341 log in please log into your account.
an australian pop quartet's music really got a hold of smokey robinson.- 1:11 pm personalities aretha franklin has a lot more than her 70th birthday to celebrate: she says she's reuniting with...- 12:43 am 'games' brings in $155 million "the hunger games" has filled fan appetites with a $155 million opening weekend that puts it near...- 12:33 am latest headlines - editorials - letters to the editor - editorial cartoons - valley views - forums - all columnists editorial cartoon: 3/26 - 12:24 am letters to the editor: 3/26 recently a member of the administration stated they were not concerned with the price of oil.- 12:25 am 3 cheers to the democracy of daffodils.
letters and numbers only.)
- jobs - cars - homes - apartments - buy & sell - get deals - hi, -
smokey robinson-backed aussie pop group to tour us detroit
gov knew of danger - 5 fact check: gas prices didn't fall with more drilling - 3 letters to the editor for 3/25 - 2 exclusive journal report: dutchess taxpayers' pension costs headed for $61 million in 2013 - 1 letters to the editor: 3/26 - 1 hyde park hires new police chief on part-time basis - device lets you enjoy soda without bottles mar. 25, 2012 - tap the rain to water your yard mar. 24, 2012 - studies: artificial food dyes pose health concern mar. 25, 2012 - outing brings several first-of-season sightings mar. 25, 2012 - try this take on pasta and sauce with local ingredients mar. 25, 2012 - teen volunteers needed for science, nature camp mar. 25, 2012 most viewed photo galleries - st. patrick's day at mahoney's - controlled burn advertisement email this article tap the rain to water your yard robin blair does what she can to help her plants thrive.
in addition to watering the garden, some people use rainwater for koi ponds or aquariums, says dotty woodson, extension program specialist for water resources at texas agrilife extension service in dallas.
a 55-gallon barrel connected to a 1,000-square-foot roof will fill up during a 1-inch rain.
email password forgot your email or password?
call 1-877-424-4341 account retrieval
she also waters them regularly with rainwater captured in barrels in the yard of her shrewsbury, n.j., home.
she plants them in good soil and keeps the weeds away.
tiger back on familiar ground, gets first pga win in 30 months
continue > register create an account or if you have digital profile log in.
rainwater is void of chemicals.
zip phone number get my account info cancel not a subscriber?
call 1-877-424-4341 need help?
flash is required to continue to continue using your current web browser, adobe flash must be installed or upgraded: download flash or upgrade to one of these modern browsers: advertisement - google chrome - firefox - safari site map | back to top - news - special reports - databases - nation & world - education - 7-day archives - submit your news - crime & courts - business - business & industry 2012 - ibm - young professionals - obituaries - life - living & being - busy cook - horoscopes - vow factor/weddings - games/fun - crosswords - health - towns - northern dutchess co. - central dutchess co. - southern dutchess co. - ulster county - opinion - editorials - letters to the editor - editorial cartoons - valley views - forums - all columnists - sports - hs sports - varsity club - marist sports - players: rec sports - enjoy!
now most popular - hyde park hires new police chief on part-time basis - exclusive journal report: dutchess taxpayers' pension costs headed for $61 million in 2013 - varsity club extra: 2012 high school baseball preview - police: kingston man faces charges in lloyd, poughkeepsie - victim of chimp attack, a former poughkeepsie woman, says conn.
gov knew of danger - mid-hudson briefs - women's basketball: griner dunks as baylor women rout georgia tech subscribe!
its kinder to plants and landscaping, says blair, who has two rain barrels and a cistern tied into her gutter system.
read our faq page to find out how to enable cookies in your browser.
cancel you can change your login preferences in your account settings after logging in.
latest blogs - under the ring q & a with arn anderson - wwe heading to mid-hudson civic center on may 23 - hudson valley celiac support group, march meeting read more
name gender select female male birth year zip code email password (5-30 characters, no spaces.
log in keep me signed in on this computer or learn more about login with facebook need help?
tiger back  on familiar ground, gets first pga win in 30 months
rain barrels also have a tap that can be used to fill watering cans or connect to a hose.
most rain barrels hold around 55 gallons of water and are connected to a downspout.
tweet - email - print - share - linkedin - tumblr - stumbleupon - reddit - del.icio.us - digg view comments | share your thoughts » more in news advertisement - most popular - most commented - more headlines - 1 police: kingston man faces charges in lloyd, poughkeepsie - 2
sign up for home delivery today reader forums see all forums archives view the last seven days - yesterday, mar. 25 - saturday, mar. 24 - friday, mar. 23 - thursday, mar. 22 - wednesday, mar. 21 - tuesday, mar. 20 - monday, mar. 19
collecting the water is easy, she says, and good for her plants and the environment.
- tv listings - pub crawl - nightlife/dining - music - follow us - twitter - facebook - mobile - rss - e-mail alerts - text alerts - news - | - jobs - | - cars for sale - | - homes for sale - | - apartments for rent - | - real estate - | - shopping copyright © 2012 www.poughkeepsiejournal.com.
his ball safely over  the water, tiger woods walked toward the 18th green sunday as he had done  over... living & being
in this sept. 13, 2009 image released by alice snider, a decorated rain barrel, ?butterfly garden,? is connected to a downspout in a backyard, where it will capture rainwater for watering garden beds.
continue reading » advertisement you will be redirected to the page you want to view in seconds.
low credit, no problem: americans pile into junk new york americans have a thing for junk.- 4:59 pm screen on new ipad is eye-opening upgrade beware the new ipad, not because it's an inferior product, but because it's a superior one.- 11:08 pm search - featured: - my valley - videos - watchdog reports - blogs - dealchicken search in news archives local deals businesses & services advertisement tap the rain to water your yard 11:29 pm, mar. 24, 2012 | comments tweet - email - print - share - linkedin - tumblr - stumbleupon - reddit - del.icio.us - digg
(ap photo/alice snider) /
become a subscriber today to enjoy these benefits: view subscription options - 24/7 access to our web site - ipad-optimized edition - our mobile site & iphone app current subscriber?
latest headlines ncaa final four:  good stories to tell, but no cinderellas one game is a grudge match  between teams that know each other all too well.- 11:49 pm local roundup:  marist cruises in water polo over vmi 19-7 scoring 14 first-half goals,  the marist college water polo team rolled over virginia military...
they normally have an overflow pipe that detours excess water away from a homes foundation, and a filter that prevents mosquitoes from entering.