a 1,000 square-foot roof generates 420  gallons of water for every inch of rain - about seven barrels full.
one of the ways to do that is dig up lawns and instead cultivate native plants with long root systems that are naturally resilient.
more daily tribune blogs more blogs on micentral.com view all ap national headlines © copyright 2012
"drain all water from your equipment and make sure you clean and dry your boat."
michigan has lost between 50-85 percent.
hammond does not  have a lawn at her ferndale home.
support  local, state and federal efforts to clean up the great lakes.
"drain all water from your equipment and make  sure you clean and dry your boat."
nearly half  of those have arrived via ocean-going freighters.
at 3,200 miles, michigan has the  longest fresh water shoreline of any state and the second longest in the  country - alaska is first.
they provide drinking water for 30 million people in the basin.
some experts estimate that  an acre of wetlands is lost to development every minute.
at 3,200 miles, michigan has the longest fresh water shoreline of any state and the second longest in the country - alaska is first.
one of the ways to do that is dig up lawns and instead cultivate native  plants with long root systems that are naturally resilient.
the great lakes basin is also inundated with polluted runoff  from farms and cities in the form of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides,  pharmaceuticals and potentially dangerous bacteria.
the first three are legacy pollutants, the use of which has been prohibited, but which don't go away.
traces of pharmaceutical drugs have been detected by federal health officials in 80 percent of 139 streams and rivers they tested in 30 states, including michigan."
"once you get  connected to it, you'll want to protect it."
start literally in your own backyard and in your own  house, says rebecca hammond, of ferndale, a member of the south eastern  michigan group of sierra club.
but water hasn't always been a resource that we've properly protected.
plant trees  and install rain gardens to slow, absorb and clean rainwater.
for the daily  tribune) the problems facing the great lakes, including critical local links such as  the st. clair river and lake st. clair, sometimes seem overwhelming.
the primary persistent toxins  in the lakes are pcbs, ddt, dioxin and mercury.
install  water efficient hardware and appliances in your homes and businesses.
what you can do to protect the health of the great lakes published: thursday, october 06, 2011 tweet for the daily tribune click to enlarge rebecca hammond displays green products that may be used for cleaning -  vinegar, baking soda and peroxide.
if you're a  recreational boater - a $9.4 billion per year industry in the region, providing  60,000 jobs - there are a number of actions you can take to prevent the spread  of invasive species.
hammond does not have a lawn at her ferndale home.
text dtnews to 22700 to subscribe.
according to  michigan sea grant, a 10-30 percent restoration of the lakes would trigger  $7.2-13.2 billion in long-term economic benefits for michigan and as much as  $31 billion for the basin.
you must be logged in to post a comment.*member id: do not use usernames or passwords from your financial accounts!
according to michigan sea grant, a 10-30 percent restoration of the lakes would trigger $7.2-13.2 billion in long-term economic benefits for michigan and as much as $31 billion for the basin.
they provide drinking water  for 30 million people in the basin.
michigan is home to 11,000 lakes, 56,000 ponds and  35,000 rivers.
the lakes represent more than 20 percent of the world's fresh surface water.
if you're a recreational boater - a $9.4 billion per year industry in the region, providing 60,000 jobs - there are a number of actions you can take to prevent the spread of invasive species.
"a mix of baking soda and peroxide will take stains out of anything - it's a miracle cleaner.
recreational boaters sometimes play an unwitting role in spreading invasive species.
conserve water and  avoid dumping used water back into public sewer systems, she said.
where do you start when you're trying to deal with the eminent invasion of asian carp, persistent toxins throughout the great lakes basin, the loss of fish and wildlife habitat, especially wetlands, pollution related to runoff from the land and the ongoing threats of massive diversions of water from the lakes to other states?
continued... 1 3 see full story "enjoy michigan's water," hammond said.
nearly half of those have arrived via ocean-going freighters.
"don't burn your trash.
"a mix of  baking soda and peroxide will take stains out of anything - it's a miracle  cleaner.
by and large, the great lakes compact, ratified  by congress in 2008, protects the basin from large-scale water diversions.
michigan is home to 11,000 lakes, 56,000 ponds and 35,000 rivers.
mercury, however, is a key byproduct of coal-burning power plants which dot the local waterways.
water may be removed in containers smaller than 5.7 gallons.
"they also  act as the kidneys of the great lakes," said hammonds, slowing and  cleaning the rush of water from the mainland.
"don't buy bottled water," she said, also noting the huge  waste generated in the form of plastic bottles.
but water hasn't  always been a resource that we've properly protected.
in no way do they represent the view of the daily tribune or dailytribune.com.
hammonds  drains her bathwater into rain barrels using $3 hoses and a hand pump meant to  siphon gas.
connect your downspouts to  rain barrels to water your property.
continued... "enjoy michigan's water," hammond said.
mercury, however, is a key byproduct of coal-burning power plants which dot the  local waterways.
"carefully dispose of oil, paint and solvents," hammond said.
follow the red wings along with chuck pleiness.
the primary persistent toxins in the lakes are pcbs, ddt, dioxin and mercury.
"continued... that's the cheapest way to go, she said, but plenty of green cleaners are now available in supermarkets.
msg. & data rates may apply.
jim evans is a longtime sports writer and columnist for the daily tribune and macomb daily.
"always remove any visible mud, plants, fish or animals from your boat before transporting it to another body of water," hammond said.
" wetlands provide  habitat for fish, migratory birds and other wildlife.
" support your municipality's efforts to separate storm and sanitary sewers and to build retention tanks to hold and treat stormwater during large rainfalls before dumping it into the river or lake.
published: thursday, october 06, 2011tweet by jim bloch
where do  you start when you're trying to deal with the eminent invasion of asian carp,  persistent toxins throughout the great lakes basin, the loss of fish and  wildlife habitat, especially wetlands, pollution related to runoff from the  land and the ongoing threats of massive diversions of water from the lakes to  other states?
the importance of the great lakes to the region, the country and the world can hardly be overstated.
receive sms alerts on your phone.
the great lakes basin is also inundated with polluted runoff from farms and cities in the form of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, pharmaceuticals and potentially dangerous bacteria.
hammonds drains her bathwater into rain barrels using $3 hoses and a hand pump meant to siphon gas.
according to the u.s.  fish and wildlife service, the total amount of wetlands in the united states  dropped from 221 million acres in the early 1600s to 103 million acres by the  mid-1980s.
contact him atbloch.jim@gmail.com.
traces of pharmaceutical drugs have been  detected by federal health officials in 80 percent of 139 streams and rivers  they tested in 30 states, including michigan.
support local, state and federal efforts to clean up the great lakes.
the bottled water industry, said hammond.
recreational boaters  sometimes play an unwitting role in spreading invasive species.
but  it has a loophole.
hammond  recommended reducing or eliminating the use of pesticides and herbicides at  home.
some experts estimate that an acre of wetlands is lost to development every minute.
she uses the siphon hose she is holding to drain bathwater into rain barrels to water her garden.
view more place a classified view and purchase photos share your photos chuck pleiness posts news about injuries, line combinations, transactions, who's starting and who's scratched.
hammond spoke to blue water sierra club in port  huron on sept. 28.
"always remove any visible mud, plants, fish  or animals from your boat before transporting it to another body of  water," hammond said.
hammond advised people  to lobby local officials to protect their wetlands and organize local  restoration efforts.
the following are comments from the readers.
"carefully dispose of oil, paint  and solvents," hammond said.
she uses the siphon hose she is holding to  drain bathwater into rain barrels to water her garden.
" support your municipality's efforts to separate storm and sanitary sewers  and to build retention tanks to hold and treat stormwater during large  rainfalls before dumping it into the river or lake.
for the daily tribune click to enlarge rebecca hammond displays green products that may be used for cleaning - vinegar, baking soda and peroxide.
there are around 185 invasive species in the great lakes region, including zebra mussels, sea lamprey and the plants such as phragmites and purple loosestrife.
"use non-toxic cleaning products such as baking soda and vinegar," hammond said.
"use non-toxic cleaning  products such as baking soda and vinegar," hammond said.
the first three are legacy  pollutants, the use of which has been prohibited, but which don't go away.
note: fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required!*create a member id: (children under 13 cannot register)
"continued... 1 3 see full story that's the cheapest way to go, she said, but plenty of green cleaners are  now available in supermarkets.
according to the u.s. fish and wildlife service, the total amount of wetlands in the united states dropped from 221 million acres in the early 1600s to 103 million acres by the mid-1980s.
the daily tribune, a journal register property & part of journal register mi -- all rights reserved | our publications | about our ads | privacy policy/terms of service
jim bloch is a  freelance writer.
"we're awash in water here," said hammonds.
but it has a loophole.
connect your downspouts to rain barrels to water your property.
a 1,000 square-foot roof generates 420 gallons of water for every inch of rain - about seven barrels full.
conserve water and avoid dumping used water back into public sewer systems, she said.
hammond spoke to blue water sierra club in port huron on sept. 28.
hammond recommended reducing or eliminating the use of pesticides and herbicides at home.
by and large, the great lakes compact, ratified by congress in 2008, protects the basin from large-scale water diversions.
there are around  185 invasive species in the great lakes region, including zebra mussels, sea  lamprey and the plants such as phragmites and purple loosestrife.
and don't flush  pharmaceuticals down the toilet.
wetlands provide habitat for fish, migratory birds and other wildlife.
hammond advised people to lobby local officials to protect their wetlands and organize local restoration efforts.
jim bloch is a freelance writer.
the importance of the great lakes to the region,  the country and the world can hardly be overstated.
the lakes represent more  than 20 percent of the world's fresh surface water.
plant trees and install rain gardens to slow, absorb and clean rainwater.
"don't buy bottled water," she said, also noting the huge waste generated in the form of plastic bottles.
he likes to say he's long on opinions and short on knowledge.
for the daily tribune) the problems facing the great lakes, including critical local links such as the st. clair river and lake st. clair, sometimes seem overwhelming.
start literally in your own backyard and in your own house, says rebecca hammond, of ferndale, a member of the south eastern michigan group of sierra club.
"they also act as the kidneys of the great lakes," said hammonds, slowing and cleaning the rush of water from the mainland.
the oakland press covers the detroit lions.
and don't flush pharmaceuticals down the toilet.
"once you get connected to it, you'll want to protect it."
one bath equals one barrel of water.
text dtnews to 22700 to  subscribe.
who would do that on a large scale?
install water efficient hardware and appliances in your homes and businesses.
covers blues music in the detroit metropolitan area.