"if that happens, all bets are off," teegarden said.
"the bottled-water industry has really built a market on casting doubt on the quality of tap water," said kristin urquiza, director of think outside the bottle, a campaign devised by corporate accountability international, a boston-based group.
" and the quest by bottled-water companies to tap new sources continues to  stir controversy.
a car with a big engine may be fun to drive but costs more at the pump and contributes to a dependency on foreign oil.
"people are just getting back to water." luria, of the international bottled water association, said tap water is  "essential to modern living.
"sometimes it's a moment-by-moment choice, where you are in front of  the 7-eleven cooler and you grab a bottle of water because that's all you  really want instead of a carbonated beverage," said tom luria, spokesman  for the international bottled water association.
soda, still the leading beverage product, continued a multiyear decline.
industry supporters note that bottlers have switched to containers made  with a third less plastic, reducing them from 18.9 grams — or the weight  of about four nickels — to 12.7 grams.
soda, still the  leading beverage product, continued a multiyear decline.
ouc's primary water treatment uses ozone, a form of oxygen that zaps  impurities.
a trace of chlorine is added, as required by regulations, to ensure  that the water remains sanitary in pipelines.
this site contains copyrighted materials the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner.
we are installing new phone equipment.
statement: u.s. can’t  afford president’s budget drain on the tap feb /14/2012 npr -  battling the bottle: students and industry face off over water feb /13/2012 usa today - grand canyon national park bans sale of plastic water bottles feb /08/2012 reuters - university of vermont joins move to end  bottled water sales feb /08/2012 release: water industry, world bank  pilot new scheme to drive public water into private hands jan /26/2012
after a bitter fight, niagara bottling co. got permission two years ago to pump as much as 484,000 gallons a day from the floridan aquifer near groveland.
"i think society has just become more conscious and mindful of  calories in their diet and calories in their beverages," lazgin said.
"sometimes  bottled water is preferable.
today, panhandle residents are fighting to prevent nestlé from taking nearly 500,000 gallons a day from the spring-fed wacissa river.
" as sales of bottled water took off during the past decade, so did a backlash from environmental and consumer groups that encourage use of reusable bottles.
in many respects, the choice of whether to drink bottled water touches on  the kinds of trade-offs americans routinely face in their everyday lives.
her worry is that, as confidence in public-water supplies erodes, support  and maintenance for public-water supplies are likely to diminish, setting the  stage for takeovers by private enterprise.
orlando utilities commission, the region's largest water utility, doesn't  foresee losing customers' confidence because of bottled-water marketing.
"sometimes bottled water is preferable.
"sometimes it's a moment-by-moment choice, where you are in front of the 7-eleven cooler and you grab a bottle of water because that's all you really want instead of a carbonated beverage," said tom luria, spokesman for the international bottled water association.
" but emily wurth, director of food & water watch's water program, said bottled-water marketing implies that tap water is unpleasant and unsafe when, by contrast, not all bottled water is as clean and well-regulated as tap water.
the  utility has 32 wells that each extend 1,400 feet into the floridan aquifer.
" as sales of bottled water took off during the past decade, so did a  backlash from environmental and consumer groups that encourage use of reusable  bottles.
the next time you go to the vending machine for a bottle of water (costing  6 cents an ounce) or, instead, sip from the drinking fountain (free), you will  be taking part in another debate that touches on the fate of humankind.
a car with a big engine may be fun to drive but costs more at the pump and  contributes to a dependency on foreign oil.
they are among the deepest and best-protected wells in florida — and they  tap the same water source that niagara bottling draws from.
even zephyrhills packaging notes  "fewer than 25% of all plastic bottles actually are recycled.
"we would be reverting to what a developing country is like, where  those who are affluent enough can purchase safe water," wurth said.
"the bottled-water industry has really built a market on casting doubt  on the quality of tap water," said kristin urquiza, director of think  outside the bottle, a campaign devised by corporate accountability  international, a boston-based group.
"i think society has just become more conscious and mindful of calories in their diet and calories in their beverages," lazgin said.
figures published by the beverage marketing corp., a private research  company, show that the industry rebounded last year to sell 8.8 billion  gallons, or nearly as much as it sold in 2007, the peak year for sales.
that's not the sole result of any economic recovery; the personal-sized,  disposable bottle of water also got significantly cheaper.
when sales dropped in 2008 and 2009, the industry blamed the recession, while opponents claimed progress in turning the public against bottled water.
this site contains copyrighted materials  the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright  owner.
but not entirely, said urquiza, pointing to a continued lag last year in revenue for nestlé waters north america inc., the largest u.s. bottler of water and the owner of several brands, including florida-based zephyrhills.
" industry supporters and detractors spar regularly over the effects, good  and bad, of bottling water.
according to nestlé spokeswoman jane lazgin, opting for bottled  water is not about saying no to tap water; it's about saying yes to a healthier  alternative to soft drinks.
many  ways to give take action tell coke to reveal the source of  dasani bottled water urge your governor to think outside the bottle store buy your think outside the bottle reusable water bottle  today.
according to his research on gallons sold, sports-and-energy drinks and ready-to-drink tea and coffee had the greatest gains last year, followed by bottled water, which had an overall growth of 3.5 percent.
it tastes better, it looks better, it's  cost-effective if purchased at a big-box store.
industry detractors say the rate of recycling bottles, according to government figures, is a dismal 25 percent.
"if you are willing to pay 3,000 to 8,000 times more for it [than for tap water], more power to you," teegarden said.
"in that spectrum, we think bottled  water is positioned well for growth.
"people are just getting back to water." luria, of the international bottled water association, said tap water is "essential to modern living.
minneapolis star-tribune - bottled water or tap water?
rob teegarden, an ouc vice president, said bottled water serves a purpose, including convenience.
if you wish  to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go  beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
"but more and more people are saying,  'wait a minute, bottled water is costing thousands of times more than tap  water.'
"but more and more people are saying, 'wait a minute, bottled water is costing thousands of times more than tap water.'
in many respects, the choice of whether to drink bottled water touches on the kinds of trade-offs americans routinely face in their everyday lives.
"the general movement of the consumer is toward healthier  refreshments," hemphill said.
"the general movement of the consumer is toward healthier refreshments," hemphill said.
orlando utilities commission, the region's largest water utility, doesn't foresee losing customers' confidence because of bottled-water marketing.
"in that spectrum, we think bottled water is positioned well for growth.
let your wallet be your first guide, opponents of bottled water say.
they are among the deepest and best-protected wells in florida — and they tap the same water source that niagara bottling draws from.
he said a bigger challenge for public-water suppliers is avoiding a major contamination incident.
"if you are willing to pay 3,000 to 8,000 times more for it [than for  tap water], more power to you," teegarden said.
that's not the sole result of any economic recovery; the personal-sized, disposable bottle of water also got significantly cheaper.
her worry is that, as confidence in public-water supplies erodes, support and maintenance for public-water supplies are likely to diminish, setting the stage for takeovers by private enterprise.
but not entirely, said  urquiza, pointing to a continued lag last year in revenue for nestlé  waters north america inc., the largest u.s. bottler of water and the owner of  several brands, including florida-based zephyrhills.
according to his research on gallons sold, sports-and-energy drinks and  ready-to-drink tea and coffee had the greatest gains last year, followed by  bottled water, which had an overall growth of 3.5 percent.
because the next time you grab a bottle from a case in the fridge (costing a penny an ounce) or fill a glass from the tap (a penny for 5 gallons) you will be choosing between dollars and cents, essential hydration and environmental waste, and personal health and public health.
ouc's primary water treatment uses ozone, a form of oxygen that zaps impurities.
even zephyrhills packaging notes "fewer than 25% of all plastic bottles actually are recycled.
"in the single-serve market — the 1.5-liter-size containers and  smaller — that segment had very aggressive pricing in 2010, and that's  one of the factors that helped drive the growth," said gary hemphill,  beverage marketing's managing director.
if you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
today, sales are back on track, according to luria.
"that should be applauded by everyone, just because of obesity and heart disease and other problems that come with excessive calories.
rob teegarden, an ouc vice president, said bottled water serves a purpose,  including convenience.
"that should be applauded  by everyone, just because of obesity and heart disease and other problems that  come with excessive calories.
the utility has 32 wells that each extend 1,400 feet into the floridan aquifer.
"people who probably can't afford bottled water chose it anyway  because the marketing has made them fear for the safety of their tap  water," wurth said.
" "i don't want to knock tap water," luria said.
today, panhandle residents are fighting to prevent nestlé from taking  nearly 500,000 gallons a day from the spring-fed wacissa river.
setting the air conditioner at 70  degrees may feel comfortable but results in higher utility bills and in power  plants discharging more greenhouse gas.
industry supporters note that bottlers have switched to containers made with a third less plastic, reducing them from 18.9 grams — or the weight of about four nickels — to 12.7 grams.
"but the same could happen with bottled water.
" industry supporters and detractors spar regularly over the effects, good and bad, of bottling water.
"people who probably can't afford bottled water chose it anyway because the marketing has made them fear for the safety of their tap water," wurth said.
download  resources     report: getting states off the bottle tap water  challenge organizing kit student organizing kit more resources on  challenging corporate control of water
setting the air conditioner at 70 degrees may feel comfortable but results in higher utility bills and in power plants discharging more greenhouse gas.
"we would be reverting to what a developing country is like, where those who are affluent enough can purchase safe water," wurth said.
" but emily wurth, director of food & water watch's water program, said  bottled-water marketing implies that tap water is unpleasant and unsafe when,  by contrast, not all bottled water is as clean and well-regulated as tap water.
it tastes better, it looks better, it's cost-effective if purchased at a big-box store.
please contact your organizer  via email or mobile phone if you receive a busy signal.
email: zip: may 2, 2011 by kevin spear the next time you go to the vending machine for a bottle of water (costing 6 cents an ounce) or, instead, sip from the drinking fountain (free), you will be taking part in another debate that touches on the fate of humankind.
figures published by the beverage marketing corp., a private research company, show that the industry rebounded last year to sell 8.8 billion gallons, or nearly as much as it sold in 2007, the peak year for sales.
because the next time you grab a bottle from a case in the fridge (costing  a penny an ounce) or fill a glass from the tap (a penny for 5 gallons) you will  be choosing between dollars and cents, essential hydration and environmental  waste, and personal health and public health.
industry detractors say the rate of recycling bottles, according to  government figures, is a dismal 25 percent.
he said a bigger challenge for public-water suppliers is avoiding a major  contamination incident.
"in the single-serve market — the 1.5-liter-size containers and smaller — that segment had very aggressive pricing in 2010, and that's one of the factors that helped drive the growth," said gary hemphill, beverage marketing's managing director.
debate still rages  on which is better may 2, 2011 by kevin spear
"but  the same could happen with bottled water.
a trace of chlorine is added, as required by regulations, to ensure that the water remains sanitary in pipelines.
in accordance withtitle 17 u.s.c. section 107, the material on this site  is available without profit for research and educational purposes.
after a bitter fight, niagara bottling co. got permission two years ago to  pump as much as 484,000 gallons a day from the floridan aquifer near groveland.
and the quest by bottled-water companies to tap new sources continues to stir controversy.
corporate accountability - give, action,  about resources - media center, store, publications campaigns - water, food, tobacco, hall of shame network - news,  blog , sign up! about privacy copyright contact us
when sales dropped in 2008 and 2009, the industry blamed the recession,  while opponents claimed progress in turning the public against bottled water.
in accordance withtitle 17 u.s.c. section 107, the material on this site is available without profit for research and educational purposes.
with every purchase you can reduce the number of plastic bottles going  into landfills and spread the word about the campaign.
according to nestlé spokeswoman jane lazgin, opting for bottled water is not about saying no to tap water; it's about saying yes to a healthier alternative to soft drinks.
give while we cannot match their  financial might, we use your member contributions to great effect.
" convenience has its virtues, industry supporters say.