check out a complete list of giveaway rules.
make sure you visit jennifer at eighty mph mom  daily to see what she has in store for you too.
i was  honestly starting to feel a little bit overwhelmed with how busy things were  for us, trying to get posts done and working on the step into summer event.
we have enjoyed almost every minute of it!
of course,  mine was a little bit scaled down compared to normal, but there was no way i  could fit all those people in my yard!
april (91) march (46) february (56) january (35) december (48) november (78) october (60) september (51) august (72) july (57) june (53) may (55) april (67) march (87) february (53) january (50) december (70) november (100) october (80) september (86) august (76) july (76) june (90) may (63) april (17) march (1) follow this blog proud to be past partnerships cashnet sweepstakes fundraising ideas contestgirl sweepstakes hermes birkin bag ok - shop hermes birkin - hermes birkin bag sale outlet store at http://www.hermesbirkinbagok.com view blog authority copyright outnumbered 3 to 1 - 2012.
jennifer and i have some wonderful things lined up for you to help you get  ready for summer.
a huge group of family,  friends and all of their family and friends get together at a local park and  make a whole day of it.
sometimes we'll just all get together at the spur of the moment and have  a big feast.
tell me the day you host it or if it's  ongoing, as well as the url or button code and i will post your button or link  in thislisting of places to list your contests.
i was honestly so thrilled when i opened my box from jockey because they sent  so much different stuff for us both to try.
we've gone swimming.
after all, we will be celebrating our freedom, and that is definitely something to celebrate!
to  enter the giveaway head over to  sarah's website listen to a song or three and  tell me your favorite song.
basically we both need a moment to breathe, catch our bearings and take care of  things that need to be taken care of.
many days we will be reviewing and giving  away the same item on both blogs - that is two chances for you to win!
even better than having a freezer stocked with ice  cream, is going somewhere to have ice cream!
i'm hoping to get back on track, if not ahead of myself today.
oh this review isn't  about the box?
she needs to figure out what's wrong with her blog.
the giveaway how would you like to win your very own copy of  laws of illusion?
it has a tilt'n' drain feature which allows you to switch to a tilted surface to drain fat and grease from meats such as bacon.
check outwww3.samsclub.com/summer for party and menu ideas of of course some tasty recipes!
black & light offers a variety of lovely decorative candles.
5/11 pawparazzi {us & canada} 5/11 gerber childrenswear hooded towel set 5/10 four pack of char crust dry rub 5/10 the immortal rules - blood of eden #1 by julie kagawa 5/10 marvel's the avengers prize pack 5/9 endangered species and empowering communities book series 5/08 dole free product coupons 5/7 my little pony royal wedding compact 5 winners 5/06 noodle head: snuggle paws nap time buddy 5/05 4 movie prize pack from warner bros 5/5
we have some great stuff up our  sleeves and some awesome giveaways to share with you!
we went  tubing the day of the party, so it got started a bit late the way it was.
i was so glad that everything was already prepared and i just had to slice up a watermelon.
now that is a great price!
she's having some major issues and actually had to chose down comments yesterday.
and i know that it's definitely healthier than our normal tap water would be without it.
posted by mel outnumbered at 8:34 pm 796 comments links to this post email
it was so great because i didn't have to cook anything but the beans since the man does all the grilling around here!
he especially likes thesport performance boxer brief – 2 pack he was able to try out.
check outwww3.samsclub.com/summer for party and menu  ideas of of course some tasty recipes!
i did  receive a gift card as a gift, but not to facilitate a review.
extra entries: "like" zuvo water on facebook follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on  facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link
share to twitter share to facebook labels: sam's club, sharing the savings sunday, june 27, 2010 step into summer - jockey underwear review and $50 gift certificate giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
i know,  pretty crazy!
this summer really kicked off with a  bang.
the giveaway one lucky  person will win their choice of candle from black & light!
he thought he was the coolest thing ever with his little tie on!
i have heard many good  things about cold stone creamery from my friends and we are actually going to  make a trip there next week to try it out first hand!
holly combined her two passions,  helping those around her and her love for candles.
many days we will be reviewing  and giving away the same item on both blogs - that is two chances for you to  win!
sam’s club provided me with a full 4th of july party pack of items and a $100 gift card for my participation in this campaign.
i've burned for about 5 hours and have barely put a dent in the candle.
we've gone to the park.
it's always such a great time and this year will be no exception.
we would love to consider your product or company for review,  giveaway and/or advertising.
the giveaway one lucky duck will win a $25 gift certificate for abc neckties.
i have heard many good things about cold stone creamery from my friends and we are actually going to make a trip there next week to try it out first hand!
i did do a wordless wednesday post today though with some pics of baby birds in our grape vines.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, review, step into summer presto cool touch electric tilt' n' drain big griddle review i am definitely a breakfast person.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win a copy of @sarahmclachlan new cd laws of illusion @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
we had  plenty of leftovers too!
they come in 3 packs and an assortment of  different styles and colors.
i think our water definitely tastes better
you can buy the zuvo water filtration system for $299.99.
we cook out pretty often, whether it be at my house or another person's  house.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: me being me, step into summer contest tuesday giveaway linky
alright, i take that back.
he has these  resusable bottles that he never used all that often since he didn't like the  taste of the water from the tap.
a huge group of family, friends and all of their family and friends get together at a local park and make a whole day of it.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: me being me, step into summer contest tuesday giveaway linky make sure to stop by every  tuesday for the contest tuesday contest linky where you can link up your  contests and find great contests to enter.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  giveaways, review, step into summer newer posts older posts home subscribe to:posts (atom) wedding event check out mel's  wedding tips and ideas to help you plan your special day!
this is a pr friendly site.
they  just sit there, and fill up landfills.
opinions expressed are my own or my families and  are not influenced by any form of compensation.
as you can see, it was already dark by the time we started eating.
you will notice that we have one very lucky lady today.
i think our  water definitely tastes better
if we weren't out somewhere doing something, we had people here hanging out in our backyard.
it would save us money over time and instead of having to go to the store, buy the bottles of water and store them, i could just attach this right to my faucet and be done.
ok, i may have underestimated that just a tad.
jennifer and i have some wonderful things lined up for you to help you get ready for summer.
we've gone to birthday parties.
the only thing that hasn't been neglected is my family, spending time with them and enjoying the summertime.
i think it's awesome because our yard is small and there isn't a single tree in it.
they are just too cute!
they come in 3 packs and an assortment of different styles and colors.
extra entries: 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed  on your site {please leave link} enter the  jockey giveaway at eighty mph mom "like" jockey on facebook follow @jockey on twitter follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each
we fire up the grill and cook all day as people come  and go.
this step must be  done before you can qualify for extra entries.
he said they are the most comfortable underwear  he's worn.
she talked with him  about her design ideas and her vision as to how they would look on his unique  and glowing candles.
" i think this collection is super cute and sexy at the same time.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 2nd at 11:59 pm.
there's just not enough time in the day to get everything done that needs to be done, and everything that i {and my family} want to do.
that's as personal as it gets for now, i suppose.
extra entries: - 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed on your site {please leave link} - enter the jockey giveaway at eighty mph mom - "like" jockey on facebook - follow @jockey on twitter - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend
posted by mel outnumbered at 9:20 pm 15
the candle looks great alone or on a cute little holder.
extra entries: - 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed on your site {please leave link} - enter the black & light giveaway at eighty mph mom - "like" black & light on facebook - follow @blackandlight on twitter - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend
august (89) july (65) june (93) may (88)
congrats aledol and to the rest of you!
doing all those bonus entries and tweeting every day really does pay off!
so without further ado, here they are!
it's definitely a summertime staple here in our house.
you can get these scrumptious lookingice cream cookies at cold stone creamery!
this giveaway is open to residents of  the us until july 9th at 11:59 pm.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us & canada until july 15th at 11:59 pm.
we fire up the grill and cook all day as people come and go.
with smooth and seamless styles you’ll feel at east…naturally" i received a cami and panties from this collection and i just love the style and comfort of them.
share to twitter share to  facebook labels: giveaways, review tuesday, june 29, 2010 wordless wednesday -
of course, mine was a little bit scaled down compared to normal, but there was no way i could fit all those people in my yard!
there's just not enough time in the day to get  everything done that needs to be done, and everything that i {and my family}  want to do.
we have some great stuff up our sleeves and some awesome giveaways to share with you!
the giveaway one lucky winner will win a $50 jockey gift certificate {plus free shipping} to enter the giveaway head over to jockey and tell me something you'd get with that $50 gift certificate.
connect - subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} - become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} - post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link - add my url to your text blog roll, leaving a link - comment on any non-giveaway post and let me know which post you commented on {1 entry for each post commented on} - stumble this post - boost this giveaway on prizey {it's easy!}
they've been non existent!
we had plenty of leftovers too!
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and  leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win a copy of @sarahmclachlan new cd laws of illusion  @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be  counted as one.
"for those who prefer a countertop installation, the zuvo water filtration system easily and quickly connects directly to most standard faucets.
i have sat and listed to the entirelaws of illusion album countless times.
" i am a candle fanatic.
the man's not really big on ties.
minis: "where comfy meets flirty.
add my url to your text blog roll, leaving a link comment on any non-giveaway post and let me know which post you commented  on {1 entry for each post commented on} stumble this post boost this giveaway on prizey {it's easy!}
it  totally intensifies the eeriness i think!
extra entries: - 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed on your site {please leave link} - enter the cold stone creamery giveaway at eighty mph mom - "like" cold stone creamery on facebook - follow @coldstone_corp on twitter - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect - subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} - become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} - post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link - add my url to your text blog roll, leaving a link - comment on any non-giveaway post and let me know which post you commented on {1 entry for each post commented on} - stumble this post - boost this giveaway on prizey {it's easy!}
posted by mel outnumbered  at  6:44 pm 622 comments links to this post email
i was sent the  6" dragonfly - fern and it arrived ever so beautiful in a keepsake gift  box.
show some love   shop for unique and affordablebaby clothes outnumbered  3 to 1 promote your page too archives archives may (7) april (106) march (93) february (98)  january (60) december (76) november (119) october (94) september (91)
i'm hungry already, yum!
check out a complete list ofgiveaway rules.
opinions expressed are my own or my families  and are not influenced by any form of compensation.
to enter the giveaway head over to cold stone creamery and tell me something you'd like to try or something you learned.
lilith fair was one of the highest grossing touring festivals in the world from 1997 - 1999.
from unique ice cream creations to smoothies, cakes and shakes – nobody serves up the ultimate indulgence like cold stone.
jennifer and i have  some wonderful things lined up for you to help you get ready for summer.
he has these resusable bottles that he never used all that often since he didn't like the taste of the water from the tap.
although it's not a requirement, it would be great if you could help spread the word about this contest linky by posting my button, tweeting, etc.
that peace of mind alone is  definitely worth it!
it's so thick that it's almost like a privacy fence  from the neighbors yard.
well that's all changed now
i was given a product for the purpose of reviewing thanks to the  one2one network.
fun, low rise styles with a  cheeky look.
i received a pair of crop pants and a sports bra and they are both so comfortable and will be perfect for working out.
sweet dreams bamboo 320 thread count duvet cover set with pillow shams (king size) claimed #72 peg42 so cold the river - 3 winners #6 debbie
we've been swimming.
i just can't help but be mesmerized by their glow and  sometimes their scent.
since it's already decorated, both options work great.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:
i just may be a candle addict.
make sure you visit jennifer at eighty mph mom daily to see what she has in store for you too.
i was given a product  for the purpose of reviewing.
we really were able to try quite a few of their different products and it was a great experience.
these baby birds are  what we found inside.
her comments are  open now, so feel free to head over there and enter her giveaways :)
there just wasn't time.
august (76) july (76)  june (90) may (63) april (17) march (1) follow this blog
that's where this  collection totally comes in handy.
in light of her blog issues and my time issue, we have decided to put a hold on the step into summer event for just a few days.
there are a whole bunch of different styles including low rise hipsters and even a super sexy lace cami.
in fact, it's so important that i stopped drinking water from our tap.
posted by mel outnumbered at 11:42 am 4 comments links to this post email
click here  to view my full acknowledgment policy.
they made a little nest inside the grape vines.
i was given a product for the purpose of reviewing.
"our family owned business is headed by holly eve, our founder and a design and candle artisan.
i've completely neglected my beading.
remembered - personalized bbq gift set claimed #81 polly all winners have been emailed and notified.
i need to catch up on things in my house and with my blog.
in light of her blog issues and my time issue, we have decided to put a hold on  the step into summer event for just a few days.
the  giveaway one lucky winner will win a $50 jockey gift certificate  {plus free shipping} to enter the giveaway head over to  jockey and  tell me something you'd get with that $50 gift certificate.
in essence, it saved me time too.
no panty line promise® tactel® collection: some  clothes can be so unflattering if you can see panty lines.
you get to  choose what you want inside too.. nuts, candy and all that good stuff!
a friendship and partnership ensued.
honestly, i think this has been the busiest summer we've had so far.
usually i'm one to skip through songs and only listen to a select one to three songs on a cd.
not only is bottled water extremely expensive over  time, but those plastic bottles really aren't good for the environment.
then the presto cool touch electric tilt' n' drain big griddle came to the rescue and made my life so much easier.
you can buy the presto cool touch electric tilt' n' drain big griddle from cookware.com, one ofcsn stores family of 200+ stores for $49.99.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, review i can breathe again
it's my favorite meal of the day.
to enter the giveaway head over to black & light and tell me which pair you'd chose if you won.
the giveaway how would you like to win a zuvo water filtration system?
don't forget to let me know if you have a contest linky too.
posted by mel outnumbered  at5:42 pm 7 comments links to this post email
there are a whole bunch of different styles including  low rise hipsters and even a super sexy lace cami.
it's pretty though, isn't it?
jennifer { eighty mph mom} and i were just chatting a few minutes ago, and she's having issues with her blog right now.
i was sent the 6" dragonfly - fern and it arrived ever so beautiful in a keepsake gift box.
"underwear isn't all we got from jockey.
ok, now on to the candle.
don't mind me, i get sidetracked too easily.
i was  so glad that everything was already prepared and i just had to slice up a  watermelon.
posted by mel outnumbered at 11:07 am 819 comments links to this post email
they customize  your ice cream just especially for you on a frozen granite stone.
i really like the lime wash color  too.
this tie really is cool looking.
i started buying bottled water years ago.
i received an assortment of different styles for me and for him and  we both like them.
it's been a hell of a time, i tell you!
everyone loved the food and for  once i couldn't really accept the compliment for making it.
i couldn't wait to hear her new songs.
i have enough candles to keep our house lit for days.
i was so excited to get in on this campaign.
fourth of july is one of our biggest celebrations.
you can buy laws of illusion for only $10.99 at amazon.com.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, review, step into summer newer posts older posts home subscribe to:posts (atom)
make sure to stop by every tuesday for the contest tuesday contest linky where you can link up your contests and find great contests to enter.
it would  save us money over time and instead of having to go to the store, buy the  bottles of water and store them, i could just attach this right to my faucet  and be done.
"for those who prefer a countertop installation, the zuvo  water filtration system easily and quickly connects directly to most standard  faucets.
sam's club sent me everything i needed to make my party a success including food, plates, napkins and even croquet!
to  enter the giveaway head over to  black & light and tell me which pair you'd  chose if you won.
that's where this collection totally comes in handy.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, review, step into summer friday, june 25, 2010 step into summer - cold stone creamery 5 - $10 gift card giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 11th at 11:59 pm.
i chose thetraditional fourth celebration
share to twitter share to facebook labels:winners step into summer - abc neckties partiotic flag necktie review and $25 gift certificate giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
i just can't help but be mesmerized by their glow and sometimes their scent.
" now they weren't kidding  when they said supersoft.
and they are both so comfortable and will be perfect for working out.
extra entries: 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed  on your site {please leave link} enter the  black & light giveaway at eighty mph mom "like" black & light on facebook follow @blackandlight on twitter follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each
these baby birds are what we found inside.
laws of illusion is chocked full of great songs, 12 to be exact.
make sure you visit jennifer at eighty mph mom daily to see  what she has in store for you too.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win a $50 @jockey gift certificate @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
we went tubing the day of the party, so it got started a bit late the way it was.
posted by mel outnumbered at 1:07 pm 3 comments links to this post email
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, step into summer thursday, june 24, 2010 step into summer - black & light 6" dragonfly - fern candle review & giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
click here to view my full acknowledgment policy.
posted by mel outnumbered at 12:34 pm 6 comments links to this post email
the giveaway five { 5} lucky readers will each win a $10  gift card for cold stone creamery!
tell me the day you host it or if it's ongoing, as well as the url or button code and i will post your button or link in thislisting of places to list your contests.
the potato salad was especially good and a heck of a lot cheaper than buying it from the grocer's deli.
i love all the songs!
i chose thetraditional fourth celebration  and it couldn't have worked out better for us.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: review what's been keeping me?
update: jennifer's blog is working and the event will be up and running again in just a couple of days.
to enter the giveaway head over to sarah's website listen to a song or three and tell me your favorite song.
" i think this collection is super cute and  sexy at the same time.
activewear and sports bras: "whether you are hitting the gym, out for a walk, or showing the guys who’s boss in a pick-up game, we’ve got supportive and comfortable styles that will keep you going strong.
the zuvo water filtration system review & giveaway {closed} "better for your health the zuvo water  filtration system replicates nature's water-cleansing process, reducing  contaminants while preserving your water's natural and healthy mineral content.
posted by mel outnumbered  at 9:35 am  38 comments links to this post email
in fact i've only seen him wear them on a handful of occasions.
better for  the planet with zuvo, you can make a difference by not adding to  the more than 60 million plastic water bottles that end up in our landfills  every day.
i think they look great too and i am usually a boxer only kinda  girl.
our dog was trying to get something by it's thickest part the other day so the man walked over to check it out.
so who says you have to have a tree to have birds nests?
posted by mel outnumbered at 11:28 am 2 comments links to this post email
when presented with the opportunity to try thezuvo water filtration system, of course i jumped at it.
we really were able to try quite a  few of their different products and it was a great experience.
but hey everyone's parties differ, so check out thegourmet, kid friendly, on the go and big party fourth celebrations to see which one would fit your party style.
posted by mel outnumbered  at 11:07 am 819 comments links to  this post email
in early 2007, we  met the candle maker whose candles holly always admired.
i've  burned for about 5 hours and have barely put a dent in the candle.
well he can wear these boxer briefs any day!
creamery: "if it has anything to do with ice cream, it has everything to do with cold stone creamery.
"our family owned business is headed by holly eve, our  founder and a design and candle artisan.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and  leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} drink clean water again - enter to win a zuvo water filtration  system - $300 value @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway please leave a separate comment for each extra entry,  otherwise it will just be counted as one.
supersoft: "our spandex/micromodal® fabric blend feels softer than  cotton with a cool, light touch.
update: jennifer's blog is working and the  event will be up and running again in just a couple of days.
it was so great because i didn't have to cook  anything but the beans since the man does all the grilling around here!
our son, on the other hand is the complete opposite.
"now they weren't kidding when they said supersoft.
august (72) july  (57) june (53) may (55) april (67) march (87) february (53) january (50)  december (70) november (100) october (80) september (86)
of course, he did take one with to the fireworks  the other night and accidentally left it at the lake!
monkeying around baby shower coupons and online shopping children’s gifts from tesco find  coupons at befrugal.com vistaprint coupons diet to go coupons toms shoes coupon  code oceania cruises personalized gifts  get commercial janitorial supplies  & cleaning products for your home or business at cleanitsupply.com letters  from santa  shop birthday party supplies giveaways $25 mr. chewy gc
the giveaway five { 5} lucky readers will each win a $10 gift card for cold stone creamery!
with  smooth and seamless styles you’ll feel at east…naturally" i received a cami and panties from this collection and i just love  the style and comfort of them.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 8th at 11:59 pm.
you can buy  laws of illusion  for only $10.99 at amazon.com.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: giveaways, review tuesday, june 29, 2010 wordless wednesday -
there's quite a list compiled already, you might want to check it out.
posted by mel outnumbered at 6:17 pm 178 comments links to this post email
click here to view  my full acknowledgment policy.
click  here to view my full acknowledgment policy.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} drink clean water again - enter to win a zuvo water filtration system - $300 value @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
sam's club has you covered for your fourth of july  celebration and i was able to have a preview party thanks to them.
opinions expressed are my own or my families and are not  influenced by any form of compensation.
the giveaway how would you like to win a zuvo water filtration  system?
this is strictly a giveaway.
to enter the  giveaway head over to  zuvo and tell me something you learned.
our dog was trying to get something by it's thickest  part the other day so the man walked over to check it out.
i received an assortment of different styles for me and for him and we both like them.
these are definitely one of my favorite pair of panties because they are super comfortable.
and i really cannot handle it  all, no matter how much i would like to.
the zuvo water filtration system review & giveaway {closed} "better for your health the zuvo water filtration system replicates nature's water-cleansing process, reducing contaminants while preserving your water's natural and healthy mineral content.
can you believe that i have never worn jockey underwear before?
you can listen to it below and watch sarah perform at dancing with the stars.
posted by mel outnumbered at 1:58 pm 4 comments links to this post email
my youngest son definitely drinks the most water in the house.
technically, i have the whole day to do it, but we'll see how the kids handle that.
it's so thick that it's almost like a privacy fence from the neighbors yard.
my  house is adorned in them.
this giveaway is open to residents of  the us and canada until july 29th at 11:59 pm.
supersoft: "our spandex/micromodal® fabric blend feels softer than cotton with a cool, light touch.
monkeying around baby shower coupons and online shopping children’s gifts from tesco find coupons at befrugal.com vistaprint coupons diet to go coupons toms shoes coupon code oceania cruises personalized gifts get commercial janitorial supplies & cleaning products for your home or business at cleanitsupply.com letters from santa shop birthday party supplies giveaways - $85 hapari gc 5/16 - $25 mr. chewy gc 5/11 - pawparazzi {us & canada} 5/11 - pearl paradise 5/11 - gerber childrenswear hooded towel set 5/10 - four pack of char crust dry rub 5/10 - the immortal rules - blood of eden #1 by julie kagawa 5/10 - marvel's the avengers prize pack 5/9 - endangered species and empowering communities book series 5/08 - dole free product coupons 5/7 - my little pony royal wedding compact 5 winners 5/06 - noodle head: snuggle paws nap time buddy 5/05 - 4 movie prize pack from warner bros 5/5 show some love   shop for unique and affordablebaby clothes outnumbered 3 to 1 promote your page too archives archives may (7) april (106) march (93) february (98) january (60) december (76) november (119) october (94) september (91)
i definitely wasn't disappointed either.
you can buy the partiotic flag necktie for $11.01.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and  leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win one of five $10 gift cards for ice cream @coldstone_creamery  @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry,  otherwise it will just be counted as one.
and i know that it's definitely healthier than  our normal tap water would be without it.
don't forget to let  me know if you have a contest linky too.
we both liked  everything we tried and it was all a great fit, unlike many other places where  size is a guessing game... especially when ordering online.
sometimes, it is the most pain in the butt meal to cook though.
these are definitely soft and comfortable.
if i had to pick though, it would be loving you is easy.
many of the  products i received are part of jockey’s top 5 styles for summer and i'll  tell you all about them below.
we cook out pretty often, whether it be at my house or another person's house.
claimed i'm up in a tree - 2 winners #51 jakiesmom claimed #25 aledol claimed rohto eye drops claimed #5 sherlyj coupon magic organizer claimed #97
i suppose, that really is  all that matters though, isn't it?
make  sure you visit jennifer at eighty mph mom daily to see what she has in store  for you too.
the candle  looks great alone or on a cute little holder.
i know, pretty crazy!
to enter the giveaway head over to zuvo and tell me something you learned.
that makes for super easy cleanup!
we have been so busy, almost non stop since memorial day weekend.
that's not it though.
i hope you all understand, and we promise not to leave you hanging too long.
if we have a storm and  the power goes out, i never worry.
those hamburger patties you see down there were just frozen patties, but with a little bit of salt, pepper and seasoning salt they turned out awesome and everyone loved them!
loving you is easy 4.
i think that is pretty awesome!
my house is adorned in them.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us and canada until july 29th at 11:59 pm.
i suppose, that really is all that matters though, isn't it?
i have enough candles to keep our house lit  for days.
this step must be done before you can qualify for  extra entries.
black &  light® co. was born.
you can't tell from the picture, but there's swirls in it that give it some definition and just make it look cooler all around.
i've neglected my house.
he especially likes thesport performance boxer brief –  2 pack he was able to try out.
i'm sure they're gonna be itching to get out of the house!
post this giveaway on a contest linky or contest site, put link to site in  comment {1 entry only} vote for outnumbered 3 to 1 on top mommy blogs {1 vote required per  giveaway entered} blog about this giveaway, linking to the giveaway post as well as the  sponsor.
no panty line promise® tactel® collection: some clothes can be so unflattering if you can see panty lines.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and  leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win an @blackandlight candle of your choice @outnumberedmama  http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be  counted as one.
and i have to say we are both quite  impressed.
you can buy the 6" dragonfly - fern candle for $34  which includes the gift box.
many of the products i received are part of jockey’s top 5 styles for summer and i'll tell you all about them below.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  giveaways, step into summer thursday, june 24, 2010 step into summer - black & light 6" dragonfly - fern candle  review & giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into  summer event!
comments links to this post email
share to twitter share to  facebook labels:
from unique ice cream creations to smoothies,  cakes and shakes – nobody serves up the ultimate indulgence like cold  stone.
i  knew that this would be perfect in my house and perfect for my family.
the only thing that hasn't been neglected is my family,  spending time with them and enjoying the summertime.
if any of you are regular readers of hers, then you know she just switched to wordpress.
now he uses them all the time thanks to the zuvo water filtration system.
the potato salad  was especially good and a heck of a lot cheaper than buying it from the  grocer's deli.
illusions of bliss 3.
that sure didn't matter much though.
holly combined her two passions, helping those around her and her love for candles.
if we have a storm and the power goes out, i never worry.
check out a  complete list ofgiveaway rules.
share to twitter share to facebook sarah mclachlan - laws of illusion cd review & giveaway {closed} for the first time in 7 years, sarah mclachlan released a new album, laws of illusion june 15th.
baby birds our fence in the backyard is  covered in a grape vine.
these are definitely one of my favorite pair of  panties because they are super comfortable.
feel free toread all about us, check out our pr page or email melissa.
sam’s club provided me  with a full 4th of july party pack of items and a $100 gift card for my  participation in this campaign.
these were  one of my favorites for sure!
it starts with using the highest quality ingredients and ends with our  signature process for preparing your custom creation on a frozen granite  stone.
our party was a huge hit and honestly the best part of it for me was not having to make much.
i think they look great too and i am usually a boxer only kinda girl.
i did receive a gift card as a gift, but not to facilitate a review.
} become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on  facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link
there are 6 styles of panties, 2 camis and a chemise to choose from to go with any look you're trying to achieve.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 8th at 11:59  pm.
this step must be done before you can qualify for extra entries.
there are 6 styles of panties, 2 camis and a  chemise to choose from to go with any look you're trying to achieve.
i absolutely love that song!
memorial day weekend came and our summer began.
in fact, i still have the box.
the giveaway how would you like to win your very own copy of laws of illusion?
now he uses them all the time thanks to the  zuvo water filtration system.
posted by mel outnumbered  at 8:34 pm 796 comments links to  this post email
creamery: "if it has anything to do with ice cream, it has everything  to do with cold stone creamery.
peggy cafe press claimed #48 jeannine chicken soup for the soul:
my lil man will be sporting thepatriotic flag necktie shown above all around the park that day.
may (88) april (91) march (46) february (56) january  (35) december (48) november (78) october (60) september (51)
posted by mel outnumbered at 9:35 am 38 comments links to this post email
better for your wallet over time, zuvo costs a fraction of what you'll spend on bottled water or pitcher filters.
i need to catch up on things in  my house and with my blog.
jennifer { eighty mph mom} and i  were just chatting a few minutes ago, and she's having issues with her blog  right now.
when presented with the  opportunity to try thezuvo water filtration system, of course i jumped at it.
he'd wear those things all over the place.
i was given a product for the purpose of reviewing thanks to the one2one network.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 9th at 11:59 pm.
you get to choose what you want inside too.. nuts, candy and all that good stuff!
check out the images and description below for more information about both options.
baby birds our fence in the backyard is covered in a grape vine.
we would love to consider your product or company for review, giveaway and/or advertising.
share to twitter share to facebook labels:  giveaways, review, step into summer friday, june 25, 2010 step into summer - cold stone creamery 5 - $10 gift card giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win a tie of your choice from @abcneckties @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
jennifer and i have some wonderful things lined up for you to  help you get ready for summer.
i  think i finally realized that i amnot super woman
stay up to date subscribe to our daily newsletters partypail.com’s
i hope you all understand, and  we promise not to leave you hanging too long.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win an @blackandlight candle of your choice @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
her comments are open now, so feel free to head over there and enter her giveaways :)
of course, he did take one with to the fireworks the other night and accidentally left it at the lake!
top menu - home - about us - pr/advertising info - giveaways - reviews - events attended - places to list contests - contest tuesday giveaway linky - weekly deals - recipes - crafts - fitness - follow mel's house journey wednesday, june 30, 2010 winners 6/30
first of all, i love the dragonflies all over it.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and  leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win a $50 @jockey gift certificate @outnumberedmama  http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be  counted as one.
don’t give up on us 11.
" underwear  isn't all we got from jockey.
opinions expressed are my own or my families and are not influenced by any form of compensation.
bring on the wonder the historic all-female lilith fair festival returns this summer in cities across the nation.
this is a  pr friendly site.
- post this giveaway on a contest linky or contest site, put link to site in comment {1 entry only} - vote for outnumbered 3 to 1 on top mommy blogs {1 vote required per giveaway entered} - blog about this giveaway, linking to the giveaway post as well as the sponsor.
better for the planet with zuvo, you can make a difference by not adding to the more than 60 million plastic water bottles that end up in our landfills every day.
i've  neglected my house.
i was honestly starting to feel a little bit overwhelmed with how busy things were for us, trying to get posts done and working on the step into summer event.
the zuvo water filtration system can be installed above or under the counter, whichever works best for you.
i really like the lime wash color too.
i'm not saying it hasn't been fun.
you can buy the 6" dragonfly - fern candle for $34 which includes the gift box.
many days we will be reviewing and giving away the same item on  both blogs - that is two chances for you to win!
in fact, it's so  important that i stopped drinking water from our tap.
oh this review isn't about the box?
the giveaway one lucky person will win their choice of candle from black & light!
august  (89) july (65) june (93)
basically we both need a moment to breathe, catch our bearings and take care of things that need to be taken care of.
they even have  ones with butterflies, which i was so tempted to get!
better for your wallet over time, zuvo costs a fraction  of what you'll spend on bottled water or pitcher filters.
summertime is definitely a busy time of the year around here!
these were one of my favorites for sure!
i think it's awesome because our yard is small and there isn't a  single tree in it.
she talked with him about her design ideas and her vision as to how they would look on his unique and glowing candles.
our party was a huge  hit and honestly the best part of it for me was not having to make much.
and i have to say we are both quite impressed.
ok, i may have underestimated that just a  tad.
and it couldn't have worked out better for us.
make sure to leave a direct link{4 entries, commenting 4 times} - follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway using the following tweet and leave a direct link to your tweet {can be done daily} win one of five $10 gift cards for ice cream @coldstone_creamery @outnumberedmama http://outnumbered3-1.com #giveaway #stepintosummer please leave a separate comment for each extra entry, otherwise it will just be counted as one.
posted by mel outnumbered  at 9:20 pm 15  comments links to this post email
but hey everyone's parties  differ, so check out thegourmet, kid friendly, on the go and big party fourth  celebrations to see which one would fit your party style.
activewear and sports  bras: "whether you are hitting the gym, out for a walk, or showing  the guys who’s boss in a pick-up game, we’ve got supportive and  comfortable styles that will keep you going strong.
since it's already decorated,  both options work great.
you should have seen him recently when he was standing up in a friend's wedding.
posted by mel outnumbered at5:42 pm 7 comments links to this post email
did you know that in her more than 20 year career, sarah has over 20 million career sales to date and every one of sarah mclachlan’s studio and live albums has been certified gold, platinum, or multi-platinum by the riaa?
thanks dad - 2 winners #56 aledol claimed #24 linda kish already won, giving up her copy simply sunkissed claimed #136 ~*~lilshuga2001~*~ things
this step must  be done before you can qualify for extra entries.
heloves ties and bow ties.
i  look at the candle section of every store i go into.
it comes in handy on those days when i make a huge breakfast too because i can cook on this and the stove top.
feel free toread all about us, check out our pr  page or email melissa.
it's almost twice the size of othergriddles i've seen!
that way everything is cooking at the same time, perfect!
share to twitter  share to facebook labels: giveaways, review i can breathe again
that's definitelynot the case here.
we both liked everything we tried and it was all a great fit, unlike many other places where size is a guessing game... especially when ordering online.
in minutes, you will be getting clean, healthy, great tasting water right from your tap."
there's nothing better than watching a scary movie with candles lit throughout the room.
those hamburger patties you see down there were just  frozen patties, but with a little bit of salt, pepper and seasoning salt they  turned out awesome and everyone loved them!
i amnever without a candle.
this summer really kicked off with a bang.
black & light® co. was born.
it's definitely a summertime  staple here in our house.
i haven't touched any of that stuff in about a month.
i can cook our whole breakfast on here.
i started buying bottled  water years ago.
sometimes we'll just all get together at the spur of the moment and have a big feast.
to enter the giveaway head over to   cold stone creamery and tell me something you'd like to try or something you  learned.
in fact, he sued to have little clip on ties when he was younger.
click here to view my full acknowledgment  policy.
if any of you are regular readers of hers, then you know she just  switched to wordpress.
there's quite a list compiled  already, you might want to check it out.
we've been grilling out.
i haven't touched any  of that stuff in about a month.
i was honestly so thrilled when i opened my box from jockey because they sent so much different stuff for us both to try.
in early 2007, we met the candle maker whose candles holly always admired.
they're calming, romantic and pretty.
they just sit there, and fill up landfills.
everyone loved the food and for once i couldn't really accept the compliment for making it.
to enter the giveaway head over to abc neckties and tell me which pair you'd chose if you won.
you'd think i'd be fine with that.
"for those that prefer an under-counter installation, the  zuvo water filtration system can also be easily installed under the counter and  connected directly to a zuvo butler faucet."
i know it's been awhile since i've drawn winners.
they burn great and are pretty long lasting.
it has a huge surface, 18 1/2" x 15" to be exact.
" clean water is very important to me.
i received a pair of crop pants and a sports bra
i think i finally realized that i amnot super woman
i bet you'll love it too!
posted by mel outnumbered  at 6:17 pm 178 comments links to  this post email
sam's club has you covered for your fourth of july celebration and i was able to have a preview party thanks to them.
it totally intensifies the eeriness i think!
the zuvo water filtration system can be installed  above or under the counter, whichever works best for you.
you can get these scrumptious  lookingice cream cookies at cold stone creamery!
i'm sure many of you have been patiently awaiting!
as if delicious ice cream wasn't enough....
i have a bunch of reviews to catch up on and jennifer
you can also immerse the griddle in water with the heat control removed.
extra entries: 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed  on your site {please leave link} enter the  cold stone creamery giveaway at eighty mph mom "like" cold stone creamery on facebook follow @coldstone_corp on twitter follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each
i just knew i was going to love them all.
i have one to give away to one lucky contestant!
bring on the wonder the historic all-female lilith fair festival returns this summer in  cities across the nation.
posted by mel  outnumbered  at 12:34 pm 6 comments links to this post email
i knew that this would be perfect in my house and perfect for my family.
this step must be done before you can qualify for extra  entries.
extra entries: - "like" sarah malachlan on facebook - follow @sarahmclachlan on twitter - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect - subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} - become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} - post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link - add my url to your text blog roll, leaving a link - comment on any non-giveaway post and let me know which post you commented on {1 entry for each post commented on} - stumble this post - boost this giveaway on prizey {it's easy!}
and i really cannot handle it all, no matter how much i would like to.
although it's not a  requirement, it would be great if you could help spread the word about this  contest linky by posting my button, tweeting, etc.
lilith fair was one of the highest grossing touring  festivals in the world from 1997 - 1999.
she's having some major issues and actually had to chose  down comments yesterday.
opinions  expressed are my own or my families and are not influenced by any form of  compensation.
he'll be super stylish and sporting his country's colors all at the same time.
not only is bottled water extremely expensive over time, but those plastic bottles really aren't good for the environment.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: contest linky, contest tuesday monday, june 28, 2010 traditonal fourth of july celebration with sam's club we do  quite a few cook outs every year.
extra entries: - "like" zuvo water on facebook - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect - subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} - become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} - post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link - add my url to your text blog roll, leaving a link - comment on any non-giveaway post and let me know which post you commented on {1 entry for each post commented on} - stumble this post - boost this giveaway on prizey {it's easy!}
hey, we all gotta have something, right?
i've neglected my blog.
they customize your ice cream just especially for you on a frozen granite stone.
check out the images  and description below for more information about both options.
i look at the candle section of every store i go into.
in minutes, you will be getting clean, healthy, great tasting water  right from your tap."
first of  all, i love the dragonflies all over it.
i make breakfast pretty often for my family.
the fourth of july is fast approaching.
i smell them, i feel them.
there's nothing  better than watching a scary movie with candles lit throughout the room.
abc neckties carries an assortment of patriotic ties and armed services ties so you can show off your pride for this wonderful country we live in this independence day.
"for those that prefer an under-counter installation, the zuvo water filtration system can also be easily installed under the counter and connected directly to a zuvo butler faucet."
naturals: "see our most enchanting collection come to life.
posted by mel outnumbered at 6:44 pm 622 comments links to this post email
sam's  club sent me everything i needed to make my party a success including food,  plates, napkins and even croquet!
fun, low rise styles with a cheeky look.
it's hard to narrow it down and choose one favorite.
as you can see, it was already dark by the time we started  eating.
extra entries: - 1 extra entry for having the "step into summer" banner displayed on your site {please leave link} - enter the abc neckties giveaway at eighty mph mom - "like" abc neckties on facebook - follow @abcneckties on twitter - follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend
wedding event check out mel's wedding tips and ideas to help you plan your special day!
many days we will be reviewing and giving away the same item on both blogs - that is two chances for you to win!
i know the personal posts have totally been lacking lately.
even better than having a freezer stocked with ice cream, is going somewhere to have ice cream!
posted by mel  outnumbered  at 1:07 pm 3 comments links to this post email
i'm using at least 3 pans at a time and sometimes i even use more and have to cook things once something else is done.
my youngest son  definitely drinks the most water in the house.
claimed #33 aledolclaimed #86 sarah e
that peace of mind alone is definitely worth it!
extra entries: "like" sarah malachlan on facebook follow @sarahmclachlan on twitter follow outnumbered 3 to 1 through google friend connect subscribe to outnumbered 3 to 1 by email or in a reader {1 entry for each} become my friend on facebook, "like" outnumbered 3 to 1 on  facebook or follow me through networked blogs on facebook {1 entry for each} post my button on your blog sidebar, leaving a link
posted by mel outnumbered at 12:44 pm 116 comments links to this post email
and i will get the step into summer event back on track.
aledol has won 3 giveaways today!
he said they are the most comfortable underwear he's worn.
in fact, it's only 4 days away!
share to twitter share to facebook labels: contest linky, contest tuesday monday, june 28, 2010 traditonal fourth of july celebration with sam's club we do quite a few cook outs every year.
share to twitter  share to facebook labels: sam's club, sharing the savings sunday, june 27, 2010 step into summer - jockey underwear review and $50 gift certificate  giveaway {closed} welcome to our step into summer event!
they even have ones with butterflies, which i was so tempted to get!
it starts with using the highest quality ingredients and ends with our signature process for preparing your custom creation on a frozen granite stone.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 11th at 11:59  pm.
this giveaway is open to residents of the us until july 2nd at 11:59  pm.