feel god is present near to you, around you.
and, use it,…, as a fuels,…, for kitchens,…., before criminally, continuously disposeing100 of tons of raw excreta [ stool, urine,…] from your so called mega cities in all over the india, [ which you indians are doing since more than 100 of years ], which were and are  causing extreme contaminations, pollutions,……, of above mentioned  natural resources, which are so essential for the survival of all living being  including human being.
from now onwards in all over the world.
the newly designed stoves reduce harmful emissions by as much as 80% - a significant percentage that will go a long way to improving not only air quality, but the quality of life of people who use the stoves.
as ever increasing millions of motors vehicles in  china also, hundreds of millions of chinese cigarette smokers, …..you  are adding the pollution, causing cumulating effects, on environmental  pollution of, all ready sick mother earth, due to world wide ever-increasing  environmental pollution.
shell foundation to design and build affordable clean-burning biomass stoves to protect against indoor pollution, starting in india .
other wise you will certainly die like indian cheater, most corrupt,...........
disposant moi  meme d'une huilerie industrielle légere , les déchets des graines  oléagineuses , les tourteaux servirons eventuellement comme  combustible.toute forme de coopération pour la vulgarisation de vos cook  stoves serait la bienvenu.
,008, love physical labors, and always do it.
the team will move on to other areas including africa and central and south america , designing clean-burning stoves to fit the residents.
makes me wonder - have you ever  been lived outside of the us? or even travelled?
it's easy to imagine someone keeling over after breathing in all that smoke and the yuck that's in it.
compulsorily and  urgently construct, build above mentioned mass communication, mass transient  systems in all third world countries .compulsorily construct, built efficient  electric rail ways system like bullet trains of japan in all over the world but  compulsorily construct, built in all third world regions.
it's easy to imagine someone keeling over  after breathing in all that smoke and the yuck that's in it.
which will help  us to breath the clean air easily, easily to see [ look] all around, easily to  live , work , studies, learn, play , do sports ,go around ,roam, go outing,  pass leisure time, go for hiking, trekking, rafting, enjoy  holidays,....................so that we can happily enjoy the precious human  lives even in these very hot , very dry, very poor, impoverished, over  populated, highly polluted, highly noisy, quarrelsome, diseases prone ,  volatile, always disturbing, nuisance, very roughs, rowdy, unpleasant, very  hard to survive, troublesome ,... in today's third world countries.
not only in india but all over the world.
the team will  move on to other areas including africa and central and south america ,  designing clean-burning stoves to fit the residents.
in this way you dirty indian , you were and is making vicious cycle of infectious , parasitic diseases,…., in the human, animal, insects, …., population which you were and are causing heinous crimes to the human, animal population of whole world.
they’re  less expensive to run because they use half the fuel of traditional stoves,  while still using the same sources of fuel such as wood, crop waste and animal  dung that the users typically burn.
cultural relativism was taken into consideration ...
did you chinese learned, the chain smoking habits of cigarette smoking , from your late chair man mao, late reformist leader teng siao ping, who were also chain smokers in their lives.
india must industrialize indian stool written by dr.kalyan basnet, january 27, 2010 date.
dans la suite de vous lire sous peu recevez merssieurs mesdames , mes salutations les meilleurs.
hope you guys die cold...and in the dark.
subscribe via rss follow us on twitter follow us on stumble upon the most popular articles - progression of us cities reaching solar grid parity - kodak switching from camera film to thin-film solar cells - solar panel startup achieves amazing 33.9% efficiency - nasa releases updated video showing warming temperatures since 1880 - president obama's new budget includes $10,000 ev rebate categories - agriculture - alternative materials - architecture - ask the ecogeek - automobiles - biofuels - computers and gadgets - cop14 - digitizing - ecogeeks - efficiency - environmental software - geothermal - human powered - hydrogen - monitoring pollution - power storage - preventing pollution - recycling - solar power - wave and tidal power - weird - wind power
dirty indians do no..."
this should be na 2.0 and solar thermal :)
dirty indians go to hell.
these people are thinking, believing, and trained for running for money ,passing stressful life,... eat balanced, and essential, needful, less carbohydrate, less protein, plenty of green vegetables, salads diet.
we are looking forward to hearing from you yours fathfully written by dr.kalyan basnet, october 27, 2008 date: 27oct.
……………………….. africa, china, india and all so called  least devolved, under developed, poor , always not developing, over  populated, ……….., always hungry mouths countries, what hell you did in that very  very clean, nice, civilized, well to do, beautiful,……..  capital city of denmark :
compulsorily promote ridding bicycles by the public even by king, queen, prime ministers, ministers , and all the vip, and common people , poor people.....
dr.kalyan basnet, written by dr.kalyan basnet, january 12,  2009 date, 12 jan. 009 chinese, you are massively polluting the  atmosphere through your out dated, gas juggling heavy industries, every day  increasing millions of motor vehicles in your china, …..to make matter  worse, why you chinese were and are chain smokers of cigarette ?
did you chinese learned, the chain smoking habits of  cigarette smoking , from your late chair man mao, late reformist leader teng  siao ping, who were also chain smokers in their lives.
and the stoves have an added perk of  speeding cooking time up by as much as 40%, which i'm sure is helpful to  harried mothers.
> ……………………………………………… ………………………………… > > > > urgently stop the centuries old bad habits of hundreds of millions of illiterate south asians, africans, south american, poor and illiterate people of central asia ,south east asia, who > > were, and are lazy, illiterate, stubborn, irresponsible, who never care for own children’s education, wise rearing, upbringing, to whom these people were producing in large numbers in each family, in the past and continuously, irresponsibly producing in the same manner at present also, causing ever-increasing human population in these, always backward , poor, illiterates third word countries.
urgently stop the further air and atmospheric pollution due to ever increasing burning of above mentioned fire woods, dung of domestic animals for cooking purposes by the uncontrolled, ever increasing human population, in these third world countries, so that we can urgently stop the further damages and destruction of ecology, environments,... > dr.kalyan basnet > mental hospital, katmandu, nepal over population written by dr.kalyan basnet, january 09, 2009 date, 9 jan. 009 indians were and are numerous types of gypsy crowd, who were and are dirty, filthy, lazy, not innocent, cheaters,………………..producing too many children, who were and are causing un controllable human over population not only in already over crowed , always backward, always remained and is being remained impoverish, unmanaged,…………… india, but indians over crowd, rapidly burdening the all over the world, due to their ever increasing, migrating population of skilled, semi skilled, unskilled indian crowd to the countries of whole world.
dirty indians do not directly dispose human raw excreta [ stool, urine,…,] into streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, lands, oceans.,.
and the stoves have an added perk of speeding cooking time up by as much as 40%, which i'm sure is helpful to harried mothers.
always share happiness, not your sorrows with all.
which were and  are doing harm to your health, were and is shortening your precious lives, at  the same time you cigarette smokers chinese, you were and are harming the  health of your children, your families, your communities,….. through  passives smoking effects.
...............................................................................................................
who were  and are > cooking the foods in fire burn by > woods,  dried cow dung, buffalos dung,...,which were and are > self destructive,  health hazardous, ......, rather use gobar gas { which is also bio-gas,  produced from, gobar = dung of domestic animals { which are very common in  third world countries } , which are:- cows , buffalos, goats, hoarses, donkey,  camels etc.. ,} urgently in all villages of south asia, africa, poor countries  of south america, central asia ,south east asia, who use woods, dried cow dung,  buffalos dung,..., for cooking purposes, so that we can urgently stop
compulsorily promote public buses in every nook and corners of all cities even in late night times, compulsorily promote efficient mass transient systems in all over the world.
makes me wonder - have you ever been lived outside of the us? or even travelled?
thanks for the best stories on what i am interested in!
obediently written by dr.kalyan basnet, august 03, 2009 date, 3 aug.009.
feel happy, and feel, strong, satisfied, having plenty, healthy, beautiful, worthy, even if you are, weak, not good looking, diseased, poor, neglected, in scarcities, failures, etc….. .................................................................................................................................................................................... > solar power, wind power, hydro power, atomic energy { nuclear power plants, > > etc..... } > > bio-gas, gas produced from, gobar {dung of domestic animals, which are very common in third world countries: - cows , buffalos, goats, horses, donkey, camels etc },....are, not only, everlastings, sustainable, lesser pollutants, > better eco friendly , > > safer, etc.................... but also, huge sources of energies, for to > day's energy hungry, > > human population.
urgently stop the further air and  atmospheric pollution due to ever increasing burning of above mentioned fire  woods, dung of domestic animals for cooking purposes by the uncontrolled, ever  increasing human population, in these third world countries, so that we can  urgently stop the further damages and destruction of ecology, environments,... > dr.kalyan basnet written by dr.kalyan basnet,  january 09, 2009 date, 9 jan. 009 indians were and are numerous  types of gypsy crowd, who were and are dirty, filthy, lazy, not innocent,  cheaters,………………..producing too many  children, who were and are causing un controllable human over population not  only in already over crowed , always backward, always remained and is being  remained impoverish, unmanaged,…………… india,  but indians over crowd, rapidly burdening the all over the world, due to their  ever increasing, migrating population of skilled, semi skilled, unskilled  indian crowd to the countries of whole world.
they’re starting up this endeavor with  the  philippines .
immediately stop to built, construct heavy, bullet proof ,  luxurious, super heavy, super fashionable motor vehicles for ultra luxurious  lives, for romance of heroes, heroines, super stars, for ultra fashion,  honeymoon,..... .....................
envirofit as an organization goes beyond just stoves, fighting pollution in  developing countries through fixing up two-stroke engines, and they’re  working on cost-effectively retrofitting emissions-spewing two-stroke engines  with direct injection technology.
write the displayed characters add comment please enable javascript to post a new comment  are you an ecogeek?
osho bhagban rajneesh, michel  jackson,.
immediately start to construct the massive underground electrical railways system like in moscow in all the large, overpopulated, over crowded, over polluted, cities of the whole world , particularly compulsorily make above mentioned electric underground railways system in all the cities of impoverished third world countries, where more than 90 % of these regions of third world countries are situated in very hot , very dry, dusty , highly polluted regions.
which were and are doing harm to your health, were and is shortening your precious lives, at the same time you cigarette smokers chinese, you were and are harming the health of your children, your families, your communities,….. through passives smoking effects.
copenhagen during your 2 weeks of stay in that city, which cordially, generously welcomed, became a host city for climate change conference in that city.
nous profitons pour porter a votre connaissance notre societe qui dénommées comptoire d'exploitations des produits agricoles et marketing qui opére depuis 1997 au togo.directeur de la societe et suis président de l'association "artisant transfert de technologie adapt2e et environnement"toutes nos structures sont enrégistrées au togo.
as the human population of above mentioned third world countries, was and is increasing rapidly, the numbers and volume kitchens burn by fire woods ,dried cow dung, buffalos dung,..., are also increasing rapidly for cooking purposes by the uncontrolled, ever increasing human population, in these third world countries, by which was and is causing ever increasing pollution of soils, water resources.
wake up north americans.
obediently dr. kalyan basnet, mental hospital , kathmandu, nepal live written by dr.kalyan basnet, august 03, 2009 date, 3 aug.009.
written bystupidmop, july 11, 2008
other wise you will certainly die like  indian cheater, most corrupt,...........
not only in india but all over  the world.
let us try our best to make the roof of the our home, houses,  buildings, each and every concrete jungles of the whole world , green if  possible green for whole year by planting small types of plants in flower pots  , irrigate these plants with harvested and stored rain water.
nous souhations vous representer ou etre votre distrobuteur au togo burkina-fasso etc... le desert avance au togo et pour la protection de l'environnement nous pensons que sa sera un treés bon marché car nous pensons cantacter les autorités ,les décideurs du togo qui sont des camarades de classes.
dirty indians go to  hell.
hope you guys die  cold...and in the dark.
developed countries of the  whole world, do not any more contribute, donate,……….,  single cent to these parasites, who were ,……, are, and always remain lazy ,very very rough, rowdy, ill mannered, un grateful, hooligans, always critical minded, negative thinkers, dirty, spoilers, extremely un civilized,…….., population of so called third world countries dr. kalyan basnet khotang hospital, diktel, khotang, nepal.
(our only hope) you must be joking written by theirritablearchitect , july 11, 2008 simply unbelievable.
immediately stop to built, construct heavy, bullet proof , luxurious, super heavy, super fashionable motor vehicles for ultra luxurious lives, for romance of heroes, heroines, super stars, for ultra fashion, honeymoon,..... .....................
le directeur subject:
affordable biomass stoves fight pollution in india written by  jaymi heimbuch on 10/07/08 indoor pollution is a major cause of death for people in developing  countries due to the inefficiency and uncleanly burning of indoor stoves.
we would like to be your distributor or buy them
+0 written by noone, july 14, 2008 ... helpful to harried mothers.
further  destruction of scare, very useful forests, and urgently stop of further damages  , destruction soil [due to burning of dung of domestic animals, which was and  is to be very useful natural fertilizers [compost fertilizers] for soil,  urgently stop the ever increasing misuse of chemical fertilizers, in the soil  for agriculture purposes because people of villages of above regions, are  having less and less dung of domestic animals to make compost fertilizers, due  to uncontrolled, ever increasing human population in these third world  countries .
feel that life is beautiful, life is precious gift provided by god, happiness is abundance around you.
who were and are > > cooking the foods in fire burn by > woods, dried cow dung, buffalos dung,...,which were and are > self destructive, health hazardous, ......, rather use gobar gas { which is also bio-gas, produced from, gobar = dung of domestic animals { which are very common in third world countries } , which are:- cows , buffalos, goats, hoarses, donkey, camels etc.. ,} urgently in all villages of south asia, africa, poor countries of south america, central asia ,south east asia, who use woods, dried cow dung, buffalos dung,..., for cooking purposes, so that we can urgently stop further destruction of scare, very useful forests, and urgently stop of further damages , destruction soil
the newly designed stoves reduce harmful emissions by as much as 80% - a  significant percentage that will go a long way to improving not only air  quality, but the quality of life of people who use the stoves.
seriously, i'm asking.
we've got to keep 7 billion people happy without destroying our planet.
these rapidly growing concrete jungles age, and concrete jungle's world let us  try and do our best to plant trees, shrubs, grasses ,.. with help regular  irrigation with store rain water so that we urgently make dry , dusty land ,  concrete jungles into green, non polluted, clean cities, town, villages in all  over the world.
do not think, believe, act, that  medical doctors, health personals, nursing home, doctor's clinic, hospitals,  health institutions, will provide you, health, healthy and long life, because,  that medical doctors, health personals, themselves are over weighed, alcohol  abuser, physically not hardened, fit,.....
it's the biggest challenge we've ever faced....but we're taking it on.
indoor air pollution-related deaths claim the lives of 1.5 million people a  year, mainly women and children.
cultural relativism was taken into consideration, with the new  stoves adhering to the unique cooking methods of indian women.
do compulsorily process it,….., and make gobar [ human excreta ] gas,.
from now onwards in  all over the world.
your fat as much as you can.
as ever increasing millions of motors vehicles in china also, hundreds of millions of chinese cigarette smokers, …..you are adding the pollution, causing cumulating effects, on environmental pollution of, all ready sick mother earth, due to world wide ever-increasing environmental pollution.
you willing to force others to take up your approach?
we wish to be your sole agent in  togo dear sirs, we are interested in your biomass  stoves.
drink plenty of food drinks, water, according to your physical works,  hotness, dryness, etc…. be happy with what you are, what you did and  what you are doing.
as the human population of above mentioned third world countries,  was and is increasing rapidly, the numbers and volume kitchens burn by fire  woods ,dried cow dung, buffalos dung,..., are also increasing rapidly for  cooking purposes by the uncontrolled, ever increasing human population, in  these third world countries, by which was and is causing ever increasing  pollution of soils, water resources.
compulsorily promote ridding bicycles by  the public even by king, queen, prime ministers, ministers , and all the vip,  and common people , poor people.....
],of not only india but all over the world, which were and is causing direct severe contamination, pollution ,….., of above mentioned natural resources, which were and are continuously causing, spreading,……., infectious, parasitic ,……, diseases e.g. diarrhea, amoebic dysentery, bacillary dysentery, different types of parasitic diseases , protozoa, viral disease e.g. giardiasis [ delhi belly ], malaria ,lesmeniasis [ kalazar ], typhoid fever, intestinal tuberculosis, different types of helmenthic diseases, paralytic disease of children due to polio virus,…………,.
do  compulsorily process it,….., and make gobar [ human excreta ] gas,.
drink plenty of food drinks, water, according to your physical works, hotness, dryness, etc…. be happy with what you are, what you did and what you are doing.
these people are always passive for good works, not eager to learn good things, always hopping for others help for simple, easy, achievable, fruitful,…,thinking, deeds, ….
we are looking forward to hearing from you yours fathfully bayor soufiane ... written by dr.kalyan basnet, october 27, 2008 date: 27oct.
who was one of the un polite human being in this earth, extremely undisciplined, extremely vulgar,............. young man and due to god is almighty there must be so many criminal human souls waiting for god's judgment in the long line in coming days....... from now onwards in all over the world.
indoor air pollution-related deaths claim the lives of 1.5 million people a year, mainly women and children.
dans la suite de vous lire sous  peu recevez merssieurs mesdames , mes salutations les meilleurs.
director written by bayor, july 31, 2008 mersieurs, nous vous felicitons pour votre découverte concernant vos cook stoves adaptés à l'usage des déchets de récolte du bois , des excréments d'anmaux .
these people are thinking,  believing, and trained for running for money ,passing stressful life,... eat balanced, and essential, needful, less carbohydrate, less protein, plenty  of green vegetables, salads diet.
and, use it,…, as a fuels,…, for kitchens,…., before criminally, continuously disposeing100 of tons of raw excreta [ stool, urine,…] from your so called mega cities in all over the india, [ which you indians are doing since more than 100 of years ], which were and are causing extreme contaminations, pollutions,……, of above mentioned natural resources, which are so essential for the survival of all living being including human being.
(our only  hope) written by theirritablearchitect , july 11, 2008 simply unbelievable.
we must immediately devote, dedicate, contribute, etc.... > time, money, > > wisdoms, know ledges, resources, men powers, human experiences, scientific > knowledge, > > etc.........in wise, united, firm ,determined, political and social leaderships, > etc...........to develop > > sciences, and technologies, skills, political, social support systems, management, business systems, etc in world wide levels,.... .......to utilizes the nature provided free > gifts, which are > > above mentioned, energies resources, as soon as , as much as, as large as > possible.
dirty indians do not directly dispose human raw excreta [ stool,  urine,…,] into streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, lands, oceans.,.
compulsorily and urgently construct, build above mentioned mass communication, mass transient systems in all third world countries .compulsorily construct, built efficient electric rail ways system like bullet trains of japan in all over the world but compulsorily construct, built in all third world regions.
+1 written by ron, november 10, 2009 hopefully this will work for india and keep it clean.
osho bhagban rajneesh, michel jackson,.
compulsorily promote public buses in every  nook and corners of all cities even in late night times, compulsorily promote  efficient mass transient systems in all over the world.
try our best to harvest the rain water however, wherever possible, to store the  above mentioned rain water however, wherever possible in all over the world .in
[due to burning of dung of domestic animals, which was and is to be very useful natural fertilizers [compost fertilizers] for soil, urgently stop the ever increasing misuse of chemical fertilizers, in the soil for agriculture purposes because people of villages of above regions, are having less and less dung of domestic animals to make compost fertilizers, due to uncontrolled, ever increasing human population in these third world countries .
we must immediately devote, dedicate, contribute, etc.... > time, money, > wisdoms, know ledges, resources, men  powers, human experiences, scientific > knowledge, >  etc.........in wise, united, firm ,determined, political and social leaderships, > etc...........to develop > sciences, and  technologies, skills, political, social support systems, management, business  systems, etc in world wide levels,.... .......to utilizes the nature provided  free > gifts, which are > above mentioned, energies  resources, as soon as , as much as, as large as > possible.
developed countries of the whole world, do not any more contribute, donate,………., single cent to these parasites, who were ,……, are, and always remain lazy ,very very rough, rowdy, ill mannered, un grateful, hooligans, always critical minded, negative thinkers, dirty, spoilers, extremely un civilized,…….., population of so called third world countries dr. kalyan basnet senior medical officer khotang hospital, diktel, khotang, nepal.
envirofit as an organization goes beyond just stoves, fighting pollution in developing countries through fixing up two-stroke engines, and they’re working on cost-effectively retrofitting emissions-spewing two-stroke engines with direct injection technology.
which will help us to breath the clean air easily, easily to see [ look] all around, easily to live , work , studies, learn, play , do sports ,go around ,roam, go outing, pass leisure time, go for hiking, trekking, rafting, enjoy holidays,....................so that we can happily enjoy the precious human lives even in these very hot , very dry, very poor, impoverished, over populated, highly polluted, highly noisy, quarrelsome, diseases prone , volatile, always disturbing, nuisance, very roughs, rowdy, unpleasant, very hard to survive, troublesome ,... in today's third world countries.
nous profitons pour porter a votre  connaissance notre societe qui dénommées comptoire  d'exploitations des produits agricoles et marketing qui opére depuis  1997 au togo.directeur de la societe et suis président de l'association  "artisant transfert de technologie adapt2e
due to daily direct disposal of human excreta into the  water resources, lands, sea, residential areas [ 100 of thousands of villages,  tows, cities,……. ],of not only india but all over the world,  which were and is causing direct severe contamination, pollution ,…..,  of above mentioned natural resources, which were and are continuously causing,  spreading,……., infectious, parasitic ,……, diseases  e.g. diarrhea, amoebic dysentery, bacillary dysentery, different types of  parasitic diseases , protozoa, viral disease e.g. giardiasis [ delhi belly ],  malaria ,lesmeniasis [ kalazar ], typhoid fever, intestinal tuberculosis,  different types of helmenthic diseases, paralytic disease of children due to  polio virus,…………,.
india must industrialize +0 written by dr.kalyan basnet, january  27, 2010 date.
view all comments share - email it - print it - digg it - reddit it - del.icio.us - stumble it affordable biomass stoves fight pollution in india written by jaymi heimbuch on 10/07/08 indoor pollution is a major cause of death for people in developing countries due to the inefficiency and uncleanly burning of indoor stoves.
once again you hit me with what i want  to hear ecogeek!
this should be na 2.0 and solar thermal" sounds a lot like despotism to me.
feel that life is beautiful, life is precious gift provided by god, happiness  is abundance around you.
cultural relativism was taken  into consideration ...
……………………….. date: 3 jan. 2010.
> urgently stop the centuries old bad  habits of hundreds of millions of illiterate south asians, africans, south  american, poor and illiterate people of central asia ,south east asia, who > were, and are lazy, illiterate, stubborn, irresponsible, who  never care for own children’s education, wise rearing, upbringing, to  whom these people were producing in large numbers in each family, in the past  and continuously, irresponsibly producing in the same manner at present also,  causing ever-increasing human population in these, always backward , poor,  illiterates third word countries.
via goodcleantech, envirofit email this hits: 13944 comments (10) subscribe to this comment's feed yes yes ecogeek!!
these people are always passive for good  works, not eager to learn good things, always hopping for others help for  simple, easy, achievable, fruitful,…,thinking, deeds, ….
dr.kalyan basnet, mental hospital, kathmandu, nepal smoking written by dr.kalyan basnet, january 12, 2009 date, 12 jan. 009 chinese, you are massively polluting the atmosphere through your out dated, gas juggling heavy industries, every day increasing millions of motor vehicles in your china, …..to make matter worse, why you chinese were and are chain smokers of cigarette ?
le directeur bayor soufiane administrateur civil,documentaliste cel:00228-9167489 9575244 subject:we wish to be your sole agent in togo dear sirs, we are interested in your biomass stoves.
cultural relativism was taken into consideration, with the new stoves adhering to the unique cooking methods of indian women.
they’re starting up this endeavor with the philippines .
naive written by noone, july 14, 2008 ... helpful to harried mothers.
ecogeek.org cialis online --> jul 10 recent comment "date.
what hell you did in that very very clean, nice, civilized, well to do, beautiful,…….. capital city of denmark :
envirofit, a  us   nonprofit focused on engineering, has partnered with uk  charity shell  foundation to design and build affordable clean-burning biomass stoves to  protect against indoor pollution, starting in  india .
and this, "wake up north americans.
via goodcleantech, envirofit subscribe to this comment's feed yes yes ecogeek!!
africa, china, india and all so called least devolved, under developed, poor , always not developing, over populated, ……….., always hungry mouths countries, go to hell.
website title comment smaller | bigger subscribe via email (registered users only)
they’re less expensive to run because they use half the fuel of traditional stoves, while still using the same sources of fuel such as wood, crop waste and animal dung that the users typically burn.
envirofit, a us nonprofit focused on engineering, has partnered with uk charity
nous souhations vous representer ou etre votre distrobuteur au togo  burkina-fasso etc... le desert avance au togo et pour la protection de  l'environnement nous pensons que sa sera un treés bon marché car  nous pensons cantacter les autorités ,les décideurs du togo qui  sont des camarades de classes.
et environnement"toutes  nos structures sont enrégistrées au togo.
disposant moi meme d'une huilerie industrielle légere , les déchets des graines oléagineuses , les tourteaux servirons eventuellement comme combustible.toute forme de coopération pour la vulgarisation de vos cook stoves serait la bienvenu.
feel happy, and feel, strong, satisfied, having plenty, healthy, beautiful,  worthy, even if you are, weak, not good looking, diseased, poor, neglected, in  scarcities, failures, etc….. .................................................................................................................................................................................... > solar power, wind power, hydro power, atomic energy { nuclear power plants, > etc..... } > bio-gas, gas produced  from, gobar {dung of domestic animals, which are very common in third world  countries: - cows , buffalos, goats, horses, donkey, camels etc },....are, not  only, everlastings, sustainable, lesser pollutants, > better eco  friendly , > safer, etc.................... but also, huge  sources of energies, for to > day's energy hungry, >  human population.
wake  up north americans.
do not think, believe, act, that medical doctors, health personals, nursing home, doctor's clinic, hospitals, health institutions, will provide you, health, healthy and long life, because, that medical doctors, health personals, themselves are over weighed, alcohol abuser, physically not hardened, fit,.....
once again you hit me with what i want to hear ecogeek!
due to daily direct disposal of human excreta into the water resources, lands, sea, residential areas [ 100 of thousands of villages, tows, cities,…….
never be lazy like indians, africans, ....
who was one of the un polite human being in this earth, extremely  undisciplined, extremely vulgar,............. young man and due to god is  almighty there must be so many criminal human souls waiting for god's judgment  in the long line in coming days....... from now onwards in all over the world.
immediately start to construct the massive  underground electrical railways system like in moscow in all the large,  overpopulated, over crowded, over polluted, cities of the whole world ,  particularly compulsorily make above mentioned electric underground railways  system in all the cities of impoverished third world countries, where more than  90 % of these regions of third world countries are situated in very hot , very  dry, dusty , highly polluted regions.
in this way you dirty indian , you were and is making vicious cycle  of infectious , parasitic diseases,…., in the human, animal, insects,  …., population which you were and are causing heinous crimes to the  human, animal population of whole world.
... written by ron, november 10, 2009 hopefully this will work for india and keep it clean.
you willing to force others  to take up your approach?
these rapidly growing concrete jungles age, and concrete jungle's world let us try and do our best to plant trees, shrubs, grasses ,.. with help regular irrigation with store rain water so that we urgently make dry , dusty land , concrete jungles into green, non polluted, clean cities, town, villages in all over the world.
copenhagen during your 2 weeks of stay in that  city, which cordially, generously welcomed, became a host city for climate  change conference in that city.
try our best to harvest the rain water however, wherever possible, to store the above mentioned rain water however, wherever possible in all over the world .in
+0 written by bayor, july 31, 2008 mersieurs, nous vous felicitons pour votre découverte  concernant vos cook stoves adaptés à l'usage des déchets  de récolte du bois , des excréments d'anmaux .
write comment name email
let us try our best to make the roof of the our home, houses, buildings, each and every concrete jungles of the whole world , green if possible green for whole year by planting small types of plants in flower pots , irrigate these plants with harvested and stored rain water.